Take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 12, as we uh are continuing our study in 2 Corinthians on Sunday morning. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. And we're going to be reading the first ten verses. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word, please, this morning? Second Corinthians twelve verse one. It is not expedient for me, doubtless, to glory. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago. Whether in the body I cannot tell, whether out of the body I cannot tell, God knoweth. Such a one caught up to the third heaven And I knew such a man, whether in the body or out of the body, I cannot tell, God knoweth, how that he was caught up in the paradise, and heard unspeakable words which is not lawful for a man to utter. Of such a one will I glory, yet I of myself I will not glory, but in my infirmities. But though I would desire to glory, I should not be a fool. For I will say the truth, but now I forbear lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan, to buffet me. lest I should be exalted above measure. And for this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me, and he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, would I rather glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities and reproaches and necessities and persecutions and distresses for Christ's sake, for when I am weak, then I am strong. Thank you. You may be seated. This is God's inspired, authoritative word. May we receive it today as such. Would you bow in prayer with me? Father, this is a wonderful passage of scripture for us today. And I pray, Lord, that you'll help me through the power of the Spirit, Lord, to make this passage very clear to these people, that they might receive instruction and encouragement from it for their blessing. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. One day I was in a a Christian bookstore and I saw a title of a book that seemed to jump off the shelf at me. The title of the book was The The Crook in the Lot. And the subtitle of the book was The Afflictions and Wisdom of God Displayed in the Sovereignty and Wisdom of God Displayed in the Afflictions of Men. This book was uh written in the 17th century, but it was a reprint, and it was written by Thomas Boston. Thomas Boston was a Scottish minister who was really a brilliant um Hebrew scholar and also a pastor for twenty-five years in the same rural church Very faithful pastor, but when he died he left a lot of books on almost every uh doctrine of the Christian faith. But Thomas Boston was a man that was prone to discouragement in his life, and uh he was often in poor health. His wife also suffered from chronic illness of the body and perhaps even the mind. But the greatest trial that Thomas Boston and his wife ever had to bear was the death of their children. They lost six of their ten babies. One loss was especially tragic. Boston had already named the son Ebenezer, which in the Bible means hitherto has the Lord helped me, based on the passage in 1 Samuel 7. 12. His wife gave birth to another son, and Boston was considering naming his other son Ebenezer also. This would certainly be a testimony of hope and the faithfulness of God. But he hesitated and he thought, What if this child died too? That would be a loss too bitter to bear. But by faith, Thomas Boston named this next son Ebenezer also, and the child was sickly And despite the urgent prayers of his father, the child never recovered. And Thomas Boston wrote in his memoirs, it pleased the Lord that he also was removed from me. Now, after suffering such a heavy loss, many people would be tempted to accuse God of wrongdoing. Some people would perhaps basically drop out of of ministry or abandon the faith. But that's not what Thomas Boston did. Rather than do any of those things, he he turned to the Lord. He ran to the Lord. And he preached a sermon based on Ecclesiastes chapter 7 verse 13, which became the basis for this book. And the title of the sermon was The Crook and the Lot. And it was based on this verse here in Ecclesiastes. Consider the work of God, for who can make straight that which he hath made crooked? And when the writer of Ecclesiastes was talking about something crooked, he wasn't talking about something that was morally wrong But he was talking about some trouble, some affliction, some adversity in life that we wish that we had the power to change, but we can't change it. It could be for us a physical limitation. It could be a breakdown in a personal or family relationship. It could be some Physical affliction that you're suffering or some circumstance in life that causes you pain. Something that you wish you did not have, or perhaps something that you wish you did have. Sooner or later in life, we're going to wish to God that something in our life had a different shape to it. That is your crook in the lot. And Thomas Boston explains it like this: quote, there is a certain train or course of events. by the providence of God, falling to every one of us during our life in this world, and that is our lot, as being allotted to us by the sovereign God. All of us have a lot in life. He continues, in that train or course of events, some fall out cross to us and against the grain, and these make the crook in our lot. Everyone's lot in this world has some crook in it. There is no perfection here. No lot out of heaven, he says, without a crook. So we all have our crooks in the lot. Now, Thomas Boston went on in his book to explain the reasons why God will give us a crook in the lot. But what Solomon in Ecclesiastes 7 called a crook in the lot, the Apostle Paul in the New Testament calls a thorn in the flesh. Notice again in verse number seven of 2 Corinthians 12 what we just read, he said, lest I should be exalted above measure, uh through the abundance of the revelations that was given to me, a thorn in the f there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. The messenger of Satan to buffeth me, lest I should be exalted above measure. The Apostle Paul says, I have a Thorn in the flesh, which we could say is kind of like a crook in the lot. Paul did not specifically say what the thorn in the flesh for him was. The identity of this thorn has been the subject of a lot of debate among New Testament scholars. Many commentators try to pinpoint what they think it is. Some think that the thorn in the flesh for Paul was a physical ailment But there's a like a wide range of wide range of possibilities. Some say migraine headaches, some say uh an eye disease, some say malaria Some say epilepsy or gallstones, gout, rheumatism, an intestinal disorder, speech impediment, even anxiety. All of those, and really basically they're guesses, because we really are not sure what it is. The word for thorn here, by the way, could be translated stake. So when you think about a thorn in the flesh, don't think about a little thorn that you see on a rose bush. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about a big stake driven into his flesh. And the picture that he gives here kind of describes the magnitude of the suffering that Paul was experiencing. And this was something that Satan was doing. He said it was the messengers of Satan. Satan was hammering a stake into Paul's flesh, metaphorically speaking. This was a demonic messenger sent to torment Paul. Now, again, we don't know exactly what it was. I I my guess, my guess is as good as the rest of these guys, right? So I think it maybe perhaps he was talking about the false apostles that were discrediting him, that were there in the church. That could be it. But he says it was a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to buffet me. The word buffet here in verse 7 The idea to beat with a fist, to strike hard blows, or we could say to hammer. This messenger of Satan was hammering Paul repeatedly. Now, how did Paul respond? Well, it says in verse 8 that he went to the Lord about it. Paul went to prayer and he asked God to take it away. That ever happened to you? Have you ever prayed like that? Lord, please take this thing that's causing me so much pain, so much suffering. Lord, please take it away. And God res God's response was, no, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to take it away. God was in essence saying, I have a purpose in it. Paul was praying to God, and that suggests that Paul understood that he knew ultimately where this came from. He knew that this was ultimately what God was doing. You say, no, wait a minute, it says it was a messenger of Satan. It says Satan did it. Yeah. But Satan can do nothing unless he first gets permission from Almighty God. Satan can do nothing in your life unless God allows it. Remember what Jesus said to Peter? He said, you know, Simon, Satan has asked permission to have you. He wants to sift you like wheat. And I but I pray for you and after it's all over, uh I want you to strengthen your brethren. In essence what the Lord was saying, look Peter, Satan has asked permission to get at you. I'm going to grant him that permission And when all that is over with, you're going to be strengthened, and I want you to use that to strengthen other brethren. But Satan had to give permission. So Paul understood that God was allowing this messenger of Satan to hammer him. Twice in verse 7, Paul emphasizes that God allowed this thorn in the flesh. God allowed it. God would not remove it, even though Paul asked God to do it. This was Paul's crook in the lot. This was his thorn in the flesh. And the question is, why did God allow this thorn in the flesh for Paul? There are some people here right now you have a thorn in the flesh. I don't know what it is. God does. It's not important for me to know. It's important for you to understand that God allowed it in your life. It's important for you to understand that God has a purpose in it. And you might say, why? Why won't God take it away? When Paul prayed, God said, you know, no, Paul, not right now. I'm not going to straighten out this crook. Just yet. Instead, I'm going to let it straighten you out. I'm going to use it in your life. And some of us, again, we have that same question, God, why Why are you allowing this thorn in the flesh for me? Well, I want you to see five reasons here in our passage where God why God allows his people to Get a thorn in the flesh. First of all, number one is to humble us. To humble us. Go back to verse one of chapter twelve. Let's get the context. It's not expedient for me to doubtless to glory I will come the visions and the revelations of the Lord. Remember this section? We talked about it last week. This is called Paul's foolish boasting section. And because Paul was trying to be discredited by the apostles, the false apostles, and they were trying to replace Paul at Corinth, they were hammering him, they were discrediting him, they were attacking him in every way. And Paul had to defend himself. He didn't want to do that. He didn't like it. He called it foolish. And the way he had to do it is he had it came across like boasting. In order to show his apostolic credentials He had to boast. The false apostles love boasting. And Paul says, okay, I'll do some of that. But he does it in such a way to reveal how foolish boasting really is. And here he's talking about boasting again. I've got to tell you about some of the other things that happened in my life. You see, these false apostles boasted that they had a special revelation from God. They had special visions from God, which were spurious and not true. But Paul's going to relate a a vision that happened to him that is true. It's very true. And it was a time when God gave him a vision of actually took him to heaven. Look in verse two. I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, whether in the body I cannot tell, whether out of the body I cannot tell. God knoweth. Such a one caught up to the third heaven Now, who's Paul talking about here? He's talking about himself. I know he's using the third person, but that's a humble way of referring to himself. Paul didn't like talk about talking about himself. Now, you know, he's not he's not talking about somebody else. How would that help Paul if he's talking about somebody else? This is something that happened to him. So Paul says, yeah, you guys boast in your revelations, your visions. Well I know someone who had who was taken to heaven. Paul calls it the third heaven. Why does he call it that? There are three heavens. There's the heaven that we see with our eyes. There's the heavens we see with a telescope, and there's the third heaven that we see by faith. That's where God dwells. And so Paul is talking about an experience where He was taken to heaven, and Paul was so overwhelmed in this experience, he didn't know whether he was in the body or out of the body Paul said, I can't tell whether I was taken to heaven in the body or whether my soul temporarily left my body and I was caught up into the heavens. And Paul says, well, he was there Visiting Paradise verse 4, he heard unspeakable words which is not lawful for a man to utter So he had an incredible spiritual experience there. And by the way, Paul says this happened 14 years prior. And Paul was you know, he didn't talk about it. Now, if it was like people today who say they have an ex a spiritual experience, they write a book about it and they try to make it into a movie. Paul didn't try to boast about it. It happened 14 years ago. The only reason he's bringing it up now is because he had to use it to defend himself. from the accusations of these false apostles that Paul was not really a legitimate apostle. And they boasted in all their spurious spiritual experiences, Paul's was real. Paul said this happened 14 years ago, and I heard things there that I'm not going to tell you about. I'm not going to utter Because it's not profitable for you to hear these things. This was something that was just for me And so because of this, these this was an incredible revelation. And by the way, God gave Paul other Incredible revelations. Look at verse 7. And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. Not only did Paul have this spiritual experience But also there were many others. In fact, the New Testament records seven different times when Christ appeared to Paul Where he had a a personal vision of Christ. In Galatians he says, the gospel that I preach was I didn't receive it from man. He said, I was taught it by the revelation of Jesus Christ. In Ephesians 3. 3 he said that uh he was given this revelation. So that he could make known the mystery unto us. And so because of these revelations, you know, this could give you the tendency to be proud. You could get lifted up. I mean, you know, um if Jesus appeared to you personally seven times, you might get a big head about that. You know. Um, you know, I know if that happened to me, I would be bragging about it all the time. You know, come to a deacon's meeting and say, guys, we should do this, and they say, No, we don't think so, we should do this, and I say, guys, did Jesus appear to you? No. Yeah, he appeared to me. So we're gonna do it my way, you know. It could make you proud. It could it could lift you up. And God did not want that to happen. You know why? Because God can only use the humble. And if you get swelled up in pride, God will put you on the shelf just like a a child puts a broken toy on the shelf. God will not use a proud person. And so, in order to keep Paul humble, God allowed the thorn in the flesh to humble him. And God will do the same for us. You know, a lot of times we depend on the flesh so much we boast in our abilities and all that. And you know what? We have to stay humble before the Lord. God made the world out of nothing as long as we're nothing. God can make something out of us. As long as we stay humble before God. But there's a second reason why God gave Paul the sword in the flesh to reveal spiritual condition. That's why God does it for us, to reveal our spiritual condition. And the thorn of the flesh evidently did humble Paul because again we see that he refers to this whole experience in a very humble way. And again in verse number five he says, Of such a one will I glory, yet of myself I will not glory, but in my infirmities. Paul in essence is saying, you know, I will boast in this incident because I have to, but really I didn't do anything to make this happen. This was something that God sovereignly chose to do. At the same time, I'm only going to really boast about the things in my life where I'm weak in. In fact, Paul's weakness was proof of his apostleship. The fact that Paul was so weak reveals that whatever happened, it was all of God. It had to be. That really in a way authenticated Paul's apostleship. The false apostles say, oh, you know, he's below ordinary person, below average. His speech is not very good. He's not very impressive to look at He's really a below average person, and Paul said, Yeah, all that is true. I'm weak and all of that. But that just goes to show that whatever God has done through me is of God. Can't be of me. So he boasted in his weakness But Paul's concern was that others would give him more credit than he actually deserved. Because look at verse 6, for though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool. For I will say the truth, but now I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he has seen me to be, or that he heareth of me. Paul said, You know, I could tell you more about this vision I could share more about it, but I don't want to do that because I don't want other people to think more of me than is true. I don't want people to give me more credit than I deserve. And so really this thorn in the flesh was a proof of Paul's You know, authenticity, we could say, his real spiritual character. And sometimes God will give us a thorn in the flesh to reveal our spiritual character to others. He'll use it to encourage others. Remember that's what happened to Job. Remember the story of Job in the Bible? The Bible gives him a picture of Job, a happy man with a gray family, and one day Satan appears in heaven. And and God says, What are you doing here, Satan? And Satan said, Oh, I've been walking up and down in the earth, walking to and fro. And the translation of that is, you know, I've been walking throughout the earth and I'm having my own way and there's no resistance to me. Where are all your godly people? I I'm having no problem with with your people and and God says, Have you considered my servant Job? A Hebrew word is targeted. Have you targeted Job? You know Satan will target the godly. He'll target spiritual leaders. God said, there's no one like my servant Job. And Satan says, look, the only reason that Job serves you is because look at all what you've given him. Look at all the gifts. And the accusation was against God. God, you've got to buy your worshipers. What would Job do if you took away all that he had? You know what he would do? He would curse you to your face. And what Satan was saying is that Job's faith was not real. It wasn't authentic faith. It was superficial. And the proof of it is, if you give me permission to take away all that, he'll curse you. And that's exactly what happened in the story. Job lost it all. He lost it all. And in the end, did he curse God? No. In the end, if you look at the story, what does it say? That Job said, The Lord has given, the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. He didn't curse God, he blessed God. And why did God allow that to happen in Job's life? To reveal to all Job's real spiritual condition. And sometimes God will put a thorn in the flesh to one of his servants so that their spiritual condition will be an encouragement to others. It will help others. That's why God allowed Peter to go through what he did. Peter, when you're converted, strengthen the brethren. Let it help others. But here's the third reason. God does it to humble us, God does it to reveal our spiritual condition. Number three, to draw us close to God. Look in verse 8. And for this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. As Paul was being hammered by Satan, what did he do? He didn't seek a quick fix to his problem through some human technique, through some you know, means of human wisdom. He didn't complain. He didn't attempt to bind Satan, cast out the demons, assaulting the Corinthians. He didn't do any of that. He went straight to God. He went to the Father of all merci. He went to the God of all comfort. And it says he besought strong word. This is a word used in the Gospels when people would appeal to Jesus for healing. Paul went to God and said, God, please take away this thorn in the flesh. And he went again, and he went again, and God didn't remove it. But you know what that did? That thorn in the flesh drove Paul to God. It drove him to God. And that's what God will do in us. When God allows a thorn in the flesh for us, you know what we do? It should be the response of a believer. We run to the God of all mercies. We go to God in prayer. And even that does its work in us. That does its sanctifying work in us. But then there's a fourth reason. To humble us, to reveal our spiritual condition, to draw us close to God. Number four. To display God's sufficient grace. Look at verse 9. Here's God's response to Paul. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. This is God's response to Paul's prayers. God did not remove the suffering. Because the suffering would be spiritually productive for Paul. It had its sanctifying work in his life. And by the way, suffering will have its sanctifying work in us like nothing else does. God uses it. But God answered Paul not by removing the thorn, but by saying, look, I'll give you all the grace that you need to get through this. I'm going to give you all the grace that you need to endure it. The grace of God. This is a key concept in the New Testament. If you don't understand grace, you're really missing out on a tremendous thing. It's one of the most important concepts in all of the New Testament. But Grace is God's not just for salvation. We're saved by the grace of God, but it doesn't end there. The grace that saves us is the grace that sanctifies us. And it's the grace that continues to sustain us and all the things that we go through in this life. It's like John Newton wrote in his wonderful hymn, Through many dangers, toils, and snares I've already come. Twas grace that brought me safe thus far. And it grace will lead me home. The grace of God is not just for salvation God's grace works mightily in us, and it is God's source of power that will give us all the strength that we need whenever we have a trial. God's grace will sustain us. God promises to give us that. And He displays that grace in our suffering. And this is here's the last thing. This leads up to the last thing. God will give us a thorn in the flesh to humble us, to revere our spiritual condition, to draw us close to God, to display God's sufficient grace, but number five, to perfect God's power in us. Look at verse number 9, the latter part. Paul's response is, most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities. Why, Paul? That the power of Christ may rest upon me. You see, God not only wanted Paul humble, but he wanted Paul to be strong. And God wants the same for you and me. And the way to have God's strength and power in our lives is through weakness. His strength is made perfect in our weakness. You see, that's the idea. When you get to the point where there's nothing humanly you can do to fix your situation, when you are completely without answers. Without strength, without confidence, that is when God's strength is made perfect. At that moment. If you turn to God and give God your complete weakness, God in turn will give you his perfect strength. That's a good trait. God, I give you my weakness. And God in turn says, okay, now I'm going to give you my strength. Strength, God's strength, is perfected in our weakness. No child of God is too weak to experience God's power. But there are many who are too strong to experience it. And so God's got to break us down. He's got to bring the physical suffering. And all these things God uses as channels through which his power can flow. So God uses the thorn in the flesh to make us strong. That's why Paul says, I'm going to boast in my weaknesses. Look at verse number 10. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities. What's infirmities? That's physical sickness. I take pleasure in reproaches. What is reproaches? That's insults or mistreatment. I take pleasure in necessities, the Greek word here, pressure. Are you under any pressure? Are you under any stress? Persecutions, that's physical persecution, distresses. Again, the Greek word is for a set of difficult circumstances that you can't change. Does any of that describe you? Paul says, I take pleasure in those things. Really. Got a bad report from the doctor? Paul said, I take pleasure in that. Why? Because in my weakness, God's strength is made perfect. And his grace is revealed in me. So the good news is when you're weak, that's when he is strong. That's when he is strong. So exchange your weakness for his strength. That's what we learn from this. So why does God allow us to have a thorn in the flesh to humble us? To reveal our spiritual condition, to draw us close to God, to display God's sufficient grace in our lives, and to perfect God's power in us. The French mystic Madame Guillon once wrote to a suffering friend, Ah, if you knew what power there is in an accepted sorrow And Paul knew that power because he trusted the will of God and he depended upon the grace of God, and that same power can be yours. But what you have to do is you have to submit to it. Submit to that crook in the lot. Submit to that thorn in the flesh that God and His wisdom has put in your life. And rather than rebelling, And rather than resisting, you say, okay, God, I know that this is from you, and I accept this, and I know that in your time you will remove this thorn whenever you're ready in your wisdom. But until then I rejoice in my weakness. I take pleasure in my weakness that your strength might be made perfect. Let's bow for prayer together. With face bad and eyes closed. I just um Wouldn't you take a moment there to evaluate your own life and ask, you know, have I resisted what God is trying to do in my life or have I submitted to the thorn in the flesh? Do I, like Paul, say, I take pleasure in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Maybe there's some people here today and you just need to ask God for his sufficient grace and to exchange your weakness for his strength. Just come to God today and say, God, I have this thorn in the flesh. There's nothing I can do about it. I know it's of you. And now, Lord, I'm giving you my weakness. And I'm asking you, Lord, to give me your strength. How many of you say that's my prayer today? Would you lift your hand? Say, pray for me. That's my prayer today. I need to. I need to give God my weakness, and I rejoice in the strength that will be perfected in me and what God's doing in me. If you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, I would encourage you to make that decision today. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. And you can reach out in prayer right now and say, Lord Jesus, I know you died on the cross for me. That is the grace of God that Jesus died for you. And then just say, Lord, please forgive me for my sin. Save me. Come into my heart and save me. If you'll reach out in prayer, he'll save you. I mean here say that's my prayer. I want to trust Christ as my Savior. Is there anyone here? Can we pray for you? Father, take your word and use it in the hearts and lives of these people for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.