Well, I invite you to take your Bibles this morning, open to the book of 1 Peter, chapter 2, in the New Testament, 1 Peter chapter 2. And we're going to look this morning at verses 4 down to verse 10 of 1 Peter chapter 2. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word this morning, please? 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 4. To whom coming as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God and precious. Ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Wherefore also it is contained in the Scripture, Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect precious, and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious, but unto them which are dis be disobedient that stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner. and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people that you should show forth the praises of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Thank you so much, you may be seated. Pray with me this morning. Father, we are so thankful that you indeed did call us out of darkness and you brought us into the light. And now, Lord, would you enlighten our minds this morning as we look to this passage of Scripture? Teach us from it. Teach us who we are in Christ and how we are to live. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Is Christ the center of your life? That's the question that we have to ask ourselves as we come to this passage of Scripture here. Peter is telling us that God's people must keep Christ central. Our relationship to him is to be the center in all that we do. In verse 4 of the passage that we just read, Peter says something interesting. He says, To whom coming? Now, of course, this is a continuation of verse 3 where it says, If you have so tasted that the Lord is gracious. Of course this is talking about coming to him, the one who is gracious, the Lord Jesus Christ. But what did Peter mean when he said to whom coming? We of course come to him in salvation. That's how we start out. And beloved, if you're here today and you've never come to Jesus Christ in salvation, I would encourage you this morning to make that decision. Don't leave this place today until you have that settled that Jesus is your Savior and your Lord. But this is not what he's talking about here in verse number four, to whom coming. Remember, Peter is writing to people who are already saved. When he says to whom coming, this is in the verb, it's a present tense, which means continually coming. This doesn't mean coming to Christ in conversion. It doesn't mean coming to Christ in salvation. It means coming to Christ daily in our communion with Him. We must come to Christ every day repeatedly. That is to say that we are building our lives on the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Peter is going to focus on this special relationship. that we have with the Lord Jesus Christ. And really what he's speaking about here is our oneness with Christ, this union that we have. Did you know that when you were saved, you were at one with Christ And theologians call this the mystical union of the believer. Mystical in the sense not that it's uh a mystery, but that it is beyond our reason. It is such a wonderful truth. It's hard to even grasp or comprehend this oneness that we have with the Lord Jesus Christ. You've probably heard me talk about this before, I'm sure. But really, this whole idea of the believers oneness and union with Christ, to me, it's the sum and substance of all of Paul's theology. But here, Peter is referring to this same truth. This oneness that brings us spiritual privileges. And it's really pictured in baptism. When a person is baptized, that is a symbol of that oneness that you have with the Lord Jesus Christ. You're so one with him that when Jesus died, you were there with him. In the mind of God, you died with him. When he was buried, you were there with him, being buried with Christ. When he rose, you rose. Now where is Christ? He's is he's in heaven, seated at the right hand of God the Father, in the mind of God. That's where you are. Wherever Christ is, you are. That's why I like to tell people sometimes when they say to me, I hope to see you in heaven, I'll say what's up to you, because I'm already there. I'm already seated with Christ in heaven. I'm already there. And actually you are too if you know the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, why is this important for you to understand this? Why is it important for you to grasp this? Because you know that the battle cry today of modern psychology is search for your self-esteem. You know, you need to feel good about yourself. The biblical response to this is this: you don't need to have self-esteem to feel good about yourself. You need to have Christ-esteem and you need to feel good about Christ. Because the more you treasure Christ, the better you will feel about yourself. You know why? Because you're one with Christ. So the more you treasure him, the better you feel about who you are in Christ. Just to give you an example of this, uh the old Puritan preacher, Jeremiah Burroughs, one time preached a sermon entitled The Excellencies of God. based on Exodus 1511, where it says, Who is like unto thee, O God among the nations? And then in the first part of the sermon he Talks about the greatness of God, the splendor of God, the majesty of God. And then in the second part of the sermon, he goes to the second half of the verse, which says, And who is like unto thee, O Israel? We say, what's the point? Since there's no one like your God, there's no one like you. The more you love and treasure God, the better you will feel about yourself. And so the key to a healthy self-image is not through being self-centered, it's not through being introspective. The key to a healthy self-image is by being Christ-centered and by focusing on the excellencies of Christ. You see, man's wisdom today, you know what man's wisdom tries to tell you? It tries to tell you and I that we descended from an ape. And then it tries to tell us to feel good about ourselves. You want to convince me that I'm ascended from an ape, and then you want to tell me to feel good about who I am? But the scripture, on the other hand Tells us how incomparably great God is. And then it tells me that you and I were created in the image of God. The scripture tells us how that you were so valuable to God that he sent his son Jesus to pay an infinitely high price to redeem you out of sin. and to draw you unto himself. Scripture tells us how beautiful, how wonderful Christ is, and then tells me and you that we are one with Christ. It's hard to have a low self-esteem when you realize that. How value valuable you are in Christ. And so what Peter is going to show us here is this oneness that we have with Christ. And what he's going to do is show us three beautiful pictures, or we could say three metaphors. Three analogies that communicate the special relationship that the believer has with the Lord Jesus Christ. So notice the first picture that he gives us. in verse 4 where he says, to whom coming as unto a living stone. Now, in the first three verses of chapter 2, Peter used the metaphor of a growing baby. Now he's going to use the metaphor of a growing building. He speaks of living stones and Christ being the cornerstone. You know, Peter lived in a land of rocks. Have you ever been to Israel? There's rocks all over the place. You know, and Peter's name in fact means rock. So he's going to use this kind of analogy, and what he's going to tell us, there's only one Savior, He is the cornerstone, and you are part of that spiritual building that is being built in Christ. Christ is building his church. And so let's look at this stone. First of all, it's a supernatural stone. Look in verse 4. To whom coming as unto a living stone. Now that phrase doesn't seem to go together. That's kind of an oxymoron, because when we think of a stone, we don't think of something that's living. Right? In fact, when we use the expression he is he's as dead as a rock. Or stone dead. You ever hear those expressions? We don't think of a stone or a rock as something living, but Peter is giving us an intended contradiction. This is the play on words. This stone who is Christ is a living stone. And the idea here is that it speaks of the life of Christ. He rose from the dead. He has power to give life There are many people today walking around, they're spiritual zombies, because they have not real life. You'll never have real life until you know the living stone, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a supernatural stone, but also it's a select stone. We look again in verse 4 where it says, chosen of God and precious. Chosen, literally the chosen one. Jesus was the one chosen. of the Father to come to this world to be the Savior. All of this is about Christ. Christ is the chosen one. We focus on Christ. You can't bypass Christ to get to the Father. Any religion or theology that teaches you that is a bogus theology. Christ is the central one. The Bible says in 1 John 2. 23, Whosoever denieth the Son the sameth not the Father, but he that acknowledges the Son hath the Father also. And it says that this stone is to us as precious in verse 4. We see the same thing in verse 7 unto you, therefore, which believe he is precious. And this is what sets a believer apart from a non-believer. To a believer, Christ is precious. So can I ask you, is Christ precious to you today? He's a supernatural stone, a select stone, a slighted stone, because look again in verse 4, where it says, disallowed indeed of men But chosen of God. The word disallow has the idea of to be tested, to be measured, with the idea of approving. However, it's disapproved. To examine but reject. And again, this speaks of the Lord Jesus Christ because in this metaphor, the Jews, the Jewish religious leaders, they were the builders Christ was the Messiah, the stone, we could say, that the builders measured. They looked at his life. All during the ministry of Jesus, his 33 years, they examined the life of Christ. And they looked at him, considering whether or not he was the Messiah. And Jesus did not meet up to their standards, their standards in their own mind of what the Messiah should be. And so what they did was they disallowed him, they repudiated him, they rejected him. Now to God, Jesus is precious. To us, Jesus is precious, but to those who don't know Jesus, he's rejected. He's disallowed. Sad to say, not everyone who hears about the Lord Jesus Christ will receive him. In fact, Jesus said this. What did he say in Matthew 7? Broad is the way that leads to destruction? Narrow is the way that leads to life everlasting, few there be that find it. People all the time say, What about those people in the world that never hear about Jesus? What's going to happen to them? I'm more concerned about the people who have heard about him. And they rejected him. What's going to happen to them? I think the hottest part of hell is reserved for those who reject God's precious stone If you have heard about Jesus, you've studied the claims of Jesus, and you turn away from him because he doesn't meet up to your standards, friend. You will face a serious judgment from Almighty God. Remember what Jesus said to the Jewish towns all around where he ministered in Galilee, did miracles? They heard his teaching, and in the end they didn't receive him. And Jesus said to them, Woe unto you, Khorazin! Woe unto you, Bestaeda! For if the mighty works which are done in you were done entire in Sidon, they would have repented. And then Jesus said, Woe unto you, Capernaum! Capernaum was the headquarters of Jesus during his low-earthly ministry there. Woe unto you, Capernaum. Thou hast been exalted to heaven. You've got to have the Son of God in your midst. You watched Him. You watched His life. You examine Him. but you will be brought down to hell because you did not receive him. And so therefore he is a stumbling stone. Look down in verse number 8. A stone of stumbling. And a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient whereunto also they were appointed. Now Peter here is quoting from two passages in the Old Testament, Isaiah 28, 16 and Psalm 8, 118, verse 22. And he's using this to describe that though Christ is chosen by God, he is rejected by men. And there are those who stumble over Christ. That's the idea. Everyone's going to come in contact with Christ. Everyone But to some he'll be a rock of offense. Look at that phrase rock of offense. Petr scandalon. A rock set up to trip someone. How does Christ become a rock of offense to some? Well, in verse 8 it says Being disobedient to those who hear the gospel message, they hear the claims of Christ, and they disobey those claims. They don't embrace Christ in the gospel They Christ then becomes to them a rock of offense. You might say, Well, I'm not going to reject Christ. I'm just going to ignore Christ. I'm going to go around the whole issue. You can't go around the whole issue. You can't ignore Christ He will either be to you a stepping stone to heaven or a stumbling stone to hell. But you can't ignore Christ. You can't be neutral on Christ. You either rise on him or you will fall in judgment on him. But you can't ignore him. And that's what he's saying. To some, he'll be a stone of stumbling, those who do not obey, those who do not believe. But also he's a strategic stone. Look at verse 6. Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, behold I lay in Zionite chief cornerstone. Not any ordinary cornerstone, but a chief one. Now, in the ancient buildings of that day, they had several cornerstones, but one was the chief cornerstone. When we think about a cornerstone today, we think about a building that has a little cornerstone and it has someone's name written on it. It's more of an honorary thing today. But back in this day, the cornerstone was incredibly important for the strength and the symmetry of a building. The building was basically built on and around that huge cornerstone that was put in place. Now Jesus is a cornerstone, but he's the chief cornerstone. That is, this stone gives symmetry and strength to the whole building. Did you know that when Solomon built his temple, that they quarried the stones in another location and they brought the stones in to keep that the building spot quiet because of it being a sacred space. So they would quarry the stones in another place, and they would bring the stones to the temple and then just slide them in. Once when I was in Israel, I visited a place called Solomon's Quarry. Let me tell you about this. In 1854, there was a man by the name of James Barclay. He was walking around the old city walls of Jerusalem with his son and his dog, and suddenly they looked around and they couldn't find the dog. And the sun peered down through a cistern and he looked in and he could hear the distant barking of the dog. The dog had slipped in to this cavern. And so thus one of the major archaeological discoveries around the city of Jerusalem is attributed to a dog Because the dog found this massive underground cavern. Right there in Jerusalem between Herod's Gate and Damascus Gate, there's a s there's an entrance where you go in, and it's just as huge huge cave and chasm there. And scholars believe that this was Solomon's quarry. This is the place where his the Bible says he had 80,000 stonemasons. cutting stones and they would take those stones and they would bring them to the temple site and it was not it was under understandable why they would have a K to do it It kept people out of the hot weather in the summer and out of the rain in the winter. They could just continue working through the year. They would go in there, they would cut these stones, they would bring these stones to the temple site where these stones would be slid into place. And there's a story that is told about when they were building up the temple, there was this huge stone right in the middle of this site of the building, and workers were working around it, and suddenly the foreman looked at it and said Where does this stone come from? They didn't even know what it was there for. It it seemed an odd-shaped stone. They measured it. It didn't seem to fit anywhere that where they were building. And so they said, let's get rid of this stone. And so they took their pry bars and they began to move that stone and they dumped it over the Temple Mount and they rolled down into the Valley and by the brook Kedron, and there it was, and they got it out of the way. They had totally rejected that stone. And then finally when it was time for the chief cornerstone to be laid in the temple The workers called out to the quarry and said, Send the cornerstone. And the answer came back, we already sent it, it's already there. And they said, we look for it, we don't we can't find it. They said, Look again. We know it's there, and suddenly it dawned on the foreman that the stone that they had rejected was the cornerstone. For the building. So they say, let's get the stone, let's bring it back up. Now Isaiah uses that whole story as an illustration of Jesus Christ, the coming Messiah. He is the stone that people reject But you know what? One day they're going to see that he's the chief cornerstone. And you can't build anything unless it's built on Christ. People will see that. And this is what Peter is saying. People today are stumbling over him. They don't want to hear about him. They reject him. He doesn't seem to meet up to some of their standards. But friend, one of these days everyone's going to see that he's the chief cornerstone. And so this is what Peter's talking about. You can't lay any foundation than that which is laid in Jesus Christ. And also he's the solid stone in verse number six. Notice where it says it at the end, and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. He is a solid foundation. When you trust in Christ, you're not walking on eggshells or jello, friend The Bible says in Psalm 40, verse 2, He brought me up also out of a horrible pit out of the Myry clay. He set my feet upon a rock He established my goings, and the idea is when you put your faith in Christ, you're standing on a solid foundation. He is the most solid foundation you could ever have. All around is shaky. I was sitting in my office on Friday minding my own business. I heard a sound. It sounded like a truck had crashed into the side of the building. And there was a little split second quake there. I thought something happened. I was so convinced something happened, I got on my computers, I started looking at the various cameras that are all around. You know how we have cameras all around this building this property here. I was looking at the cameras, I was looking for a truck or something that ran into the building. It was nothing. A few minutes later I got a message. And you probably got the same message that we had had a earthquake. It wasn't a big one, obviously. It was a quake. And did you hear we had another one this morning? A little a little shaky, a little quake. You know what? Everything around is shaking. There's only one sure foundation and that's Jesus Christ. You have the best place to be when an earthquake comes? Standing on Christ. That's the best place to be when an earthquake comes, because that's the only ground that is solid. And this is what Peter is saying here to us. But now here's the message. Look at verse number five. I want you to see this. Don't miss this. Verse 5. He also as lively, or we could say living stone. Same exact word there for living stone in verse 4. You also are a living stone. What's true of Christ is true of you, because you're one with him. You also are a living stone. You ever hear the expression, he's a chip off the old block? That's exactly what you are in Christ. You're a chip off the old block because we're built together in him. You know what Jesus is doing? He's building his church. You know what happens when another person gets saved? They're added to that church. That spiritual building. That spiritual temple now that Christ is building. And you know what? We're all founded upon the chief cornerstone Christ. And we're all together, we're all united, we're all one in Christ. That's why I say, listen, friends, don't let the world divide the church. We are one building in Christ. All around. And we continually come to him. And that's what Peter is saying. We are stones, living stones, added to his building. But secondly, along with that We are priest in his temple. Look in verse number five. Ye also as living living stones are built up a spiritual house. A holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifice is acceptable to God by Jesus Christ as Continuing with the same analogy, not only is Jesus building a spiritual house, a temple, but you know every temple has in it priests, you know that. And not only are you living stones in the temple, but you know what else you are in Christ? You're priests in that temple. And you're bringing sacrifices to Christ. You understand what a privilege it is to be a priest? In the Old Testament, not everyone could be a priest. You had to qualify. Not everyone could bring a sacrifice into the Holy of Holies or into or walk into the holy place. There were qualifications. For people to be a part of the priesthood. Now, what Peter is saying is: while in the Old Testament God had a priesthood for his people, in the New Testament, God has a people as his priesthood. Because you know why when you come to Christ, you now are a priest of God. You have direct access to God through Christ. And you are a Priest in God's spiritual house. That's what you are here this morning. All of us are priests of God. And you know what you did this morning when you were singing those songs? You were offering spiritual sacrifices to God. Hope your sacrifice was acceptable to God. Hope you weren't letting your mind gather wool and thinking about other things when you're singing. That's why I say when you come to God's house, folks, will you give God your attention, please? You stop wandering around. This is God's house. This is a place where we worship the Lord. You should have a holy silence about you. You should be sitting and listening. You don't come to church like you're going to an Orioles game. Or have you even been to an Our L'As game lately? I wouldn't go. Or like some other activity. You are priests of God! And when you come to God's house, you're giving up a sacrifice to God. And you should have the mindset of a priest that's worshiping the Lord. You see, we don't offer dead animals to the Lord. We offer ourselves as a living sacrifice, Paul said, wholly acceptable unto God. We offer God our bodies, we share the gospel. Write down first Corinthians fifteen, sixteen, Paul said that he was ministering as a priest the ho the gospel of God, that his offering of the Gentiles might be accepted. That's an offering acceptable to God. Have you led someone to Christ? Every time you do that, that is a priest giving an offering to the Lord. Also, when you support God's work, remember what Paul said to the Philippians when they gave Paul this beautiful gift and they were supporting his work? He called their gift an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. Every time you give to the Lord's work to further God's kingdom in the eyes of God, that's a sacrifice that you're giving to him. Acceptable, well pleasing. Whenever we give the praise of our lips, Hebrews 13, 15, continually offer up a sacrifice to God, that is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. When you come to God's house and you give him thanks, And you give him praise and you adore him, that is an offering as priest that you're giving to God. And then he says this, and do not neglect doing good and sharing. For with such sacrifices, God is pleased. Every time you do something in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, whenever you You know, we have all kind of people doing different things here, serving the Lord. Ushers when they do the do their ushering, the men when they count the money and And they keep our finances straight in the church. The Sunday school teachers when they teach a Sunday school class, and I know we haven't had Sunday school in a while, but we're going to bring that back in September. And and and whatever thing that you do Whatever good works you do, even when you're out there and you see a poor person and you give to the poor and you do it in the name of the Lord, that's a sacrifice to God. Anything that good that you do. Pray, sing, lead a Bible study, counsel, encourage, hold up the arms of someone who needs help. All that is a sacrifice to God And we ought to ask, Lord, is that pleasing in your sight? We don't do it for the praise of man. We do it unto the Lord. We're priests in his temple. But here's the last thing I want you to see. We are stones in his building, Peter says. We are priests in his temple, but here's the third thing. We are citizens in his nation. Look down at verse number nine. But ye are a chosen generation A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Now, he's describing here the church in these verses. But these verses are parallel, God's description of Israel in the Old Testament. Israel made a covenant with God. You might remember. In fact, hold your place here. Go to Exodus 19 real quick. I want you to see this. This is a key chapter in the Old Testament. It'll help you to understand what Peter's saying when you see this here. Look in Exodus 19 And we want to start at verse number three. Now, what is happening is that God had just redeemed Israel out of bondage, out of the land of Egypt. You know that story. Israel was a slave to Pharaoh. God delivered them by the blood of the Lamb Moses led them out of Egypt into the wilderness of Sinai, and they come now to Mount Sinai. Look down at verse number three. And Moses went up to God, Exodus 19, 3, and the Lord called unto him out of the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel, Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, and how I bear you on eagle's wings and brought you unto myself? Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people. For the earth is mine. And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. And these are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel. And so you see what's happening here. All of Israel, they're at the base of Mount Sinai. Moses goes up into that holy mountain, and God says, I have a proposition for you, Moses, to give to the children of Israel. You see how I delivered them by my mighty hand out of the hand of Pharaoh, out of Egypt. And now. I want to make a covenant with these people. I want you to notice in verse 5 where it talks about the if. If Ye obey my voice. And then ye will be to me. You see, there's a condition here on this covenant. God wants to have a covenant relationship with Israel God wants to do something brand new in his relationship with Israel, but it has to be based on their obedience. And so God says to Moses, You tell these people, if they will obey me, then They will be to me a peculiar people. That is, you'll be my special treasure. And that word special, there's a very interesting word, royal treasure, royal property. You'll be my special royal treasure. You'll be a kingdom of priests because you'll be designated to represent the people to God. You'll be like a kingdom of priests set apart to show forth to the world the greatness and the glory of God, and then you'll be a holy nation, he says. How would they be holy? By simply obeying God, obeying his word. And what was the response of the people? Look in verse number seven. And Moses came and called for the elders of the people and laid before their faces all these words which the Lord commanded them. Him and verse 8, and all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will what? We'll do. We'll do everything that God says But sadly, if you look at the history of Israel, that's not what happened, is it? They disobeyed the Lord. And they could not, therefore, be his peculiar people, his treasure. They failed in all of this. And now here's Peter saying to the church, you now will be this peculiar people. Go back to 1 Peter chapter 2, look down in verse number 9 again. Ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. You see, what Israel failed to do, now you can do as the church, as a believer. Now don't get me wrong, I I don't believe in replacement theology. I don't believe that the church has replaced Israel, but I believe that in this one area here, the church has taken up the mantle where Israel has fallen and has failed. And now the church, God says, you are my chosen generation. You are a holy nation. You're citizens of my kingdom. You are my people. Look down at verse number 10 where it says, where in time past we're not a people, but are now the people of God. Which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. We were outside the mercy of God, we were not his people, but now as in Christ we are his people We have obtained mercy, and here Peter is quoting out of Hosea and the whole background of that story there, and I'll have time to give it to you, but it's a beautiful story of God's reclaiming and showing mercy And God says, This is you, the church. God has brought you back to Himself. You're now His people. You are a holy nation. You are citizens of a of a different place. You know, we live here on earth, but this is not our citizenship here. We and later on Peter will call them pilgrims. What what kingdom, what nation do we represent? We represent the kingdom of heaven. We are God's holy nation. And we're just passing through here. You understand that? This world's not our home. Isn't that what the song says? We're simply passing through this world and we are and we should represent ourselves as God's peculiar treasure, a kingdom of priests. And we're showing the glory and the praises of God. In fact, that's the whole point. Back up to verse 9. Your chosen generation, a royal priest of the holy nation, a peculiar people, watch this. That ye should show forth the praises of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. This is our job, church, to show the world the praises of God. To show the light that God has given to us. He's called us out of darkness and given us light. You know why we're saved today? Because God took the darkness out of our life. And he shared with us the light. That was his grace. And now we are to show forth the praises of God to this world. That's why we're here. That is our task. So when the world looks at us, they see each of us as a citizen of heaven, and we're advertising heaven. And we're showing forth the virtues of God and the blessings of a Christian life. That's why a defeated, depressed Christian is such a sad testimony in the eyes of the world. Always walking around moping, down in the mouth, complaining. What kind of witness is that to the world? You're a kingdom of priests. You're a holy nation. You're God's peculiar treasure. You say, well, my life is falling apart. Not if you're founded on the rock Jesus. If you're founded on the rock Jesus, friend, your life's not going to fall apart. He's got you. He's got you. He's not going to let anything happen to you. You're his. And so we need to show to the world the praises of God. We need to show the world what it's like. To be people who have obtained mercy whereas before we didn't have mercy, but now we have the mercy of God. And so we must be faithful to Him. We are stones in his building. We are priests in his temple. We are citizens in his nation. And so I ask everyone here today to examine your life. And first and foremost, I would say, first, have you believed on Jesus? Do you know him as your Savior and your Lord? Is he and his death on the cross precious to you? Is he central in your life? Is he so central that every day you're coming to him? You come to him continually Your life is being built on Christ, not the shaky things of this world, but on the foundation that is called Christ. Are you seeking to proclaim his excellence? to those that are in darkness, that they too might come to know Jesus Christ as their Savior and Lord. Let's bow for prayer together today. These are the priorities we have as God's people who have received the mercy of God in our life And so, friend, let me again let me just ask you, do you know the Lord Jesus? Are you certain that He's your Savior Is your life built upon that solid foundation called Christ? If you haven't, with heads bowed and eyes closed, can I just lead you to pray? I want you to pray yourself, but just reach out to Christ and say, Lord Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner. And I know that I need a Savior. And I know that you are the only Savior. And I know that my life has been sinking. But today I reach out to you in faith and I ask you to save me, set me upon that solid rock of salvation. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, pray that. And you know what? Based on the authority of Scripture, He will save you if you come to Him one again. He'll give it to you, friend. He'll save you. Is that your heart's desire? And then if you're saved already, you say, I know that I know Christ, I'm saved. Okay? Are you continually coming to Him? Is your life built on Him? It's Christ central in your life. And do you realize what you are and who you are in Christ? And the spiritual blessings you have in Christ. Friend, you don't need to suffer from a low self-esteem knowing that you are his peculiar treasure, his chosen Nation, it's chosen priesthood. Father, thank you for these words. Bless them to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.