All right, what's good to see you here tonight, and I invite you to take your Bibles, open please to the Book of Romans, chapter 8. And look at verse number 26. We have uh for several weeks and months doing a series called Prayer Matters on Wednesday night, and this is yet yet another sermon in that series, but this will be the last one and we'll move on and uh do another topic. But book of Romans chapter 8 verse number 26. Perhaps the greatest book in the Bible is the book of Romans. This is the closest thing that we have in Scripture to a systematic theology from the Apostle Paul. And this book of Romans has been used to change so many lives. And perhaps the greatest chapter in the book of Romans, if I had to choose one, it would be Romans chapter 8. This is such a rich theological chapter. And in Romans chapter 8, it gives us the great blessings we have because of the work of the Holy Spirit. It teaches us the operations of the Holy Spirit in the believer's life. For example, in verses two and three in Romans eight, the Holy Spirit frees us from sin and death. And then in verse number four, the Holy Spirit enables us to fulfill God's law, the law that we We're weak to fulfill in our own flesh, the Holy Spirit helps us to fulfill it. The Holy Spirit changes our nature, or we could say our focus in verse number eleven. And then in Romans 8, verses 12 and 13, he empowers us for victory over sin. And then in verse number 14 through 17, those verses that are all about how the Holy Spirit confirms our adoption as children of God. Now in verse number 26, we're going to learn another marvelous work of the Holy Spirit. And by the way, thank the thank God for the Holy Spirit. We could not live the Christian life without him The truth is we're weak and we need help. And God gave us the Holy Spirit not as a reward for our faithfulness. But as a gift for our weakness. Sometimes I'll hear preachers stand up and say, you know, if if you do this and you do this and you do this, then you'll have the power of the Holy Spirit. And I respond by saying, if I could do all those things, I wouldn't need the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is not a reward for my faithfulness. The Holy Spirit is a gift for my weakness. It's the Holy Spirit that helps me do all of those things. Without him, I can't do any of those things. And so I want to address an area of weakness that we all have as Christians to show us how the Holy Spirit can help us. I want to confess to you that I am weak in this matter of prayer. I don't know about you, but I need help in prayer. My weakness is not faith in God. I know that God answers prayer. I believe God answers prayer. There's no question about that. Thank God we have a prayer hearing and prayer-answering God. My weakness is not faith in Jesus. I thank God for Jesus. I thank God that He is our divine intercessor, that He's praying for us. that he is the the the means by which we can even approach God the Father in heaven. He ever lives to make intercession for us. I believe that when I come to the Father in the name of the Lord Jesus, that God hears me No, my weakness is not in those areas. My weakness is that I don't utilize the help of the Holy Spirit enough when I pray. All the members of the Trinity are involved in my prayer. Effective prayer is praying to the Father, through the Son, in the power of the Holy Spirit. We could say it another way, the Holy Spirit is our prayer partner, and we must never go into prayer without his help. The Bible calls this praying in the Spirit. Look in Romans chapter 8, look at verse 26. Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. That's part of praying in the Holy Spirit. The Bible tells us in Ephesians 6:18: pray at all times in the Spirit. Again, we need the Holy Spirit, or we're not going to be able to pray. In Jude 20, it says, praying in the Holy Spirit. And so the truth is, I'm weak in this matter of prayer, and I'm not going to be able to pray as I ought to pray by myself. I need Look at it again in verse number 26. Look at the word help. Likewise, the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. The word infirmities there Of course, it's weakness. The Holy Spirit helps me in my weakness. Now, Greek scholars tell us that this is a compound word. It's actually three words, three Greek words that make up this one word here. Asu, which means with, anti, which means face to face, and lambano, which means to take hold of. And so it's a compound word. If you put all that together, the word help means to take hold of with face-to-face That's how the Holy Spirit helps us in prayer. The only other time this word is used in the whole New Testament is when Martha came to Jesus and asked Jesus to make Mary help her. The same word help is used there. One scholar illustrated the word like this. Picture a man with a wagon back door down, and a bale of hay fell out on the road. He says, you come along, you get on one side, and he on the other. Face to face with him, you take one side, he takes hold of the other, and you throw the bale of hay into the wagon. That's the idea between this this uh between with this word here. And so there's a partnership that's implied with this word help. You see, what that's what real prayer is. Real prayer is a partnership between you and the Holy Spirit. You and the Holy Spirit Face to face, grabbing hold of the burden of prayer, laying it before the throne of God together in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's kind of like moving furniture. You ever try to move a heavy piece of furniture by yourself? You don't want to do that. You need someone on the other side to help you. And the same is true of prayer. The Holy Spirit is our partner. The Holy Spirit is our helper. He guides us in prayer. He inspires us to prayer. He energizes us in prayer. He sustains us in prayer. He will not do it without you. You cannot do it without him. Another illustration I like to use about prayer is, you know, when you know my son was small, Jeremiah, you know, in the parking lot, put him in the driver's seat, put his hands on the wheel, let him drive around the The parking lot with me, you know. I you know, believe it or not, I could drive without his help. Um I didn't need his help But he couldn't do it without me. He needed my help. And I wasn't going to do it without him. I wanted his hands on the wheel. I wanted him to help. And together we had great fellowship. And there's a mystery about prayer. You know, why doesn't God just do what he wants to do anyway? I mean, he doesn't really need us to do the things that he wants to do. He doesn't need us, but he wants us. And he will not do it without our hands on the wheel in prayer. And so prayer is his hands on the wheel and our hands on the wheel together, and God is guiding us to do the thing that He wants to do. God puts our hands on the wheel of his divine will so that he can have his w will accomplished and together in this endeavor there's great fellowship with God in prayer. But first of all, we have to confess that we are weak in prayer. There are weaknesses that we have to overcome if we're going to have a good prayer life, and we can't overcome those weaknesses without our prayer partner. So I want you to notice in this passage five weaknesses. that the Holy Spirit helps us to overcome in prayer. The first weakness is indifference. Is indifference. Look in chapter 8, look at verse 5 For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, but they that are after the spirit the things of the spirit. And then in verse 6, for to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Because the carnal mind is enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be. You know why most of us don't pray as we ought? Because we're carnal. Because we're fleshly. Because at times we just get carnal-minded We get fleshly minded. Now this is not the permanent pattern for a child of God. As children of God, that's not our default mode, you could say. There are times, however, when the children of God lapse into carnality and the old carnal mind takes over. And guess what? The old carnal mind is indifferent to prayer. It's the carnal mind that makes us apathetic to this matter of prayer in our life. Someone said the problem in America is apathy, but who cares? The problem in prayer is apathy, and sadly many do not care. You know why we don't pray? Because we don't want to. We don't pray because we don't want to. You know what I found out? A universal principle? People make time to do the things that they want to do. People do what they want to do, and they come up with excuses for not doing the things that they should be doing. There's always good excuses that people can come up with to not do the things that they should do. And you know what? Those excuses are really good And they sound good, but the truth of the matter is we do the things that we want to do, and we don't do the things that we don't want to do. And the reason that we don't pray more is because we simply don't want to. We don't have we don't have we don't find time for prayer because we don't have an appetite for prayer, and the reason for that is because my flesh is at warfare against God. When I'm in the flesh, when I'm not in the spirit, I'm not yielded to the spirit, walking in the spirit, I have no desire whatsoever to pray. You might as well expect your cat to go swimming. Or expect your dog to go into the opera as to expect your flesh to want to pray. That's just not of the nature. Stop trying to cover up Your indifference. You have to be honest with God. You have to yield yourself to the Holy Spirit and say, you know, the reason, Father, that I'm not praying is because I'm carnally minded at this moment. My flesh is in the driver's seat. You need to confess that Because the Bible says this in Galatians 4:6, and because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of the Son into your hearts, crying, Abba Father Look in Romans chapter 8, look at verse 15. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again, the fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father. When the Holy Spirit is in control of my life, I cannot help but pray. I want to pray at those moments. When I'm walking into the Spirit, I desire to pray. When the Spirit is in control of my life, I'm praying all the time. I'm praying while I'm in the office. I'm praying while I study. I pray as I write letters. I pray while I' In the car I pray, pray, pray because at that moment I am in the spirit. But when I'm in the flesh, you have to drag me into the prayer closet by the neck because I Don't want to pray at those moments. To pray in the flesh is to fail. To pray in the spirit is to succeed. And so we are to pray in the spirit. If we want to be mighty in prayer, we have to pray in the spirit. Now again, uh Paul confesses this matter of weakness. Look again, verse 26. Likewise, the Spirit also helps our infirmities. Again, it means weakness. You're looking at a weak man here tonight. But I'm a weak man preaching to weak people because we are all weak without the help of the Holy Spirit, and we must confess our weakness to God in this matter of prayer. There's two reasons we confess it. First of all, because it's a fact, as we already established, but also it's an asset. Your weakness is not a liability, it's an asset. I've told you this before. How so? Because when we give our weakness to God, God in return gives us his strength. The Bible says this, 2 Corinthians 12, 9: My grace is sufficient for you. My power is made perfect in weakness. When we confess our weaknesses to the Holy Spirit, that begins to make us strong. The Spirit then enables us to pray when we confess our weakness to Him. So that's the first thing that we need to do. We need to say, Holy Spirit, forgive me for my weakness in this prayer and help me change that in me and make me Strong in this matter of prayer. Make me change my want to and make me stronger in this matter of prayer. So the first weakness is indifference. The second weakness is ignorance. Look again at verse 26. Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. We need to ask God not only to help us to pray, but what we should pray for as we ought. People come to you and they ask you to put their your uh uh their name on your prayer list. And over time that list gets longer and longer and longer. You ever have a prayer list like that? You know, after years it looks like a telephone book. You got all these names of all these people on that list. It gets longer and longer. And you try to pray for everyone and everything on your list. But again, that list is a mile long. And if you try to pray for everyone and everything, you know what's going to happen, you're going to stop praying at all. If you get discouraged and say, I just can't cover all the things that I need to pray for. So your prayer life instead of being like a a mighty river becomes like a stagnant swamp. The key is not to pray for everything. The key is to pray for the right things. It's to pray for the things that God wants you to pray for. Your prayers have to be channeled in order to be powerful. They have to be selective in order to be effective. You have to know what to pray for. You say, how do we know what to pray for? You know, a lot of times again when we come to church, we nothing wrong with praying for the sick. I'm all for that. But we but there are other matters maybe that are pressing that we need to pray for, and sometimes perhaps we don't. And so we need to we need to ask God to help us to know not only how to pray, but what we should pray for. That's the great secret. Someone said the prayer that gets to heaven is a prayer that starts in heaven. It's like a circ it's like a circuit. And so um We ask for God to help us to know the things that we pray for. God lays on our heart the thing that we need to pray for, and then we pray it back to heaven in the name of Jesus and in the power of the Holy Spirit. And that completes the circuit. A lot of times we spend time in prayer praying for things, asking for things that we ought not to ask for. Have you ever stopped to thank God for the prayers that He did not answer for you? You ever stop and pray that? God, I I remember praying for this years ago and then you look back and go, thank God that you didn't answer that prayer. I was not ready for it at that time. A lot of times we don't really understand or know what we should be praying for. There are four basic responses from God to our prayers. One is no. God simply says no. Another is slow. You know, the the request is right, but the the timing is not right and you have to wait. Another answer might be grow. You're not ready for this just yet. You have to mature. And another, of course, we could say is go. The request, the timing, the condition are all okay, and God answers that prayer. But a lot of times we're not praying for the right thing. We're not asking in the right way or the right for the right thing, and I'd be tr I'd be in trouble if God answered all my prayers. Ruth Graham Bell, the wife of Billy Graham, said this. If God wouldn't answer every one of my prayers, I would have married the wrong person six times. So the Holy Spirit is my fair partner. And when I make a request to the Holy Spirit helps in that prayer request, the Holy Spirit says, Father, this is what Jerry's asking for, but this is what he needs. And again in verse 26, but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Again, we see in scripture several times perhaps when believers weren't asking for the right thing. Remember when Saul was uh persecuting the church I can imagine Christians praying, saying, Lord, please kill Saul of Tarshus. But God's will was to strike him alive, not strike him dead. God had a better plan. Remember when James and John came to Jesus and saying, Lord, we want to be the greatest in the kingdom. Grant that one sit on the right, the other on the left? And remember what Jesus said? You don't know what you're asking. You don't know what you're asking for. In reality, what they were asking for is to suffer. Lord, let us suffer greatly Because in the kingdom of God, the more you suffer, the more glory you have in the kingdom. And so when we pray, we need to ask the Holy Spirit what to pray for. Don't you believe that the Holy Spirit can lay a prayer on your heart? Don't you believe the Holy Spirit can place a desire in you about someone or something to pray for? A situation that needs a prayer. Have you ever had anyone call you and say, God laid you on my heart, and I want to pray for you? That happened to me several times. I mean one time I was pastoring a church down south and it seemed like you know all hell broke loose on me there. And uh it was a bad day. And right out of the blue on that day, I got an email from a pastor in London who hadn't communicated with me in over a year. And the email basically said this, God put you on my heart today. I'm praying for you. What's going on? That was unique. God placed me on his heart. That was very humbling. But I was also very grateful that this man was sensitive and was praying for me. And so the Holy Spirit helps us with prayer in the matter of ignorance, but also indifference, but also number three, inability. Inability. That's another weakness that we have in prayer. Many times we're just weak physically. You ever try to pray and get tired physically? And and and don't raise your hand. You ever fall asleep in prayer? Don't tell them yourself. Don't raise your hand. Everybody here would raise their hand. Right? Because that's happened to all us, right? We get on our knees, you're gonna pray hard, you're gonna have a a a great time, season of prayer, and the next thing you know, you're carried away in a trance. You went to sleep. Why? It's just or maybe you start daydreaming in prayer. You ever notice that when you go on your knees and you start to prayer, start to pray, that the devil starts telling you things you need to do? That's the time to write down your to-do list when you first start praying. Because you will be reminded at that moment of all these things that you need to do. The devil would rather you do all those things than go to God in prayer. Maybe you just can't get focus. It's like the man who was fired from Orange House company because he couldn't concentrate. Thank you for that courtesy, laugh. Uh yeah, that was bad. I gotta take that one out of the sermon notes here. Remember Peter, James, and John in the Garden of Gethsemane? They all fall asleep. What did Jesus say? The spirit is willing, but the flesh is what? The flesh is weak. There's a legitimate Fatigue and tiredness. Jesus was tired in his ministry. Jesus fell asleep on the back of the boat. He sat down at the well at Sychar. He was tired. And sometimes when we pray, we're just tired. We're weak And uh we need, even in those times, however, the Holy Spirit can help us. The Holy Spirit can actually give us strength Look in chapter eight, look down at verse number eleven. But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also Quicken your mortal body by his your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwells in you. Now I know that this is referring here to The resurrection, what the Spirit did for Jesus in resurrecting Christ from the dead, he's going to do the same for you. You also are going to have a resurrection day. And so I I think that this is referring to that, but also I think this is the principle that applies to energizing or giving strength to the mortal body I think verses twelve and thirteen kind of bear that out because those verses talk about living in the now and now. Not in the future one day, but in the in the now, we need strength and help from the Holy Spirit to strengthen our mortal body. The Holy Spirit will do that for us when we depend upon Him. So even when you're tired, the Holy Spirit can energize us And so he helps us with our indifference. He helps us with our ignorance. He helps us with our inability. But also, number four, there's another weakness we have, and that's inaccessibility. You ever feel like when you pray that your prayers don't reach heaven? You don't feel as if you're in God's presence? You feel like you don't have the right to approach God about anything You can't seem to really uh uh approach God. Um you feel so unworthy at times in prayer. I feel that a lot. Lord, who am I to come and even ask? these things of you. I mean who am I that you would even listen to me at those times when we feel our unworthiness And we feel that inaccessibility. Look in Romans again, Romans chapter 8, verse 14. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry, Abba Father. At those moments, part of the ministry of the Holy Spirit is to remind me of my adoption. That my adoption in the family of God is complete. And because of that, I have the divine right and privilege to go into the presence of God my Father and ask these things In fact, the Holy Spirit moving inside of me changes that spirit of fear to the spirit of adoption, and I cry out at that moment, Abba Father. I cry out with great intimacy to the Lord at that time. And that's the Holy Spirit working in my heart, reminding me about my adoption, reminding me that I can approach the throne of God because of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so because of what Christ has done for us, we have access to the Father. We can't just waltz into the presence of God on our own. We're given that privilege because of the blood of Jesus Christ. And the Holy Spirit reminds us that we are adopted and that we can enter into God's presence. And so God then gives us an invitation to come to Him. So when you feel afar off, when you feel that inaccessibility, just read Romans 8, verses 14 and 15, and remind yourself that it's it's the Holy Spirit that reminds us that we are adopted in the family of God. Here's the last one. He helps us with our indifference, he helps us with our ignorance, he helps us with our inabilities. He helps us with our inaccessibility. But here's the last one. Just write down inexpressibility. Inexpressibility. Many times we come to God, we just don't know how to express our desires. We don't know how to say just exactly what is on our hearts. Many times what we're feeling, there's really just no words to really communicate those emotions. We have we have a ten-ton thought or emotion and a half-ton words kind of carry that emotion. And we don't really know how to say it. Sometimes in prayer all we could do perhaps maybe is at times groan or weep, you know, or sigh. But even in that the Holy Spirit helps us. Now what I want you to see here in Romans 8 is that there's some groaning going on in this chapter. If you ever studied Romans, you know that he's talking about the groans that we experience in this present life. And so there's first of all there's the groan of creation. Back up to chapter 8, look at verse 22. For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. Did you know the creation is groaning right now? And here Paul is kind of using uh the literary device personification. Creation is like a person, and creation groans. You know, I like what one person said. I'm groaning all the time now. I groan when I sit down after I've been standing up too long. I groan when I stand up after I've been sitting down too long. I groan almost when I walk, I groan everywhere I go. You know, it's not easy getting older. These bodies are getting older. But creation is groaning. Creation is groaning. Why? Well look down in verse number Verse uh actually back up to verse uh twenty-two. For the create for the creature was made subject to vanity, verse twenty, chapter eight, verse twenty, make sure you're with me. For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him who is subjected to same in hope. In other words Creation was kind of made a victim. A victim of who? A victim of Adam's sin. A victim of the sin that was brought into this world through man. And because of that, creation, who is inseparably linked to Adam, is also suffered the effects of the fall and the effects of man's sin, and there's a curse that lies on creation because of what Adam did And so now all creation is under this curse. And now all of creation groans in pain. Why? Creation is longing for the day of redemption. Creation is longing for salvation to be complete. Because when my salvation is complete and your salvation is complete, when the Lord comes back, guess what? Then creation is going to get a brand new body as well. Not only will I get a brand new body and you and our salvation will be complete, but along with that Creation as well gets a brand new body. God's going to recreate this world, the heavens and the earth. I just uh reviewed a book. Sometimes journals will ask me to uh review a book, the latest book out. I read a book by a guy who uh was talking about this very point. And he didn't he didn't believe the creation is going to get a brand new body. He just believes that, you know, um that only us, uh only the believer is going to get this new body, that creation you know, uh is going to be pretty much as it is. It might get touched up here and there, but it's not going to be a brand new creation. Well, I I I respectfully disagree and let them know that in the review as well. That's not what the scripture teaches. The creation is inseparably linked to man. And when God finishes man's salvation, then creation will also receive a new uh a new body. That's why creation is groaning. Creation is longing. But not only does creation groan, look at verse 23. The believer groans And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption to it the redemption of our body. We're waiting for the completion of this adoption that we have. It's kind of a already not yet. We're already adopted into the family of God. We're already saved, but we have not yet seen the full, ultimate fruition of all that God has for us in that salvation. So we groan. Why do we groan? Well, if you're a true believer, you know you groan over, you know what I grown over? Sin. I grown over my own sin. I groan over my own imperfections. I grown over my own futility, my own depravity, wishing and longing for the time when I won't have to wrestle with sin in my life, when I'll be made absolutely complete and perfect. I groan for that. In fact, a lot of our prayers are that. We're groaning over our own fallenness. And so a lot of times in prayer we groan. And God hears those groans. God hears those pains. But then we also have the groan of the Holy Spirit. Look again in verse 26. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession with us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Here is the groaning of the Holy Spirit And the Holy Spirit groans with us. Again, the word likewise in verse 26 points back to the groaning of creation and the groaning of the believer. And now the Holy Spirit is also likewise groaning with us in this time as well Now, this doesn't mean the tongues, all right? Some charismatic friends say that Paul's talking about groanings which cannot be uttered. He's referring to speaking in tongues There's nothing in this that talks about speaking in tongues. That's totally out of context. Again, the likewise there points back to the groaning of creation and the groaning of the believer. And so how does the Holy Spirit groan with us? Well, he groans because he wants to see our salvation complete as well. He wants to see our redemption perfected. as well. And so he groans with us. The Holy Spirit wants us to get rid of our sin as much as we do. And a lot of times when we sin, we feel so unworthy, and we want to beat ourselves up, and we want to feel like, you know, God's ready to strike us down. No, the Holy Spirit is there groaning with us and He has compassion on us. And He wants us to be Totally liberated from this bondage of the fallenness of this life as much as we do. He wants us to be set free from the flesh, and he wants us to be given Full salvation. That's what the Holy Spirit is groaning about. These are divine sighs by the Spirit as he prays to the Father for the glorification of we fallen creatures. And it's Him interceding for us. He understands our weakness. He knows that we sin. He knows that we don't know how to pray to really defend ourselves. And so He yearns and groans and prays. with us. He yearns for us to be like the Lord Jesus Christ. This is kind of the inner Trinitarian groaning of the Holy Spirit. And so groanings which cannot be uttered. We don't know what he's saying, but we can be sure That he's praying for us. That he's praying for us. I don't know about you, but that gives me a lot of comfort. We who groan under the weight of our fallenness, we who desire this final salvation complete. We groan, but we have a prayer partner that will groan with us who knows our human condition. He knows that we're weak creatures struggling under the strain of our sinful human condition. But again, he is our helper. And he helps us during this time. This is the work of the Holy Spirit, our prayer partner. So we have to remember that we cannot really engage in prayer unless we have our partner with us. Don't try to do it by yourself. Don't try to do it by yourself. Make sure that you have your divine partner. And he will help you overcome indifference, ignorance, inability, inaccessibility, and inexpressibility. I remember uh when I was a college student, um uh in my room I was actually what they call a dorm monitor, which means you're in charge of this dorm. Uh which means I'm responsible for everybody around here, which means if they do something wrong, I gotta bear the weight of that, you know. They made me the dorm monitor. It's supposed to be an honor, but it's a lot of work, responsibility, with no pay anyway And uh I had this one zealous guy in our dorm who would always come to my room at three in the morning wanting to pray. He would wake me up, he would shake my bunk. Brother Jerry, pray with me, pray with me. I'm like, it's three in the morning. Please, please pray with me. So he would drag me in there, his room, and we would start to pray. He'd say he'd start off this prayer like this, Dear Jesus, Brother Jerry wants to say something. Pray, Brother Jerry, pray. And I'd pray, I'd say something like, you know, Father, thank you for this night, this morning. Lord, please be with all the students. Please be with my family at home. Lord help them to send me a care package and some money real soon, you know. Something like that. It was a pathetic prayer, you know. And then he would pray, and he would pray for like an hour. And after an hour of prayer, I was over there half asleep. And he would shake me again. And he would say, he would end his prayer by saying this. And dear Jesus, Brother Jerry wants to say something else. Pray again, Brother Jerry. Pray again. We did that for a while. Now I have to confess that I was not a very good prayer partner at that time. I was not into it, to my shame. But I want to tell you something. You do have a prayer partner that you can bring with you into the prayer closet who will never let you down. He will always be there with you. And he will groan with you in prayer. And he will help you in this weakness of prayer. And so use that prayer partner that God has given us. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, as we come before you, we do confess our weakness. In these matters, so many times, Lord, when we're not walking in the Spirit and the one two is not there. And we feel, Lord, that we are not worthy to even be in your presence. And then even in the things that we want to say, we don't seem to really know how to say it. And and sometimes we're not even knowing what the right thing is to pray for. In all these areas, Lord, we're just weak. But we thank you, Lord, that we have a divine prayer partner. We thank you for the ministry of the Holy Spirit. And I pray, Lord, that we would avail ourselves to this, that we would become mighty in prayer, that Lord, we would utilize the Spirit's power and enlightenment. And the Spirit's reminders to us that we are your adopted children and that we have access. That Lord, we would cry out in the Holy Spirit, Abba Father. And that, Lord, our prayers would be a mighty, mighty force that will be used, Lord, to do your will in our lives and the lives of those around us. So, Father, make us a praying church, make us a praying people. Help us, Lord, in this area of weakness. And we'll thank you and we'll praise you, Lord, for what you're doing in our hearts and life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.