Open to the book of Luke, chapter 1. The book of Luke, chapter 1, as you know, on Sunday nights, what we've been doing here during this Christmas season is just going through these wonderful songs that are given to us here in Luke chapter 1. And tonight I want you to look at verse 67. And we're going to be dealing with these verses here, verses 67 down to verse 80. And while you're finding that, uh Isaac Watts was a genius. At four years of age, he had learned Latin. At nine, he learned Greek. At eleven, he learned French. At 13 years old, he learned Old Hebrew. His uh poetic reworking of the Psalms was uh just wonderful. A lot of the music was put to the Psalms that are in the Bible. Unfortunately for poor Isaac, he was not a looker His one chance at love came and went with a young lady by the name of Elizabeth Singer. She actually fell in love with Watts, sight unseen, through reading his published poems. Elizabeth was so taken with um uh uh this man that could write so deeply, so passionately, that she kind of threw caution into the wind and she asked her to um asked him to marry her in a letter. If you can imagine that. But when they finally met, she retracted her offer. Yeah, that's kinda hard. She later wrote this, she said, talking about Isaac Watts, she said he was only five feet tall and a shallow face, a hooked nose and prominent cheekbones and small eyes, and death-like color She said, I admired the jewel, but not the casket that contained it. Isaac never married. He spent his single life focused then on one thing, and that was glorifying God. And he would glorify God best by writing hymns. May the hymns that we sing today come from the anointed and gifted pen of Isaac Watts. Song like Uh songs like um When I Survey the Wondrous Cross. I don't know about you, but that's one of my favorite songs. It doesn't get any better than When I Survey the Wondrous Cross. But also there's another song that he wrote, and it's considered by many one of the greatest Christmas hymns of all time, and it's the song that we sing Joy to the World. Now some of the greatest songs ever written were written to celebrate the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ into this world. And that's what we're considering here as we're looking in Luke chapter 1 and 2. The Gospel of Luke presents to us what I call the first Christmas songs. These were prophetic utterances. These were the poems or hymns that were given by some of the characters of Christmas. And Luke, when he introduces his gospel, is very careful to point out these songs, these These spirit-filled utterances given by these people that center around the birth of Christ that celebrate his incarnation, his coming into the world Now already we've looked at the Song of Elizabeth in verses 39 to 45, and we looked last week at the Song of Mary, verses. 46 down to verse 56. And tonight what I want us to consider is the song of Zacharias. Look down to verse number 67. And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Ghost and prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel. Notice he's filled with the Holy Spirit and he prophesies. That doesn't just mean forthelling or preaching. It can also mean any kind of spirit spirit-inspired utterance. And in this case, what follows his Being filled with the Holy Spirit is a praise song. Now we notice the Bible says in Ephesians 5 that when we're filled with the Holy Spirit, what are one of the things that we're going to do? What's one of the characteristics of being filled with the Holy Spirit? Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, making melody in your heart to the Lord. And that's exactly what Zacharias does. Filled with the Holy Spirit, He begins to utter words, not just any words, these are inspired words, but these are also words of praise. for the coming of Jesus Christ into the world. Now there's a few things I want you to notice about this song before we just consider a few points on it. But number one, a preliminary thought is the past tense verbs One of the things that stands out to me when I look at this song is that he uses verbs that are in the past tense. For example, look at verse number 68 where he says Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his people. Past tense. That's interesting And then look at verse number sixty-nine where it says, He hath raised up a horn of salvation. Verse seventy-four again. that we being delivered out of the hand of the enemy. And then down in verse number 78, where he says, through the tender mercy of our God Whereby the day spring on God spring from on high hath visited us again, past tense. Now the question I ask myself is that why does he use past tense verbs here? Keep in mind that the Lord Jesus Christ had not yet been born. At this time, Mary is three months pregnant. She hasn't given birth to Jesus. He hasn't started his ministry. And yet Zacharias, when he sings this song, he sings all about the Lord Jesus, all about his coming into the world, but he does it in a way in which it's already been done. He's already accomplished these things. Now why is it done that way? You know, um sometimes in the Old Testament When a prophet would utter a prophecy about something that God was going to do, there were times where he would talk about it and perfect tense verbs in the Hebrew, or we would say in the English, past tense verbs. And again, why would they do that? This is what some scholars call a prophetic error or something that is as good as is so certain that it's going to happen. It's as if it's already done. It's already accomplished. You see, that's the mind of faith here. You see, for the mind of faith, a promised act of God is as good as if it had already happened. It's already done. Now this is interesting coming from Zacharias. Why? Because if you've been with us in our study, you know that Zacharias was not a man who was always filled with faith. In fact, you know, if you've been with us that Zacharias was under the punishment of God. Why was he being punished up until this time? He was punished because when God said the angel Gabriel to Zacharias while he was in the temple and while he was offering incense to the Lord. This angel said that you and your wife are going to have a son, he's going to be great, and you're going to call his name John. He will be the forerunner to the Messiah. He is the harbinger that is pointing to God's climatic uh event and redemption which is the birth of the Messiah, his coming signifies the coming of the Messiah. And what was the response of Zacharias Me? Are you serious? How am I going to know this? Give me some sign. His response was one of skepticism And one of doubt, and because of that, the Lord punished him, and he was silent. He was mute from that time on. He could not speak. And so because of his skepticism, uh God was punishing him. But now, in this passage of Scripture, what has happened? John the Baptist has been born. His wife Elizabeth gave birth to his son John. And as they take to have take him to have him circumcised, they're asking what Shall we name him? What shall we call him? And uh uh Elizabeth said his name will be John, and the people said, Now wait a minute, none of your past ancestors are named by that, because the custom in that day was to name your child after an ancestor And then she pointed to her husband. And I want you to back up to chapter 1 and look down in verse number 62. It says, And they made signs to his father how he would have called him And verse 63, and he asked for a writing tablet and wrote saying, His name is John. And they marveled all. And look at verse 64, and his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosened, and he spake, and what? Praised God. From that moment, he spoke. God's uh punishment was removed. He could speak now. And John had had, or excuse me, Zacharias has had nine months of silence to ponder his doubt and his skepticism and to pray and to meditate on the word of God and what happened was doubt was removed and faith took its place And he was able to write a wrong that had taken place earlier. Aren't you glad that God allows us to do that A wrong that we may have committed earlier. God gives us the opportunity to make it right. Remember that right now, those of you who may suffer from scars From a past sin. If you keep faith, God will turn those marks of sin into memorials of grace. What did the Bible say? Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. And so Zacharias then is speaking in faith. This is going to happen. It is so certain. It's as if it already had taken place. It had already happened. And so when he gives this beautiful inspired song, it's past tense. It's as if it's already done because it is so sure. It is so certain. Now another thing I notice about this song. is notice the title that he gives to the child that Mary is going to bear. Look down at verse 76 where it says, And thou child shall be called the prophet of the highest. He's talking here about his own son For thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways. Now notice when he's talking about his own son, he is saying that you are going to be the forerunner to who? To the highest. Now let me ask you a question, who is the highest? That's an easy answer. There's no one higher than God. God is the highest. In fact, this is a name used frequently in the Old Testament to refer to God. And so he's saying regarding his own son, son, you are going to be the forerunner to the highest. And notice what else he says there in that same verse in verse 76. He says, For thou shalt go before the face of who? The Lord. To prepare his ways. Now there he is alluding to an Old Testament verse. What's the Old Testament prophecy that he's talking about there? He's talking about Isaiah 40, verse number 3. And that's the verse that we well know, a voice crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. That's the allusion to that verse. Now, when it's used in the Old Testament in Isaiah 40, verse 3, When it says, prepare the way of the Lord, in the Old Testament, the Lord is in all capital letters, which means what to us? That that's the divine name. That's the name Yahweh. That's the name that's used only for God And here, John is, or excuse me, Zacharias is referring to that very scripture when he says, son, you will prepare the way of the Lord. So what does that say about what John or what Zachariah keeps saying, John? You understand. What does that say about what Zacharias believes? About the child that Mary has, that he's God. He's the Lord. That's incredible. Yahweh You're going to prepare the way for Yahweh, for God. And so he believes passionately, we could say now. And the virgin birth, and the virgin birth also in the fact that Jesus is God. Now another thing I want you to see, a kind of preliminary thought, is the word visited. Look again in verse 68. Where it says, He has visited. And we see the same word used down in verse 78, through the tender mercy of our God, whereby the day spring from on high has visited us. And so this is really the key of the whole song here. Because of the mercy of God, he visits us. He visited us. And that's really what Christmas is all about, isn't it? When God came to visit us, through the mercy of God, he came to visit us. What an incredible thought. Stop and think about that. That God would come to visit man in the form of man It's the idea that the psalmist said when he said it really with wonder, what is man that thou art mindful of him? Or the Son of Man that thou shouldest visit him? The infinite became an infant. The Son of God became a Son of Man, so that sons of men can become sons of God. Now Let me just give you here in this song then the reasons for his visitation. The reasons why he became a man, because this is really what Zacharias is laying out here. I mean he just lays it out. uh why he became a man, why God is visiting us through Jesus Christ. And uh He really what we see are some infinitive phrases that we see several times to perform, to remember, to visit it. So I want us to look at some of these. And give us and give here the reasons, and I think what Zacharias gives here are six reasons why God visited us. Here's the first one, number one. If you're taking those just write down to provide redemption for his people To provide redemption. Look at verse again, verse 68. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited, and watch the next word, and redeem his people. Redeemed his people. And the word redeemed here, it just means to set free by paying a price, and more specifically, to release someone from bondage. To release someone from prison by paying the price. And did you know that's why Jesus came to this earth? Very simple. In fact, we've heard it so much that if we're not careful, we may begin to not think about this as deeply as we should. But this is an incredible thing. He came to redeem us. He came to redeem us from bondage. Did you know that today people are in bondage? Now they don't realize they're in bondage. They think they're free. But in fact they are in bondage. And I'm talking about those who don't know the Lord Jesus Christ. For those of you that have come to Jesus Christ, the truth has set us free in Christ. But for those who do not know the Lord Jesus, they're in bondage And you say, well, how can that be? What are they in bondage to? They're in bondage to their own sinful desires. In fact, hold your place here. Look at Ephesians 2. I just want you to look at it real quick. It's a verse that we well know, but I want you to consider it in this context. Look at Ephesians chapter 2 and look down at verse number 3. It talks about the bondage that we have. Ephesians 2. 3, among whom also we had our conversation in time past, and the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh. and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. And there Paul is describing the condition of the person who's lost And what does he say? You are in they're in bondage to their desires and to their lusts Now, what people normally think today is they think that the highest faculty in man is their will. My will is my highest faculty. I do what I want to do. And we talk about, we use the term free will, and I understand what we mean by free will, and the truth of the matter is we do have free agency in the sense that we all have the ability to choose. We all have that ability. We all have free agency. I chose what suit to put on tonight. I I chose what tie to wear, what shoes to put on. You chose uh what you were going to do tonight. You chose to come here to church. Thank you for coming You all made choices. These are choices that you make. And we all have that ability to choose. But let me just tell you something, friend. No one has free will in the absolute sense of free will. You say, what do you mean by that? What I mean is that everyone is in bondage who don't know the Lord Jesus Christ. Their will is in bondage. You say, to what? And according to the verse that we just read here in Ephesians 2. 3, it's in bondage to their desires. Because you always choose according to your desires. You ever notice that people do what they want to do? You ever notice that? They choose according to their desires. They do what they want to do. Uh now they might say, well, I you know, I I chose I really didn't want to do this, but I did it anyway. I know what you're saying, but really you chose to do that because there was a higher consequence if you didn't do it, and you desired not to pay that consequence. So you did what you wanted to do. You ever notice people do what they want to do? You know why people come to church on Sunday night? Because they want to. You know why some people choose to go to the the ball game on Sunday instead of coming to church? Because that's what they want to do. They say, well, you know, it it's raining, so I don't want to go to church. Yeah, when it rains you still go to the ballgame And you're sitting outside. We're inside. Now we can come up with an excuse why we don't do what we do, but we do what we want to do. So I don't go to church because it gets dark and I don't want to drive after dark. Well you go to the restaurant after dark And I'm not trying to I'm not I'm not trying to be mean, alright? I'm just trying to make a point. People do what they want to do Their will is in bondage to the highest desire. And that's the very point that the Apostle Paul is making right here. He said, before we knew the Lord, look again at Ephesians 2, verse 3. Among whom also we had our conversation, that is, our lifestyle in times past was in the lust of our flesh Fulfilling the desire of the flesh, we did what we desired. And here's the problem with a lost person: they don't desire the things of God. Because they're in bondage to their desires. I would give an illustration like this. Here's a man who's in a prison cell. Now, in that prison cell He can do whatever he wants. He can do push-ups if he wants. He can read a book if he wants. He could take a nap if he wants. He could stand on his head if he wants. He can write a letter if he wants. He can do whatever he wants to inside that cell. But there's one thing that he's not free to do, and what's that? Get out of the cell. You don't have that freedom because you're in bondage. And the prison cell is the desire The lost desires of man keeps him in prison. And he will not choose God unless there's an outside source that acts upon him. That shows him the grace of God. That shows him the Lord Jesus Christ. And my friend, Jesus Christ came into this world to free man from his own sinful desires That's why he came. To free us from our sin. Because we can't free ourselves. He had to come. and and release us from the bondage of sin. How does he do that? He does that by his miraculous grace. Look again in Ephesians. two verse three, look at verse four. But God who is rich in mercy for his great love, wherein he loved us, when we were dead in sins, hath races has quickened us together. That is, he gave us life with Christ. By grace are you saved. It is the outside force of grace that moves upon the heart of the sinner. to where we will come to him. We will believe on him. He came to free us. Now how does he do that? Go back to Luke. Chapter 1. And Zacharias uses an Old Testament symbol here of the power of God in verse 69. And has raised us uh has raised up in verse 69 a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. A horn of salvation is an Old Testament symbol for victory and power and strength. That is, it was by the power of God An Old Testament example of a horn with many places I don't have time to look at all of them, but an animal with had a horn was his strength, and so it represented the power and strength of God. By the power of God, by the strength of God. We were redeemed. That's the whole point that he's making there. It's by his strength, not ours. And it was through the price that was paid by our Lord Jesus Christ. And Pastor preached about this this morning, the blood of Jesus Christ that redeemed us, the highest price. A reporter once asked an astronaut what he was thinking when he was in that rocket on the way to the moon. He said, I was thinking that I'm in a rocket that was built by the lowest bidder. And you know what? We have a salvation that was purchased by the highest bidder at the highest price that he paid. And it takes us not from earth to the moon, but from earth all the way to heaven. Now here's the second thing. He came to provide redemption for his people. But secondly, I want you to consider that he came to deliver us from our enemies. Look at verse 70. As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began, that we should be safe from our enemies And from the hand of all that hate us. And so he says here, this has been prophesied, verse 70, Zachariah said, From the mouth of prophets. Which have been since the world began, this prophecy of Jesus coming. It started in the very beginning. Since the world began In fact, we could go all the way back to Genesis and see the first prophecy that was given about the Lord Jesus Christ, Genesis 3. 15. Some call it the proto-evangelium, the first gospel, where God says that I will put enmity between the sea uh between thee and the seed of the woman. He was talking about the serpent there, the serpent Satan. In fact, why don't you just look there? I know I'm having you flip around here a little bit tonight, but I want you to look at this verse because I want you to make sure to get it right. Look in chapter three and look down at verse number fifteen. It says, I will put enmity between thee and the woman Between thy seed and her seed it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Now here again he's talking about what Christ would do on the cross. This is the first We could say gospel, as some have labeled this, and it is speaking about what was going to happen at Calvary. The seed of the woman speaks about Christ. And here we have a little implication of the virgin birth. The seed of the woman That's the Lord Jesus Christ. And what does it say is going to happen in verse 15? There's going to be enemy between the woman and between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head Thou shalt bruise his heel. That is, the serpent would bruise the heel of this seed of the woman, the Messiah, the one who was going to come, the deliverer. But the serpent's head would be crushed. Now this is, again, prophetically speaking about what would happen at Calvary. What happened to Calvary? The heel of Jesus was bruised, but the head of the serpent, Satan, was crushed. It was a mortal blow. He was defeated completely that there on Calvary. You know, I I uh recently read an article Did you know that archaeologists discovered in Palestine a heel bone? And what they discovered is a heel bone, a nail was driven through the heel bone, and it kind of hit up against the wood and then it curled at the end. And uh this was obviously they dug it up. And what this was was this was a sample of the crucifi of a crucifixion that took place in Palestine around the time of Christ And this is what they discovered about crucifixion. The whole article was December 8, 2015, Evidence for the Crucifixion in the Ancient World was the title of it. And this is what they said when a person was crucified. This is what they would do according to these discoveries. He says, in the first case, nails would have been driven through the heel bone. I'm kind of picking up here in the bottom of the article where they're already talking about the cross beams and the nailing of the hands, but now they're talking about the feet. And they said the first thing that would happen is a nail would be driven through the heel bone And then another nail would be driven down across the top, the metatarsus is what they would call it. They would drive it down the top of the foot. So they would put a nail through the heel bone and one down through the top of the foot And that was the manner of crucifixion in that time. I thought that was interesting. That a nail would be driven through the heel. And when you think about that, we think about this prophecy here in Genesis 3. 15, where it said that on the cross His heel would be bruised. Thousands of years ago this was said before crucifixion. The heel would be bruised. And yet the head of the serpent, Satan, would be crushed. That's incredible. On the cross Our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, took our sins when He was crucified there, when those nails were driven through His hands, through His heel, through His feet, if this is what crucifixion was like. His heel was bruised, but friend, Satan was utterly, completely defeated and destroyed there on Calvary. Once Napoleon stood before map of the world, he had all his generals around him. He said all the world would be would be mine if it wasn't for that one red X And of course he was referring to Waterloo. And someone has fancied Satan standing before a map of the world with all his demon cohorts saying, All the world would be mine if it were not for that one red X, and he was referring to Calvary Because Calvary was Satan's Waterloo where he was completely defeated. 1 John 3:8, for this purpose, the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the devil. Now Satan is around. You say, well the Bible says he was destroyed. That's right. That means rendered ineffective. That's what the word means. He's still around, but friend, if you're a believer and you know the Lord Jesus Christ, he has no power over you He's ineffective. He's a defeated foe. It'd be like this, a a rattlesnake that has been defanged. I'm not afraid of a rattlesnake if he doesn't have any fangs. Now you know what a rattlesnake without fangs can do? He can make a lot of noise, but he can't hurt you. And friend, that's exactly what happened to Satan. He can make a lot of noise. He can scare you with his rattle if you want to be scared. But the truth of the matter is if you're in the Lord Jesus Christ, he has been destroyed, he's been defeated, he has no authority over you, because you know the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's why Jesus came to save us from our enemies. To defeat those who hate us. And Satan being the number one on that list. And by the way, there's a Christmas hymn. This is Christmas time. Did you know there's a Christmas hymn that reminds us of this? And it's the hymn, God rest you, Mary Gentlemen that was originally written in England and and got popular here in America. But the problem is we don't really understand what it means when it says married gentleman. When we think of married gentleman, we think of someone who's happy But the original word merry used in England is a word that meant to be valiant, to be brave. Remember Robin Hood is what? His merry men. They were supposed to be valiant and brave. And then the word rest here, uh, it literally means be strong. And so literally the the the first verse, we could sing it like this, God rest you married gentlemen, or we could say it like this, God make you strong and valiant Comma, gentlemen. Why? Let nothing you dismay. Remember Christ our Savior was born on Christmas Day. Listen, to save us all from Satan's power. When we were gone astray. Oh tidings of comfort and joy. We can be valiant, we can be strong, because we have been delivered from the power of Satan because of the coming of Christ into this world. So Jesus came to provide redemption. He came to deliver us from our enemy, but also, here's number three, he came to fulfill the promises of God. Look at verse 72, to perform the mercy promised to our fathers. And to remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swore to our father Abraham. And here Zacharias is remembering the promises, the the covenant that was made in the Old Testament, not just a covenant, but Several covenants. In fact, one of the titles for God in the Old Testament is the Covenant-Keeping God. Because in the Old Testament, God would make many covenants. For instance, we talk about the covenant with Noah. Remember, God promised he wouldn't destroy the world and put the bow in the heavens as a sign. He made a covenant with Moses at Mount Sinai He made a covenant with Abraham, and we remember what that was. Abraham said up God said to Abraham, I'm going to bless you, that you in turn will be a blessing to all the nations of the world. And that through his seed there would be blessing. And then he made a covenant with David. Now here's the point. Zacharias is rehearsing all through the promises. that were given in the Old Testament. By the way, Israel had been waiting and waiting. They had waited many hundreds of years for the fruition of these promises. And Zacharias, when he knows that Mary is going to have the Messiah, he knows now that God is going to finally fulfill all the promises. And you know what? When Jesus Christ came, all the promises of God were fulfilled in him. All of them were done and fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Zachariah said, he's coming, verse 72, to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. Jesus is coming to fulfill all of the promises of God. And you know what Christmas reminds us of? That God always keeps his word. He always fulfills his promises. Let me give you number four. Not only to provide redemption for his people, to deliver us from our enemy, to fulfill God's promises, but here's number four, to free us so we could serve our God. He comes to free us so we could serve our God. Look at verse 74. That he would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear. Look at verse 75 in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. And Zacharias is saying, he's coming that we might be delivered. Why? So we can serve him In holiness and in fear. Now listen, folks, I know there are some people that think that God saves us primarily so we'll be happy. And by the way, one of the byproducts of being saved is being happy. How can we not be happy? How can we not be filled with joy And that's so very true. We're happy. We're filled with joy. Salvation does make us happy. But that's not the primary reason that God saves us. Because in some cases, in many cases, we're not always going to be happy with things that God allows to happen in our life. We can always have joy. But the primary reason why God saves us, why he frees us, is so that we can be free to glorify him and to serve him. You see, it's all about God. It's serving God. It's glorifying God. God frees us that we might serve Him If you're living for yourself, if you're saved now and all you're doing is you're living for yourself and doing what's best for you, friend, you're not fulfilling what God originally intended when he saved you He didn't save you so that you can live for yourself. He saved you so that you could be free to serve Him and glorify Him Years ago, a Salvation Army officer named Captain Shaw, he went to India as a medical missionary, and he went to minister to a colony of lepers. And when he saw three men in chains, his eyes welled up with tears. He saw these prisoners, he saw how they were bound, he saw the pitiful condition they were in. And he said, he turned to the guard and he said, please unfasten these men, take them out of those chains. And the guard said, it isn't safe. These men are not only lepers, but they're also dangerous criminals. And Captain Shaw said, I'll be responsible Just get them out of those chains. And he himself took the keys and he unfettered them, and then with tenderness he he dressed the wounds of these men, their bleeding ankles and wrists. He dressed them himself About two weeks later, Captain Shaw had his first misgiving about freeing these criminals because he had to leave overnight to do something, and that meant that his l his wife would be alone with his children. And he was wondering about these men who were criminals But his wife assured him, I'm not afraid, God will protect me, go do what you need to do. And so he left. Now the next morning at his house, Mrs. Shaw came out the door, and what she found were three lepers laying in front of her door. And at first she was startled, but the men turned to her and said, We know that the captain is gone. We're laying here because we want to protect you. We don't want any harm to come to you. That was their response to the doctor's act of love to serve freely. You see, that's the right response When the Lord Jesus Christ unshackles us and he makes us free, you know what the right response is? We want to freely serve him out of love. That is the response to salvation. He has freed us so that we could serve our God. Let me give you the fifth reason Not only to provide redemption and to deliver us from our enemies and to fulfill the promises of God to free us so we could serve our God, but here's number five, to make fellowship and forgiveness possible. Look at verse 76 And thou child, child, here Zacharias is talking to his son John, thou child shall be called the prophet of the highest, for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways. Look at verse 77, to give knowledge of salvation. unto his people by the remission of their sins. Look at the word knowledge there. Interesting word. There are two words in Greek for knowledge. One is Oda, which means a kind of a book knowledge. A theoretical knowledge you can get by picking up and reading. But then there's another word for knowledge, gonoska, which means experiential knowledge. Now I remember one time when I was down in New Orleans and I saw an old bookstore there that had rare books and I went in and started flipping through and I I put off the shelf a book of sermons. It was an old book. It was a book of sermons preached by the great Baptist preacher R. G. Lee. Very old book. And I took it off the shelf and opened up the front cover, the front flat there, uh I should say, and then written in there on the first page was his signature, R. G. Lee. He had signed the book. It made its way to this rare bookstore. And the price of the book was, you know, considerable, but I said, I gotta have this. So I pulled the book off and bought it. And uh I began to read some of those sermons and I thought, man, what a treasure. I kind of got to know R. G. Lee through reading those sermons And later on when I was pastor at Ellendale, I started talking about that and I talked about some of what I've learned from R. G. Lee in reading. And then there were some old saints that came up to me after the service. You know what they said? They said, we sure did love our pastor R. G. Lee. They had sat under him. And so they knew him. But friend, they didn't know I they didn't know they knew him in a way that I didn't know him. All I knew about R. G. Lee was what I read. My knowledge of him was Oda. I had kind of a theoretical book knowledge But the knowledge they had of him was Gonosco. They had an experiential knowledge. They had a relationship with him. Now that's the word that's used here about knowledge. You know why Jesus came into this world? Not so that we can have a a theoretical knowledge of God or a theoretical knowledge of who Jesus is. He came into this world so that we might know him in an experiential way in a relationship. There are many people that come to church and they have a knowledge of Jesus Christ, but it's all theoretical. It's all up here They've never had an experience with Christ. They don't have that gnoscu. They don't have that relationship with Christ. They know all about the plan of salvation. They just don't know the man of salvation And so their knowledge is all theoretical. But here, Jesus came so that we could give verse 77 knowledge so that we can know him intimately. Let me ask you tonight, do you know Christ? I'm not talking about reading about theology books about him. I'm talking about do you know him in an experiential way And you say, how do I do that? Look at the rest of verse 77. To give knowledge of salvation unto his people. Watch this. By the remission of their sins. That's where it starts. The word remission simply means to let go, to leave behind, to send away. You see what it's through the remission of sins, through the forgiveness of sins, when we realize that Jesus on the cross took our sins, he paid for our sins. And when we repent, all those sins are taken away. They're removed. The Bible says, as far as the east is from the west, and as a result of that, we come to know Jesus Christ in an experiential way. Through the remission of our sins. That's the way. And so it's by repenting of our sin. Our sins are paid for, are removed from us, and we come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he comes to make then forgiveness and fellowship possible. Here's the last thing, the last one. To bring light. To a dark world. Look at verse 78. To the tender mercy of our God, whereby the day spring from on high has visited us, verse 79, to give light. To them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. He comes to bring light. The word day spring here is a word that talks about the first light of the dawn. You know, I don't know if you've ever seen the dawn uh when it's dark and then finally the sun comes up and the first Beam of light runs out across the horizon, that first ray of light, that's the word that's being used here. Jesus Christ coming into this world is like coming into a dark world and the light, the first rays of light, begin to shine. Christ came into this world to give light to those who are sitting in darkness. That's why Jesus is called in the Old Testament what? The bright and the morning star. He's the morning star. He's the one that gives us light. We sit in darkness, but when Jesus comes, he gives us light. And friend, that's exactly what happens in salvation. We're in darkness, and what happens when we get saved? Suddenly we're filled with light That's why I love that hymn that Charles Wesley wrote. This is the way he said it. Long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast bound in sin in nature's night. Listen to this. Thine eye diffused the quickening ray I woke, the dungeon flame with light. Isn't that a beautiful picture? Here I am sitting in a prison. I'm in a dungeon. I'm sitting in darkness. And thine eye diffused a life-giving, quickening ray. What happened? I awoke. And my whole dungeon was flame with light. That's salvation. And that's why Jesus came to bring light. And notice the rest of the verse here in verse 79. To give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death. And watch this. Here's the next part of it. To guide our feet into the way of peace. We don't know which way to go when we're in the dark You ever try to uh walk in the dark when it's completely dark? That's why, you know, my wife, she loves to move our furniture like every two or three months. So I don't go through my house in the dark. Because I don't know where I have stumbled many times over furniture. In fact, I'm going to tell you something here. I'm going to confess something to you. When my office was back here before our building burned One time I came out of my office and shut the door and everything was dark. Someone had turned all the lights out. And I thought that's not a problem. I know where everything is. I'll just walk through, go through the door. I mean it was pitch black I want you to know that I ran into one of those chairs in there, and I slipped completely over that chair and landed on my back right there You say, what was your first thought? My first thought was Lord I'm glad this is over with. I mean if I had to do this, I'm glad it's over. But I kind of laughed at myself when I got up and I thought, I'm not going to do that again You know what the basic problem is? We don't know how to walk when it's dark. We need light. And friend, I want to tell you something. We can't walk unless we have the light of God. And this is what this verse is saying. Now that he has come, that he has given us light, he now guides our feet in the way of peace. We know now which way to go because of the light that He has brought into our life, and that's why Jesus came to bring light into a dark world so that we can navigate the way of peace. So he comes to provide redemption for his people. He comes to deliver us from our enemies. He comes to fulfill the promises of God. He frees us so that we can serve God. He comes to make fellowship and forgiveness possible. And also to bring light into a dark world. And that's what Zechariah says in this song. That's why he came. And friend, that's why he came for you. And so let me close with this. Years ago there was a man named Dr. Bernardo who ran a London orphanage. And he was approached by a little ragged orphan, a little dirty boy, and he asked for admission, this little boy, into this orphanage. And the doctor looked at him and he said, But my boy, he said, I don't know you. And what do you have to recommend you? I don't know you. Can someone recommend you or what do you have that can recommend you into this orphanage? Now this little boy was destitute but he was also very smart and he he held up his rags he said sir I thought that these rags would be enough to recommend me unto you And Dr. Bernardo immediately was touched. And he hugged this boy and he said, son, your rags are enough to recommend you. I receive you. And let me tell you something, friend. You want to know Jesus? All you have to do is just bring your rags. Bring the rags of who you are, and you know what? That's enough to recommend you. And friend, he will receive you, he will love you, he will save you, because that's why he came into this world. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, we we just thank you for this song of Zechariah. That just speaks to our heart and tells us these wonderful things. Lord, many of these things we already know, but they're woven together in this beautiful song in such a way to move our heart. To thank you again, Lord, for coming into this world for us, to give us redemption, and to deliver us from our enemy, Satan. And to fulfill all the promises of God and to free us so that we could serve you. And give us forgiveness and fellowship and light. Lord, we thank you. All we have to recommend ourselves to you, Lord, is our rags. But we thank God for your tender mercy. The tender mercy that brought you unto us and saved us. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask tonight, maybe you're here. And you haven't yet fully committed your life to Christ. You you've been considering, you've been thinking about the claims of Christ. You've been listening to the gospel, but you haven't yet made that decision to repent and to turn to Him. I want to tell you right now, this very moment is the moment of salvation, friend. Because He came for you. He came to know you To redeem you, to free you from that dungeon, and to give you light. And if you don't know him in an experiential way, friend, it doesn't matter how many lights you have in your house or how much greenery you have You'll never really understand the meaning of Christmas until you come to know Christ. So if you're here tonight and you say, I want to know him Would you pray? Would you be willing to pray right there where you are? Just say these words. Dear Jesus, I'm a sinner. All I have to commend myself to you are the rags of my own sinful life. But I'm coming to you today and I'm asking you to receive me, forgive me, cleanse me. And friend, if you'll pray that and mean it. You can have salvation. The Bible says as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. If that's your prayer, friend, why don't you see myself or see our pastor or see Earl after the service? Let us know that you've prayed that prayer and that you've committed your life to Christ. Father, thank you again for the gospel. Thank you for these beautiful songs. May they minister to our heart, and may they make our Christmas worship all the more meaningful as we meditate on these things. things. And we pray all this in the wonderful maxless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.