Daniel chapter seven, verses thirteen and fourteen. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a king. be destroyed. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Text for the sermon is Psalm 8. We just sang a version of Psalm 8. And that hymn that was sung is uh actually a faithful version of that psalm. Now we go to Hebrews 2, 5 through 9, which actually quotes a part of that Psalm. So Hebrews 2, 5 through 9. Now it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere. What is man that you are mindful of him, or the son of man that you care for him? You made him for a little while lower than the angels You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now, in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. Which tells us what we really are and who we really are, who Christ is, what you intended and what you do intend. Help us as we studied Psalm 8 this morning. As it is preached, may it bring Christ to us. In Jesus' name, Amen. So the question I have as you think through the Psalm at the beginning here is, who rules the world? Who rules the world? Is it the kings of various nations, presidents of various nations, dictators, mullahs? And if so, how are they doing? How are they doing? Hmm. Psalm 8 tells us That God rules the world, even the fallen down, broken world, God rules the world. And it shows us that God rules the world through mankind, human mankind. And that God rules the world through Israel, his chosen people, and that God rules the world through Israel's true king. And that God rules the world through you and me and our children united to the true King. That's the thesis. Of the preachings. And let's go into the preaching. First, we see in Psalm 8, verse 1, the greatness of God. The greatness of God. Oh Lord, our Lord, how majestic! Is your name in all the earth? You have set your glory above the heavens God's glorious rule is set above the heavens. The heavens are wonderful. You look around and see how great it is, but God's rule is set above it. God's glory and his creation, his rule over creation is seen here. And then he begins to scan that creation in verse 3. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon, and the stars which you have set in place. Now you've got to think about that for a minute. The moon, the stars, the planets, and so forth, the heavens, set in place, set in place for what? Well, you have to think back. And the Hebrew would know what that means. They would know where to go to understand that. And if you go back to Genesis 1 and you see that God made the planets To rule. In Genesis 1, God made two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on earth and to rule over the day and over the night and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. So God rules above creation. He set the planets and various things in motion to rule, as we see from in verse 4. Because now we've looked up to see the great rule, we've looked around to see God's order of ruling, and we see one more thing in verse 4: what is man? What is man that you are mindful of him? The vastness of creation is given over to man for dominion. That's the original plan. Man, you see, is unique in the image of God, and he was originally given dominion over the creation. What is man? The Bible holds that man, man and woman, very high esteem. Rulers. By God's design. And we see that again in Genesis 1. And God blessed them, and God said to them, to the humans, be fruitful and multiply and Fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion. Man, have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. They, man, were to be God's image bearers in all creation. That was their calling. And we see some more detail coming in verses 5 through 8. You have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, the angels. Have a higher rank in the original creation. They're closer. They run back and forth between heaven and earth. You have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crown him with glory and honor. You have given him, verse 6, dominion, man, dominion over the works of your hands. That's the whole creation, isn't it? And put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, all the beasts of the field, all the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the sea. God wanted his image bearers everywhere. Everywhere. Now think about that. We have We have conquerors and dictators who are well known to put their images everywhere, aren't they? They put them on billboards, they put them on buses and statues and coins, and they put them on paper currency. So everybody that buys anything has to see their image everywhere. And you see this particularly with dictators. When they've taken over a country, they put their image everywhere and really big. Moammar Qaddafi did. Saddam Hussein did, we remember seeing the statues of Saddam Hussein. Um topple when they finally took him out. Joseph Stalin did this and he even named renamed the city of St. Petersburg Stalingrad to get his name out there. So, God, as the true ruler of everything, wants his image everywhere too. But how does he get it everywhere? You and me, man. We are his image-bearers. And we need to remember that. We'll see how that works a little bit further on here. But fallen down man has spoiled this function that God ordained for us. We don't display his image very well anymore, do we? This week, President Trump called MS-13 gang members animals. Humans are capable of many evils. History shows that man is consistently doing the unthinkable. You just can't believe what man can do. So bad. But the President's critics were right in this respect. Even MS-13 fallen-down gang members are still human. They are still man. They're still although spoiled in the image of God So we see the big problem. Man is destined for this, man is ordained for this, and he's fallen down and spoils this function that God has given him. So God chose through Abraham Israel. Israel was to be his new humanity. He gave them his glorious law to bring order out of the chaos of the nations. To bring God's dominion back into view through their ethical, glorious worship and living according to the law of God. And so Israel could sing this psalm, but it was still a little bit dissonant to them because they could look around at the Gentile nations. And this doesn't say Israel is the man that you created. The whole human race was supposed to reflect God's glory. And they could look around at the Gentile nations, and it was hard for them to sing this psalm and think about the Gentile nations in this situation. Because they saw terrible things happening in the Gentile nations all around them. them. How could they sing this song? How could they understand it? And even if they looked at themselves, Israel, the chosen people, the blessed people, the law-given people. They also failed God miserably if they looked at themselves So like a once glorious athlete who would sing a song about his own strength and his victory, who's now ruined by Alcohol and self-acquired inflicted crippling diseases, he really can't sing the song of his own beauty and strength and dominion anymore. And neither could mankind, neither could Israel. So how is this psalm even relevant anymore since man is so bad? Israel again had a hard time seeing this glorious man in view as they looked at the Gentiles, the dogs all around. Israel and Israel's king, David, we'll see in history was to set the new pattern, to be the new man who would rule. Yet Israel was falling far short of her mission to be a light to the nations. And even David, as we know, fell far short, didn't he? All have fallen, my friends All have fallen short of the glory of God. That's what Paul is saying when he says, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. The glory of God means representing God as glorious as he is. Through the image in which He created us, we are to be the bearers of the glory of God. And we have fallen short, failed to hit the target, missed the mark. So maybe the Psalm should just be tossed aside. It doesn't work. It's been ruined. It won't happen. There's nothing to celebrate. But Israel didn't toss it aside. Some commentators don't think this psalm has any reference to the Messiah. I don't know how they can come up with that idea. Does the psalm speak of the Messiah? Is he the answer to the problem that we've already developed here? I believe he is. Because in the Psalm, we talk about the Son of Man, that you care for him, the Son of Man. What does that mean, the Son of Man? The Son of Man is kind of a mysterious title that Jesus picks up and uses about himself. But where does it appear very often? In Ezekiel, the Son of Man is referring to Ezekiel himself as just a human being. But there's another place in the Bible where we see the Son of Man not referring to an ordinary human. But to a very special human being. And that is in Daniel 7, which we heard read. Daniel 7, verse 13, in the night visions, Daniel's looking forward. This is the time of being in exile in Babylon, where Israel has failed and been put out of the land because they have failed to do what God wanted them to do, to bear God's image to the world. They've been punished. But now Daniel sees this vision. In the night visions, verse thirteen, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of He came to the ancient of days, the throne of God the Father, and was presented before him. So this Son of Man is presented before the throne of God the Father. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. Son of man, and the psalm refers to that son of man, the son of man that you care for him. The second man, the second Adam, in verse five, that yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, the angels, and crowned him with glory and honor, and given him dominion over the works of your hands. And put all things under his feet, that was to be the original, all sheep and oxen and so forth. But God In glorious mercy and grace sent the true Son of Man, the true Davidic King. And so the writer of Hebrews can say about order and creation and dominion. Verse Chapter 1, verses 1 through 13. Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days, we're living in the last days. Because of the days of fulfillment. In these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things. What did heir of all things mean? Rule, possession. Through whom he also created the world, he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature You see, man was to be the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he was to fill the world with the exact imprint of God's nature everywhere. They failed. But he, Jesus, didn't fail. He is being extolled here by the writer to the Hebrews. He is the perfect image of God, the Son of Man, spoken of in Daniel 7. He upholds, it goes on to say, the universe by the word of his power, after making purification for sins, he sat down. Why do you sit down? Because you're Finished. He sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high, as we say in our creeds, ascended into heaven, and sitteth at the right hand of God the Father. And then it says, having become as much superior to the angels, as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs, for to which of the angels did God ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you? Or again, I will be a father to him and he shall be to me a son. And again, when he brings his firstborn into the world, he says, Let all the angels of God worship him. Psalm 8 says that this one was made a little lower than the angels, but now Now he is raised above the angels, crowned with glory and honor. And then verse 8 of that chapter, but of the Son he says, your throne. That's a place to rule, isn't it? Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. He's saying that of the Son, the scepter of righteousness is the scepter of your kingdom. And he goes on to talk about this great king and extol him in so many ways. And then we get down to verse 13. And to which of the angels has he ever said, listen to this? Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. So he's ascended now He's sitting at the right hand of the Father, Jesus Christ. He is ruling, and he's going to do that until his enemies become a footstool for his feet. He is ruling. And I'm going to move on to say, we are ruling with him, in him, united to him. And then the passage that we actually did read from Hebrews was chapter 2. It refers more clearly to this Son of Man, this Israelite king who will overcome all the beastly nations around. And the writer says, For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come. So it's not about angels. Of which we are speaking, but it has been testified somewhere, and he quotes Psalm 8, what is man that you're mindful of him, or the son of man? There it is again, that you care for him. You made him, Jesus, for a little while lower than the angels. He became one of us, human. A little lower than the angels, like us. You have now crowned him with glory and honor. Putting everything in subjection under his feet. And then the writer explains what that means. He interprets Psalm 8 for us. Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing. Right now there's nothing that's not subject to Jesus Christ, my friends. Nothing outside his control. At present, we do not see everything in subjection to him. We don't see it. Do you see Jesus in Washington? No. Or wherever the world might want to put the ruler of the world. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels There it is again, lower than the angels for a while, namely Jesus crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. He has tasted death. He's gone through death. It's not just nibbling on death. He drank the cup of God's wrath. That is the taste that's being referred to here. And then we get to one verse that I skipped earlier. You may have thought Pastor Ed just missed it, but no, no. Verse 2. Out of the mouths of babies and infants, the psalmist would say. Israel would celebrate, and they wouldn't know what they meant by it, maybe, but out of the mouth of babies and infants. You have established strength, rule, dominion because of your foes, to still the enemy and the Avenger, to shut them up. God sent his son, you see, to be born an infant A babe. To establish a new kingdom, the one that was replacing the one that failed. My friends, I am weak. And my children, as much as I love them, are weak But because they are united to Christ, I rule, and they rule. I prevail, and the devil is foiled United to Christ. Psalm two says, Ask of me, God says to the to the son, I will make of the nations your heritage, the ends of the earth your possession. You shall rule them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel I can just see that rod of iron coming up to this piece of pottery and smashing it, and it falls into a thousand pieces. The rod of iron is Jesus Christ, and those who are united to him rule with him. They have his glorious strength. By faith, united to him. Apart from Christ, my strength could be compared to a very thin wire. I did a little study on wire. The biggest wire that you can buy commercially anyway is number one gauge wire. It is slightly thicker than a quarter inch thick. I mean, that's a big wire. Quarter inch thick. Must carry a lot of voltage or something, right? quarter inch thick in diameter. And then there's all the way up to 40 gauge wire, which is. 00314 inch. Thick. A tiny filament. My friends, Christ could be compared to a three inch Diameter steel rod, three inch thick rod, and welded to him my 40 gauge 0. 00314 inch tiny filament welded to him is as strong as he is And here's what I want to bring to your focus for now. You, united to Christ and your children, babes, even little ones, because God sent his power in babies. You, united to Christ, silence the enemy. You rule. The children of the covenant united to Christ rule It's important to train them, to teach them this too. Not just their ABCs and a few rules and manners, but teach them that they are destined to rule in Christ. To rule in their own lives and to rule generally and to spread God's glory and God's image everywhere as they are renewed in the image of Christ. That's what must be taught. You see, my friends, all is not lost. We can still sing this song because the new man has come. The new king has come. The new Israel will not fail Even looking around at the weakness and historic failure, the psalmist could still, with confidence, end the psalm the way he started it O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. You who are united to Christ share his dominion. Let me just show you a place's inscription. Which says, and I'm just a couple of, there's many more. 1 Corinthians 6, 3. Do you not know, the Apostle Paul says in kind of rebuking the church, do you not know, church, that we are to judge angels? So shape up and act. like you're somebody. We're to judge angels. We're going to be higher than they are. Hebrews 6. 5. Those who are being addressed have tasted the goodness of the Word of God and the powers of the age to come. In Ephesians 2, 4 through 7, glorious exclamation of the Apostle Paul. But God, being rich in mercy because of the great love with which he loved us. Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him. And listen here, listen. Seated us with him. He was seated to rule, right? We heard that earlier. He has seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ. Jesus. We are to rule. And then he says, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable kindness and riches of his grace toward us in Christ Jesus. We are to rule You were seated with him to rule with him. You need to get that grasp that idea. Believe that and put it into practice. So let me just say in conclusion, Christian, how are you doing? Ruling. How are you doing? How are you doing ruling over sin and Satan's devices in your own life? So you got the upper hand? Does he got control or are you ruling because you're united to Christ and you have his spirit, you have his word, and you're ruling? How about in your vocation? Are you ruling by taking charge of your vocation? The Protestant doctrine Of vocation is that every calling, every job that you might have out there is a holy calling and should be done to the glory of God as unto the Lord. You should rule at work. It doesn't mean you have to have the top job. It just means that you rule in the thing that God has given you to do where you are stationed. And if you don't have one of those jobs at the base or somewhere else, and you are at home, you rule at home too. How about your finances? They should be managed well, whether you have little or much, and they should be used for the glory of God because you rule your finances. Under God. How about your physical body? We can't always control our bodies. Things happen. But inasmuch as you can take charge of your health, are you ruling? By taking charge of your health, God has given you a body and you are to be the steward of it, the ruler of it It's not to rule over you. Your mind. This is very important, your mind. What you read. What you watch, what you listen to. There's an old saying I think is a truism, and the saying goes like this: garbage in, garbage out. So, what do you read? What do you listen to? What are you doing with your mind? Romans 12, 2 says, do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed. By the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what the will of God is, what is good and acceptable and perfect. Finally, your affections. Your affections, what you love most. Is it God or is it something else That will show to a large degree in your church seas anyway. It will show in the things that you choose to do. You will do what you love to do. As our friend Al Morissette used to say, I love this quote, your priorities are what you're doing. In Christ, you are called to take dominion, to be recreated in the image of God. and to show the glory of God to the world around, to raise children who also take dominion, maybe even better than you and I have. Christ has done this for you, and Christ wants to do it in you. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that we may learn what we are, who we are, what our calling is. What you have done to rescue us and to recreate us and to set us on the throne again, help us to rule in Jesus' name. Amen.