Let us turn first, I think, to Luke chapter 1, verse 67 through 79. Luke 1, 67 through 79. Where we will hear a very psalm-like Hebrew poetry, but it's in the New Testament. Psalm one sixty-seven through seventy-nine. This is the the Benedictus as it's called in Latin because the first word in chapter in verse 68 is blessed, which is the word benedictus. This is the song of Zechariah. So beginning at verse 67. And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord, God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us To show mercy, the mercy promised to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant, the oath that he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us That we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all our days. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways. To give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high To give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. Those of course were the words about John the Baptizer by his Father, Zechariah, who was priest serving at that time in the temple. And then we turn to Psalm 119 Wow, verse forty one begins that section Let your steadfast love come to me, O Lord, your salvation according to your promise. Then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me, for I trust in your word. And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for my hope is in your rules. I will keep your law continually forever and ever, and I shall walk in a wide place where I have sought your precepts. I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame, for I find my delight in your commandments, which I love I will lift up my hands toward your commandments, which I love, and will meditate on your statutes. This portion of Psalm 119, in which, as we have said before, each verse begins with the letter of that particular section. This one being the letter VAW or WOW, a W or V, and There are almost no words in Hebrew that begin with this letter. This letter is properly a conjunction. And so each of the verses in this section is in Hebrew a conjunction. A conjunction is a word used to connect clauses or sentences or to coordinate words in the same clause. Examples of a conjunction are the word and, the word but, the word if. So if we look back at this section and guess which one of those conjecture those conjunctions is being used here, it's probably The conjunction and. So it would go like this, and let your steadfast love come to me, verse 14. forty one and then verse forty two and then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me and verse forty three and it is and in this case and take not the word of my mouth uh take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth. Verse 44, and I will keep your law continually. 45, here it is, and again, and I shall walk in a wide place. 46 and I also will speak of your testimonies and you see what I'm saying as we go forward. Um and is very likely the con Junction that was used by the writer David. That's just technical stuff, but it's interesting to note. But let's go on and look at the verses. I'm going to spend the great deal of the time here on verse 41. Because I'm going to stop on the word salvation and talk about a biblical theology of salvation. Which I hope will inform us in the use of the word wherever we find it, especially in the Old Testament, but elsewhere too. Verse 41 says, Let your steadfast love come to me. We can talk about steadfast love. We have many times. It's the word Hesed. But we're going to move on from that. Let your steadfast love come to me, O Lord. The parallel now being your salvation according to your promise. Your salvation. In her opening address to the Episcopal Church's General Convention in California in 2009, The presiding bishop, Catherine Jefferts Shorey Was reported on all the news media, many of them anyway, to have said that it was or is heresy to believe in individual salvation. She was slightly right, and she was mostly wrong. She was trying to make the case that salvation is always applied to a group rather than to an individual. And that the individual emphasis of salvation as taught by evangelicals is wrong. Salvation is, in fact, often or mostly applied to a group. So she was right in that, but it is also applied to individuals within the group. So she was quite wrong in what she was asserting It's important to have a biblical theology of the use of this word salvation. It is not plain on the face of it. We don't have a one-for-one equation between the word salvation here and the word salvation in other places of Scripture. We can't just assign one meaning only to that word. Make it about going to heaven. Make it about being justified by faith, although that is true. It has broader meanings, and it has a broader meaning that is applied here in this Psalm and in other places in the Old Testament and even some in the New Testament. The Hebrew word used in verse 41 translated salvation. appears very frequently in the Old Testament. It often means to save To help in distress, to rescue, to deliver, to set free. That is not exactly the same meaning as the prominent meaning in the New Testament word, Soteria, Greek. Baker's Evangelical Dictionary of Biblical Theology, William T. Arnold, says this from that volume. Commonly, the salvation of which the Old Testament speaks is material in nature, though there are important exceptions. In contrast, the employment of soteria, the New Testament word for salvation, may include material preservation, but usually signifies a deliverance with special Spiritual significance. In addition, the notion of deliverance, in addition to the notion of deliverance, the Bible also uses salvation to denote health. Health and well being and healing. Broadly speaking, salvation Is the main theme of the entire Bible, but since it has many dimensions, simple definitions are impossible. Arnold says, the biblical writers speak of salvation as a reality with spiritual and physical individual and communal, objective and subjective, eternal and historical dimensions Since the biblical writers view salvation as an historical reality, the temporal dimensions of past, present, and future further intensify and deepen the concept. Not as simple as we might have thought. The Bible speaks about salvation in the context of some very simple and concrete relationships. Between humans and God, between humans, and between human beings and nature, too. God is the main actor throughout. From the deliverance of Noah's family To the great multitude who shout, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb in Revelation chapter seven. So let's look back at the use of this word. In the Old Testament, in general, in the Old Testament, writers see salvation as a reality more physical. than spiritual. More social than individual. Where individuals are singled out, it seems to be for the good of the community. For example, in the Genesis narrative, the development of God's blessing Which is going to rest on certain individuals and renders them agents for some greater work of God. For instance, Noah's faithfulness brings salvation to his family as well as to animal life. And the blessing of the promise of nationhood and the land for Abraham was not only for his descendants, but for all the families of the earth. And think of Joseph. Joseph's rise to fame in Egypt preserves the life of his entire family, Genesis 45. And after 430 years in Egypt, an entire people is delivered through Moses And we see it much later when Esther, the queen, rises to power, and the Jewish people are saved from annihilation. That's salvation, too. Esther chapter 7, verse 7. That is what the psalmist is telling us about here is that very same sort of salvation. If you look at it. Not primarily about the forgiveness of sins and the promise of heaven, but deliverance from temporal perils. This is very much like the prophecy of Zechariah, the father of John the Baptizer, when he said, Hear it again, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. And has raised up for us a horn of salvation in the house of his servant David, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, that we should be Saved and go to heaven? Is that what it says? No. It says saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. That's the horn of salvation. That's the deliverance that's being talked about. From the prophets. And we see it again right here in this very section. When the psalmist's prayer is answered for salvation, deliverance, verse 42, then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me? The answer isn't, I'm going to heaven. The answer is different, isn't it? For I trust in your word. And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for my hope is in your rules. I will keep your law continually forever and ever, and I shall walk in a wide place. The result of this salvation that he's asked for is that he gets to walk in a wide place. That is a broad and safe place that does not conceal enemies in figurative speech. For I have sought your precepts. He also says: another result of this salvation, this very, very physical and temporal salvation, is verse 46. I will speak of your testimony before kings. The godly will be sought for political advice when they have been saved in this sense. And again, you can think of Joseph. Who was raised to the highest place in Egypt and sought for political advice, and he offered it and gave it, and people were saved, the nation was saved from famine because of his godly counsel. For I find delight in your commandments, which I love. I will lift up my hands toward your commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes. So, in summary, those so far, salvation from sin is not a dominant concern in the Psalm. It is not absent, I'm not saying that, but David is concerned for Israel's national restoration. And this is important because God has chosen Israel to bless all nations. The covenant of grace. Again, Arnold says, Such salvation when it comes will be neither for the sake of Israel nor because of her deeds. But for God it is glory, which has been profaned and which now must be vindicated among the nations Later, Isaiah tells of a salvation still on the way, which will be achieved through the vicarious suffering of the servant, Isaiah 53, who bears the sin of many. And this salvation will last forever. Now go to the New Testament with me In the New Testament, we have revealed to us the name Emmanuel, God with us. This marks a huge leap forward in the history of salvation. In Matthew's Gospel, the angel tells Joseph that Mary's child is conceived of the Holy Spirit and that he is to give him the name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. The name Jesus, derived from the Hebrew Joshua, means salvation. The purpose of the Son of Man's coming is to seek and save the lost, Luke 19. The New Testament continues the Old Testament affirmation that salvation belongs to God alone, but with greater specificity. Now it is God's presence in and with the man Jesus that proves decisive. Now it is clear who the Savior is. Peter's certainty of this relation between Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, and the God who raised him from the dead. moves him to the exclusive confession that salvation belongs only to the name of Jesus Christ. He says it in Acts chapter 4, verse 10 through 12 when he's preaching. He says, let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him this man is standing before you well This Jesus is the stone that is rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation. In no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved In Jesus' teaching, salvation is linked to the advance of God's kingdom, which is in turn linked to Jesus' own person. By using God's kingdom as the place of salvation, Jesus deepens the Old Testament conviction that salvation belongs to God. For the kingdom signifies a sphere of reality in which God reigns sovereign. The disciples themselves responded to Jesus' teaching about the kingdom with the question: Who then can be saved? The fact that Jesus himself understood himself to be that bringer of God's kingdom is evident in the claim following his synagogue reading. When he said, today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing, from Isaiah 61. Salvation belongs to those who follow Jesus, the bringer and embodiment of God's kingdom. Salvation is later described as the mystery of God that is now revealed Ephesians 3 and Ephesians 6. It is a plan conceived before the foundation of the world, Ephesians 1. A light for revelation to the Gentiles, Luke 2, as we read earlier. A transition from death to life, a message especially for sinners A gift of grace through faith, not works, Ephesians 2. That for which the whole creation groans, as we heard this morning in Romans 8. The revelation of God's righteousness to faith and for faith, Romans 1, 16 and 17. The justification that comes through faith. The reconciliation described in 2 Corinthians 5, and the redemption described in Romans 8-23. In answer to Nicodemus' question about being born again, salvation is said to be a spiritual birth. A birth from above, without which one cannot perceive nor enter the kingdom. John three Salvation means death to and ultimately freedom from sin. Yes. In Romans, salvation means participation in the new creation, peace with God. In Galatians, Paul described it as life as adopted children of God, and baptism into Christ's death, and the reception of the Holy Spirit. Shows forth this salvation. So we put these things, these concepts together. In summary The biblical salvation encompasses both the physical and spiritual dimensions of life, having relevance for the whole person For Jesus, the physical and spiritual dimensions are held very close together. You see, forgiveness of sins and physical healing frequently coexist. When Jesus was on the move, the healing of the paralytic in Mark chapter 2 And other healings done in Jesus' name later by the apostles call attention to the intimate connection of spirit and mind and body. In these examples, salvation means not only forgiveness of sin, but the mitigation of its effects. Salvation in its fullness extends beyond the boundaries of national Jewish identity. On one of these occasions, Jesus corrected the Jewish national expectations concerning the kingdom in Acts chapter 1, when the disciples questioned about when are you going to restore the kingdom to Israel? Since Jesus' death was for all people, repentance and forgiveness of sins is to be proclaimed to all the nations. This gospel, says Paul, was preached beforehand in the form of God's promise to bless all nations through Abraham. The objective basis and means of salvation is always God's sovereign, gracious choice to be God with us in the person of Jesus. Jesus Christ, who is described as both author and mediator of salvation. The subjective basis of salvation is personal repentance and faith Often associated closely with water baptism. John the Baptist preached a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. A message echoed by Peter and Paul. And Jesus said salvation required belief in him. Paul commanded confession with the mouth that Jesus is Lord and belief that God raised him from the dead. The New Testament articulates salvation in terms of past, present, and future. In Christ, we were elected before the foundation of the world. Yet the cross is the power of God for those who are being saved. Likewise, Paul's readers are admonished to work out their salvation with fear and trembling. And there is yet a salvation that lies waiting to be revealed at the last time, a redemption for which we groan inwardly. For Paul, the past dimension of salvation is conceived as justification, redemption, and reconciliation. While its present dimension is depicted in terms of the Spirit-sanctifying work Its future dimension is glorification, the culmination of the saving process, wherein believers will experience Christ's presence in new and resurrected bodies. Yes, God cares about our bodies. They're not refuse. So when the psalmist says, when I am saved, delivered, I will have an answer for him who taunts me. I will walk in a wide place. in the safety of God's love. And even the ability, I will have even the ability to speak to those in authority in this world with confidence The kingdom you see. Was worldly and is worldly. God is in the process of saving, delivering not just our souls. He is in the process of delivering the whole creation, which has been cursed because of us. The kingdom makes an impact on the world. It changes the world for good. Salvation is not disconnected from the world, but in service to the world. which is being redeemed to become the eternal kingdom of God. And there, like the psalmist says here in this psalm, you will dwell In safety forever, redeemed by the blood of Jesus shed for you, but not for you alone. But for you as a member of his body, the church, we are saved as individuals, but we are not saved Alone Amen Lord, we pray that you will bless the thinking of our minds as we consider the broad scope of salvation. As we read the words in the Psalms about deliverance, about salvation, help us to understand the meaning of that word in its historical connection and and yet also in its great breadth With the view to the coming of a Savior who redeems us completely and sets us free and puts us in community, makes us members of his body, the church Amen.