If you would please turn to um Psalm ninety-four. Psalm ninety-four and I'll read it out. O Lord, God of vengeance, O God of vengeance, shine forth. Rise up, O Judge of the earth. Repay to the proud what they deserve. O Lord, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked exult? They pour out their arrogant words, all the evildoers boast They crush your people, O Lord, and afflict your heritage. They kill the widow and the sojourner, and murder the fatherless. And they say, the Lord does not see, the God of Jacob does not perceive Understand, O dullest of the people, fools, when will you be wise? He who planted the ear, does he not hear? He who formed the eye, does he not see? He who disciplines the nations, does he not rebuke? He who teaches man knowledge The Lord knows the thoughts of man, that they are but a breath. Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O Lord, and whom you teach out of your law, to give him rest from his days. For the Lord will not forsake his people, he will not abandon his heritage. For justice will return to the righteous, and all the upright in heart will follow it. Who rises up for me against the wicked? Who stands up for me against evildoers? If the Lord had not been my help, my soul would soon have lived in the land of silence. When I thought, my foot slips Your steadfast love, O Lord, held me up. When the cares of my heart are many, your consolations cheer my soul Can wicked rulers be allied with you, those who frame injustice by statute? They band together against the life of the righteous, and condemn the innocent to death But the Lord has become my stronghold, and my God, the rock of my refuge, he will bring back on them their iniquity and wipe them out for their wickedness The Lord our God will wipe them out. First, we see in verses 1 through 7 a call for vengeance, God's vengeance on injustice. In these words, O Lord God of vengeance, O God of vengeance, shine forth. Rise up, O judge of the earth, repay to the proud what they deserve, and so forth. The psalmist began with a simple and profound recognition that vengeance belongs to God. God sees and judges righteously among humans and will bring vengeance as appropriate. This means that vengeance does not belong to humans except as delegated by God in the case of the civil government. Vengeance belongs to the one who sees more than we see and knows more than we know. This means it is appropriate to ask God to dispense vengeance and trust his superior knowledge, wisdom, and timing in doing so. So we see in this an imprecatory element. What does imprecatory mean? If you look it up, it means to call down Wrath against injustice, to call for vengeance by God. That's what imprecatory means. And it is appropriate for us to pray In precatory prayers. It is appropriate for us to pray that God would crush the wicked and put them down and keep them from ruling and and prevailing in the world. And that's what we have here. So it's not there's nothing wrong with that. It may seem um it may seem kind of presumptuous. But when we have a clear idea of what God wants, because He's told us about injustice and justice, And then we have a clear idea of what violates it, it is fine for us to pray that God would act. And Do things and be patient for it as well. James Boyce says, Dr. Samuel Johnson, the maker of the first great English dictionary, made the distinction well when he said, revenge. Is an act of passion. If you get revenge on your enemies, because you're so stirred up and angry and mad at them that you act in passion. But vengeance Is different. Vengeance is justice put into action. Injuries are revenged, but crimes are avenged Injuries make you mad and you get back at someone, but crimes against God and his truth are avenged. Vengeance is called for. Not all that was a quote from Boyce, but the first part was. G. Campbell Morgan says, in catacombs, thinking back to the early Christian days, in catacombs, in dungeons, in places of uttermost desolation, when it has seemed to sense That the way of God was blocked, that his rule was overcome, that all evil things had gained the victory, these songs, like these words in Psalm 94, these songs have arisen. proclaiming him king and mocking all the vain and foolish thoughts of man and declaring his ultimate victory. And then Spurgeon said about this, if the execution of justice be a right thing, and who can deny the fact, then it must be a very proper thing to desire it. Not out of private revenge, in which case a man would hardly dare to appeal to God, but out of sympathy with right and pity for those who are made wrongfully to suffer. So you get the distinction there and understand real well that we are to call upon God for vengeance. Not revenge. Verse 3 says, O Lord, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked exult? Spurgeon says, many a time this bitter complaint has been heard in the dungeons of the Inquisition, at the whooping posts of slavery, and in the prisons of oppression. In due time, God will publish his reply. But the full end is not yet. Must not such a human or such an inhuman conduct as this provoke the Lord? Shall the tears of widows, the groans of strangers, and the blood of orphans be poured forth for nothing? As surely as there is a God in heaven, he will visit those who perpetrate such crimes. Though he bear long with them, he will yet take vengeance, and that speedily. So it's doubled here. Oh Lord, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked exalt? And then we get to verse seven. Which is important, and they say, Lord, the Lord does not see, the God of Jacob does not perceive. This is the voice of those who are getting away with injustice. They're doing just fine. They have enacted it and perpetrated it, and people are suffering under it, and nothing is being done about it. And so they, those who perpetrate it, say, the Lord does not see. The God of Jacob does not perceive. They are ignorant and arrogant against God in these words. They deny that he exists in the sense that he is revealed in the Bible, at least And this ignorance of God leads to a diluted arrogance against him. Respect is due of the office of rulers. But as McLaren says, there is no obligation to speak smooth words to rulers whose rule is injustice. and their religion impiety. And you see that sort of thing here in these words. And then Ahab had his Elijah in the Old Testament. You know, Ahab, the wicked, wicked king, God sent the prophet Elijah. Herod had John the Baptist These voices cried out for justice against these wicked rulers. And notice that these are mockers who know the name of God. They actually use his covenant name Yahweh and they give him his second name, the God of Jacob. They call him this sarcastically, who takes this name to himself, but they have no regard for his people. And so they mock him by giving him his covenant name and the name of his chosen people. But God will answer. And that's what we see next in verses 8 through 11 God's answer to the senseless rebels. Verse 8, understand, O dullest of the people. So that's that's the reply of God. He calls them the dullest of people, dullers. Fools. And we're not to call each other fools. Um It's uh Jesus says it's a very, very serious offense to to some to say to someone, you fool. But God can call people fools. Fools, when will you be wise? And then he answers this way in verse 9. He who planted the ear, in other words, God who designed man and formed him with ears, don't you think that the God who made man with ears Can't hear? And yet that's what they're basically trying to say. God can't hear. God doesn't know. He says, He who planted the ear, does he not hear? He who formed the eye, does he not see? He who disciplines the nations does he not rebuke. He who teaches man knowledge, the Lord knows the thoughts of man, that they are but a breath. The logic is simple and solid, isn't it? The God who created the ear can hear, the God who created the eye can see, and so their conclusion is obviously in error. The God of all wisdom and knowledge will hold them accountable for their life and for what they have done. Derek Kidner says, the logic is inescapable Once the premise is accepted that God is our Maker, what the Psalm does not contemplate is the crowning absurdity reserved for modern man who rejects God. Verse 11, the Lord knows the thoughts of man, that they are but a breath. So God's wisdom is so great that he even knows the thoughts. of men. Isn't that scary sometimes? He knows the thoughts of men. This great God must be apparently appropriately feared, respected, and obeyed. He knows the thoughts and intents of our hearts. Nothing is hidden From the eyes of God. And this was important for the senseless and the fools to hear because they needed to get a grip on the truth in this case. The Apostle Paul later quotes this very verse in 1 Corinthians 3. 20, where he speaks of God's triumph over the exaltation of defiant human wisdom and knowledge. Listen to it in 1 Corinthians 3, 19-20. For the wisdom of this world is folly with God, for it is written, He catches the wise in their craftiness. And again, the Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, so-called wise, that they are futile. So he quotes there. And in Romans 1. 21, it is alluded to as well. Romans 1. 21, speaking of the futility of man's intellect against God. Where Paul says, For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile. There it is. in their thinking, and that's what's being said here, and foolish in their hearts So the third point, verses 12 through 15, I'll put under this head. The blessed believers who take instruction. This is really the center of the Psalm We've had an introduction so far to this key section, I believe. Here it is. Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O Lord. That's something we probably don't like to hear. Children sometimes don't like to hear that. They don't like to think that uh the the spanking they got from their parents or the rebuke they got from their parents is a good thing that they're blessed because they got it. But that's what's being said here. Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O Lord, and whom you teach out of your law. To give him rest from days of trouble. You see, when we are bl when we are disciplined by the Lord, When we are rebuked for our failures, our sins, and we are taught out of God's law, it brings us into a place of tranquility and peace, relative at least To give him rest from days of trouble. And then it says, until a pit is dug for the wicked. So that's back in view again. Until a pit is dug for the wicked. So what the believer should see in all these troubles that came in the verses up to this is that even in those troubles, even in those difficulties God is disciplining them. God is teaching them out of his law, teaching them to trust him, and teaching them to be patient. As they wait for what? For a pit to be dug for the wicked. I think that was a an old-fashioned way of of catching animals. You dig a pit and then you cover it with some branches of something and then you drive the animals in that direction and they run onto the covering and fall into the pit and then you you've got them. And you know, that was the sort of thing that uh Joseph's brothers did to him. They threw him in one of these pits. But God rescued him out of it. But we see here that God is going to bring justice. Verse 14 makes it really clear: for the Lord will not forsake his people, he will not abandon his heritage. For justice will return to the righteous. So righteous people, when you think, what's God doing? Why is he allowing this? Why is he allowing that Especially if it's a matter of justice, truth, righteousness against wickedness and sin, you can be sure that God will bring back righteousness. He will cause it to triumph And then it says at the second part of verse 15, the couplet, all the upright in heart will follow it. So blessed is the man whom you discipline. Perhaps the senseless and the fools will never listen to God, but his people must. And he will instruct and teach them from his word. Sometimes you will hear people say that they were educated in the school of hard knocks. Have you ever heard that? Yes, I went to the school of hard knocks. Well, God sometimes allows us to go to the school of hard knocks, but it's for our good Spurgeon says, all the chastening in the world without divine teaching will never make a man blessed. That man that finds correction attended with instruction and lashing with lesson, as he puts it, is a happy man. What does that mean? I think I'm going to interpret Spurgeon for you. It's pretty clear. Lots of people have lots of troubles and hurt a lot. But it does them no good without God's word. It does them no good without God teaching them from His Word through those things. They only suffer. But a man who gets instruction with correction, lashing with lesson, is a happy person. And then it says again in verse 13, to give him rest from the days of trouble. This is a wonderful promise to those who receive the teaching of God's word. That they have rest when the inevitable days of adversity come. Remember the martyr age. Well, actually, this is the martyr age right now, isn't it? Reports are that there are more martyrs in the 21st century than in previous centuries But remember the early martyr age, the days of the Covenanters, for instance. The Covenanters who were hunted upon the mountains like a partridge. You must not wonder if the easy places of the earth are not yours. And if the Sentinel's stern duties should fall to your lot, it is so and it and so it must be For God has ordained it. That's Spurgeon I'm quoting. He remembers the days of the covenanters. And then commenting on that phrase again, until the pit is dug for the wicked, until the cold grave holds his body, and hot hell holds his soul, as Trapp puts it. And then we end with this bit. For the Lord will not cast off his people. This is a beautiful and powerful assurance given first to Israel under the old covenant, but extending to the child of God under the new covenant. Some teach that God cast off Israel, but this and many other passages contradict that idea. With repetition and emphasis, God insists that he will not forsake his inheritance, whether Jew or Gentile. Spurgeon says, even if Satan should come and whisper to you, the Lord has cast thee off, do not believe it. It cannot be. The devil has his casts off. But God has no cast-offs. Sometimes he takes the devil's castaways and makes them to be trophies of his mighty grace. And now we move on to the fourth section, the sanity. I put this word in here, the sanity of a divine perspective. Verses 16 and following. Who rises up for me against the wicked? Who stands up for me against evildoers? If the Lord had not been my help, my soul would have lived in the land of silence. When I thought my foot slips, your steadfast love, O Lord, held me up. When the cares of my heart are many, your consolations cheer my soul. Can wicked rulers be allied with you, those who frame injustice by statute? Legislators. Right? They band together against the life of the righteous and condemn the innocent to death. Oh, my friends, it sounds just like our modern abortion laws. Listen to it again. They band together against the life of the righteous and condemn the innocent to death. But the Lord has become my stronghold and my God, the rock of my refuge. He will bring back on them their iniquity and wipe them out for their wickedness. The Lord our God will wipe them out. When I say the sanity of a divine perspective, if you only have what's going on around you, it seems like wickedness is ruling and reigning and it makes your foot slip. It makes you lose your footing. It makes you fall almost. But if we gain the perspective that God is giving here, we are made sane again We are made steady again. Our foot is made sure again. We don't fall under those things. So here the psalmist expresses satisfaction in God's ultimate righteous judgment. He considers that this hoped-for day is not yet. He understands and expresses his own limitations in dealing with evildoers and the workers of iniquity. But the psalmist knew that wickedness was sometimes to be found in high places. Some thrones and governments are marked by iniquity, and some laws are devised by evil persons. Such will never have fellowship with God, but God will have the last word, and that gives the psalmist great comfort. That reminded me of something from years ago, back in Wilmington. Years ago, we had a dear friend of our family who was dying of cancer. He had been living alone before his diagnosis and he wanted to have hospice care, but he couldn't have it where he lived. So we offered our home, and he came to live and die in our home. It took about six months. Bill was his name, and he had been converted under our ministry and ordained a deacon. He was very active in evangelism and had in fact been instrumental in the conversion of the nearby abortion clinic director. It actually made the local paper when This abortion clinic director turned to Christ, joined a church, and was interviewed about his change. And Bill was one of those who faithfully witnessed to him. Anyway, Bill had a very lively sense of humor. I think it comports with what we read here in the Psalm so far. He was personally vexed by the policies of the President of the United States at that time. who was evidently going to be re-elected. And so one day when he was, yeah, still pretty well, but looking toward his final days, he said this One nice thing about dying soon is that I won't have to see that man inaugurated again. I think that captures some of the spirit here. That God will do his thing. God will bring vengeance. God will restore righteousness. He will. I might not see it in my lifetime. But it will happen. Someday evils that vex God's people will be past. Eternity will reveal God's judgment And we must keep that in mind. We see this finally in the book of Revelation, chapter 19. Listen to verses 1 through 3. After this, I heard what seemed to be the loud voice of a great multitude in heaven crying out, Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God. For his judgments are true and just. For he has judged the great prostitute who corrupted the earth with her immorality. and has avenged on her the blood of his servants, once more they cried out, hallelujah, for the smoke of her goes up forever. Until we get to the final chapter of history, we sometimes suffer and we live in difficulties and injustices, personal difficulties, but also uh how Evil in high places, legislation that is corrupt and evil. And we can join in Psalms like Psalm 94 here to call upon God and look forward. to the smoke of them to go up forever and say hallelujah. Amen. Oh Lord, we thank you that you are a God of vengeance on injustice, and you are a God of salvation to your people. And we thank you that though we suffer in this life and live in sometimes dark times, we trust in you and we are made sane again. Though we are vexed by difficulties and troubles and evils, we are made sane and we are made secure. Our foot does not slip as we trust in the God of salvation, the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we praise you in his name. Amen