I'm not the only person in this room. You're not the only person in this room. You must have got the same call that I got that there would be worship going on this morning. That there is a table that we were invited at to have fellowship, that the Lord would be present in meeting. He must have got the call that I got. And now we must walk worthy according to that call. And stay together and live together and build each other up and serve the Lord together We have been going through since uh I don't remember well Pentecost, but I I think Pentecost is May sometime frame. Uh a series of sermons going through the Christian year. through the lectionary and all these are focusing on, well what does it mean for us now with the Holy Spirit poured out because the Messiah has come, the Redeemer of God, He's laid down His life died for the sins of his people and picked it back up three days later uh in glory, uh immortal, in a body incorruptible, as the head of that new body, as the head of that new humanity. In glory, exalted, reigning, and has been reigning. And I wish we still went with by year of the Lord, but the year of the Lord for 2024, reigning over this world To fill it with himself and to bring us out of darkness to himself, to Fill us with his spirit and and ultimately and finally when God says, Okay, go now and he returns to fill all of creation again with only the glory of God. And God will be all in all. But now we have the Spirit Now we are in the Spirit. And uh what does that mean for us? Now let's imagine we were a church planted at Pentecost. And uh it's been now uh four months. And if you've been in uh church for any amount of time, uh you know four months a lot can happen. Things can get really good, things can get really bad But imagine uh why why do we need to hear this sermon then today? Well, because um In four months you've met people you've never met before, and at first you meet them and they're like you because they're Christians and they believe in Jesus and they love him sincerely. And then four weeks go by and they're not as much like you as you thought. Then forty days go by and is that less important? Yeah, then forty days go by. Still Got that in common, but they're less like you than when you thought. Four months go by. Who are these people? Are they anything like me? And am I looking for a new church Now just an extreme example, just putting it out there, but the reality that we face then, we have some very important things, unifying things, Paul says here in Commons. But none of us are perfect yet. And unity doesn't mean uniformity So that we will all quack like ducks and walk like ducks and talk like ducks, right? There's gooses in the pond too. And other birds that sweet love. Buffleheads. Did you know buffleheads? Or a bird you can find. We have a bird book at home and William and Rose go by the name of Buffleheads now because of that book and it's cute and endearing and I ask them if they're okay with it and they think it's funny. But there's buffleheads in the pond too, and more than just ducks. And yet they're in the pond. And the pond wouldn't be the same without all of the buffaloheads and the ducks and the goose and all the other water birds that are there. And so it is with the Christian church. And we're going to look at this text, but let me just speak right to you this morning. I you know, most of you have been Christians longer than I am, and most of you are maturer than I am, but none of you reach maturity sitting at home by yourself. You reach maturity by going through the difficult times with each other, by not giving up. By staying in there, by apologizing we need to apologize, by accepting apologies when you need to accept apologies By learning from one another and growing together. And that's really what this what we're going to focus on, the unity, but the unity has the goal for maturity. And maturity has the goal for stability. But the foundation has to be unity, and that's what we have to keep. We have to stay together, or we can't reach maturity. Maturity as Christians is not reached by doing home church by yourself, reading only the things you want to read, never being exposed to another person who might have a different thought, might do something a different way. That's not the unity of the church, and that's not maturity. That's just sectarianism. That's being too proud to learn from anybody else. The may be wrong, may have a different way, or just learn to say, there's another way. I'm glad you do it that way, I do it this way. But okay. That's how maturity is. So it makes me, you know, ever since I've been a Christian, I don't I don't look for trouble. But I don't despair at it either. And if I cause it, I'm terribly sorry and call me out so I can make amends by God's grace. But the point is It's through this that we reach the truth. Christian amity, the Spirit of Christ with us, gives us hope. Because God's ordained it, Christ is working it, that we are going to reach maturity and perfection. There is one church And when she rises in glory in the resurrection, we will see then the perfection of its unity. visibly, but it still exists today. And it still exists amongst us. And it is so vital and important. It is our bond. It's our life together with with it and without it. You cannot be you. You know, today's culture is, if this is true and this is the zeitgeist expressive individualism, right? It's all about you expressing who you are And then setting up all these barriers around you so that nobody can threaten that. That's why our society is known as a therapeutic society. And people have to have I mean grown-ups, I'm not trying to pick on a name, but grown-ups with timeout, right? Like if you're in kindergarten, you pull your card to tell your mood, grown-up adult children Now doing that at in college campuses that normally you you would just see in elementary school. What does that tell us about we're not reaching maturity as a people? We're just staying in that immaturity and if you know what an immature child is like me, me, me, and in no way is fitting into the family. Your parents said let me remind you that uh you have a family? It's a unit, it's a common goal, and the goal is to bring the children up in it and not let the children rule the roofs. Love them, nurture them, let them know their place, and love them in their place, and encourage them in their place. And children know your place and rejoice in their place because it's a God-given place, because God put you in it And parents, you've got a God given place to encourage each other, but same with the church. You're in it, we need to be in it, and we grow up together. So if if expressive individualism is is the zeitgeist Where the most important thing is me and what I like, so that I pick churches off of only my taste and only what pleases me, and that's the most important thing. Maybe then what Paul gets at some really fundamental things that should be high on our list about one body and spirit and faith and Lord and baptism and God, Father for us all. The opposite of that then is, or let me say it to you this way, you will never find yourself that way. You will not reach you Because God has not made you to be an individual merely, but a member of his body You can't be you apart from your fellow Christians. These ones and all Christians I think that's a very helpful word to hear today and to push back against the culture. But that's going to require what Jesus says it requires. Picking up your cross excuse me, cross. Making sacrifices, denying yourself, seeking something other than me and my good, but the common good He has brought us together for, to be his one new people. Living under his one new rule and his one new creation and serving him here now in the gospel message. And every day and ultimately in heaven with the joy and delight and worship and society there. But you can't be you without me. I can't be you. I can't be me without you We're a body and we're together. So, okay, I think I got that uh point across. That's but that's that's getting at the heart and significance. Things I hope you already know as Christians and rejoice in The joy of staying together. And because who doesn't like Christian maturity? Would anybody rather go back five months in their Christian life? Ten years? Not me. I definitely don't want to go back to that, but I haven't gotten where I am today in the Lord but through Christian fellowship. Through living in the body and serving with the body and learning from the body. Because that's what we do. So what we're going to look at Ephesians 4. Ephesians 4 breaks down in two parts, or these first six verses of it, verses 1 through 3 on appeal. So the Apostle Paul is going to appeal to us today. You're going to hear an appeal. That means a plea, an urging to do something. So you're going to be appealed to do something this morning, Congregation. And then we have a confession, verses 4 through 6, a confession of these unifying truths that really ground this appeal. And so we'll look at them in that order. Okay, let's begin uh with verse one. Paul says, I therefore. Uh that word therefore is important, and therefore tells you There's important things that come before, uh which I said that now what I'm about to tell you uh flows out of that I therefore a prisoner for the Lord. Now if if if you know I was trying to imagine this week, if I was sitting in Ephesus when this letter was first read to the church, and I was one of those members And I know that, well, two decades ago, m you know, my father was a pure pagan. Let's say I'm a younger Christian, you know. And this was not the kind of life we live we lived. We did not associate with Jews. I'm a Gentile, we'll be a Gentile. Or maybe we could take the other side and we're Jewish people. We did not get together and worship one God. We did not have any kind of fellowship, so after the service we got together and we ate a meal together because we had no table fellowship. I'm trying to imagine what would it be like if I I was living in that moment when it was like that, this news, and I knew that the only reason That where I'm enjoying this new life is by God's grace, this the apostles made clear, but through a man like this Apostle Paul Who so badly wants to spread this message, he is willing to be locked in prison for So that through his preaching, God in his due time can call me by his Spirit through this gospel message and bring me to Christ, and I can enjoy now and forever this new life. And so when Paul, that's what Paul urging them by this prison of the Lord, reminding him it's meant to strengthen his his appeal to them. To heed what he is asking. That's a humble way to do it, isn't it? Paul doesn't say I command you He's saying, brothers and sisters in the Lord, and he puts himself next to them. I am appealing to you to walk worthy. Or in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. I remind you that walking is a metaphor, a Hebrew metaphor. or a a way of life or living. So he's saying lead a kind of life, lead a life that is worthy of the calling to which you've been called. And so the question then is who What is our calling? Through what have we been called? Well, God is ultimately the caller. So God's called us in his grace. I like uh 1 Peter 2. 9, where he says, uh Peter says, But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. That you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. So this this word calling for the Apostle Paul, because Hebrews is six chapters. Chapters 1 through 3 go together. This word therefore or calling is really then a hinge bridging chapters 1 through 3 to chapters 4 through 6 where he spends the whole rest of this letter telling you What a a worldly manner of life is, you who have received such a call. And so we're not going to look at the wholeness of the worldly life. We're going to look at one aspect, and that's keeping unity together and staying together. But it will be in Hebrew or excuse me Ephesians for the next four weeks. Except for next week we'll have a sermon on angels as we look at a text like that. But we'll be looking at for the next four weeks together about various aspects of a life that is worthy of the calling that you and I received. But let me just I want to say this about calling, because this is I think how Paul is is using it here. He's not using it as an admonition. How many of you have ever been told, you're a grown-up now, act like it? You're grown up now. Act like it. Now we say that it's it's get that the same thing, right? You're this But but that has that admonishing kind of thing. Like you're not that's not Paul's point. There's no known problem here in Ephesus. There could be, but w his is more the sense of Um I I find the uh uh the movie Boys in the Boat, uh there's a book, Boys in the Boat, about the 1936 uh men's Olympic uh rowing team, a boat rowing team, they took gold. Now the movie has some issues, it has some foul language issues with parental advisory warning with it. But and I don't know about the books the books, I didn't read it. Um But these men in depression era and some of them just wanted a job and this paid. So these people had no background with it There's kind of a picture of God's calling. He doesn't call us according to words. He doesn't look at us and say, You're good, I'm taking you. He just calls us in his sovereign grace. Uh they got the call, they joined it, they ultimately got selected and joined the uh the team. But they are raw recruits. But they've been picked for the team. And they need to now row or conduct themselves worthy of being and I forget the school they're at, but the Grizzlies team are I forget the the coach's name, but they need to walk away. It's like someone who's called up from the minor leagues to the major leagues, right? You're not admonishing the person to say, play like a pro now, because you have, but that's not the point. Remember where you came from, the minor leagues. Know where you're at now even trying to get the major leagues and play like it So that's really the sense here is this word call functions for the congregation, for you and I is let's remember where we came from. And Paul's dealt with that. You were once dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now working the sons of disobedience That's miserable and horrible, dead in sins and trespass, walking with the course of this world. The foul spirit of Satan animating you as a child of disobedience, making you a child of wrath, whose end is only destruction. And Paul is saying, you were called out of that. To what? But God being rich in mercy, because of his great love of which he loved us, even when we were dead in trespasses. That that word is so important, brother. Even when God loves you first, rest in that. Rest that's that's one of the joys of the call is you're not earning this. You didn't earn it. Enjoy it. Make the most of it. He's called you to it. Even when you're dead in your trespasses, he made us alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved. He has raised you already with Christ. He has seated you in his heavenly places in Christ. And these words I don't even know what to do with them. They're so awesome. In the good term, awesome. So that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. So even called out of an eternity of knowing the wrath of God against your rebellion, to one of knowing nothing but the riches, the infinite riches of his kindness. He's saying you've been called from that to this by God's grace. And in chapter 2, verse 19, he said, so you're no longer strangers and aliens. We have a dear member of our congregation working to become a U. S. citizen. And I was talking with uh our our brother Rob, our deacon, about various modes of way you can become a citizen in the United States, and he was telling me one of the visas is like it's it's like a call, it's a lottery. You put a number in, you get called and you can come over. But what a perfect example, right? You've been called. Hey your number's called, you were 232, 223, 232 got called You were once a an alien and a stranger, and we'll pick America, but it could be any country. Maybe you're trying to get to Guam. I don't know. I don't want to favor America here. I know everybody's trying to get here, but I don't want to do that. But the point is You were a stranger and alien, but hey, now you are a U. S. citizen or a Filipino citizen, whatever you're trying to get. Now walk worthy of that, right? Remember what you were, stranger and alien Know what you are now? You're a fellow citizen in God's kingdom. You once had no part of God's life, nothing with to do with it. No s no rights, no privileges, nothing. And now you have the full status of citizen So what I I guess I could end I could keep going with these illustrations because they're helpful. They fill out our call to us because it's always a call from something to something. You you are now members of the household of God, right? We we heard what members we were. We were the members of Satan's house, this world And we've been called out of it. Satan is called the God of this world who still blinds those who do not believe in Jesus Christ. You've been called out of that into God's house. So that tells us our walk is going to be childlike in the image of God, trusting Him as our Father. It's an unworthy walk if we are not trusting God, we're not acting like His children, because we're His children. Even called, be a child of God. And Paul will say in chapter 3, verse 6, Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, partakers of the promise. You once had no promise. God did not give you a promise for anything, and you could expect nothing from him. And now he's promised to you everything, the whole inheritance, to be an heir of his world. And you share in that. So if we live like this life is everything? And grumble because we don't have everything in this life? We're not living worthy like people who have a promise of God that there's a lot more to come. But you see how the call function. So what I'm what I'm driving at is I would like us all to go away And encourage each other as a body with these words, parents encouraging children. I'd like to see siblings, siblings encouraging siblings. I would like to see children encouraging parents. Parents need a pickup from their from their children too. Brothers and sisters in the Lord saying, hey Brother, sister, walk worthy of your calling. And your mind should go, oh yeah, I'm not that anymore. I'm this now. I'm not in Adam anymore. I'm in Christ. Yay! Let's live it out. That's how this word, walk worthy of your calling, functions repall. Remember Well you used to be. Only in the sense of so you could be glad and what you are now. Don't remember it so you go back to it. Just it's that it's a enjoyment of Yeah, that once was me By God's grace, look where I'm at now. And I know uh and I we could even amplify on it as we look at the world and we see people continuing in that, right, we have immense pity for them And we pray that God would save them, and we share the gospel with them so God could save them. But man, when you when when you see the chaos in the world and the way people live and the heart of We don't we shouldn't be thanking ourselves saying, yeah, the flesh did that. Be saying, thank you, God. I'm not of the world anymore. And I'm not affected by cancel culture because I'm not trying to live in the culture. I'm not affected when the woke tide becomes even more woke and now I'm left behind and I'm not woke enough and my career's done. You will never catch up to the world unless you happen to be that guy in the moment who's made it, but he's only made it for the moment. History is going to forget him later and there'll be another person. You will never catch up to it But you have everything in Christ. You've got unchangeable realities, one body, one spirit, one soul. So we can thank God remember, thank you. Thank you that I'm in a way of life that isn't gonna go away. I I hope you're happy, but with this reality too, thank you that there are relationships that aren't going to go away. Have you ever dealt with this reality, beloved? You're gonna s God's picked who you're gonna spend forever with. Just like he picked your family too, you didn't pick what family you're gonna be born in. Are we are we glad about that, you know? Because this is what we're talking about we're talking about the church's people, not this building, this building's gonna go away. It's brothers dwelling together in unity. That is eternal life with God. The joy, the fellowships, the interpersonal relationships, all that can happen and take place By sinners like you and I, called by God's grace, now to be a part of His church, His new people, living together, serving together. That's what we've been called to. So the first thing then about having a walk that is worthy of this is we've got to stay together. Because if you notice in all those things, it doesn't say you've been called to be the citizen. There's other citizens. You didn't be called to be the body. You and I have been called to be a part of the body. You and I didn't get to be called to because we're going to be the only one in heaven. But because we are sharers, we have a part in that hole. We're not the only you're not the only person who's gonna be in heaven. So I I guess my point is is I've already told you that these realities are what we've been called to, but notice that we've been called together to them. It's a communal calling. There is no such thing as a Christian life that is individual. No such thing doesn't exist. I'm not saying people who are trying to do it are Christians, I'm saying that's not the Christian life Because the Christian life is communal. It's a fellowship. It's a body. And God has made the unity, and thank God that He's made the unity. That we might reach together maturity and we might mature together into stability. And come to clear views on things and not be shaken by every wind of doctrine because that's miserable. It's a joy to know how to think and what to think. and what to do because you've been convinced and learned from God's Word and shown from one another and have seen it modeled and exampled. That's a joy. You can get on living. But if you're always trying to figure out how to live then you can't really live because you're trying to figure out how to live. That's not living. I'm not making a point for high church. I'm just using illustration here. C. S. Lewis really preferred High Church where the liturgy is really set, and he likened it to dancing. You can't dance if you're trying to learn to dance It's hard to worship but you don't know the words and the things you're gonna say if every week it's just a new thing and you're not sure about it. Yeah, it can happen, it's just more difficult. Just using as an illustration about the joy of stability, but that stability being reached through maturity, and that maturity taking place because we stayed together. We didn't give up, and we persevere. So what do we need to do that? Well the Paul Apostle Paul says we need all uh humility. Jesus gives us a parable about that. And he said, don't be high-minded, and when you go to a place, take the highest seat. When you go somewhere, take the lowest seat. Now that's joy. There's some good news about being low-mind l that word means low-minded or you know lowly in mind, humble. You can't go any lower, can ya? It it hurts to be humiliated, doesn't it? And generally when you humiliated, you want nothing to do with that person who humiliated you, though it wasn't their fault. You you took a seat that wasn't yours. But now you're kind of mad at that person and the person who took the seat. But if you're lonely in mind, you can't fall any lower. You can only be brought up. And man, if somebody's ever praised you, you are buddy buddy with the person who's praised you, aren't you? It's nice to be exalted. It's nice to be honored. It's nice to be organized. It makes you come together. So Paul's saying, let's have the base mind here, like the Lord Jesus. Jesus says, I'm gentle and lowly Of putting ourselves last? Because we can only be promoted from there. And just a caveat. When the Bible says that the humble be exalted, the Bible doesn't mean The humble are going to be exalted to proud arrogance. It just means people that are lowly and humble are the people that are exalted. They stay lowly and humble when they're exalted. They don't become proud and arrogant. That's not the point. It can happen, but the that's the Bible says the lowly are exalted, it's the lowly who remain lowly who are exalted. You're not exalted to pride and arrogance. There's no place for that in God's kingdom. Now, I remind you that Jesus taught this parable after he had been Put on the spot by these Pharisees. How many of you would stick it in there if somebody in church put you on the spot? You ever been put on the spot with that question? Hey pastor, what do you think? Oh, great. All right. Hey, sister and brother, what do you think? Put them on the spot. But Jesus stays in there. And meekness, it doesn't crush them. Meekness is about power under control, mild and gentle in temper. Remains meek, remains gentle, patience, he doesn't lose his patience, doesn't get quick-tempered, oh, these guys again waiting to see what I'm going to do. And he bears with him. They are sinners. You and I are still sinners. And you and I are going to sin against each other. And the whole thing is, what are we going to do about it? If we're humble, we'll be meek. Will be long suffering. Patience, the opposite here is quick tempered. Oh man. If you're someone who blows up, you're gonna blow apart the church and blow apart relationships. You're going to beat people down. People aren't going to be able to around you. You're not going to keep any kind of unity. And Jesus But slow through anger, patient with them. And then he instructed them. They're wrong But look how he's bringing them around. That's why the Apostle Paul writes in 2 Timothy 2. 24, the servant of the Lord, someone who ministers God's word. All Christians do that Parents, you got children you need to be meek to because children they don't know everything, do they? Husbands and wives, you got spouses you need to be meek to because you don't yet know everything. Siblings, you have people you need to be meek to if you want to correct them. Meekness is about not crushing people but converting them. Paul says the servant of the Lord mustn't strive. No, he must be gentle, he must be patient, he must be apt to teach. And meekness Instructing those who oppose him. They oppose Jesus' view of the Sabbath. They oppose him on healing in the Sabbath, but look at the approach he takes to gently convert them to his side. It doesn't crush them. Beloved, you may be in the right in the church. And at times somebody's right. Some things nobody's right on. We just this is what it is. Some things you somebody's in the right. But if you want the person to come around to your side, don't crush them. Be meek. Be patient. Bear with them. So they'll be converted and come around. Come around to the right, to the truth. So Jesus models again for us, right? Because he's the one who made the peace and brought us together with each other and one new man and to God, reconciling us. He's the model for how we stay together as sinners, right? Look at all those times he instructs his apostles who fail again and don't get it again and do what they're not supposed to do again Man, if Jesus was not a humble, gentle, patient, forbearing God, there'd be no unity in his church. Because nobody'd want to hang out with them and nobody'd come around to his side and then want to stay with him because he's right. It's So, so I guess I'm trying to stress to you that this is not good advice from the Apostle Paul to you. This is his appeal to you to please do this. Please walk this way. Please be humble. Please be gentle with each other. Please be patient with each other. Please bear with one another. Endeavoring, eager. That's what it means, taking no pains to keep the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. Let's talk real quick about unity of the spirit. I think, looking at the context here from Paul's letter, Unity of the Spirit means the you that means the unity that the Spirit creates amongst people. Because it is the Spirit that has brought us together. Paul talks about there used to be a dividing wall between Jews and Gentiles. And that was taken away because Jesus redeemed us from the law. That's removed. If you can't eat if God says don't eat pork, You can't be with the people who eat pork. So the Jews despised those people and they despised them because they didn't eat pork and they were at our odds in enmity. And God took that away. And now made one people, not by putting another law on them, but by putting his spirit in them. So it's the communal life that the spirit makes. As he brings us to confess the common Lord together and love him sincerely, that unites us together as a people. That's what we're to keep. And notice what Paul says. He says, don't create it. Because you can't. Keep it. Because you have it. Now you can't keep something if you don't have it. And the verb isn't create it. It's God has done this, He's purposed this, His purpose for all time was to unite everything in Christ in heaven and earth. That cosmic unity is coming The church is a foretaste of it and a witness to the higher powers, the evil spirits will hear more about the reward against who want to see the world turn apart. And God says, Oh yeah, not going to happen. My church is a pledge that it's not going to happen. My church is a testimony to you. Have you ever been in the church? Isn't it the joy? You join the church. This is how the things that this is really one of the chief things that attracted me to this church I met all of you. I found you all had very different backgrounds. And I don't know, did anybody grow up on the OPC here? I thought, why do these people want to be together? But it excited me that they wanted to be together. And they still want to be together. And they've been together. I'm the latecomer. You all have been together. It's a joy for me to get in on that, because it's good. But that's the joy about Christians. We look at a church like that way these people are hanging out together. They are nothing alike. What keeps them together? The Holy Spirit. He's created it, and we're called to keep it. How in the bond of peace How do you keep the bond of peace? Loving each other. This is totally wrong, but this is the world's view, right? How often do you hear about people who've got a divorce, right? That's when the bond's severed And what do they say? I just don't love the person anymore. Well, they didn't know what love was in the first place But you see how important loss of love, beloved, if our love grows cold for each other, which it can if we're not fervently praying for it, it's going to bring loss of unity. Because we won't make peace when it needs to be making? But just think about how peaceful just think about how peace happens when people are patient. When people don't lose their temper, it just happens. People say together Think about what happens when people just aren't high-minded. If you're proud, that's souring. And who sour I think separates things, doesn't it? I was trying to think of that baking term. What can happen when something sours and the milk, whatever splits, and you can't eat it. Souring, nobody wants to be around somebody when they sour. But if you serve each other in humility, it binds one another together. Let me give you a caveat and I don't want to turn this into a whole sermon about Christian unity because that's beyond the scope here. I might say a quick word about denominations because we deal with it today. But let me also just say a word about the unity of the Spirit too that we learned from the example of Jesus. Notice what Jesus didn't do And keeping the unity of God's people. He didn't say, Yeah, you're Pharisees, you're right, or or he didn't fear man and not heal the person, right? So he did not compromise on the truth. He did not compromise on God's will. It is lawful to heal on the Sabbath, so Jesus healed, no matter if he was opposed to Babbage. So he didn't seek unity at the expense of purity. Let's move I think that's catchy enough. We can remember by purity we mean holiness, what God wills and commands of us. So we we can re we can work through that, right, when people are wrong, but the point is We don't compromise on doctrine, essentials, unity and essentials. So we have denominations things. We don't compromise, certain doctrines just cannot be compromised on. Certain ways like sin. We can never compromise on sin. We do not seek unity at the expense of righteousness and holiness. We do not get together as a sinful union. That is horridon. A holy union. It's a holy communion. And we get together. So just getting an example from Jesus about unity is not sought at the expense of purity in Christ's Church. Let me just say a quick word about um denominations and m maybe you're someone who's has left a denomination for another one. You didn't leave the church. A denomination isn't the church. It can be a part of the church. No one denomination is a church. If we said the OPC was the only church, we just unchurch everybody else. We don't say that. The O in OPC does not mean only. It means Orthodox. People joke and they say the only perfect church. I think there's some good things, but that is untrue and I really don't want it to be said. We are just one Presbyterian church. We are the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Every faithful denomination and in you might have a denomination, beloved, that is mixed and it's not very healthy But you might have a healthy local session in church and that pastor is faithful, and you're not in sin by staying in it and still working in its ranks But again, we don't seek unity by period. If you're under false teaching and you're supporting it because you're not saying anything against it, that's wrong. So don't sit under false teaching. Don't sit under disorderly sessions and rules. You might need to join another church at that point, but it doesn't mean you have to necessarily leave that denomination. I'm just trying to give you some helpful things we mean by unity and visible unity. Visible unity doesn't mean everybody under one umbrella of dominations we have to unchurch everybody else. There's a more fundamental unity that we have as Christians, and that's our common Christianity, which Paul says here, there is but one body. There is but one Spirit who animates every Christian. There is but one hope that we have been called to. There is but one Lord Jesus. There's but one faith in him. There's only one faith. By faith it doesn't mean that doesn't mean doctrinal statement. It means the actual faith in Jesus. You either have faith in Jesus or you don't have faith in Jesus. There's just one faith because there's one Lord who that faith unites you to. And there's just one baptism which is an expression of that faith and sign and seal of the blessings of benefits of that faith. And there's only one God and Father of His children. of all of us who is in us and through us and over us. That's our Christian unity. All those people who not only confess that in truth, but manifest that in their holy life Because I've seen it. Christians want to stay together. And the point is, you're not just a hab you don't fulfill your duty to stay together just with Christians in your denomination Every Christian in your area that you know you we are duty bound doesn't mean we have to join their denominations. That's not the point. We have to live together in peace. And be Christians together. Because we have a greater bond and unity. An example is the the the Wesleyanism, if you're familiar with the Calvinistic or Methodism and its origins in the eighteenth century There was a Calvinistic method of it in Wales. There was a Arminian of it in Wesley, in England, and in the States. Wesley and George Whitfield loved each other as Christian brothers. They did not serve together in the same churches. They had such doctrinal disunion they couldn't. But they didn't de-church each other and say, You're not Christians and you're not doing the Lord's work. So it's just an example for you. There was a more fundamental unity. And we can pray for and work towards a more perfect visible unity But notice what Paul will go on to say in the rest of this, and I'll and I'll I'll end here because this is important. As soon as Paul mentions there's this unity we have to keep, he then talks about there's diversity of gifts And he focuses on word guest teaching because he says teaching is supports the unity so we might grow to unity of the knowledge of the Son of God. That's where we start getting into what we know and believe and how we act That we might then reach maturity and with maturity might reach stability. But if maturity and perfection isn't a unity. We're not unified on perfection. If we had to wait for perfection, none of us would be in union yet There's a more fundamental unity that Christians have by their calling, their regeneration, their being filled with the Spirit, their faith in Jesus, their sincere love for Him. that they may be of different denominations, sincerely hold different views, yet they are still one together. Even though yet at this point they may not get together. So I I've asked myself this week I'm not saying let's go make the Baptists Presbyterians and let the Baptists make us Presbyterians and others. But I wonder if we couldn't have a joint service somewhere sometime. Maybe that would be a Lord's Day. Well my point is we're missing out by not socializing with them. We need all the body. No one body had this church doesn't have it all. Well thank God for what we do have. What are we missing out if we stop walking with people who are of a different denomination? Well they're not in the Reformed faith, I don't walk with them anymore. Go back and walk with them You're missing out. You've got something to learn from them. They've got something to learn from you. Maturity is reached by keeping this basic unity where we learn from each other. And then we get stability. So I've said it enough. I'll I'll end with this so it sticks with the importance of it. That boys in the boat is a wonderful illustration because these men had nothing in common. They came from different parts of the globe. Some of them weren't even athletes, never even rowed a boat before. And yet by the time they won gold, they had become one crew in one boat. And I will tell you the only reason they won gold is because they have become one. Because if one person isn't rolling with the other person, If one person has interpersonal relationships and is frustrating it and they're not resolving and they're not keying up together with that collar, we will not win gold. We will not do the work of the Lord together. One body, one spirit, one hope. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God, and Father of us all. Amen.