1 Samuel, where we will read chapter 13 starting at verse 5b and read through chapter 14. 1 Samuel 13, starting at verse uh 5B. They came up and encamped at Mi'mash to the east of Beth Haven. When the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble, for the people were hard-pressed, the people hid themselves in caves and in holes and in rocks and in tombs and in cisterns And some Hebrews crossed the fords of the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. Saul was still at Gilgal, and all the people followed him, trembling. He waited seven days, the time appointed by Samuel. But Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the people were scattering from him. So Saul said, Bring the burnt offering here to me and the peace offering. And he offered the burnt offering. As soon as he had finished offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came in. And Saul went out to meet him and greet him. Samuel said, What have you done? And Saul said, When I saw that the people were scattering from me, and and that you did not come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines had mustered at Mi'kmash, I said, Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not sought the favor of the Lord. So I forced myself and offered the burnt offering. And Samuel said to Saul, You have done foolishly. You have not kept the command of the Lord your God, with which he had commanded you. For then the Lord would have established your kingdom over Israel forever. But now your kingdom shall not continue. The Lord has sought out a man after his own heart, and the Lord has commanded him to be prince over his people. because you have not kept what the Lord commanded you. And Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal. The rest of the people went up after Saul to meet the army. They went up from Gilgal to Gibeoth of Benjamin. Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people who were present with him, about six hundred men, and Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people who were present with them stayed at Gabea of Benjamin. But the Philistines encamped at Mi'kmash. And the raiders came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies. One company turned toward Orpha, I'm sorry, Ophra, to the land of Shual, another company turned toward Beth Horon. And another company turned toward the border that looks down at the Israelites went down to the Philistines to sharpen his plowshear, his mattock, his axe, or his sickle. And the charge was two-thirds of a shekel for the plow shares and for the mattocks and the th a third of a shekel for sharp sorry and a third of a shekel for sharpening the axes and for setting the goads So on the day of the battle, there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people with Saul and Jonathan. But Saul and Jonathan, his son, had them. And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Mi'kmash. One day Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who carried his armor, Come, let us go over to the Philistine garrison on the other side. But he did not tell his father. Saul was staying at the outskirts of Gibeoth in the pomegranate cave at Migran. The people who were with him were about six hundred men, including Ahijah. And Ahitab, Ichabod's brother, son of Phineas, son of Eli, the priest of the Lord in Shiloh, wearing an Ephid. And the people did not know that Jonathan had gone. Within the passes by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistine garrison, there was a rocky crag on one side and a rocky crag on the other. The name of one was Bozes, and the name of the other Sena. The one crag rose in the north in front of Mi'kmash, and the other in the south in front of Gebba. Jonathan said to the young man who carried his armor, Come, let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised. It may be that the Lord will work for us, for nothing can hinder the Lord from saving by many or by few. And his armor-bearer said to him, Do all that is in your heart, do as you wish. Behold, I am with your heart with you, heart and soul. Then Jonathan said, Behold, we will cross over to the men, and we will show ourselves to them. If they say to us, Wait until we come to you, then we will stand still in our place, and we will not go up to them. But if they say, Come up to us, then we will go up, for the Lord has given them into our hand, and this shall be the sign to us. So both of them show themselves to the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, Look, Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have hidden themselves. And the men of his garrison hailed Jonathan and his armor-bearer and said, Come up to us, and we will show you a thing. And Jonathan said to his armor bearer, Come up after me, for the Lord has given them into the hand of Israel. Then Jonathan climbed up on his hands and feet and his armor bearer after him. And they fell before Jonathan, and his armor bearer killed them after him. And that first strike which Jonathan and his armor bearer made killed about twenty men within, as it were, half a furrow's length of an ape. And there was a panic in the camp, in the field, and among all the people. The garrison and even the raiders trembled, the earthquaked, and it became a very great panic. And the watchman of Saul and Gibbeath of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude was dispersing here and there. Then Saul said to the people who were with him, Count and see who is gone from us. And when they had counted, behold, Jonathan and his armor bearer were not there. So Saul said to Ahijah, Bring the ark of the of God here. For the ark of God went at that time with the people of Israel. Now, when Saul was talking to the priest, the tumult in the camp of the Philistines increased more and more. So Saul said to the priest, Withdraw your hand. Then Saul and all the people who were with him rallied and went into the battle. And behold, every Philistine's sword was against his fellow, and there was very great confusion. Now the Hebrews who had been with the Philistines before that time and who had gone up with them into the camp, even they also turned to be with the Israelites Who were with Saul and Jonathan. Likewise, when all the men of Israel who had hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines were fleeing, they too followed hard after them in the battle. So the Lord saved Israel that day, and the battle passed beyond Beth Aven. With the word of the Lord. Place be to God. We had a long reading from the Old Testament. I hope you stuck with it. If not, the preaching portion is printed in the worship folder for the sermon notes. And you could follow along there as I preach a portion of what was read. Matthew 22 34 through 40 is very familiar. Listen to these words. Matthew 22, beginning at verse 34. This is found on page 828. But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together. And one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question to test him. Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. And with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And the second is like it you shall love your neighbor as yourself On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray together. Lord, we thank you for the historical portions of your word which remind us of your great victories for your people, your covenant people, in the past. We pray now that as we explore this portion of 1 Samuel 14, that you'll help us to understand it spiritually and apply it to our daily living. In Jesus' name. Amen. So today's sermon is a contrast between mechanical religion and dynamic faith. Now, if you know me very well, you know that I love routines. Some of the routines that I love you don't know about. I love the routine of breakfast. Most days I eat the same thing for breakfast. The only exception is usually Saturday morning here with the men, and it's a different routine then, but I like routines. And I like my sleep routine. I really love to get eight hours. Don't get it very often, but I love to get eight hours. Seven will do if I have to, but I love my sleep routine. And you know I love worship routine. I'm the routine guy, you know. But routine can be merely mechanical, can't it? Without sincerity. And religious routine has the hazard of being often without faith, just going through the motions. We don't want that. We love routine, I love routine, but we want our religious expressions to be real and true and honest before God, not just mechanical. In the setting that we have today before us, Saul is king, and Jonathan, his son, is a warrior. He's already proven that on some occasions And they are greatly outnumbered here. And as you heard in the reading, they have very few weapons. Only, really, only Saul and Jonathan have a sword. Nobody else has that's a terrible thing for an army. That nobody else has a sword. And we know that's because the Philistines had cornered the market on weapon sharpening. They only allowed the Hebrews to have sharp agricultural implements, not swords or knives or spears. So they had very few weapons. They're outnumbered and they have few weapons. And that's the situation we find in. And plus there's only 600 of them, and there are thousands and thousands of Philistines. And God had commanded his people to take the land from the Philistines. Not to be subdued by the Philistines, but to subdue the Philistines and take the land, the land that God had promised to give them So we see this situation here, beginning in verses 1 through 5, and you read it in the handout that I gave you. One day Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who carried his armor, Come, let us go over to the Philistine garrison on the other side. But he did not tell his father. Saul was staying in the outskirts of Gibeah, in the pomegranate cave at Migron. The people who were with him were about six hundred men, including Ahijah, the son of Ehitub, Ichabod's brother, son of Phineas, son of Eli, the priest of the Lord in Shiloh. wearing an ephod. And the people did not know that Jonathan had gone. Within the passes by the by which Jonathan sought to go over the Philistine garrison, there was a rocky crag on one side and a rocky crag on the other side. The name of the one was Bozaz, the name of the other was Sena. The one crag rose on the north in front of Miknash, and the other on the south in front of Gibah. Here you must visualize Saul, whose kingly lineage has been rejected by God, as recorded in chapter 13, verses 13 and 14. He is sitting in a cave with a hijah whose priestly line has been rejected by God. The narrator makes a point of pulling up this family tree to highlight this fact. And he is in the family of Ichabod, whose name means the glory has departed And his great uncle is the wicked Phineas, the meat-loving son of Eli, used to stick his fork into the boiling meat that was put there for sacrifice. And Ahijah is sitting here in the cave with Saul wearing an ephod, a priestly garment, a priestly outfit which Contain the Urim and the Thumim, a method of divining the will of God. And Ahijah is chaplain to King Saul, acting as his spiritual advisor And what are they doing to fulfill God's command to rid the country, the promised land, of the Philistines? Nothing. That's right. Nothing. They're sitting in the cave, the pomegranate cave. That's a nice name. Now I have preached earlier that Saul was a member of the covenant people and in that sense greatly blessed. And privileged, he was no pagan idolater. He was the king of Israel and a religious man And yet there was something vital missing in his religion. He did not love the Lord his God, the God of Israel, with all his heart, soul, mind, and strength. which Jesus says was the first and greatest commandment, and which was also true to the Shema in Deuteronomy six, verses four through six, where every Israelite was to say regularly, regularly, regularly, religiously, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. Saul was afraid of God, but he did not love him as the merciful God of the covenant, who says, In other places, I will be your God, and you will be my people, and I will dwell with you. He did not love the Lord his God who tenderly blesses his people as we read it in Numbers chapter 6. Where they are commanded, the priests are commanded to put God's name on his people and say, the Lord bless you and to keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance unto you. And give you peace. Saul was afraid of God, but he did not love him. He did not have this warm-hearted religion. There are many religious people whose religion is without love and loyalty that comes with a vital relationship. They are not pagans who reject Jesus Christ. They identify as Christians. If you ask them, are you a Christian? Yes, I'm a Christian They're not animists, they're not Buddhist, they're not Muslims, or atheists, or some other religion. But their religion is mechanical, not vital. They see the church as an elaborate machine that dispenses graces and favors if you put in the right currency. They see religion as their only hope, and yet they despise doing business with it. That reminded me of a time when I was a child living in Florida, and my parents took me to a cafeteria. The name was Morrison's cafeteria. No relation, I'm sure. Morrison's cafeteria in Hollywood, Florida. And I was in line with all the people waiting to fill my tray or my plate I was behind a man who was filling his plate with some meat. And suddenly his wife, who was ahead of him, turned to him and said, put that back. You can't have that today. Then the man swore back at her, taking God's name in vain, and said, Oh, I forgot it's a blankety-blank holy day. I think that's the way Saul felt about religion. He believed in it, but he didn't like it. He had to deal with this God, but his heart wasn't in it. He was the king of God's people, but he didn't love God. The same was true of his priest, Ahijah, sitting there wearing his ephod. Hoping that the Ark of the Covenant would protect them from the Philistines. This is mechanical religion. What kind of religion do you have? Youth Must not merely accept what they have been taught by believing parents. Youth must come to embrace Jesus Christ as your own God and personal Savior. Every child of the covenant must come to trust and love Jesus Christ as the merciful God who gave himself to rescue you. You must be filled with such gratitude that you want to obey him and that you were sorry when you sin, that you love his word. The Bible, and you want to know Him through it. And adults must move beyond mere formal identity as a Christian. to a deep trust and dependence upon God's mercy in Christ. The story of John Newton came to mind as I was preparing this. John Newton, born July 24th. That's important to me because my birthday is one day later. Born July 24, 1725, I'm not that old, John Newton was baptized and raised by his parents and guardians. in what was called then in England a dissenting chapel. That's what Reformed churches were called. They weren't allowed to be called churches. There was only the Church of England. His mother taught him the faith, which included for him large portions of the Westminster Shorter Catechism. But his mother died when he was six. And his father was a sea captain away most of the time. When Newton got to be about 16, he was drafted into service in the Royal Navy. from which he was soon dismissed and publicly flogged for insubordination. After being thrown out of the Navy he became a crew member and eventually the captain of a ship involved in the Atlantic slave trade. During this period he was completely given over to blasphemy and sinful vices. In 1748, a violent storm battered his vessel off of the coast of County Donegal, Ireland. The threat was so severe that he called out to God for mercy, a moment that marked the beginning of his spiritual conversion. But he continued his slave trading career for a time, gradually becoming convinced of the evil of the slave trade. In 1754, he ended his seafaring altogether and began studying theology. He applied to various denominations to be ordained. But was turned down several times by the Methodists and by the Presbyterians and by the Anglicans for a while because he was they called it enthusiastic. You didn't want to be enthusiastic Eventually he was ordained by the Church of England in 1764 and became the curate of Alney, Buckinghamshire. He joined forces with the famous William Wilberforce, a member of parliament who was seeking to abolish the slave trade. He also began to write hymns with the poet William Cowper. We, here today, sang. One of those at the opening of worship. Glorious things of thee are spoken. That's a Newton hymn. And another one after the pardon, how sweet the name of Jesus sounds in a believer's ear And we will sing his most famous hymn after the sermon, Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. Enthusiasm. We will close today singing another of his hymns, Rejoice, believer in the Lord. Here is a converted man. His religion affects his action. Now you do not all need to have such dramatic stories, but you must all have real, experiential religion. You must have more than formal identity as a Christian. You must have a living faith in the living God in Christ. Saul was formally religious. Sitting in the cave with Ichabod, grandnephew. Of his priest wearing an ephod, Ichabod's grandnephew, I should say, and his priest wearing an ephod, but he did not love the Lord his God. Things were Not good. Remember this. God had commanded Saul when he made him king to defeat the Philistines. That was his charter when he was anointed by Samuel. So he sat there worrying about himself instead of trusting God. That's mechanical religion. Now contrast Saul with his son Jonathan. The faithful action of Jonathan, verses 6 through 15. Jonathan's faith is amazing The clarity did not come from his father, who often violated God's precepts. His positive action was not grounded in favorable circumstances. Indeed, as we see in chapter 13, they had no sharp swords. They had no spears or knives because the Philistines had a monopoly on sharpening equipment But listen to him in verse 6. Jonathan said to the young man who carried his armor, Come now, let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised. It may be that the Lord will work for us. For nothing can hinder the Lord from saving by few or by many. Now, some people are naturally optimistic. They see the positive side of everything, even when there is little to encourage. Jonathan was no mere optimist here. He believed in God's power over any obstacle He believed in God's general will to deliver Israel from the Philistines. He knew the covenant history of how God rescued his people from Egypt. saving them against all odds at the Red Sea. More recently, as it was recorded in the Book of Judges, He knew that God raised up leaders to rescue his people as they were often oppressed in the promised land of Canaan. But I think, I think Jonathan had one particular saving event in mind when he said, Nothing can hinder the Lord from saving by many or by few. What do you think that was? I think it was the account of Gideon. Remember that Gideon had an army of 32,000? Against the Midianites. And God told him that he had too many men. Remember that? So he sent 22,000 of them home that didn't really want to be there anyway. And then God said, 10,000 is still way too many. So he marched them down to the water, and the way they drank determined who was going to be left behind and still be in the army, and there were only 300 men. Who drank this way? That became his army against a vast number of Midianites And you know the rest of the story. During the night God instructed Gideon to approach the Midianite camp, and there Gideon overheard the Midianite man telling his friend about a dream. of a a barley loaf that tumbled into the cap of Midian, causing their tent to collapse and their camp to collapse. And this was interpreted by him as meaning that Yahweh, the God of Israel, had given the Midianites over to Gideon. And Gideon returned to the Israelite camp and gave each of his men a trumpet, a shofar, and a clay jar with a torch hidden inside of it. He divided these 300 men into three companies and marched the men on the enemy camp, and then he instructed them to blow the trumpet and give a battle cry and light the torches all at once. simulating an attack by a large force. And as they did so, the Midianite army fled, recorded in Judges chapter 7. But note this. Jonathan did not know, or did not claim to know, God's specific will in this circumstance. Remember his words? It may be. That the Lord will work for us. And then He can do it by many or by few. We ought to believe that God can do great things for us in our days. Whether it's the church in this country, or by households, when your household needs intervention, divine intervention, to change situations. or your personal needs, financial needs, or sickness, or otherwise trouble God can do great things, and we need to believe that. Whether we know that He absolutely will in a particular circumstance or not, we need to believe that He can do it. William Carey. He wanted to be a missionary to India. The church said, well, you know, if God wants to save his people, uh He can raise up missionaries to send to India and Carrie said, He's raising me up. Send me. And then he says later in his life, attempt great things for God, expect great things from God. And John Knox, the great reformer of Scotland, says this: one man with God is a majority. We ought boldly to step forth in faith and know that God may act for us. He may And note this too. Jonathan's positive faith inspires others to have a positive faith. Listen to what his armor bearers say. And his armor-bearer said to him, Do all that is in your heart. Do as you wish. Behold, I am with you, heart and soul. Such an inspiration he is. And his armor bearer said to him, Do all that is in your heart. And then Jonathan said, Behold, we will cross over to the men. We will show ourselves to them. If they say to us, wait until we come to you, then we will stand in our place And we will not go up to them. But if they say, Come up to us, then we will go up, for the Lord has given them into our hand. He kind of put a fleece out there. I think that also comes from the Gideon account, you see. This shall be assigned to us. So both of them showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines, and the Philistines said, Look, the Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have hidden themselves. And the men of the garrison hailed Jonathan and his armor bearer and said, Come up to us and we will show you a thing or two. Then Jonathan said to his armor bearer, Come up after me. And the Lord has given them into our hand. And then Jonathan climbed up on his hands and feet. He's crawling up this steep, craggy place. And his armor bearer after him, and they, the Philistines, fell before Jonathan, and his armor-bearer killed them after him. And that first strike with which Jonathan and his armor bearer made killed about twenty men within, as it were, a half furrow's length in an acre of land And there was a panic in the camp, in the field, and among all the people, the garrison, even the raiders, trembled, the earthquaked, and it became a very great panic. What do we see here? Faith knows God's power, but it does not presume to know his will in particular circumstances. He says, it may be that the Lord our God will act. Now some Pentecostal preachers and faith healers refuse to use conditional language. When calling upon God to act. Theirs is the name it-claim it doctrine that puts God to the test, backing God into a corner. And then they say, believing God for a miracle. Trying to force God to do things that he has not specifically promised to do. Philip Yancey in his book about prayer tells about an incident in Cambodia in the 1990s. A faith healer came from the United States to have a series of meetings. Posters went up all around the country promising healing from all sorts of conditions. In those days, many of the Cambodian peasants sold their possessions to travel to Phnom Penh to attend this promise. As a result of the landmines in those days, that was the time of Vietnam War, was just over. One in 200 Cambonians was an amputee When the amputees came forward and were not healed, a riot broke out, and the evangelists had to be rescued by an army helicopter He was taken to his hotel. Then the angry crowd surrounded the hotel, and he had to be removed to the airport by which he escaped. Too bad he got away. See, that's not biblical faith. Presuming to know God's will and commanding God to do what you want Him to do is not what you see Jonathan doing. He says it may be that God will act. We believe he's got the power. We're going to ask him to do what we believe we want him to do, but we will not command him. To act. Biblical faith respects God's sovereignty and wisdom, trusting that God is able, but submitting to his pleasure. And then we see in the rest of the story, we see back in the cave, Saul and Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude were dispersing here and there. Then Saul said to the people who had Count and see who is gone from us. And when they counted, behold, Jonathan and his armor bearer were not there. So Saul said to Ahijah, Bring the ark of God here. For the ark of God went with them at that time. Now, when Saul was talking to the priest, the tumult in the camp of the Philistines increased more and more, so Saul said to his priest, Withdraw your hand. Saul is sitting here waiting for an answer, but he has no personal relationship with God, so he gets no answer. He gave up waiting and joined Jonathan in the action initiated by Jonathan. And it tells the story about how all the Israelites Far and near, hiding or not, all joined in to take action now, finally. Just like in the day of Gideon, God acted. There was an earthquake that terrified the Philistines. And verse 21. Now the Hebrews who had been with the Philistines before that time, who had gone up with them into the camp, even they also turned to be with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan. Likewise, when all the men of Israel who had hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines were fleeing, they too followed hard after them in battle. So the Lord saved Israel that day. And the battle passed beyond Beth-Aven. Do you believe in the power of God to do great things? Things that you generally know he wants to do. If so, are you willing to take action? I will confess that sometimes I'm too much like Saul, sitting around waiting instead of doing something. And expecting that God might be with me. I'm going to tell you about a better time. Some of you, many of you don't know this story When I came here in June of 2006 as a church planter, I was convinced that God wanted a new reformed church here. We were at that time paying $1,000 per month for office space rent and $1,000 per month for worship space rent. So $2,000 per month. And we had about $20,000 in the bank. Nonetheless, I mean nonetheless In November we formed a land search committee. You only got $20,000, you're not going to buy much land, you know. But we formed a land search committee. And we decided to target the central part of St. Mary's County, the Route 4 corridor. We looked at two parcels in December. And David Haney came down from Philadelphia on a Saturday to look at these two parcels with us to see whether maybe the OPC might think these were such great opportunities that they might help us by buying it and holding it for us until we could afford it. One of these was a mile east of here at the corner of Indian Bridge Road. about five acres, but it was really hilly and wooded. And David thought that it would be very expensive to develop that. Another one was a mile west of here at Pet Paradise. Right near there was some land for sale, about 15 acres, but that land had very poor percolating. uh ground situations and the committee, uh many of us at least were riding in Jeff Dronenberg's van And when we were out of this muddy field by Pet Paradise, uh we got stuck when he was turning the van around, I guess, off of the beaten path, and um we got stuck temporarily, pushed a little bit and got out. But afterward we all gathered around, the whole committee of us gathered around, and I prayed. Believe me, I'm not any great, you know Charismatic leader or anything, but I just felt led to pray this way. We were all gathered around and I said, Lord, you know we don't have any money. Please just give us some land. Now that was on a Saturday. And the next Monday, I got a call from Mr. Don Hess. the proprietor of this place right here where we're worshiping today. And ultimately, without going through all the details, We offered the people who were here that didn't need this building anymore, we offered them $100,000 based on our ability to pay debt service versus rent. And we got this building with seven acres, and then later on that group of people closed their corporation and gave us 19,000 of it back. God gave us seven acres for free and a decent building for eighty-one thousand dollars. And in four years of rent, that's what it would have cost. $81,000 or more thousand dollars. Now that was a good time in my life. We need more times when we act in prayer, act in faith, believing that God can do great things. I need more of those. times in prayer. How about you? Do you believe God wants you to break the power of a bad habit? Or rather, trusting God to help you break the habit. You act to break the habit Not just waiting around and wishing for a miracle, but taking real action to change while trusting God to break its power. John Wesley's hymn comes to mind, O4,000 Tongues, and it says, He breaks the power of cancelled sin, he sets the prisoner free, his blood can make the foulest clean. His blood availed for me. How about you bearing witness? You know, we're all supposed to bear witness to people around us. Are you willing to speak the good news of the gospel into the life of someone around you who appears to be hardened? You know, we have these people in our lives that we, oh is it, that one's too hard. Never talk to them about religion. They're too hard. Are you willing to speak the good news? Knowing that faith comes by hearing, not by sitting and doing nothing in a cave. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing through the Word of Christ. Do you believe God will build his church through prayers? And gifts and toil blessed by his mighty working Christ, you see, was with Jonathan. Christ, preincarnate, was with Jonathan. Because Christ is the captain of the armies of the Lord of hosts, Yahweh. Christ took action to do the will of God, and he teaches us to take action. In Philippians 2, the Apostle Paul says, Let each of you do something, let each of you look not only on your own interests, but also in the interests of others. That's doing something. Have this mind among yourselves which is yours in Christ Jesus, who though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped, sitting and doing nothing. But verse 7, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient. To the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. That on the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Jesus did something. And in the agony of the Garden of Gethsemane Christ prayed like Jonathan. He asked that if it be possible, the cup of suffering might pass from him. But he conditioned his faithful request with the words echoed by faithful Jonathan, Nevertheless, your will be done It might be that God will act. He took action to save you. So will you believe in him and act in faithful and loving obedience? The Spirit, by the power of Jesus Christ, the captain of our salvation. Will you let us pray Lord, we thank you for this glimpse back into Israel's history. We thank you for your working in the powerful working of the life of Jonathan. We pray that you might deliver us from mechanical religion, even as we keep our tradition here, even as we worship you week by week. You would deliver us from mechanical religion and help us to have a warm and vital love for you. And be willing to act, not presuming to know what you will do, but willing to act. To see you do great things. Amen.