Please open your Bibles to First Samuel, where we will read chapter twelve, verses one through twenty-five. 1 Samuel chapter 12 verses 1 through 25. And Samuel said to all Israel, Behold, I have obeyed your voice in all that you have said to me. and have made a king over you. And now, behold, the king walks before you, and I am old and grey. And behold, my sons are with you. I have walked before you from my youth until this day. Here I am. Testify against me before the Lord and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken, or whose donkey have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Or from whose hand have I taken a bribe to blind my eyes with it? Testify against me, and I will restore it to you. They said, You have not defrauded us or oppressed us or taken anything from any man's hand. And he said to them, The Lord is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness. And Samuel said to the people, The Lord is witness who appointed Moses and Aaron and brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt. Now therefore stand still that I may plead with you before the Lord concerning all the righteous deeds of the Lord that He performed for you and for your fathers. When Jacob went into Egypt, and the Egyptians oppressed them, then your fathers cried out to the Lord, and the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt and made them dwell in this place. But they forgot the Lord their God And he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the commander of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them. And they cried out to the Lord and said, We have sinned because we have forsaken the Lord and have served the Baals and the Ashtaroth. But now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies that we may serve you. And the Lord sent Jerubabel and Barak and Jepharoth and Samuel and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side, and you lived in safety. And when you saw that Nahash, the king of the Ammonites, came against you, you said to me, No, but a king shall reign over us, when the Lord your God was your king. And now behold the king whom you have chosen, for whom you have asked, and serve him and obey his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord, will follow the Lord your God. It will be well. But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you and your king. Now therefore stand still and see this great thing that the Lord will do before your eyes. Is it not wheat harvest today? I will call upon the Lord that he may send thunder and rain, and you shall know and see that your wickedness is great, which you have done in the sight of the Lord in asking yourselves a king. So Samuel called upon the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain that day, and all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel. And all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, that we may not die, for we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask for ourselves a king. And Samuel said to the people, Do not be afraid. You have done all this evil. Yet do not turn aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. And do not turn aside after empty things that cannot profit or deliver, for they are empty. The Lord will not forsake his people. For his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you a people for himself. Moreover, as for me, far be it for me that I should sin against the Lord by ceasing to pray for you, and I will instruct you in the good and the right way. Only fear the Lord and serve him faithfully with all your heart. For consider what great things he has done for you. But if you still do wickedly, you shall be swept away, both you and And your king. The word of the Lord. Romans five, one through eleven Tells about the wonderful results of God's gracious covenant Romans 5, beginning at verse 1, this is on page 942 in the Pew version of the Bible. Romans 5. 1. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him, we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. And endurance produces character And character produces hope. And hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who He has given to us. For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person. Though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more. Now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life? More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray together. Lord, as we come to this portion, this narrative of 1 Samuel 12, we pray that you'll give us attentive minds, open Bibles. to follow along and understand this portion of your word and the great gospel plan that is concealed in the Old Testament and revealed fully in the New. We ask this through Christ our Lord. Amen. In the sermon outline that I provided for you, you'll see a brief summary of Suzerain Treaties. I'm sorry if it's a little small, but you can take it home and use a magnifying glass if you need to. and look at it, but it is something that has been understood about the Old Testament and the peoples in the ancient Near East and the way they made treaties. And I won't read through that right now, but these are the things that we see here in in the covenant that God made with his people. It is very much like the ancient suzerain treaties. The ancient Near East treaty between a great king and a smaller king and his people who would serve him the great king. On the side of the great king who's making this treaty, he sets the terms as the sovereign. And on the side of the smaller king and his people, he must do what was set forth in terms of the covenant in return for two things, protection and peace. So what we see here today in the text of 1 Samuel 12 is not a making of the covenant, but a renewal of the covenant that had already been made. It was promised back in Genesis 17 when God said to Abraham, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you throughout their generations. And then it was formally set forth in the giving of the law at Mount Sinai, recorded in Exodus 20. You see, in the ancient Near East Suzerain Treaty, there's, first of all, a preamble that contains the identification of the suzerain or the great king. By his name and titles, and we have it here in Exodus 20. The name is I am the Lord Yahweh, and then your God. And then the next thing we see is a historical survey of the suzerains dealing with the vassal, the great king dealing with the smaller king. Exodus 20 says, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt? That's the history, out of the house of slavery? And then following that, in the Suzerain Treaty and in the biblical one too, are the stipulations The stipulations. If we're going to have peace between us, here are the stipulations. And they are the ten commandments. The ten words. And then all the corollary instructions that come after that through the rest of Exodus and into Leviticus and so forth. And then there are blessings if you obey the covenant and if you keep it, and there are curses if you don't. The blessings and the curses are set forth in Deuteronomy 27 and 28. So I just want you to notice that God has made a covenant with his people in the past. first announced in Genesis 17 and then fully put out in this treaty form in Exodus 20, and yet God's people have not done well at all in keeping the covenant. And that's what we have here, as we see in chapter 12 of 1 Samuel, the prophet of the covenant, that's Samuel in this case, calls the people back to the covenant. and to the God of the covenant. But before he gets to that, he gives a little intro about himself and about the situation that they're in. In verses 1 through 5. It says, And Samuel said to all Israel, Behold, I have obeyed your voice in all that you have said to me, and have made a king for you. And now, behold, the king walks before you. He could just point to him right there. He's there. Look, here I am, your Samuel, the prophet of God, and here is your king right here, you see? The one you asked for. Then he goes on and says, I am old and gray, and behold, my sons are with you. They weren't very good, so that wasn't any great thing to plug, but there they are. And then he says, I have walked before you from my youth until this day. And we think back to the youth of Samuel, back in the temple with Eli, the priest. And how he was willing to hear the word of God and willing to follow God and all those things. Then verse 3, here I am, testify against me before you. Before the Lord and before his anointed, whose ox have I taken? Nobody's. Whose donkey have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Or from whose hand have I taken a bribe to blind my eyes with it? Testify against me, and I will restore it to you. They said, verse 4, You have not defrauded us Or oppressed us, or taken anything from any man's hand. And he said to them, The Lord is witness against you and against his anointed, and his anointed is witness this day that you have found Have you you have not found anything in my hand. I haven't taken anything. And they said, he is witness. What's he doing here? He's saying, I have been faithful. No abuse, no taxes, no draft, no eminent domain, no government confiscation of children and livestock and things No taking. I have it taken. I have it taken. I have it taken. I've been God's man, and you've been God's people, and God has been king, and I've just been his prophet. But this is in great contrast to what Samuel had said would happen back in chapter 8. He said, if you get a king, you're asking for a king. If you get a king, here's what it's going to be like. Verse 10 of 1 Samuel chapter 8. If we want to flip back there, Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people who were asking for a king. He said, these will be the ways of the king who will reign over you. And then listen, he will take your sons and appoint them as his chariots. to his chariots to be his horsemen and run before his chariots. And he will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and so forth. Then verse thirteen, he will take your daughters. to be perfumers and cooks and bakers. Verse 14, he will take the best of your fields and your vineyards and your olive orchards and give them to his servants. Verse 15, he will take the tenth of your grain and of your vineyards to give it to his officers and to his servants. Taxes. He will take your male servants and female servants and the best of your young men and your donkeys and put them to his work. Verse 17, he will take the tenth of your flocks, and you shall be his slaves, and in that day you will cry. Because of your king. But the Lord will not answer you in that day. What Samuel is saying here is I'm just giving you a little history lesson. God was your king. I was your prophet and priest. I didn't take anything. But you've got a king, and he's standing right here. He's going to do all that. God was your king, but you wanted a human king. Just remember, this covenant that God had made was to be the king of his people, the suzerain, and they were to be the vassal, you see. That's why I introduced all that Back in Genesis 17, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And will give you and to your offspring the land of your sojournings, the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. Now, this man with whom this covenant was promised and made back in Genesis 17 was a pagan. He was Abraham, a worshipper of sticks and stones, a son of Adam. But God made a gracious treaty through Abraham to be God to these people. And Samuel is reminding them of that And then he says, and I'm just paraphrasing again, more recently, God gave you a good leader, me, the prophet, the priest. God is good. God taught you, I taught you, I warned you, I loved you. So here's where we are. So now he's going to give a historical progress report of their covenant keeping, which wasn't happening, in verses 6 through 14. Samuel said to the people, The Lord is witness. That's like a trial thing, you know. I got my witnesses against you. The Lord is witness. who appointed Moses and Aaron and brought your fathers up out of Egypt. Now therefore stand still that I may plead with you before the Lord concerning all the righteous deeds of the Lord that he performed for you and for your fathers. When Jacob went into Egypt, and the Egyptians oppressed him, then your fathers cried out to the Lord, and the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt and made them dwell in this place. And then what he does next is he's going to list all the times that they have been unfaithful to the covenant. Verse 9. But they forgot the Lord, their God. They pushed him aside. And he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the commander of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them. And then they cried, Oh, it hurts, it hurts. They cried out to the Lord and said, We have sinned because we have forsaken the Lord and have served the Baals and the Asherah. But now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies that we may serve you. They're going to go back to the original arrangement. And the Lord sent Jerubul and Barak and Jephthah and Samuel. That's judges in the Old Testament. And delivered you. God answered your prayer. He delivered you. And he delivered you from the hand of your enemies on every side, and you lived in safety. Exactly what was promised in the blessings of the covenant. Okay. So what we see here, and he could make a much bigger list than this. This is just a little bit. There's more coming. But What we see here is what Liam Gallagher calls the amazing grace math, the amazing math of God's Grace. That might be a good thing to keep in your mind as you live your life. The amazing math of grace What it is is this. Over and over in the wilderness and over and over throughout the period, the judges, God's people fail to keep the covenant. They fail. This is the story of Israel. They fail, they fail, they fail, they fail, and yet God forgives, forgives, forgives, forgives. That's an amazing math of grace. And by the way, this is also your situation How many times has God forgiven you for your sinning against his covenant? Not once or twice, but the math of grace is that you were forgiven. Tens of thousands of times. Not squared, but cubed. Or tens of thousands of times, perhaps even to the power of ten. I'm not a mathematician, but that's a lot. God's amazing math of grace, and Samuel is reminding them of that God made a covenant with you. He's been very kind and gracious to you. He's been abundantly forgiving towards you, and yet you keep doing this. And now you've asked for a king. And then he says Ahash, the king of Ammonites, came against you. You said to me, No, but a king shall reign over us. When the Lord your God was your king, he says. So you weren't content with the old system of letting God come and deliver you. You said, no, this time we want a human king. We want a military leader to deliver us. We're not going to wait for God this time. We got what we asked for. We got a tall, handsome, winning king named Saul. And Samuel's pointing right to him as they're there. What is this? This is covenant treachery. And God is jealous for our loyalty, their loyalty. Many things draw us away from covenant, mercy, and grace. to covenant treachery. Many things draw us away these days, right now. Politics offers the illusion of political, legislative solutions to every problem apart from God. Politics will be our king to deliver us instead of God Media stars and pop psychology offer advice on living apart from God. The schools and colleges teach human reason unaided by divine revelation as a way to conduct your life based on things that can be observed only. But without the moral values of God's law, apart from God. We want to live our lives and rule our lives according to these things. Things, not God's law. Materialism offers pleasures and possessions without recognizing the claims of their creator. God made everything and gives everything. And in Romans chapter 1, the hallmark of paganism is that they refuse to give thanks to God. They trust in the things, the created things, rather than the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. Many Christian people live according to the values that draw us away from God. Practical atheists, even though not theoretical ones God does not change their decisions, does not shape the way they live. This is what Israel was guilty of. They hadn't literally forgotten God. But they had pushed God aside and wanted other ways, other things to govern them. So now in verse 13 he says, again, he's back to this little court scene. And now behold, the king whom you have chosen, for whom you have asked, behold, the Lord has set a king over you. Again, they got what they wanted. Let me just pause to say this. The problems that come from our sin nature will not be solved by a new system. They wanted a new system. They wanted to try something different. This time. The problems that come from our sin nature are not solved by a new system. Israel wanted to change from theocracy under Yahweh to human monarchy, and that's not a real solution. Americans, historically, went from a taxing King George to a taxing Constitutional Republic. Some things may work better than others, but the problems of avarice and greed and laziness and sloth and substance abuse And class warfare and racism will not be solved by any new system. They won't work. What does work? Loyalty to the God of the covenant, who redeems in mercy and gives his law for our good and writes it on our hearts is the only thing. That will change individuals inside out. We need to be changed inside out. Now, in the neighborhood where I live, there is a house directly across the cul-de-sac from our house. And it became vacant. The people who were living there couldn't keep up the payments, I guess. And so it became a bank-owned house and a vacant house. And last winter, because the bank owned it, there was no heat inside, and I guess there was water in the pipes because the pipes burst in the cold. And then there were floods throughout the house, and especially in the basement. And then there was mold and mildew, and it was rotten inside and ruined. And toxic because all the windows were always shut. I'm sure there were spores floating everywhere. Some investor bought it. Thanks be to God. And then guys with masks came in, began ripping it apart inside. Huge dumpsters came and they filled it. With all this rotten stuff, all this drywall and all this cabinetry and all these things, and then they haul the big old dumpster away. I mean these are big dumpsters. Then they brought another empty dumpster. They filled it up again, and then they hauled it away. And I thought, that's enough, right? But no, another dumpster, and they filled it up, and they hauled it away. And then a huge truck came with a crane on it with stacks of drywall, big, tall stacks of drywall. Then there were drywall workers that came to install all that, and painters and plumbers and electrical workers. It was just fun to watch. Now it's on the market. It looks pretty much the same outside as it did before all that, but it has been renewed inside. And I hope that illustration will serve to remind you that we need to be changed inside out. We need heart change. We need covenant loyalty from the inside, not just external stuff. We need to be changed inside out in order to be loyal to God's covenant, which is ours in Jesus Christ. It was once a common phrase, you can't legislate morality. Well, in fact, all legislation is somebody's morality You can shape and restrain behavior through legislation, but the morality that flows from inside the heart can only happen Through a new heart loyalty inside out. As someone has wisely said, and this is worth quoting: the heart of a human problem is the problem of a human heart That's what Samuel's after here, you see. So he says in verse 14, if you will fear the Lord, and serve him, and obey his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord. And if both you and the king who reigns over you will follow the Lord your God, it will be well. That's the renewal of his stipulations, the promise of the blessings of the covenant. But then he reminds them that the God of the covenant is not, as C. S. Lewis says, tame. Or safe. Verses 15 through 25. He says, But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you and your king. Now therefore stand still and see this great thing that the Lord will do before your eyes. He did. He prayed. And there was a miracle. The miracle was that it was harvest time, very dry period of the year, and he prayed, and a big old thunderstorm came. And I wonder if it wasn't the glory cloud and God thundering from the glory cloud. I don't know that. So it says in verse 18, so Samuel called upon the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain that day, and all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel. Samuel, God calls witness to the threats that are present and real threats of a living God. Let me just remind you that Jesus Christ, our covenant Lord, reminds the church of threats. He threatens the church in Revelation chapter 2. He says to the angel or the pastor, of the Church of Ephesus, the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and who walks among the seven golden lamp stamps. I know your works, your toil, and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false. I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up for my name's sake, and have you, and you have not grown weary. Then he says this. This is the threatening part. But I had this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first. Remember, therefore, where you have fallen, repent and do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand. from its place unless you repent. So he threatens a church that it be faithful or it might have the Holy Spirit removed from it. The powerful working of God in it, removed from it, because of its turning away from God and His covenant. We see the same sort of thing in Romans chapter 2, where Paul threatens those people who are members of the covenant people. He says God's kindness, his math of grace, is meant to lead you to repentance, not to presumption. Back to the text, Samuel 12, 19. And all the people said to Samuel, now they've got the message. They finally listened well. All the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God that we may not die. For we have added to all our sins this evil to ask for a king for ourselves. They got it. They were afraid. Fear can be a good thing. We just sang that hymn. 'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. See, fear can be A good thing. And grace, my fears relieved too. There was fear in the New Testament, not just the old. Ananias and Sapphira in Acts chapter 5. They lied to the church, lied to the Holy Spirit, and God clobbered them, killed them both. And then it says in chapter 5, verse 5, And great fear came upon all who heard of it. And a hallmark of the unbelievers, as I've said before, is that there is no fear of God before their eyes. They were right to be afraid, because as the writer of the Hebrews says, it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. How does Samuel now respond to their fear? Verse 20. And Samuel said to the people, do not be afraid. You have done all this evil. It doesn't sound like it fits together. Don't be afraid because you've done all this evil. Paraphrase Is this. God is going to work through your sinful mistakes for your good and for his glory. And isn't that a wonderful thing? When we screw up, God can even use our mistakes for his glory. You and I deserve the worst But the scandalous math of God's grace overcomes your sins. Grace overcomes. Mercy and judgment have kissed at the cross of Jesus Christ You see, you and I are only alive today and here because of God's promiscuous grace, his amazing grace math. If justice had been meted out to me, at very many points in my life, I would be long dead. I am only here preaching to you today because of grace, upon grace, upon grace Grace to me. And then Samuel goes on, yet do not turn aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. And do not turn aside after empty things that cannot profit or deliver, for they are empty. That's so important. We've got to memorize that. Make out a Bible memory verse. These things are empty. Things that can't profit, that can't deliver. Then, verse 22, I want you to notice this very strongly. For the Lord will not forsake his people. Why not? For his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make you a people for himself When God has set out to do something, when he's put his name on something, when he's taken ownership of it, he will not lose it. This is the covenant in a nutshell right here in this verse. God has bound himself in covenant to his people. And that binding would someday result in the binding of God to human flesh in the womb of the Virgin Mary. It would result in Jesus being bound in chains and hauled before wicked rulers. It would result in his being bound and nailed to a Roman cross. To bear away the punishment for the sins of those who were chosen by grace without any works at all. Romans five ten, which we read earlier, for if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, So much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by his life. Samuel, the great high priest, is now shown here in this This discussion, verse 23. Samuel says, Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the Lord by ceasing to pray for you, and I will instruct you in the good and right way. Only fear the Lord and serve him faithfully with all your heart. Samuel, being the best man on the scene, was committed to pray for God's covenant people. He was committed. He said, I will not cease to pray for you. I promise. But as we heard earlier, he was old and gray. He would not live forever. We need a better priest than that. Someday Samuel will be gone and he won't be praying anymore. But Hebrews chapter 7 tells us about Jesus Christ, and it says, he has become a priest by the power of an indestructible light. In verse 24 of Hebrews 7, he holds his priesthood permanently. Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him. Since he always lives to make intercession for them. Always. Samuel's gonna die soon The better high priest, the coming high priest, the coming king. He will pray forever. We will sing it soon. Before the throne of God above, I have a strong and perfect plea, a great high priest whose name is love, whoever lives and pleads for Perhaps there is someone here today that is trifling with God Playing around, presuming upon his grace while cherishing sin. Your thoughts and deeds are not loving obedience to a gracious God. But to other things, other loyalties. May you hear the thunder As he called for that thunderstorm, may you hear the thunder of his covenant law, the threatenings of the cursings, and come into the shelter of his grace and enjoy the amazing math of his grace. The one who is the great high priest, Jesus Christ, who said, Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke, that's discipleship, and learn from me, reshape my thinking inside out He says, For I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke, that's discipleship, is easy. My burden is light. In the name of God the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Lord, we thank you for the reminder of your original covenant with your people and the hints and images of the great high priest that we need, Jesus the Christ. We thank you for the amazing math of your grace, your constant goodness to us. We pray that you'll give us changed hearts inside out. For Christ's sake. Amen.