Please turn in your Bibles to Isaiah 46. We'll read the whole chapter. If you're using your Pew Bible, that's page 607. Isaiah forty six Bell bows down, Nebo stoops Their idols are on beasts and livestock. These things you carry are borne as burdens on weary beasts. They stoop. They bow down together. They cannot save the burden, but themselves go into captivity. Listen to me, O house of Jacob, all the remnant of the house of Israel, who have been born by me from before your birth, carried from the womb. Even to I have made and I will bear, I will carry and will save. To whom will you liken me and make me equal? and compare me that we may be alike. Those who lavish gold from the purse and weigh out silver in the scales, hire a goldsmith, and he makes it into a god. Then they fall down and worship. They lift it to their shoulders. They carry it. They set it in its place and it stands there. It cannot move from its place. If one cries to it, it does not answer or save him from his trouble. Remember this and stand firm. Recall it to mind, you transgressors. Remember the former things of old, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is none like me. declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times things not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose Calling a bird of prey from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country. I have spoken. and I will bring it to pass. I have purposed and I will do it. Listen to me, you stubborn of heart, you who are far from righteousness. I bring near my righteousness. It is not far off. And my salvation will not delay. I will put salvation in Zion. For Israel my glory. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Our New Testament reading. The text will be read during the course of the sermon, but that is the text of the preaching. But the New Testament reading will be from 1 Corinthians 8, 1 through 6. Short reading, New Testament, 1 Corinthians 8, 1 through 6. Now, concerning food offered to idols, we know that all of us possess knowledge. This knowledge puffs up, but love builds up If anyone imagines that he knows something, he does not yet know as he ought to know. But if anyone loves God, he is known by God. Therefore, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that an idol has no real existence. And there is no God but one. For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or earth, as indeed there are many gods and many lords, Yet for us there is one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and one Lord, Jesus Christ, and through whom we exist. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Now, Lord, as we come to this passage in 1 Samuel 5, and you have inspired it and providentially caused it to be written down and preserved these centuries. And these things happened for our learning and our instruction long ago. Help us now to receive them spiritually. and profit greatly from them and worship you more clearly, learning who you are. In Jesus' name. Amen. So the first part of the text of 1 Samuel 5, I have labeled the scornful laughter of the Philistines. The scornful laughter of the Philistines And you see that in verses 1 and 2 where it says this, when the Philistines captured the ark of God, they brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod. Then the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it into the house of Dagon and set it up beside Dagon. The Philistines were very happy about their defeat of the Hebrews, as they scornfully called them. They were laughing also about their god Dagon being more powerful than the God of Israel. And now they had taken possession of the sacred ark. They thought that it was some sort of strange-looking God, I guess Now remember that the stories about this God of the Hebrews and this ark had been circulating all around the ancient Near East. How when the ark went into the Jordan River, the water stopped and the Israelites came through on dry ground. They had heard some of these stories. This gets passed around a lot, even though they didn't have email and Text messages and internet, they heard about these things. And also, no doubt, they heard about how the ark of God was taken around the city of Jericho on those days Seven times, and then seven times on the last day, and then the walls of Jericho came falling down flat. The Ark of God was pretty well known by these people. And it was really important for the Israelites too. They remembered that the Ark was the important Symbol and real presence of God. It was his footstool. God promised to be with his people Long ago, and I'll just recall a little bit of that to you at Exodus chapter 33. You remember Moses who led the e the Exodus? Moses said to the Lord there, See you say to me, Bring up this people, but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, I know you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight. Now, therefore, if you have found favor if I have found favor in your sight, please show me now your ways so that I may know you in order to find favor in your sight. Consider, too, that this nation is your people. And he said, my presence will go with you. That's important. My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. And then Moses said, If your presence will not go with me, do not bring us up from here. See how important the presence of God was to the Israelites? He says in verse 16, For how shall it be known that I have found favor in your sight, and I and your people? Is it not your going with us so that we are distinct, and I and your people from every other people on the face of the earth? In verse 17 of that passage, the Lord said to Moses, This very thing that you have spoken, I will do for you, for you have found favor in my sight, and I know you by name. What was the thing he was requesting? Be with us, go with us, presence. And now what has happened? The symbol of God's presence, whose footstool has been captured by the Philistines and taken to the temple of their God Dagon. And so no doubt the Philistines were laughing about this and their great defeat of the Israelites, which is in the previous chapter, chapter 4. It says, there so the Philistines fought, and Israel was defeated, and they fled every man to his own home. They didn't go back to camp to work up another battle plan. They went home. Done with it. And it says there was a very great slaughter, for 30,000 foot soldiers of Israel fell. And the Ark of God was captured. What a terrible thing to say. The Ark of God was captured. And the two sons of Eli, Hophne and Phinehas, died. So, you put it all together so far, Israel has become a scornful laughing stock among the Philistines. The Philistines could hardly believe their good fortune. They beat the Hebrews. Leaving thirty thousand fighting men dead, and captured the Ark. But the Philistines Like good pagans, did not smash the ark and rip off all the gold covering and melt it down to make something. Like good pagans, they decided to domesticate Yahweh, make him their God, add him to their pantheon, to their list of helpers in life By the way, that is what many modern people do these days. They make God, whatever they think God is, they make God into their personality. Personal assistant. They call upon him like they call upon Siri or Alexa to ask for a little help, a little a little information or some help along the way. So these Philistines put the Ark of the Covenant of Yahweh in the temple alongside their God Dagon. Dagon was a major god, the major god of listines. The prevailing view from those who study these things, ancient Near East, is that Dagon was a fertility deity related to grain and agriculture And so they had some help on that line, but they they wanted to get whatever additional help they could get from Yahweh as they took this ark, put it in. the temple with Dagon. The second thing we're going to see now is the holy laughter of Yahweh. Verses 3 through 5. And when the people of Ashdod rose early the next day, behold, Dagon had fallen face down on the ground before the ark of the Lord. So they took Dagon and put him back in his place. But when they rose early on the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen down face down on the ground before the ark of the Lord, and the head of Dagon, and both his hands were lying cut off on the threshold. Only the trunk of Dagon was left to him. This is why the priests of Dagon and all who enter the house of Dagon do not tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod to this day. The Israelites reading this narrative later would chuckle at what happened to poor Dagon Poor Dagon, his worshipers have to pick him up and put him back on his stand when he falls down before the Ark of Yahweh. This is the ultimate I've fallen and I can't get up. Now, what about the modern gods of our day? We have them too. And they're not much help either. I'll give you a list, a short list of some of the modern gods of our day. Scientism. Scientism. Not against science. But scientism has such great confidence that science can solve every human problem. Every human problem. We just need more science, and then we'll have all of our problems solved. It treats the dogmatic claims of science, which change constantly, by the way, as equal to or greater than the Word of God. The Word of God has to be put aside when science speaks. Scientism. Another God of our day, materialism. It teaches that your life consists in the abundance of the things that you possess. We Americans are very susceptible. to materialism. Materialism says you are what you own. That's how you measure yourself. Secularism, another modern God, teaches that revealed truth, in quotes, is not allowed in the public square, in public discourse If you think you know some revealed truth from the old Bible, you keep that to yourself. You can talk about that in church, but don't bring it out anywhere else It's not allowed. Secularism says that the truth, the transcendent truth of God from the Bible is nothing but your opinion. So keep it to yourself. God laughs at all these gods. He laughs at them, just like we heard in Psalm 2. He who sits in heaven laughs them to scorn. The Lord will hold them in derision. And he will speak to them in his wrath, saying, I have installed my king on Zion, my holy hill. Another thing about Dagon and all the gods that we read about in Isaiah 46, the gods of the Babylonians and the modern gods, they're all very high in maintenance. You have to serve them. You have to put a lot of time and energy into keeping them up. You have to carry them around. You have to work hard to keep them satisfied. So picture Yahweh here seemingly defeated The God of Israel defeated, but now he defeats Dagon on his own turf. There's no home field advantage for Dagon. Dagon bows down before the ark. And it says, When the people of Ashdod rose early the next day, behold, Dagon had fallen downward on the ground before the ark of the Lord. So they took Dagon and put him back in his place. They pick up poor, helpless Dagon. And what happens next, children? We've already heard it. They rose up early the next morning, and behold, Dagon had fallen downward on the ground before the ark of the Lord, and the head of Dagon and both his hands were lying cut off on the threshold. Only the trunk of Dagon was left to him. Poor Dagon. Now what's going on here with his hands and the head cut off? What's that about? This is what happened in the ancient Near East to kings who got captured. They would be put to death when they were defeated, and their captors would cut off their hands. And their heads, and sometimes their feet too, and they would put the head as a on a stake as a trophy. Pretty gruesome, isn't it? I know. But this was to show their superiority when they cut off their hands and head. They're saying, you have no strength at all. We have defeated you completely. By the way, as we look back to how this happened, how this all came to be, how did the art get captured in the first place? The Israelites were not without fault. The Israelites had taken the Ark of God into battle as a kind of good luck charm, presuming that Yahweh would be with them. And now the Philistines wanted to domesticate Yahweh and make him into a helpful God for themselves, but God will not have it. God will not be your personal assistant. In fact, the first commandment says, You shall have no other God besides me. So we finished the text by reading it out. I'll read it out verses six and following. The hand of the Lord was heavy upon the people of Ashdod, and he terrified and afflicted them with tumors, both Ashdod and its territory. And when the men of Ashdod saw how things were, they said, The ark of God of Israel must not remain with us, for his hand is hard against us and against Dagon our God. So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought around to Gath. So they brought the ark of the God of Israel there. But after they had brought it around, the hand of the Lord was against the city, causing a very great panic. And he afflicted the men of the city, both young and old, so that tumors broke out on them. So they sent the ark of the God to Ekron. But as soon as the ark of God came to Ekron, the people of Ekron cried out, They have brought around to us the ark of the God of Israel to kill us and our people. Then they sent and therefore gathered together all the lords of the Philistines and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to its own place, that it may not kill us and our people. For there was a deadly panic. Throughout the whole city. The hand of God was very heavy there. The men who did not die were struck with tumors, and the cry of the city went up to heaven. It's kind of like saying, it's here in St. Mary's County. Get it out of here. Let's send it up the road to Charles County. And then Charles County says, get it out of here, send it to Prince George's. And after they have had enough of it, they say, send it to DC. Well, we come finally to the the last laugh. And here we're just going to look at the theology behind what's happening here, the theology. Listen carefully, this is important, because we believe that Christ is present everywhere in the whole Bible. When the ark was captured, God allowed himself representatively to be captured and taken into exile away from his people. Now compare that with what happened in Matthew 26 on the night when Jesus was arrested. Judas came, one of the twelve, verse 47, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs from the chief priests and the elders of the people. Now the betrayer had given them a sign saying, The one I kiss is the man, sees him. And he came up to Jesus at once and said, Greetings, Rabbi. And he kissed him And Jesus said, friend, do what you came to do. And they came up and laid hands on Jesus and seized him. And behold, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. Then Jesus said to him, Put your sword back into its place, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? But how then should the scriptures be fulfilled that it must be so? At that hour Jesus said to the crowds, Have you come out as a robber against me, with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I sat in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. that all this has taken place, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples left him and fled. You see, God allowed himself in the person of Christ to be exiled. Captured by men, arrested, tried unjustly, and executed in order to save his people How did he save us? By assuming our human nature, our flesh and blood, through the womb of the Virgin Mary. And living under the law, never breaking it, and dying on the cross as an atoning sacrifice for our Sins, the sins of his chosen ones. Paul describes what was happening through the exile of Christ in Colossians chapter 2, verses 13 and 15. 13 through 15. He says, And you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses. By canceling the record of debt, that's the lawbreaking, that stood against us with its legal demands. He set it aside, nailing it to the cross. He, catch this word, disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame. Triumphing over them in Him. This triumph long prophesied is in keeping with the ancient promise of the first gospel announcement in Genesis 3. 15, where it is said that the seed of the woman Crushed, will crush the serpent's head, like dagon's head that fell off In a little while, we're going to sing hymn 358 that has in its second stanza this phrase: For Judah's lion burst his chains and crushed the serpent's head. Christ has triumphed, dear friends in Christ. He has triumphed over death and hell and the grave. And he is progressively triumphing in history. Even Athanasius in the fourth century could see the effects of the work of Christ in his time. Here's what he says. For just as when the sun is present, darkness no longer has any strength. But even if there is some darkness left anywhere, it is put to flight. Even so, since the divine manifestation of God the Word has occurred, the darkness of idols has no more strength. But all parts of the world everywhere are illumined by his teaching. And just as if someone is king and is not seen anywhere, but remains inside his palace. Frequently seditious men taking advantage of his absence proclaimed themselves, and each one of them deceived themselves by the simple and pre the simple pretending to be king. And thus men are led astray, for they hear that there is a king, but they do not see him, because they cannot possibly enter the palace But when the real king comes forth and is revealed, then the deceitful revolutionaries are refuted by his presence. Well, the citizens seeing the real king Abandon those who formerly deceived them. And then he concludes: In like fashion, demons and men previously exercised deceit and paid to themselves the honor due to God. False gods. But when the Word of God is revealed in the body and made known to us by His Father, then the deceit of the demons disappears and vanishes. While men looking to the true divine word of the Father abandon idols and henceforth recognize the true God You see the glimpse of it here in the exile of the Ark and in the defeat of Dagon. But you see it more fully in the resurrection of Christ and in the preaching of the gospel to the ends of the earth. Christ will triumph in history, building his church, progressively making all false gods to bow and collapse, just like Dagon did. So you, my dear friends, think about whatever gods may enthrall you secularism, materialism, scientist Whatever it is, cast away all false gods, false trusts, false alliances with things unworthy Let them no more enthrall you. And do not treat the true God as your personal assistant. as the Israelites did. But reverence him and serve him with all that you are and all that you have. Christ will make you to triumph in life and in death in him through him if you believe into him and obey him as Lord. Amen. Lord, we thank you for this interesting and funny story that we do not want to miss. The spiritual application, the point of who you are and what you have done to save us and what we owe you, Lord. Help us to recommit ourselves to following you in truth and in obedience. Amen.