Please open your Bibles to the book of the prophet Joel, where we'll read chapter 2, verses 28 through 32. Joel 2, 28 through 32. And it shall come to pass afterward that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. Your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. Even on the male and female servants in those days, I will pour out my spirit. And I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke. The sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood, before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as the Lord has said. And among the survivors shall be those whom the Lord calls. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God And now we will read, I'm sorry, we will sing a hymn, which is a i an in your insert. It's from Psalm 118, verses 1 through 15, and we'll sing stanzas 1 through 4. And now the unexpected reading. You expect a gospel reading from one of the Gospels about Palm Sunday, but this is a different reading I hope you'll be able to follow and see why and how it ties in. Revelation 6, 12 through 17, 6, 12 through 17, and then on into chapter 7, the first 17 verses. Revelation 6, 12. Then he opened the sixth seal. I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth. The full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as a fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale. The sky vanished like a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. Then the kings of the earth and the great ones and the generals and the rich and the powerful and every one slave or free hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains, calling on the mountains and rocks Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. for the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand? After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth That no wind might blow on the earth or sea or against any tree. Then I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun with the seal of the living God And he called with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm earth and sea, saying, Do not harm the earth, or the sea, or the trees, until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads And I heard the number of the sealed, 144,000, sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel. Twelve thousand from the tribe of Judah were sealed, twelve thousand from the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand from the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand from the tribe Tribe of Asher, twelve thousand from the tribe of Naphtali Twelve thousand from the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand from the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand from the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand from the tribe of Issach twelve thousand from the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand from the tribe of Joseph Twelve thousand from the tribe of Benjamin were sealed. After this, I looked and beheld a great multitude that no one could number from every nation. and from all tribes and peoples and languages standing before the throne and before the lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands. And crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. And all the angels were standing around the throne, and around the elders, and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God, saying Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God for ever and ever. Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes? And from where have they come? I said to him, Sir, you know And he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore, they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will shelter them from his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat For the lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray now that you will open to us the understanding, the spiritual insight, and the application of your holy word by the power of the Holy Spirit who inspired it. Amen. So we're looking at the book of Revelation for a bit today. The book of Revelation. Was given to John as an unveiling of things he couldn't see An unveiling of things past, present, and future. And John desperately needed it. And the fledgling church of Jesus Needed this unveiling in those days. Have you ever been hit with some really bad news? Health crisis, marriage failing, and your spouse tells you it's over, the loss of employment, Pick up your check, you're done. The death of a loved one. If things like that happen to you, it's like a thick cloud encompasses you. And you can't see anything good. The future's all dark before you. And the way forward is gloomy. The early Christian movement was late in its first generation at this point. And the church was being persecuted by the Romans and by the Jews. And the pagans didn't like it very much either. And the early leaders of the early church were being executed heads off. Slain by the sword, crucified upside down, and in other ways, they were being executed for preaching the good news of the kingdom of God, the good news of Jesus Christ. And John, who received this unveiling, was one of the remaining few, and he had been exiled by the government Exiled to the lonely island of Patmos in the Aegean Sea. And here Jesus appeared to him. And he saw visions of realities that he could not see in any other way. He saw another Palm Sunday. Now, John, the same John, had been there on that earlier Palm Sunday, the one we celebrate today. About 30 years ago, he had been there, as it's recorded in Matthew 21 and the other gospels. He had seen the crowds hailing Jesus as the Son of David, Hosanna to the Son of David, they said He is the expected Messiah who would restore Israel and who would bring Jerusalem back to its golden era And throw out the Romans. He is the one. He is the Son of David. The glory days will come. So they hailed him and waved their palm branches and said, Hosanna. That was Sunday, but you know what happens. By Thursday, Jesus is betrayed in the night. And arrested and tried in terrible mock trials, illegal, every one of them, and then crucified on the day we call Good Friday, good for us. So John had seen Jesus then, and he had seen Jesus just on the Sunday of resurrection a week later, and John had had hope. That Jesus, the one who had been crushed on Good Friday, had risen from the dead, and he was restored, and he commissioned his church to go out, and Peter and James and John and the others Preached and Paul later preached the resurrection message everywhere. Now we're really going to get somewhere. But lately, lately, it seemed like the mission was losing ground, being destroyed one by one. Was there a future? That would be the question in his mind. Is there a future? Gloomy, dark, sad. And he saw there in that vision. bright future. He saw a future where God's enemies are vanquished and God's church is vindicated. He says at the beginning of the book of Revelation, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, the first day of the week, the day of resurrection. And I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet which said, Write on a scroll what you see and send it to the seven churches. Good news for the beleaguered church. And so today we're going to jump into that vision that John saw in chapter 6, where Jesus opens the sixth seal. Very important that it's the sixth seal. That seal unveils a judgment. A judgment, as it says, on the land. Which land? Well, that's what the translators have said, but if you look more carefully, it's not the earth, it is the land, the land of Israel. The sixth seal is open and judgment is falling on the land of Israel, the land which rejected Jesus as the Messiah. The land of those who had long had a long record of killing the prophets sent by God. As Jesus said in Matthew 23, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often would I have longed to gather you as children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were not willing. Look, he says, your house is left to you desolate. And so he now sees this judgment falling on the land that rejected Jesus. And we see that in the Chapter 6, verse 12, I watched as he opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun turned black like sackcloth made of goat hair. And the whole moon turned blood red, and the stars in the sky fell to earth, as figs drop from a fig tree when shaken by a strong wind, and the heavens receded like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. That's what he saw. Was it literal? No. This kind of talk, like we heard in the Reading from Joel, this kind of talk is what we call collapsing universe language. It's kind of like the way we would say today, when I heard that bad news, my world came to an end. Kind of like that. We see other examples of this collapsing universe language in Isaiah 13. I'm not going to look it up or read it. In Isaiah 34, in Ezekiel 32. And as we heard in Joel 2, 28 to 32, which was read, what he saw there in that sixth seal was the end of the old order. The end of the temple, the end of the priesthood, the end of the sacrifices, and all those things which had been put there by God to point forward to Jesus. And he saw that they would now come to a terrible end as the Roman armies surrounded Jerusalem. And eventually breached the walls, killed two million people, raised the temple completely. The end of the old order. But this was frightening too to John as he saw it. This is very frightening when things that you've seen forever and thought were eternal and would never go away, things which just couldn't end come to an end is frightening. And so he was frightened too. What will happen to the church if all these institutions which which preceded the church Come to this terrible end. What will happen? And then he's given a vision, two visions really. He's wondering what's going to happen, and he sees the faithful Israel. 144,000. Again, not literally, but 12 tribes times 12,000 equals 144,000. And what he sees there Is that the church which is so persecuted and beleaguered is going to be 100% complete when it's all said and done. 100% complete. Not a failure at all. It's going to completely succeed and not one person will be missing. It's the picture of 100%. But more than that. And it's pictured by the twelve tribes, the whole Israel of God, you see. But he sees even more than that. He sees, in the second part of that vision, a vast, innumerable multitude. He sees that the church will grow and spread to all nations the promise that had been made to Abraham of children who would be as many as the stars in the sky or the sands on the seashore. will come true. Listen to what he says. We read it before, but listen again. After this I looked and behold a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. What a wonderful vision. The church will completely succeed, and the promise made to Abraham will be a smashing success. Great news for a beleaguered church in those days. But I want you to look a little more closely at those verses beginning at verse 9. and see four comforting descriptions of the church, God's church. First, its Catholicity Now, when we say Catholic around here, we mean universal. The Greek compound word k-kata means according to, and halas means the whole. So the Catholic Church is the church that confesses together the whole faith, the Christian faith. And he says in verse 9, after this I looked and behold, a great multitude that no one could number From every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. Again, it's the Catholic Church from everywhere, the universal church that confesses the same Lord Jesus And again, that was sinful of what God said to Abraham in Genesis 22, where he said, I will surely bless you and make your descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and the sand on the seashore. Your descendants will take possession of the cities of their enemies, and through your offspring, listen, all nations on earth will be blessed. And that's also what Amos, the prophet, saw as it's recorded in Isaiah 2. In the last days, the mountain of the Lord's temple will be established as the highest of the mountains. It will be exalted above the hills, and all nations will stream up to it. All the nations. So far from being a sad picture of a beleaguered church which might not make it. No. Great multitude that can't be numbered, the Catholic Church. And this is in fulfillment of what Jesus said when he. Commissioned the church to go out and baptize and make disciples of all the nations and teach them in Matthew chapter 11. So he first sees the church Catholic. The second thing we want to note. It's their position. What are they doing? They're standing. Now we stand to sing, right? And we stand here and there, but this is important standing here. They are standing before the throne and before the Lamb. That means something in the biblical text. In Psalm 1, it says, the person who trusts in God is like a tree planted. That's another kind of standing, isn't it? Planted by streams of water, which yields fruit in its season, whose leaf does not wither. And then it says in verse 5 of that psalm, Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment. nor sinners and the righteous of the assembly the assembly of the righteous. So they're standing. Sinners don't get to stand. These people are standing. They're planted. They're standing before the Lamb and before the throne of God. Psalm 5 says this: For you are not a God who is pleased with wickedness. With you the evil people are not welcome. The arrogant cannot stand in your presence. But these people are standing. here. In Psalm 24, who may ascend the mountain of the Lord? Who may stand in his holy place? The one who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not trust in an idol or swear by a false God, these people are the righteous who Stand. So they're standing. Thirdly, what are they wearing? Their apparel and their accessories. It says they are clothed with white robes, and in their hands they have palm branches. White robes. What's that about? It's a symbol of being cleansed, of being pure, of being washed. In the blood of Christ. It says there in chapter 7: These are they who have come out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white. in the blood of the Lamb. So what are they holding as they're standing there in their white robes washed in the blood of the Lamb? They are holding their waving palm branches. So this is another palm Sunday. That's the the deal here. What's palm branches have to do with anything? Well, Leviticus chapter 23, God commands his people, he says, on the first day You were to take branches from luxuriant trees, from palms, willows, and other leafy trees, and to rejoice before the Lord your God for seven days. Celebrate this as a festival to the Lord for seven days each year. Palm branches and other things like that. It's a way of rejoicing. It's a way of celebrating the great victory of God. That's what they're doing. They're dressed in white, they're standing, and they're celebrating with these palm branches. And I'm sure as John sees this vision now in the revelation, the unveiling, he remembers back Some 30 years or so ago, on that first Palm Sunday, when people were waving palm branches and crying, Hosanna to the Son of David. But that celebration was short, wasn't it? And it ended in Jesus' crucifixion. Fourth thing to note about them, their praise. It says in verse 10, and crying out with a loud voice, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. All that is meant by the word salvation. is put together in a package and said, this all belongs to God. All praise to God. Caesar is not Lord. God is on the throne, the league Church of Jesus. Salvation is not from the Roman Empire. The state cannot save. That was the gospel of Caesar. But from God's Lamb, salvation comes. So there's no self-congratulation here. Those who are saved have been shown mercy. They have been set free from sin and death and the devil and from foolish pride. The Spirit enables them to say these praises. And it's just like the Apostle Paul said, so then it is not of him who wills or him who runs, but of God who has mercy. They are praising the God of mercy. So we saw them there now, standing, white robes, waving palms, rejoicing with their praise, and I have a question for you. Are you in this crowd? Because John sees the future. He sees it. Are you in this crowd? God was showing John the whole church in all history. Are you there in that picture? Are you there confessing the same faith as all the church? That Jesus is Savior and Lord. He is the way, the truth, and the life. Are you there confessing that faith, the Catholic faith? Are you there standing when the judgment of God comes You're standing because God enables you to stand. You are shielded from the wrath of a righteous God. You are not blown away because you are standing with Jesus, clothed in Jesus. And are you there wearing those white robes, purified by the blood of Christ, cleansed from sin? Isaiah saw that in Isaiah 61 it says, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall exult in my God, for he has clothed me with the garments of the He has covered thee with the robe of righteousness. As a bridegroom decks himself like a priest with a beautiful headdress, as a bride adorns herself with jewels. And is that you waving palms of victory? Victory over sin and death and the devil's schemes against you Is that you having come out of the great tribulation, having washed your robes and having made them white in the blood of the Lamb? Is that you? Listen again to what John was shown Therefore are they before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more. More hunger, neither thirst any more. The sun shall not strike them nor any scorching heat For the lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water. Is that you standing there? Praising God for His mercy, for His love for you, a poor, lost sinner. Dear friends, today, I hope you can picture yourself there Standing, waving palms of victory, praising God, cleansed and clothed in perfection, rejoicing in God's grace Having triumphed in life, having beaten death, and worshiping and serving God on a Palm Sunday that goes on forever. Amen. O Lord our God, who sits upon the throne, O Lamb of God at the Father's right hand. By the working of your Spirit, lift us out of our doubts and fears as you did so long ago. Deliver us from the fears and sins that weigh us down with gloom. And show us what you showed John. Show us the victory that we have in Jesus. And teach us to serve with joy and to triumph through tribulations until we gather with a vast multitude to praise the Savior of the world. Amen.