We're going to read from the book of Genesis, chapter 49, and we'll read verses 8 through 12 Genesis 49, verses 8 through 12. Judah, your brothers shall praise you. Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies Your father's sons shall bow down before you. Judah is a lion's club. From the prey, my son, you have gone up He stooped down. He crouched as a lion and as a lioness. Who dares rouse him? The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, until tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of the people. People. Binding his foal to the vine, and his donkey's colt to the choice vine, he has washed his garments in wine, and his vesture in the blood of grapes. His eyes are darker than wine, and his teeth whiter than milk. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Revelation 5, 1 through 14. Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll written within and on the back. Sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals? And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it. And I began to weep loudly, because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or look into it. And one of the elders said to me, Weep no more. Behold the lion of the tribe of Judah. The root of David has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals. And between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the elders, I saw a lamb standing as though it had been slain. with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne. And when he had taken the scroll the four living creatures and the twenty four elders fell down before the Lamb each holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song, saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll, and to open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe, and language, and people, and nation and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. Then I looked, and I heard around numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. And I heard every creature in heaven, and on earth, and under the earth, and in the sea and all that is in them, saying, To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might for ever and ever. And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that as we uh survey portions of your word today, looking Into the life of a particular sinner who was redeemed and made into a leader by you, we pray that you will help us to understand and apply these things. Truly, spiritually, and deeply into our own lives and situations. Amen. Some of you have done some bad things. Think about it. You know it's true. Maybe no one else knows, but you have. Sadly others, hunger probably, might do some bad things. In the future. If and when that happens, or if it has happened, don't get stuck. Don't get stuck in the past Don't say, oh well, this is just the way I am. I can't change. Nothing will happen here. I just ruined everything, and there's no future for me. Don't get stuck. And I'll show you why today. Because by God's grace, you can be forgiven and change big time. We're going to look at Judah today. In this little series, I'm making called A Few Great Sinners Converted. Judah. First, we're going to consider Judah's family background Judah's family background, his father, Jacob, was always in rivalry from the womb. In Genesis 25, and you're going to have to have your Bible out if you want to follow me on this, really helps. You that are listened very carefully. Genesis 25, 19 through 26. We see the birth and character of his father Jacob and his uncle Esau in the womb. These are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son, Abraham's Fathered Isaac, and Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel, the Aramean of Padam Aram, the sister of Laban, the Aramean, to be his wife. And Isaac prayed to the Lord for his wife because she was barren. And the Lord granted his prayer, and Rebekah, his wife, conceived. The children struggled together within her, and she said, If this is thus, why is this happening to me? So she went to inquire, Who nations are in your womb? And two peoples from within you shall be divided, the one shall be stronger than the other, the older shall serve the younger. When her days to give birth were completed, behold, there were twins in her womb The first came out red, all his body like a hairy cloak, so they called his name Esau. Afterward his brother came out with his hand holding Esau's heel, so his name was called Jacob. Isaac was 60 years old when she bore them. Jacob means heel grabber, or supplanter, or trickster. This is Jacob. the father of our man, Judah. His father Jacob's youth and coming of age is next. Roll forward to Genesis 25. Here we have Isaac loved Esau because he ate of his game, but Rebekah loved Jacob. This is a dysfunctional family. The parents have their favorites. Not a good idea. So mama schemed with the schemer, Jacob, to get the blessing, the right which would go to the firstborn. And so in Genesis 27, when the old man was really old and blind and everything, she schemed with with this Jacob to get the firstborn blessing. And it's recorded in Genesis 27, 18 through 36. So here it is. Here's the situation. There's going to be this oracle, this prophecy that's pronounced, and it's ready to happen. So, verse 18: So he went to his father and said, My father, And he said, Here I am. Who are you? Not sure, you know. And Jacob said to his father, I am Esau, your firstborn. A lie. That's the character of our man I have done as you told me. Now sit up and eat my game, that your soul may bless me. But Isaac said to his son, How is it that you have found it so quickly, my son? And he answered, A lie, Because the Lord your God granted me success. Blasphemy, too, right? Then Isaac said to Jacob, Please come near me, that I may feel you, my son, to know whether you are really my son Esau or not. So Jacob went near to his father, Isaac his father, who felt him and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau. They had disguised his hands, you know. And he did not recognize him because his hands were hairy like his brother Esau's hands. So he blessed him and said, Are you really my son Esau? He answered, I am. Then he said, Bring it near to me, that I may eat of my son's game and bless you. So he brought it near to him, and he ate, and he brought him wine, and he and he drank. Then his father Isaac said to him, Come near and kiss me, my son. So he came near and kissed him. And Isaac smelled the smell of his garments and blessed him and said, See, the smell of my son is as the smell of the field that the Lord has blessed. May God give you of the dew of heaven, and of the fatness of the earth, and plenty of grain and wine. And then here's the oracle part Verse twenty nine Let peoples serve you, and nations bow down to you. Be Lord over your brothers, and may your mother's sons bow down to you. Cursed be everyone who curses you. Verse 30, as soon as Isaac had finished blessing Jacob, when Jacob had scarcely gone out from his presence, Esau, his brother, came in from his hunting. He also prepared delicious food and brought it to his father, and he said to his father, Let my father rise and eat of his son's game, that you may bless me. His father, Isaac said to him, Who are you? He answered, I am your son, your firstborn Esau. And verse thirty three. Then Isaac trembled violently and said, Who was it then that hunted game and brought it to me, and I ate it all before you came? And I have blessed him, yes, and he shall be blessed. As soon as Esau heard the words of his father, he cried out with exceeding great and bitter cry, and said to his father, Bless me, even me also, O my father. But he said, Your brother came deceitfully and has taken away your blessing. And verse 36: Esau said, Is he not rightly named Jacob? For he has cheated me these two times. He took away my birthright, and behold, now he has taken away my blessing. Then he said, Have you not reserved a blessing for me And he did, the Father did have a blessing for him, but not the oracle, not the preeminence prophecy. So now we we roll ahead. In chapter 29, Jacob fled away from his home for fear of his brother Esau. Eventually he met God at a place called Bethel, where there was this vision of this descending staircase with angels going up and down the staircase. And then at the morning he was renamed. This is important. He was renamed Israel. Jacob becomes Israel. Sometimes he's called Jacob. That's when he's just being referred to by his family name. Sometimes he's called Israel. That's when he is being referred to by his covenant name that God gave him, Prince of God. So he gets his name at Bethel after wrestling with God, pre-incarnate Christ, I think. And then he meets Esau and tries to make things right. And there was some peace made there. But then he goes on to live with his uncle Laban, who cheats him. The cheater gets cheated, you see. And he gets cheated into marrying Leah, who wasn't as pretty as Rachel. He wanted to marry Rachel. He worked seven years to marry Rachel, but then he got tricked, and Leah was in the Tent and he couldn't see, and so forth. You know the story. He had to work seven more years for the right to marry Rachel. So this is our man, Judas. Parent situation, his father, his mother, his family situation. We also see Judah's early childhood in chapter 29. If you go to 29, verses 31 through 35. And the Lord saw that That Leah was hated. So he had these two women here, these two mothers. Leah was hated, and he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren. So the favored wife. Rachel that he worked for the extra seven years she was barren, but Leah she she opened her womb. And Leah conceived and bore a son, and called his name Reuben, for she said, Because the Lord has looked upon my affliction, for now my husband will love me. But he She conceived again and bore a son, and said, Because the Lord has heard that I am hated, he has given me this son also. And she called his name Simeon And again she conceived and bore a son and said, Now this time my husband will be attached to me, because I have borne him three sons. Therefore his name was called Levi. And she conceived again and bore a son, and his name, she said, This time I will praise the Lord. And she called his name Judah. Then she ceased bearing So we see now, this is the family situation that we're looking at. Is Judah, our man, Judah is the son of a hated wife. A hated wife, and not a very appreciated wife, Leah. Then, to make matters worse, baby brother arrives from the other mama Genesis 30, verses 22 through 24. Then God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her and opened her womb. She conceived and bore a son, and said, God has taken away my reproach. And she called his name Joseph, saying, May the Lord add to me another son. So our man Judah grew up hating his baby brother, together with all the others of his sons. Leah's boys, hating his baby brother Joseph because he was the son of a favored mom. Now we've got to roll ahead. We've got to roll the tape ahead. Fast forward to Genesis 37. 17 years old now. Joseph is, the baby brother. Genesis thirty seven, two through eleven. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was pasturing the flock with his brothers. He was a boy with the sons of Bilhah and Zilpha. his father's wives, and Joseph brought a bad report of them to their father. Now Israel loved Joseph more than any other of his sons, because he was the son of his old age and his favorite wife. And he made him a robe of many colours. But when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him, and could not speak peacefully to him Now, Joseph had a dream. You shouldn't tell some things, you know. I'm just going to pause to say, but he had a dream. And when he told it to his brothers, they hated him even more. Verse 6, and he said to them, Hear this dream that I have dreamed. Behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and behold, my sheaf arose and stood upright, and behold, your sheaves gathered around it and bowed down to my sheaf. His brother said to him, You, are you indeed to reign over us? Are you indeed to rule over us? So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words. Then he dreamed another dream and told his brothers and said, Behold, I have dreamed another dream. Behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars were bowing down to me. But when he told it to his father and his brothers, his father rebuked him and said to him, What is this dream you have dreamed? Shall I and your mother and your brothers indeed come to bow ourselves to the ground before you? And his brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept the saying in mind. What a family! What a background. Multi-generational dysfunction. But I pause to say this. Even though we are influenced greatly by our background, we are. I'm not trying to deny that. We are still responsible for what we do. You can have the best family in the world, the most wonderful growing up and parents and everything you need, and still make terrible decisions. Background notwithstanding. Gee, um people these days will have these these DNA tests They want to find out what their background is, as if that's going to make any difference. They they're going to spit in this little thing and then send it off and find out where they came from, who are their tribes, and all that business And all they're really going to find out is which sinners they came from, because we're all sinners, right? G. K. Chesterton famously said, I regret that I cannot do my duty as a true modern by cursing everybody who made me whatever I am. Then he said, I am not clear what that is, but I'm pretty sure that most of it is my own fault. Right on, G. K. Chesterton So that's the background of our man Judah. Multi-generational dysfunction and all kinds of stuff. Parents that love and hate and all kinds of stuff. Now we go to Judah's deeds, his actual deeds. He is, first of all, a slave trader. He was very jealous of his brother, the baby brother Joseph, along with him 12 through 28. Now his brothers went to pasture their father's flock near Shechem. All the older brothers are out there near Shechem somewhere And Israel, that's the covenant name of Jacob, Israel said to Joseph, Are not your brothers pasturing the flock at Shechem? Come, I will send you to them. And he said, Here I am. So he said to him, Go now and see if it is well with your brothers and with the flock, and bring me word. Skip down to verse 17. So Joseph went after his brothers and found them at Dothan. And they saw him from afar, and before he came near to them, they conspired against him to kill him. They said to one another, Here comes this dreamer. Come now, let us kill him and throw him into one of the pits. Then we will say that a fierce animal has devoured him, and we will see what will become of his dreams. But when Reuben heard it, now Reuben's got a little better attitude here. Notice this. Reuben heard it. He rescued him out of their hands, saying, Let's not take his life. And Reuben said to them, Shed no blood, throw him into this pit here in the wilderness, but do not lay a hand on him. That he might rescue him. Reuben wanted to rescue him. out of their hands to restore him to his father. Reuben had a plot to let him get back to Dad. Verse 23. So when Joseph came to his brothers, they stripped him of his pretty robe. The robe of many colors that he wore, and they told him, they took him and threw him into a pit. The pit was empty, there was no water in it. Now down to verse 25. They said, they sat down to eat. And looking up, they saw a caravan of Ishmaelites coming from Gilead with their camels bearing gum, balm, and myrrh on their way to carry it down to Egypt. Then Judah, our man Judah, verse 26, said to his brothers, What prophet is it if we kill our brother and conceal his blood? He's not content with just murder, right? Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites. And let me just pause to say: selling him as a slave to the Ishmaelites would absolutely mean he would die. They just work you to death, and that's the end of it. When you come to the end of your usefulness, you die. And let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother, our own flesh. And his brothers listened to him. Then the Midianite traders passed by, and they drew Joseph up and lifted him out of the pit, and sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty shekels of silver. They took Joseph to Egypt. Right? So bye-bye Joseph, we don't know what's going to happen to him. As far as they're concerned, he is dead and gone forever So, what does Judah do now? Next thing we see Judah doing after selling his brother, getting 20 shekels of silver. Next thing he does is he marries outside the covenant Go to Genesis 20, uh Genesis 38, 1 through 2. It's a very casual description here of his his courtship, the courtship of our man Judah. It happened at that time that Judah went down from his brothers and turned aside to a certain Adolemite. whose name was Hira. There Judah saw a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name was Shuah. He took her and went in to Mary, a Canaanite. But what is he doing? Casually, like buying a used camel, he marries this Canaanite. Genesis 28 said the same thing that Isaac had said, Never let any of my children marry a Canaanite. Then Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and directed him, You must not take a wife from the Canaanite women. Before him, great-grandfather Abraham had insisted on a pledge that his son Isaac would never marry a Canaanite, Genesis 24. Abraham was old, well advanced in years, and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things. And Abraham said to his servant who had charge of all that he had, put your hand under my thigh. That was a way of swearing Put your hand under my thigh, that I may make you swear by the Lord the God of heaven, the God of earth, that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell. This is something they knew from way back. Don't marry a Canaanite. Don't marry a Canaanite. So what does our man Judah do? He marries a Canaanite. Casually. Marriage within the covenant was a well-known high priority. Yet Judah, in full rebellion, marries a Canaanite woman, casually, like I said before, picking out a There Judah saw the daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shuah, and he married her We also see more about our man Judah in Genesis 38, verses 3 through 10. He was a failure as a father. 38. 3. And she conceived and bore a son and called his name Ur. She conceived again and bore a son and she called his name Onan. Yet she bore a son and she called his name Sheila. This is the Canaanite woman. Judah was in Chezeb when she was bore him. Verse 6. And Judah took a wife for Ur, his firstborn, and her name was Tamar. But Ur's Ur, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord put him to death. Then Judah said to Onan, Go into your brother's wife and perform the duty of a brother in law to her, and raise up offspring for your brother. But Onan knew that the offspring would not be his, so whenever he went into his brother's wife he would waste the semen of On the ground so as not to give offspring to his brother. And what he did was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and he put him to death also. So two out of the three have been killed by the Lord. Wow. This Canaanite marriage and Judah's influence in fathering has produced an evil generation. And let me just pause to say to the young people: when you start out badly In marriage, it's hard to change course. Judah started out very badly. Hard to change course, even if Judah had wanted to repent and return to covenant faithfulness. it would have been hard, because his Canaanite wife would have made his life miserable. Never court or date or whatever you call it, or even consider forging a relationship outside the covenant. Which today is the faithful church. Never do it. So now we see one more thing about Judah: that he was a profane fornicator and hypocrite. This is in Genesis 38, 11 through 26. Follow me with this. Genesis 38, 11 through 26. Then Judah said to Tamar, his daughter-in-law, Remain a widow in your father's house till Sheila, my son, grows up. That's the last son, the baby. For he feared that he would die like his brothers. So Tamar went and remained in her father's house. In the course of time, the wife of Judah, Shua's daughter, died. When Judah was comforted, he went up to Timnah to his sheep shear. He and his friend Hira, the Adolamite. And when Tamar was told, your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep, she took off her widow's garments, and covered herself in a veil, wrapping herself up, and sat at the entrance to Ename, which is on the road to Timnah. For she saw that Sheila was grown up, and she had not been given to him in marriage. When Judas saw her, he thought she was a prostitute. For she had covered her face. He turned to her at the roadside and said, Come, let me come in to you, for he did not know that she was his daughter-in-law. She said, What will you give me that you may come in to me? He answered, I will send you a young goat from the flock. And she said, If you give me a pledge until you send it He said, What pledge shall I give to you? She said, Your signet and your court basically is I D, you know. And your staff that is in your hand. So she gave them so he gave them to her and went into her, and she conceived by him. Then she arose and went away, and taking off her veil, she put on the garments of her widowhood again. Verse 20. Then Judah sent the young goat by his friend the Adolamite to take back the pledge from the woman's hand. And he did not find her, and he asked the men of the place, where is the cult prostitute who was at Enaim at the roadside, and they said, No cult prostitute has been here. So he returned to Judah and said, I have not found her. Also the men of the place said, No cult prostitute has been here And Judah replied, Let her keep the things as her own, or we shall be laughed at. You see, I sent this young goat, and you did not find her. And verse 24. About three months later, Judah was told, Tamar, your daughter-in-law has been immoral. Moreover, she is pregnant by immorality And Judah said, Here's his hypocrisy, Judah said, Bring her out and let her be burned. As she was being brought out, she sent word to her father in law, By the man to whom these belong I am pregnant. And she said, please identify whose these are, the signet and the cord and the staff. And Judah identified them and said, She is more righteous than I, since I did not give her to my son Shela. and he did not know her again. So there's our man. There's our man Judah. What a great man. guy, huh? What a family background, what what behavior. Fantastic. Not really. We get finally to the third point of the sermon today. Judah's conversion and qualification to lead. And I want to say this preface: God often uses the pain of sin and of stricken conscience together with the Holy Spirit's calling to bring his chosen people. We're going to fast forward again here, all the way to Genesis 44. And we have now Joseph, who was thought to be dead long gone, in charge in Egypt, second in command. And there's been a famine, and Jacob's sons, including Judah, has been sent down to Egypt to buy grain. So Genesis 44, 1 through 21. Then he commanded the steward of his house, this is Joseph speaking, fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man's money in the mouth of his sack. So he's given it to him for free. And put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest. Ah, that's the other baby brother, Benjamin, from the favored wife. Remember? Later on that happened And he did as Joseph told him. So Joseph is testing them. As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away with their donkeys They had gone only a short distance from the city. Now Joseph said to his steward, Up, follow after the men, and when you overtake them, say to them, Why have you repaid evil for good? Is it not from this that my Lord drinks, and by this that he practices divination, you have done evil things? Verse 6. Then he overtook them, he's when he overtook them, he spoke these words. They said to him, Why does my Lord speak such words as these? Far be it from your servants to do such a thing. We didn't steal your cup. Verse 8. Behold, the money that we found in the mouths of our sacks we brought back to you from the land of Canaan. How then could we steal silver or gold from your Lord's house? Whichever of yourselves shall die, and we will also be my lord's slaves. And he said, Let it be as you say, who is found with it shall be my servant, and the rest of you shall be innocent Then each man quickly lowered his sack to the ground, and each man opened his sack, and he searched. This is verse 12. He searched from the beginning with the eldest and ending with the youngest. Last, keep the tension, you know. I'm going to go to the eldest down to the youngest. And the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. That's the other favored baby brother. Then they tore their clothes, and every man loaded his donkey, and they returned to the city. When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, he was still there. They fell before him to the ground. You've got to see this. Joseph said to them, What deed is this you have done? Do you not know that a man like me can indeed practice divination? And our man Judah, verse 16, said, What shall we say to my Lord? What shall we speak? Or how can we clear ourselves? Listen to what he says now. God has found out the guilt of your servants. Behold, we are my Lord's servants, both we and he whose hand the cup has been found. But he said, Far be it from me that I should do so. Only the man whose cup was found shall be my servant But as for you, go up in peace to your father. He's basically saying, no, I'm going to catch the one who did it, the baby brother, the Benjamin, and he's got to stay here and be my slave. And now we see Judah as an intercessor. Here's what he says in verse 18. Then Judah went up to him, to Joseph. And said, Oh my Lord, please let your servant speak a word in my Lord's ears, and let not your anger burn against your servant, for you are like Pharaoh himself. My Lord asked his servants, saying, Have you a father or a brother? And we said to my Lord, We have a father, an old man, and a young brother, the child of his old age, but his brother is dead, and he is alone is left of his brother's children. And his father loves him. Then you say to your servants, Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him. So he's setting up the situation in verse 30. Now, therefore, as soon as I come to your servant, my father, and the boy is not with us, then as his life is bound up with the boy's life, as soon as he sees that the boy is not with us, he will die and your servants will bring down the grey hairs of your servant on our father with sorrow to shale. For your servant became a pledge of safety for the boy to my father, saying, If you do not bring back to you, then I will then I shall bear the blame before my father all my life. Verse thirty three. Now therefore, please here's his intercession please let your servant remain instead of the boy as a servant to my Lord. And let the boy go back with his brothers. Do you see the change here? A man who sold him for twenty shekels of silver would have been happy to see him dead and assumed that he died. Now treats this baby brother and says, you know what? I care so much for my father that I'll be your slave. Please let him go back. This favored baby brother Benjamin. Judas brother who sold his brother as a slave and also a woman. and who wrote who raised godless sons and engaged in sexual sin and was hypocritical in judgment of the woman, he has turned from these things, you see And become a man under the conviction of sin, who is repenting before God and others, confessing his past sin. Interceding for others. And also honoring his Father by being willing to be a substitute. This is substitution, human substitution. To save his younger brother. This is true conversion. Isn't it amazing? This is true conversion It didn't happen in a day or in a moment, but God was working in this man's life slowly, relentlessly, inexorably. To make him into the Judah that we find at the end of Jacob's life. The Judah that we find in Genesis 49. Where the old man Jacob finally blesses his sons. In verse 1 of chapter 49, then Jacob called his sons He's about to die, and he said, Gather yourselves together that I may tell you what shall happen to you in the days to come. And it was read earlier that oracle It's not just a wish. This isn't just, you know, I wish this for you. It's not that. It's an oracle. It is a covenant pronunciation of the future. Judah, your brothers shall praise you. Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies. Your father's son shall bow down before you. Judah is a lion's cub. From the prey, my son, you have gone up. He stooped down. He crouched as a lion, and as a lioness, who dares rouse him? This beautiful oracle, the scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, until tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of the Peoples. What an oracle. What an oracle. Judah and the most faithful remnant of Israelites, as we know. Was the southern tribe called what? Judah. And after whom the Jews are called. Our Savior, the Lord of glory, was of this tribe. Revelation 5, 5 through 10. I'll read it again. And one of the elders said to me, Weep no more. The Lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals. Judah was changed, you see. Slowly but surely, by God's grace, he was made fit to be preeminent in Israel He took full responsibility for his sin when he was before flat on his face. That's the chief characteristic converted and put in charge of preeminence. And around 2020 years ago, in Judea, the land named after Judah. In the city of David, Bethlehem, the lion of the tribe of Judah was born. He lived and died to save his chosen people, to substitute himself for them, to be willing to die for them. He willingly gave himself to save all tribes, all families, all nations And he will come again, the lion. He will come again, the lion, fierce to judge the living and the dead By faith, not by mere mental assent. These are interesting stories, I like them, or I even believe these things Historically true, but by trust, that's what faith really is, by faith in Christ, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, who substituted himself for you in death. And rose again and intercedes for you by faith in him. You are forgiven all that is passed, and you are empowered to live a new life of obedience. Even perhaps of leadership, even perhaps of preeminence. Glory to God. Glory to God in the highest. Amen. Lord, we thank you for this faithful narrative of a sinner. Who was transformed by your grace until he finally bowed below The knee to the ground, even. We pray that we might also be faithful, repenters, and find the grace That we find in Jesus Christ the Lamb of God, the lion of the tribe of Judah. Amen.