Leviticus nineteen, nine through eighteen. When you reap the harvest of your land You shall not reap your field right up to its edge, neither shall you gather the gleanings after your harvest. And you shall not strip your vineyard bare, neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner. I am the Lord your God. You shall not steal. You shall not deal falsely. You shall not lie to one another. You shall not swear by my name falsely, and so profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. You shall not oppress your neighbor or rob him. The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning. You shall not curse the deaf or put a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall fear your God. I am the Lord. You shall not do injustice in court. You shall not be partial to the poor, or defer to the great. But in righteousness shall you judge your neighbor. You shall not go around as a slanderer among your people. And you shall not stand up against the life of your neighbor. I am the Lord. You shall not hate your brother in your heart. But you shall reason frankly with your neighbor, lest you incur sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people But you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Matthew, Matthew five, thirty-eight through forty-eight will be the reading, not the preaching text, but the reading text. Matthew five. 28 38 through 48. This is from the teaching of Jesus called the Sermon on the Mount. You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, Do not resist the one who is evil, but if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if anyone would sue you, take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same You therefore must be perfect, as your Heavenly Father is perfect. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, now as we continue studying Paul's letter to the Romans, we pray that you will illumine by the same Spirit who caused it to be written down. You will illumine this text that we may understand it biblically and apply it redemptively in our lives through Christ our Lord. Amen. So the text that you need to be turned to is Romans twelve and particularly today nine through twenty-one. We'll be reading that during the course of the sermon, so I'm not going to read it out right now, but Romans 9, Romans 12, 9 through 21. And here, Paul is rooting Christian behavior in Christian belief. He is rooting Christian ethics in Christian theology He is showing us that the Christian life is a life of doxology. That's the way he ended chapter 11. It was a beautiful doxology. Oh, the depth of the riches and of the Grace of God, how unsearchable are his ways, his ways past finding out. Who has known the mind of our Lord? And so forth. He is seeing that doxology, but But that doxology isn't just words. That thankfulness for God's grace has to overflow into the way we actually live our lives. So Christian theology produces Christian ethics, Christian behavior. And he began that discussion with saying that we need to give up ourselves as a living sacrifice, chapter 12, verses 1. and two. I preached a whole sermon on those two verses. And then in three and beyond, he begins to unpack the way the Christian faith works its way out. in the way we live, particularly here in relationships. Because relationships are often where we uh we get rubbed wrong way and and go astray. It's all nice when it's theory, but when you have to actually do something and you have a a person in front of you and there's a problem, then it really needs to be uh we need some help. And the problem that he's talking about here is love and the lack of love. He's talking about selfishness and individualism. Especially in its modern expression. And he says these things must be challenged by the gospel. In contrast, he says in verses 3 through 8, and I'll just review this quickly, that love should relate to the way we use our gifts. They're not for us. They're not for our self-aggrandizement. They're not for our enjoyment. They're for others. They're for the service of others. And he says that love in relation to gifts quells the sin of pride, which makes us think that we're better than others in our gifts. And makes us use them for ourselves. Pride, you see, is the way of the old order, of the fallen world. Pride was the original sin of the devil. And we're not to be conformed to that any longer, as we've already been told. Love is the way of the new creation in Christ, which must reshape you. Now we come to verse 9, which begins our text today, and we see the quality of true love. The quality of true love. He says, let love be genuine. Genuine. Martin Luther understood that the problem of humanity is, in a Latin phrase, Homo incurvitus in se, which translated as man is curved in on himself. At its deepest levels, that is our priorities, are warped. We put our own self-interest above others. We're curved in on ourselves. One commentator said, man turned in on himself finds that sin is the slippery slope of me, me, me. This teaching put forth by Luther nails the spirit of our modern era. Someone says America is a monument to individualism, but increasingly we can see the cracks. Isolation, depression, apathy, anxiety, narcissism, and addiction to which individualism leads Where once there was purpose and confidence and belonging and hope, now there is more of a gnawing void. He goes on to say, now we trade in the town square for laptops behind which we disappear, hiding, seeking to dwell unchallenged in worlds of our own design. ideology, ambitions, pleasures, secrets, shame, and terror. When man is turned in on his own desires The world, despite his best efforts to the contrary, becomes smaller and darker. End of quote. So, as it relates to our various gifts, love teaches us to serve others in harmony and to serve others in the pattern of the service of Christ. Heidelberg Catechism, question and answer 55, talks about the communion of saints that we say in the creeds every Sunday. And it says, What do you understand by the communion of saints? Answer first that all believers, all and everyone, are as members of Christ, have communion with him. and share in all his treasures and gifts. And at this part, second, that it is everyone's duty To use his gifts readily and cheerfully for the benefit and well-being of the other members. So love should be genuine, genuine. And the third point here is that love relates to our friends This is fairly easy. We're going to get to something harder in a minute, but love relates to our friends. Let love be genuine. And the word here for translated genuine is anhufocritis. Sounds like the word hypocrite, doesn't it? But has the prefix an, which is the a, which means the opposite, actually. No hypocrisy, no faking it. The word was used in classical Greek of play actors who use a variety of masks pretending to be someone other than themselves Paul may have had in mind Judas Iscariot when he said love must not be hypocritical. Judas Iscariot who came up to Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane and kissed him. That's faking it to the max. A sign of love, but he was betraying him. Paul says that love must be real, no faking it. Pastor Liam Gulliger tells about a typo in a letter of response from a large department store. An irate customer had written a complaint about something. And see if you can catch the error in the response. Here was the response written back. Dear Sir, although we receive hundreds of letters and have thousands of customers, we fake a personal interest in them all. Right. Let love be genuine. What does it look like? What does genuine love look like? Not mere politeness or mere sentimentality. Well, he goes on to tell us, let love be genuine, abhor what is evil, hold fast to what is good. Love is not blind to error. Love is not gullible to deception. It does not accept evil practice in order to get along with those who practice evil. So it's not that. But abhors the evil out of concern. The love of God has a moral dimension. So we can expect that the love we're commanded here has a moral dimension. The love of God has a moral dimension. God's love is jealous love. Jealous for what is true and right and upright according to the law of God. So love must be genuine. Abhor what is evil. Hold fast to what is good. Many like to quote 1 John 4, 8, which says, God is love. A lot of people like to throw that out whenever they feel like they might be under some scrutiny or criticized in some way. And they'll throw that in your face. God is love. God is love. But John also says, as we've already heard, this is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light. And him is no darkness at all. So there's a moral dimension. Abhor what is evil and hold fast to what is good. He goes on to tell us that love is discreet, this genuine love. Verse 10: Love one another with brotherly affection. In the best of families, each person is well known. And if you know someone well, then you know all about them. You know them warts and all, so to speak. You know about their failings and their foibles. But families are kind about such things. So We should be discreet. Love one another with brotherly affection. You should be able to share in this congregation, you should be able to share deep personal problems. And pains. Without fear that your troubles that you have articulated to someone else are going to be used against you among the members of the family. That's what brotherly affection does. It never exploits the other, the brother or the sister. And then genuine love is edifying. He says, next he says, outdo one another in showing honor. Outdo one another. Pump each other up. This does not mean every person gets a trophy, but it means trophies are given in genuine honor. Honor is not held. Recently, one of our elders proposed that we honor Tom and Jean Tyson on the milestone of their 62nd wedding anniversary. That was a wonderfully right thing to do. Marriages that last in love and through trials are rare and worthy of honor So outdo one another in showing honor. True love also is fervent, he says. Verse 11. Do not be slothful. You know what a sloth is. It's that animal that moves very, very, very slowly. Do not be slothful in zeal, but be fervent in spirit. Serve the Lord. The Bible dictionary says that zeal is passionate ardor in pursuit of anything. In general, zeal is an eagerness, is a desire to accomplish or obtain some object. It requires that we therefore sometimes stir one another up Do not be slothful, be fervent, stir one another up, because we easily cool off in our affection for one another. And we curve in on ourselves. Our spiritual temperature goes down, down, down. And it's easy to walk away from each other. Back in the nineteen seventies and nineteen eighties, ATT had a heartwarming and very, very successful advertising campaign. with a slogan that became well-known. It was a well-known jingle. It was, reach out and touch someone. When someone has been missing the fellowship of the church, you should not assume that, quote, no news is good news. No. If someone has been missing the fellowship of the church, you should give them a call or a text or an email or an instant message. To inquire about their welfare. They may be sick or suffering in some way. So don't be slothful. Be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord in love for others. And the writer of Hebrews says this in Hebrews 10. And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing. So we go even beyond calling and texting and consider how we can stir up others to love and good works. Then in verse 12 he says, Rejoicing, rejoice in hope. Be patient in tribulation. Be constant in prayer. Contribute to the needs of the saints. and seek to show hospitality. I could unpack all those words, but they're pretty clear in their meaning Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, constant in prayer, contribute to the needs of the saints. But then this one is maybe worth a little more effort. Seek to show hospitality. And the word seek here is a strong word. The idea is pursue people that you don't know in hospitality. Go out of your way to seek them. Love in action, you see, seeks. It's not just a feeling. It's not just superficial. It actually does something. It seeks the other. And then the fourth point of the sermon, true love in relation to enemies. This is the hard one. Well, it's the hardest. It's sometimes hard to love people that you know real well too, but this is even this is the hardest by far. Because it says, bless those who persecute you, bless and do not curse them. Oh, I have a problem here. When the TV's on, bad news sometimes. Plus, means to desire for them the riches of God's grace, although they do not deserve it. They're your enemies. You probably think they don't deserve it. Why should you do this? Because this is the way God is treating you, isn't it? You don't deserve his grace. You don't deserve his kindness. And yet he treats you this way all the time. So bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse them. Jesus said, and we read it earlier, you have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, that I say to you, do not resist the evil one. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him also. That is unpacking this concept right here. And he says, love your enemies, verse 44 of that text. Pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father in heaven. For he does what? He makes the sun shine and rise on the evil and those who are good. And he sends rain on the just and the unjust. So you need to go beyond superficiality here and love even enemies Paul echoes Jesus, doesn't he? Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep, live in harmony with one another, do not be haughty. but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. Repay, here it is, no one evil for evil. But give thought to what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. And then here's the clincher, beloved, never. Avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, quote, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Let's think about that for a moment. The one who trusts that God is just And that God is really there and in charge and will take action. The one who trusts God will not think it necessary to avenge themselves. They will leave the issue of vengeance to God and give place to wrath, giving no place to their own wrath And giving wide place to the wrath of God, who knows better than we do. We're going to see this in chapter 13 that at the present time the civil government has the role of punishing and avenging and bringing wrath on evildoers. This includes the work of police, military action, judicial and penal action. And if you have responsibilities in these things, in this sphere, military or or or law enforcement or anything like that or judicial, then you must carry out your work according to the civil code or the orders of your superior. So this isn't pacifism That some might advocate. But as an individual Christian, if you have personal enemies Your first response should not be vengeance, but to kill your enemies with kindness. Kill them with kindness. He says in verse 20, to the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, fing him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. For by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. That burning coals on the head, that that I needed help with that as a kid My dad taught me this concept when I was a little boy. I was feeling mistreated by another boy, and I asked dad what to do, and I was hoping he was going to say collober him. But he told me, heap coals of fire on his head. And I'm sure I looked puzzled and probably asked, where do you get the coals? Let's do it, you know? He explained that it means, be so nice that your enemy is embarrassed, and his face turns red as if you put coals of fire on his head. You see, my dear friends in Christ, this is what Christ did for you. If you really know him, there will be times when you will flush with emotion. I hope there are. You will tear up Your face will turn red as you understand how constantly kind God is to you in Jesus Christ. He heaps coals of fire of his love, of his mercy on your head. And you are to do the same with enemies. Paul says in Romans 5. 10, for while we were enemies, We were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more. Now that we're reconciled, shall we be saved by his life? Should we really treat our enemies with such kindness? Won't they think we are crazy or something? Paul says that we should remember ourselves. In the foolish enmity of others, he says, listen to it in Titus He says the grace of God teaches us to speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show perfect courtesy toward all people, for, and here's the reason for that. We ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness. but according to his own mercy. So we're to do the same thing to our enemies. This is very counter-cultural, isn't it? Wow. What a witness. And you may have seen this recently. I refer to the picture that I showed to the children. It was an act of Christian forgiveness that brought tears to the eyes of those people in the courtroom. The extraordinary scene played out at the end of a long trial that stemmed from the shooting of Mr. Jean. A black Pricewaterhouse Cooper's accountant on September 26, 2018. The officer, Geyer, had returned to her apartment building after a fourteen-hour police shift, still in her uniform, and in a state she later described as, quote, autopilot. After entering the wrong flat, Geiger saw a person that she thought was an intruder. She drew her gun and shot him twice. Her flat was number thirteen seventy eight, and mister Jean lived at fourteen seventy eight, one floor above. His door was unlocked, and he was sitting on the sofa eating ice cream Now, in the courtroom, Amber Geyer, 31, a white police officer, had just been jailed for ten years after shooting dead her black neighbor, Botham Jean. 26, whom she mistook for an intruder. While protesters outside the court building in Dallas were outraged by the lenient sentence, the victim's brother took a different path Brantt Jean, age 18, asked the judge if he could hug his brother's killer. He then embraced Geiger for about a minute in the middle of the courtroom. The teenager told her, If you are truly sorry, I forgive you And I know if you go to God and ask him, he will forgive you. I'm speaking for myself, not my family, but I love you. Just like anyone else. I'm not going to say I hope you rot and die just like my brother did. I want the best for you. I don't even want you to go to jail. Then Judge Tammy Kemp went to her chambers and returned with a Bible. She too hugged the killer and told her. . . You just need a tiny mustard seed of faith. Then handing the Bible to her said, you start with this. Very countercultural. This love that God has heaped on us that embarrasses us with the riches of his grace. And then teaches us to love others, even those who we consider enemies, but certainly all of our friends and neighbors and brothers and sisters in the church. It's very countercultural. It will show the world what Christianity really is, won't it Love is very countercultural. It's discerning. Abhor what is evil. Hold fast to what is good. It's discreet. Love one another with brotherly affection. It's edifying. Outdo one another in showing honor It's fervent. Do not be slothful in zeal, but be fervent in spirit. We should add, it's countercultural because it is Christ-like. The only way you can do this is in the light of what God has done, and by the way, still does for you, day by day, hour by hour. Amen. Lord, we are blessed with amazing love, amazing grace. We are embarrassed with the riches of your mercy. Help us to extend it to others. Amen.