Congregation of the Lord, it is my joy and privilege to minister God's word to you now. We have um begun. The Christian year is starting again Well it's ending here these years as it begins again with the birth of Christ. And this week begins uh Advent season. And for Advent season this year, for the next four Sundays, including today, we're going to look at the four servant songs in the prophecy of Isaiah. I think it's important to say something just about the Christian year. It just reminds us that there's a Christ and that He's come. And that the world has never been the same since. And I think it would be better of us if we spoke that this is the 2025 year of our Lord, lest we forget it. Because as we saw here in this text, I read chapter forty two And I think I am reading God's Christian manifesto as he is declaring his intent through his servant to make the world Christian. Through Christ the Savior to bring the Gentiles out of the darkened imprisonment of idolatry. To the light of the knowledge of the only God, and to worship Him. God lays forth His intent to us, bring justice to the nations, establish it in the earth. He declares how he's going to do it. He's going to raise up the Messiah, Jesus, his servant, he's put his spirit upon him. He's going to teach, he's going to instruct. Yea, he's going to be their light and their savior. Now, this passage, what I want to look at today with us, is primarily verse six. I am the Lord, I've called you in righteousness, I will take you by the hand and keep you, I will give you as a covenant for the people. a light for the nations and and really hone in on that phrase, a light for the nations. But let me just also say a further word about the kind of structure of the passage. If you're reading, I don't know how they if you got the Pew Bible, I haven't looked in there, but the ESV likes to edit things appropriately, you'll see that it kind of breaks down into two paragraphs, verses one through four identify the service servant for us or really i shows us what the servant is called to do, what's his task, what's his mission, what has he been raised up by God for to accomplish. And then verses five through nine are really the assurances God gives us that it's going to happen and it's going to come to pass. And as I mentioned, the task given to the servant there is to bring forth justice to the nations. God's bringing it forth to them because they're without it. And and justice here means the rule of God's law. It means walking in God's ways. It means doing what's right. It means obedience to God. It means being under his authority. It means justice. And God is the measure of justice. And God's law is the standard for that justice. God himself. Is a standard to us of what is right and wrong. If you've seen Christ said it or do it, you better do it. Because that's justice. And he's going to bring that to the nation. That we see he tells us in verse two a bit of the way it's gonna happen, not gonna cry aloud, not gonna lift up his voice, not gonna make it hurt in the street. It's not that Jesus never spoke loudly, because we read at least two places in John's Gospel where he stood up, raised his voice, and said, If you're thirsty, come to me and he wanted everybody to hear it, so it is at a festival, so we had to say it loud And at the end of his ministry, when when nobody was believing, one last time before that final night, he stands up and says, If you have seen me, you've not seen me but God who sent me So he he will raise his voice to make the truth known, so but what he won't do is what we saw him doing there in in the Gospel of Matthew. He's not going to go about this in a shouting match. He's not going to draw and attract unwanted public attention. Notice the context of Matthew twelve, if you notice the context there. In Matthew 11, he's reproved all the people who've seen his ministry and haven't repented. Woe to you! Then he declares who he is. God's Son, who alone knows God, and God alone knows him, and who alone can reveal him to man, and then summons everybody to come to him. Because he's gentle, he's lowly. Every sinner is told to come learn from him To be instructed in his way, to take his yoke upon him and be a servant. And then you go into Matthew twelve and notice what the issue there is an it's an issue of judgment. Is it lawful to do this on the Sabbath? He's he's bringing justice out. He has to start with his own people. They don't know what is right and wrong on the Sabbath day. They don't even know that you can do good on the Sabbath day, and they want to kill him because he healed the man on the Sabbath day. That is Unjust. But rather than and then we read there's a plot to kill him, and he gains the knowledge of that plot to kill him. Now when the time comes, we know he's going to stand there, but that's not the time. What does he do? He withdraws and he goes over here and he ministers here, but he's well known and huge crowds follow him, and he is so merciful, and they come to him and he heals all their sick But he says, I don't, he's not seeking unwanted publicity, saying, be quiet about it. My way is not that way. I am the conqueror and savior of the world, but my way is not to do it like the other kings I have a different way. It's a gentle way. It's a patient way. It's a loving way. A bruised reed, right? He's not gonna break. Faintly burning wind. This is a statement that violence and oppression do not serve the king's kingdom. A God who would go to the cross and die and suffer the violence is not a God who wants violence to bring his kingdom. So unviolent with the if you've ever been down to the shore here and you've seen a reed, you know how frail they are, and you know if you break one's bruise, how easy it is to just finish it off. We don't really use candles anymore, so we're gonna have to really work at understanding this one, but if you like candles, especially one that won't get going and won't stay lit, the easiest thing in the world is to snuff it out. It might be the thing you want to do That's not what Jesus does. Rusere, faint-hearted people will be loved by him and built up by him, not discarded. And brought into his kingdom. You know, if you're going to conquer the world, you want the strong people, right? You don't want the weak people. They're dispensable. Not to Christ. You have a very different kingdom. He's going to bring forth justice. Faithfully is a faithful translation. I just think a better one is according to the truth. He doesn't, you know, truth can speak for itself. He's going to bring justice forth in a true way, God said. In a way perfectly in accord with who God is. And what he's up to. He wants it to stay, you know, you've probably shouted somebody into your position before, and they probably just caved in to just get you to stop shouting at them. You may have whipped somebody into following your way and forced them into and twisted their arm and they might have gone for a while, but you've not changed their heart. He wants justice to stay. That requires truth. That's what the nations don't have. They don't have truth. They don't have a standard. That's a big problem today too when we teach that truth is relative. If truth is relative, then everything goes. And there's no justice. There's your justice, there's my justice, then there's just really no justice. Who's to say? In verse 4, there's kind of a turn of phrase because what he says he's not gonna do, put out these bruised Reads and saintly burning wits, the Hebrew uses the same words and applies it to himself. He therefore is not also going to grow faint The violence that he will suffer is not going to hinder his ministry. You remember what he says, right? Since the kingdom of God has been here on earth, since I've been here on earth, it's been suffering violence. By violent men. But it didn't stop it, did it? It still suffers violence by violent men and who snuffed out the light of Christ in this world. Because God says, he will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice. And we are it will be here. The true religion will stay here Religion as the practical thing it is. Religion is the most practical thing in the world. If you have a religion that is not changing your practice, you don't have a religion. He's bringing justice, judgment, righteousness. God's so certain that it's going to stay here, even the farthest coastlands. We'll have to wait for it. But it's coming to them. And maybe God will raise up one of our children or call one of our older folks that may be retired now. I don't know. To go take it to them. Who better than one that knows it? But they're still waiting to hear of Christ. To hear who the true God is, because those idols they're serving art. Verse 5, God here says, I've said this, and then he gives us a wonderful, majestic picture of who he is as an earth dweller. He's the God who has created the heavens above us and stretched them out. That God. He's the God that the earth we stand on, He spread it out and all the vegetation, that's his doing. He's the God that gives you breath every moment, every creature on this earth. Put spirit that quickens you so you can walk upon this earth. That God has said this. He has said what I just read to you, and he said what goes on here when he starts in verse six. Going on to verse 9 and giving five assurances that justice will be established here. The first one, right, he says, I've called you in righteousness. It's a divine sanction for his ministry. What God is planning to do through him is right according to God's ways and according to who he is, and none can find fault, and it will last, and it will stand God's going to take him by the hand. He's going to support him. That's a picture of support. He's going to be divinely supported by this great God who is the creator of heaven and earth. He's going to keep him, preserve him, watch over him, care for him. He's got divine protection, divine support, divine sanction for his work, for his ministry. Then he gives us there in verse four or in the sixth and fourth reason. I'm going to give you as a covenant for the people. The light for the nation. Now since that's the focus of our text, I'm going to come back to it. And we'll understand how that guarantees this work getting done. So we'll come back there. Verse 7 just explains what it means that he's going to be the light for the nations. Verse 8 tells us why, in God's great Christian manifesto. To bring the one and only religion there is, Christianity, to the world and keep it in the world, because Yahweh is his name. It's not that image's name. It's his name. It's not another God. God's not going to let the sham gods that the nations worship steal any more glory from him. What they think they receive from them, what trust and hope they put in them, what longing and desire they have for them, what blessings they want for them. Long to God. They're nothing. They literally worship a lie, a deceit, a vain thing, empty thing that cannot see. And God cannot. Let it go on. God cannot let idolatry continue in his world. Yahweh's his name. He would there's not another to give his glory to There's not another to share his praise. What other God has made the heavens and the earth? I think it's wonderful that God is so zealous for his glory. Because it's the good of our salvation. He's going to bring the nations. to know him and worship him. And then finally there in verse 9, the former things, the Paul, I think Paul, I think Paul, and other smarter people than me think Paul as well. uses this in 2 Corinthians 5 and he's talking about all things are God and whoever is in Christ is a new creature, the old is past, the former things. The new has come. Behold, I tell you new things. I think that's right and true. In the context here, it could be the former prophecies that he's told about, the raising up of Cyrus. He could go back to all the things God said. Did God say he was going to save his people out of Egypt? Yes. Did he do that? Yes. Did he say he was going to bring them to the promised land? Yes. Did he do that? Well what's it saying? As surely as I did the former things, well, the things I'm telling you about now, I'm glad those are gonna happen too. And in the context in Isaiah, it also means he's summoning the other gods. Well go get the other gods and ask them what's going to happen, and if they can tell us, then they're God. And he's saying, before it even comes out of the earth And you have any awareness of who Christ is and his light is shining in this world, I'm telling you it's gonna happen. That you might know, I sent him. He's my servant. And I'm God. So worship me. Dash your idol down and come to God. That's what he wants from everybody here. If you've never come to God, he wants you to come right now. If you've never put your faith in trust, he wants you to do it right now. Believe in Jesus Christ. So that's kind of the picture here, but I said I wanted to look at verse six, but particularly a light for the nations. Now what That is saying in that that whole verse there, I I will give. It's Christmas season coming up. We give things at Christmas, so here's a gift of God. I will give a Savior, right? I'm going to give the servant as a covenant for the people, a light. For the nation. And what that means is, in the context, I said this is this is the assurance of his ministry to bring justice to the nation. Because Christ is given by God as the light for the nations, then as it goes on there in the rest of these verses, he's going to dispel their darkness. He's going to free them from the imprisonment of idolatry, and he's going to bring them into the light of the truth. The light of his justice, the light of his law, it's going to prevail upon the earth, the true and only religion. And what this is telling us, right, is that Christ, in Christ alone, dispels darkness. There's no other Savior for this world. Christ and Christ alone frees men from the dark imprisonment of idol worship Christ in Christ alone is who brings forth true religion in the earth. A true knowing God, a true worship. A true, walking, and faithful, humble, obedient, penitent response to the God who showed Himself as the God of grace. Well, I said I want to focus on light. I also want to just say a quick word about covenant, because we love covenants in uh All Christians love covenants for the new covenant. But the idea here is if you turn a little bit later in the book to chapter 54, after 53, which we'll get to, and the servant does his atoning work, God saying, Hey Make room everybody. Make room, Israel. Spread your tent out because a lot of people are going to come in. And God says, This is like the days of Noah to me, right? Remember Noah, what did God make with Noah after the flood? A covenant, yes. And what did God say that should no more go over the earth? So I have sworn that I will not be angry with you, I will not rebuke you. My steadfast love shall not depart from you. My covenant of peace. Shall not be removed. He's talking about Israel, but all people, he's saying What is the what binds us to God and secures his blessings to us in his peace is covenant. And Jesus will be given as a covenant of peace to us, as he has taken our sins, right, bore them in his body. God has turned his anger from us. And notice what he says. I will never take my loving kindness away from. Why? Christ is the covenant, the peace. He's the one who's made peace between God and man on the cross. He's the one who's made peace between his people and making us one in his new body. And God has declared, my anger turned away. I was gone. My loving kindness will never depart. That's his salvation. Because Christ is that covenant. But what about light? Here you gotta turn with me to Revelation 21. Because the whole key to understanding how this verse functions, and as I'm trying as I'm trying to say to you in context. understanding that light here, this this this gift of Christ as light Is one of the assurances God gives that He's going to do His work and bring forth justice to the nation and establish it in the earth. It's because He is light. That he does this. Well, here we gotta go to the end of the Bible to understand fully what that means. Because the key is knowing what what does God mean when he says he's light. What does that mean? What what or let me ask you, let me put it this way. What is the light that he's given? That's the question. I've given light. The question is, what is that light that he's given? All right, have you have you turned to Revelation 21? Look at verse 22. And I saw no temple in the city. That's the heavenly city of Jerusalem that's come down. The context is the new creation. For its temple is the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb, the temple. We've already joined ourselves to Jesus by faith, being built up a spiritual house. There's no temple in the new heavens or earth, because God's a temple and we're in him Look at verse 23. That heavenly city, heavenly Jerusalem. Earthly Jerusalem needs sun and moon for light. The heavenly Jerusalem has no need of sun and moon to shine it. Why? What what's the light? The glory of God. Is its light. But then notice what it says right after that. And its lamp is the lamb. So the light of the new creation The light of the heavenly city is God's glory. But at home, right, you have a light and you put it on a lamp, right? You don't just have a light floating out there, you got a light bulb, maybe screwed in, you got a lamp. Who holds that? Who contains that light? What is the source of God's glory? It's the Lamb. I think it's quite wonderful that you will know nothing of God's glory unless you know the Lamb. But understand the Lamb is God's glory. The crucified one is the glory of God. He is such a God Who would give his own son? He is such a God who would come in the flesh. He is such a God who would suffer for sinners. He is such a God who would forgive Sinners. Murderers, haters of him. That's the God free grace. That's that's the God. That's God's glory, the Lamb It's the Lamb who's shining in the heavenly city. It's the Lamb who gives the light. But then notice what he goes on in verse 24. By its light, by the glory of God and the lamp of the Lamb will the nations walk. That's what he just said. I mean, if you have the light. To the nations, and here they are walking in that light. The kings of the earth will talk about them. They come in in other servant songs later. There's redemption for them too. They usually aren't following God They're going to be there too. No one's sort of they're going to be bringing their glory and they're going to be bringing their praises for the Lamb into that heavenly city and giving glory. I wanted you to see that so you can understand what light God has given. God has given you the glory of God and the face of Jesus Christ. That's the light. Paul says, you are a person saved and converted and a new creation if that light shines in your heart. And you believe on Jesus Christ as God in the flesh? But do you know him as the crucified one in Love him and trust in him. That's delight. That's what God gave. He gave the glory of God in the face of the Of the Lamb. That's the light that God has given to the nations. Now, if you and I were living in those nations, you know what they were doing to the lambs at that time? Vainly trying to appease God. But God came and appeased himself. God doesn't need your, he doesn't want your appeasement. He just wants your faith. He just wants you to receive him, his son. Trust in all his saving power and might and love. Just receive him. He's the light. Him, Christ. He just come to him. Right, as we love to sing, and just come, you have nothing to bring me to the one anything. He just wants you That's the light. Glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But now turn back to Isaiah. Now that's the end. As I said, all the nations are walking as God said. There there's there's only going to be one religion on the earth, Christianity, when God comes. There will be more until then, but there's only going to be one lasting religion, because there's only one true religion, because there's only one true God. That's Christianity He's talking about his servant's going to bring Christianity to the world, which he has. He did it 2,000 years ago. It's going to stay here and it's not going away. It's going to fill the whole earth. Now go back to 42, right? It's because God has given for the nations His glory in the face of Jesus Christ, which is just to thank God. Remember what John says about it? We beheld his glory, full of grace. Full of truth. What's that law he's bringing out to the nations? It is his teaching, but it's his grace. It's his truth. He has shown grace. He forgave. Now go get go forgive. That's his law Love, like I've loved you. It's a justice he's bringing out to the nation. The truth of who man is and who God is, more importantly, so that man might know who he is. Go back to Genesis. They're not going to go there in our Bible, but just in our minds. I trust we all know Genesis 1. When God created the heavens and the earth, and it's shapeless and void, what what was there with it? Darkness. Hosech. These nations sit in darkness. What did God do to turn the lights on? And let there be light. God has said with Jesus Christ, the new creation, let there be light. Turn down the lights. It's a creative act of God that saves you. It's God turning the lights and opening your eyes You see, you see, God can do that, right? Jesus showed us he can he literally opened blind people's eyes. But he's showing us a greater truth. He can save from idolatry. He can save from false gods and the worship of them and the service of them. He can save from the greatest moral depravity and degradation. He can save. Verse 7 is telling us the the issue, right? The nation's need saved. He's got to bring them out of the prisoners from the dungeon. He's got to bring those prisoners who sit in darkness. The nations are imprisoned in idolatry. You know, there's two kingdoms on earth There's the kingdom of Christ, and there's the kingdom of the Antichrist. There's the kingdom of God, there's the kingdom of Satan. You know, that was also the context in Matthew twelve, because as soon as Jesus, after that episode we read, you know what happens next? He healed more people, and they were amazed And they were saying, This has to be the son of David and the Pharisees are saying, No, he's just filled with Baelzebub. That's not the Ruach, the Spirit of God, and him setting us free. That's just the devil bringing his own kingdom down. And you know the parable Jesus said. How can Satan destroy Satan? That's a context. Imprisoned in Satan. Living under his tyranny as we've fallen under it and God justly put us under it for our disobedience and sin in Adam. And in his mercy, as he promised long ago, he's come and rescued the nations out from under his rule. But you see how he's doing it though. It's not some impersonal light. He didn't just stand far away and trying to flash light. He said, come on out, get out of there. He came in the flesh. He said, I'm your God. You don't have to serve that one anymore. You don't have to live in the fear of death anymore. I'm your sin bearer. I've conquered the grave. Don't let that accuser threaten you. I'm your advocate. I'm at the right hand of God. Trust me, I have his ear more than Satan. You know, if Jesus is the light given for the nations Is also the light given for this nation. There's still hope for this nation. And those who dwell in this nation. There's still hope for them. There's there's still good news for them. There's still a Savior who can save them. And our task is to go tell them about him, right? You know, how does um how does Jesus fulfill this work? Because you know, if you've you've read the gospel, you know, he doesn't make it out of Jerusalem. Well, I mean he rises from the dead. I mean his ministry doesn't go beyond really Jerusalem. It's gathered some people around, but hardly Jesus himself didn't personally go out to the nation, so how did he get his light out there? Alright, well here you gotta turn to Acts chapter 26. Jesus gets his light out there through faithful witness by his servants. You know, notice what what you know in Paul's defense of his ministry to King Agrippa, he saw the risen Christ that heavenly light enveloped him. We know those those scales fell off in his eyes and he saw the true light. The one he persecuted as a blasphemer, he came to realize he's the Son of God. And he he knew that God had reconciled him freely by his death and has now appointed him to be the apostle to the Gentiles. Said Paul, just leave that behind. Don't worry about it anymore. I got a new work for you. You're a new man. Wash that sin away and get up and serve me now. That's how Christianity works. God doesn't hold our sins over us. He just forgives us frankly on the cross. He says leave all that behind. Follow me. You know, and Paul says, he says, so look, I was appointed as a servant. I was appointed as a witness to go tell people about Jesus. Now notice what Jesus says, he's Paul, I'm sending you to open their eyes. When we read Isaiah, we're like, wait, Jesus thought your job was to open eyes. Why are you telling Paul now it's his job to open eyes? He's saying, Paul, you're gonna go out to them and you're gonna preach because they need to turn from that darkness to the light. They need to turn from Satan's power. To God. And we should remember that. If someone isn't making a profession of faith in Jesus Christ, they're in darkness and under the power of Satan. And you you've got to give them to repentance You gotta but you get them to repent in a loving way. Jesus gets them to repent. You don't shout them down and violently twist their arm. You know, Second Timothy gives us uh really helpful. He says, The servant of the Lord cannot strive. He has got to be patient and gentle. Why? Because they've fallen in the snare of the devil. Have you ever seen an animal in a snare? It is frightened. And if you're going to come rescue it, you don't want it to be more frightened of you, it wants to stay in the trap. You come in gentleness. You come to help. I have good news for you. I don't have condemnation for you. God doesn't have condemnation for you. Salvation for you. It will turn into condemnation if he rejected, but I I I'm here to save you. I'm here to tell you about the Savior. You know when these and when in and when men repent. You know he promises when you come to that light, your sins are forgiven, and you're in God's inheritance forever. Now how does he do that? Well go look at 26, 23 Paul says, I just tell people what the prophets said. I just tell people what God said. I just tell people the good news that the Christ had to suffer, and of course he would tell them why, atonement for sin. Well we'll get to that in Isaiah 53 in more detail, but y you know that. And then by being the first to rise from the dead, that's good news. He's not going to be the only one. He's just going to be the first one He would proclaim light. Now, okay, Paul, is Jesus proclaiming light from heaven? How's he proclaiming light from heaven? So you you see what you're saying? God gave the servant his ministry to be light, and Paul's saying Jesus fulfills that from heaven. The crucified, risen, and exalted Lord Jesus Proclaimed light, resurrection light, through the testimony of faithful witnesses. Because God works by the gospel. We learned that in Heidelberg already. As you testify to Jesus that he's the true God and what he's done and where he's at in heaven and who he is and his promises, and tell people he's truly the Son of God. And implore them to be saved and to trust in Him and to be reconciled with God. God works with that word. Christ works with that word. To then shine his heavenly light upon them when by faith they received the knowledge of the true God. Because we've got to remember, when the gospel we're receiving the knowledge of the true God. The true God became man and died for us. The true God who came in and died was rose from the dead. The true God who came in and died was rose from the dead is at God's right hand. And he's saying, You sinners come to me, I'm right. By God's grace, that miracle of grace, we believe on him, we share in that resurrection life. We share in that light. Well that's Paul's witness, right? But it's God's also going to do that work through your witness. God can do that work through anybody's witness. You know, we say at the close of the service every week in that prayer dedication, now send us out to do your will, to faithfully witness to Jesus Christ. Did we do that this week? Did we pray for that? Did we endeavor after that? We pray for it every week. Now send us out, O God. Our God, who's reminded us of your love and fed us, and kept us and nourished us at your table. Now send us out, because we're your servants, we have work to do, to be faithful witnesses. The Jesus Christ. You know, you can be a faithful witness not only by your words, but by your deeds. Of that woman Who's married to an unbelieving man who just might, by God's grace, win him by her conversation What kind of conversation is that? She's going to be very Christ-like to him, isn't she? It could be vice versa. So the point is you you you have the word of God affirming that People can also be you what I guess I'm trying to say to you is your your testimony to the light to Jesus is also in your deeds as well And that's why he's talking about bringing his justice. These don't go together. Excuse me, these go together and don't conflict. You telling people of Jesus and you loving people like Jesus is the same witness It would be a very strange thing to tell people the loving Jesus while hating them. That would be a disordinate, this you know, that would jarring effect, right? Loving people, and that's just filling God's law, right? That's what Paul says. How's the law suppose loving him? Jesus just came so that love would be established on the earth. Did you know love's the true religion? God loved us. Now we love him. God is love. And we abide in love. So many wonderful ways. All these things are tied together. I um I don't remember the man's name. I wish I could remember his man's name and I longed to see him in heaven. He was a he was an elder that helped me when I was a young Christian and in a church I was attending at that time and he was I give this story to you to encourage you and and your witness through your conversation. Who said he he got in the car one day to carpool with his with his longtime colleague to work And he could just tell there was a whole change in that man. It's like the light had come on, he said. He was just radiant. He said, What happened to you last night? He said, I believed in Jesus. He says you and you brought me to him. He said, what? I hadn't said a word to you about Jesus. He said, I've watched you at work for like 10 years. Finally, through that light that broke through, I came to faith. I think his whole family did too. It's a wonderful story of just faithful Light, right? Every week we we close and Jesus reminds us you're the light of the world. Now go out and be that light I was reading uh in the World magazine because it came yesterday for December, and if i if you know the cover story is about Can the global South, Asia, Africa, South America, can they be used to rejuvenate the fallen Christianity in the West? Because they're sit they're treating the West like a mission field now. One time the West Sent the gospel to them and evangelized them, they were a mission work. But now they've seen the apostasy in the West and they're treating us as a mission field. And uh I thought you would this line would be encouraging. Spe especially maybe for our our young kids might grow up and go to college 'cause you're gonna hear a bunch of stuff at college that's not true. He says this author wrote, one of the biggest ironies about the demographic shift of Christianity used to be in the West. Now it's boot you know really growing in this in the global south. Is that while young people in the West reject Christianity as colonial and oppressive People in formerly colonized areas of the world are embracing Jesus as the source of freedom. We saw that in our text. It'll set the prisoners free. Justice? We saw that in our text. Jesus came to give justice and joy. And we didn't see that in our text, but how can you be free and have justice and not be joyful? Because isn't that some of the things that are most oppressive in this world? Unjust whatever relationship, unjust households, unjust churches, unjust states. Oppressive and joy-killing. Embracing Jesus. Freedom, justice, and joy. Yeah, we're gonna I'm done. But we're gonna sing Martin Luther's hymn next. You know, he took that from Psalm forty-six and he's so right. God has willed his truth to prevail on earth And then we're going to close and we're going to sing Isaac Watts, great hymn, joy of the world. And you know, he got it so right too. Joy to the world, the Savior's come. And he's making all the nations prove the wonders of his love. Stay in this light. Keep proving the wonders of our Savior's love congregation. And go make that love known. God bless you. Amen.