Before we uh read Psalm thirty-eight, I just wanted to give a brief introduction to it. Um During Jesus' ministry, the disciples came to him and they asked him to teach them how to pray. And throughout Christian history, there have been a number of different uh methods, um, various patterns for prayer. There's the act system, which is uh I have it written down because I knew I wouldn't remember it. Adoration, confession, thanksgiving, and supplication. Kind of a process to go through as you're praying so you remember how to pray. But sometimes those models for prayer aren't really enough. Um Jesus gave the disciples when they asked him He gave them the model and guide, the Lord's Prayer, what we call the Lord's Prayer, uh which we pray weekly here. Um But sometimes those models Even when we have them, it's difficult to pray. Um sometimes you just don't know what to say or how to say it. And I'm certain many of you have been in a situation like this where you've been either overwhelmed with sin, with the guilt of sin, you've been in anguish over some circumstance you've been going through Or simply you're just so worn down with life trials that you cannot come up with the words to pray. And so the question I want to ask tonight, and what I think Psalm 38 is going to help us answer It's how do you pray when you don't know how to pray? So the Lord's Prayer isn't the only guide that God gave us for prayer. Many of the Psalms are also prayers. If you were here for Sunday school this morning, uh the video, the Bible Project video said that the book of Psalms is really a prayer book for Israel, and I think that's true. So, when you find yourself unable to pray, unable to find the words to pray, you can look at the book of Psalms, and especially Psalm 38. as a prayer that can help teach you how to pray when you don't know how to pray. So let's read Psalm 38. A Psalm of David for the memorial offering. O Lord, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. For your arrows have sunk into me, and your hand has come down on me. There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation. There is no health in my bones because of my sin. For my iniquities have gone over my head. Like a heavy burden they are too heavy for me. My wounds stink and fester because of my foolishness. I am utterly bowed down and prostrate. All the day I go without mourning, for my sides are filled with burning, and there is no soundness in my heart. flesh. I am feeble and crushed. I groan because of the tumult of my heart. O Lord, all my longing is before you. My sighing is not hidden from you. My heart throbs, my strength fails me, and the light of my eyes it also has gone from me. My friends and my companions stand aloof from my plague, and my nearest kin stand far off. Those who seek my life lay their snares. Those who seek my hurt speak of ruin and meditate treachery all day long. But I am like a deaf man, I do not hear, like a mute man who does not open his mouth. I have become like a man who does not hear, and in whose mouth are no rebukes But for you, O Lord, do I wait. It is you, O Lord, my God, who will answer. For I said, only let them not rejoice over me, who boast against me when my foot slips For I am ready to fall, and my pain is ever before me. I confess my iniquity. I am sorry for my sin. But my foes are vigorous, they are mighty, and many are those who hate me wrongfully. Those who render me evil for good accuse me because I follow after good. Do not forsake me, O Lord. O my God, be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. Let's pray. Father, we come before you in the name of your Son Jesus. And as we read and hear this psalm, I pray that you will teach us to believe in It and to learn how we might better pray to you when we face difficult circumstances. I pray that you will open our ears That we might hear your word tonight. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So tonight, as we look at Psalm 38, I wanted to draw out three principles that will help teach us how to pray. when we don't know how to pray. And I'm just going to list them here for you real quickly and then we'll jump in. So the first principle, be honest about your sin. Be honest about your sin. The second principle, be honest about your sorrow. Be honest about your sorrow. And the third principle, be honest about your Savior. Be honest about your Sager. Very nice alliterative three points there. So Psalm thirty eight is a prayer of repentance, it's a prayer of lament, and it's a prayer for help. And one of the common problems in contemporary evangelical Christianity is that there's no place for those kinds of emotions. Christian life. Modern evangelicals are expected to be happy all the time, and if you listen to the praise and worship music that exists in contemporary churches, you it you see that that's reflected in those songs. There are no songs of lament in a praise and worship band. As a result, many Christians I think begin to think that expressing those emotions is a sign of weakness or of failure and that sadness is a sign that they are in sin. Even. And this is why honesty in our prayer is important and why each of the principles that I listed is centered around honesty. It's important to approach God when you approach him honestly. Not only for your sake, but also when you approach God honestly. With your concerns and with your doubts, you're also approaching him honestly in relation to who he is, what his demands are, what his will is. So when you approach God, you need to approach him honestly about yourself, but you also need to honestly approach God, the true God, not one that you have made in your own image. when you pray. So I want to warn you against that kind of error by encouraging you to be honest. in your prayers in these three ways. So first, be honest about your sins. Every one of us has got uh secret sins which we don't talk about, we don't share with other people, that if our friends and those closest to us knew about them, it would mortify them and it would embarrass us deeply. Even if we're struggling and repenting of them, they're not things we talk about. And I don't think that's necessarily a wrong thing. It's not always wise to wear your spiritual battles on your sleeves. So to speak. But there's also a dangerous tendency that we can have to do the same thing when we approach God. and hide our sins, thinking that He does not see them. But look again at the first couple of verses here of Psalm 38 I'll read them again. O Lord, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath, for your arrows have sunk into me, and your hand has come down on me. There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation. There is no health in my bones because of my sin. For my iniquities have gone over my head like a heavy burden. They are too heavy for me. So not only is David being completely honest about his sins, but he is being honest and recognizes that the punishment he is facing for those sins is from God and is just punishment. from God. So here we see David being both honest about himself and honestly recognizing what God is doing in relation to to him. So for kids, imagine if you had done something, uh dis disobeyed your parents in such a way that you thought you had gotten away with it, but they really knew about it and You acted as though nothing was wrong. Of course, your parents are still going to care about you, still going to love you, but there's going to be a fellowship and trust that is broken. When we hide what we've done, especially when your parent already knows about it. There's a level of fellowship that's broken there. when we are dishonest. And just like that, when we are dishonest with God about our sins, you break fellowship with Him Your lips might be near to him, but like the prophet says, your heart is far away. And the only way to restore that fellowship is to come honestly before the throne of God. And like David does in this psalm, to repent openly of the sins you've committed, to draw near to God, so that He will draw near to you and be merciful. In being honest about your sin, you can't bear the burden of sin alone. It will destroy you. Look again at the symptoms that David describes as a result of his sin. His flesh and bones have been affected because of his sin. They're like a heavy burden to him. You cannot try to bear this burden by yourself. It will destroy you. Instead, when you are tormented by sin, acknowledge your guilt. Come to God in prayer. Be honest about your failure. And seek forgiveness. Repent of your sins, and he will pardon you. If you remember the parable of the sower, Jesus tells the story of a seed that is planted in various types of ground. And in one example, the seed of the gospel fell among thorny ground. And began to grow, but it was choked out by the thorns, and it did not survive. And if you resist the painful consequences of sin and bury them even more deeply in your hearts, sin is going to take root, like the thorn. in that thorny ground, and it's going to grow, and it's going to flourish in you. And if you give the thorns of sin a place to take root and grow and flourish in you, just like Jesus says in the parable, Your faith is going to be choked out. Don't let sin take root. When you sin, go in prayer to your Father, believing that He will forgive you for Christ's sake. Confess your sin and tear it out by the root. So yesterday we were uh out While you were all in here, well, if you were here for the work day, if you were in here painting, I was outside with Seth and we were working on tearing out some bushes by the root. And we originally thought it was going to be a really easy project. And so we tried to pull them out by hand. And it after a couple of minutes, it was obvious that it wasn't going to go well. The plants were staying staying put. So we had to get a pitchfork, and after I would say probably a good 15-20 minutes of digging at these plants, we finally did get them out. And by the end of the ordeal, I was uh I was tired and covered in sweat, and I believe you were as well. Um and that's what it's like when you're trying to tear out sin. It might look like it's just a you know quick grab, pull, get it by the root, and it's gone. Quick and easy. But the roots of sin go deep, and you can't always see them on the surface. It might look like it's no big deal. One quick tug and you're free. But when you let sin fester and grow, it develops deep roots. And it's going to take spiritual war. to be free. So be honest in your prayers about your sin and don't let it take root within you. Second principle for praying. when you don't know how to pray. Be honest about your sorrow. Let's look again at verses nine through twelve. O Lord, all my longing is before you. My sighing is not hidden from you. My heart throbs. My strength fails me. And the light of my eyes, it also has gone from me My friends and companions stand aloof from my plague, and my nearest kin stand far off. Those who seek my life lay their snares. Those who seek my hurt speak of ruin and meditate treacherously When I was introducing this psalm earlier this evening, I made some comments about the state of modern evangelical praise and worship bands. And one of the major problems of that genre of music, that kind of music, is the inability or the unwillingness of the songwriters to deal with these kinds of emotions of You've got a very small segment of praise and happiness and good times that those songs will address, but they don't address the full range of human emotions. And this isn't a problem that the Psalms have. They do address the full range of human emotions. in the in the Bible project video he classified two main kind of themes of Psalms. You have lament and praise. And I think it's a a little more complicated than that, but that works as a good basic model. But what he didn't mention Is that the Psalms of Lament far outnumber the other types of Psalms in this Psalter? There are more Psalms of Lament than any other kind. So The hymn book, we'll call it, of Israel does not reflect the hymnal of modern evangelical worship Many, most of the songs of Israel were songs crying out to God for help in the midst of despair. So the Christianity of the Bible doesn't really know anything about a fear of being vulnerable before God in God's presence. presence. In fact, if you read some of the Psalms, you may become a little uncomfortable with how frank the writer is with God. Think about Psalm 22 for a second. You can turn there if you want to. You don't have to. But just the the first verse or two of Psalm 22 Put aside from your mind the prophetic thinking of Jesus on the cross praying this prayer, and just think about these are words that David wrote under the inspiration of the Spirit, but these are words that David wrote about and two, God. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me? From the words of my groaning Oh my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. I don't know about you, but if that weren't in the Bible, I would feel really uncomfortable praying something like that. That. And yet it's there for us. For when we are sorrowful. The Psalms teach us that we can be comfortable. In expressing honestly our sorrow to God. Just as with our sins, God knows our sorrows. He sees our affliction. He hears our cries for help. And he doesn't turn a blind eye or a deaf ear to his people. If you remember Psalm thirty-seven from last week, we heard a lot about the way in which God will not turn from the righteous from So I want to encourage you to tune to God in your prayers. Don't hide your pain from him. Remember what the book of Hebrews says. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weakness. weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy. and find grace to help in time of need. Because God took on a human nature and lived a human life and died a human death, he can empathize with your sorrows He knows and understands them. The Old Testament prophets testify to Jesus of the Messiah and they said that he would be a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. Not one of us has suffered more than Jesus did in this life. And I'm not saying that to diminish your suffering. But rather to say that when you take your sufferings and your sorrows to Jesus, to the Father, those cries don't fall on deaf ears. He knows them intimately. And this is why David can say in verses 13 and 15 of Psalm 38, but I am like a deaf man, I do not hear I've become like a man who does not hear, and in whose mouth are no rebukes. But for you, O Lord, do I wait. It is you, O Lord my God, who will answer. David knows that in his sorrow and despair there's nothing that he can say or do in response to his things. And in response to those seeking to destroy him. Instead, he has to take his sorrows and suffering to God, and knowing that God will hear and answer. And now, this isn't an easy thing to say, and it's not an easy thing to hear. God will answer, but he's going to answer in his time and in his way. And part of being honest in your prayers is recognizing that when you offer your sorrows and suffering up to God and make your complaints to Him, Sometimes the answers will be that these sorrows and sufferings are from him. So turn to Hebrews chapter twelve real quick. Chapter twelve, starting in verse six. Hebrews twelve, verse six. And I'll be reading to verse eleven. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated. Then you are illegitimate children, and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the father of spirits and live For they disciplined us for a short time, as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good. All discipline for the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant. But later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Look carefully at verses 10 and 11. God disciplines us for our good, so that we may share in his holiness. Yes, like the writer says, it doesn't seem pleasant now, it seems painful now. And it may seem like it runs counter to everything you were experiencing to say that But just as you express your sorrows honestly before God in prayer, you also must recognize honestly That he, as your father, is going to bring painful discipline into your life in order that you might share in his righteousness and holiness. This discipline is not necessarily going to be punishment for sin. But rather it is for training. Just like the athlete who spends hours training, maybe running or doing push-ups every day, doing a little bit more every day hurting his muscles so that later on those muscles will regrow stronger. and be better, so that one day he can run a marathon easily. Or the musician who spends hours training her voice and fingers and hands repeating the same motions over and over again. To train muscles, sometimes painfully, in order that they might perform beautiful music. Just like this, God trains and develops our souls, bodies, and minds for His service through sometimes painful So I want you to be encouraged, even in the midst of sorrow and suffering. Even as you are crying out to God for relief from your pain, remember that the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and that this suffering is a sign, one of the marks. that you are a true child of God and not an illegitimate child. As you pray Be honest about your sorrows, but also be sure to honestly recognize the goodness of God in your suffering. You are being conformed to the image of Christ by these sufferings. And though it may sound crazy, be thankful for these sorrows. They are for your good. So the third principle from Psalm 38 for praying when you don't know how to pray is this: be honest about your Savior. So turning back to Psalm thirty-eight, look at starting in verse seventeen, we'll just read again to the end of the the chapter. For I am ready to fall, and my pain is ever before me. I confess my iniquity, I am sorry for my sin. But my foes are vigorous, they are mighty, and many are those who hate me wrongfully. Those who render me evil for good accuse me because I follow after good. Do not forsake me, O Lord. O my God, be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. So David ends the psalm with this impassioned cry for salvation. His strength has come to an end. He has repented of his sin, his enemies have surrounded him, and he has nothing left. If he's going to survive, he needs help from the Almighty, and he needs it fast. In Western culture and especially in American culture, we have cultivated this idea of of rugged independence. You have John Wayne, Clint Eastwood, pull yourself up by your own bootstraps. Anything you need, you earn for yourself. I did it my way. Yep, exactly. Perfect. I did it my way. What's that? Frank Sinatra? Frank Sinatra. We pride ourselves. on our innovative, independent spirit. But that spirit is not reflective of the Christian attitude. When you pray, come humbly before God. Seek His salvation. Recognize that you are powerless in the face of your sin and in the face of your enemies Do not hold on to selfish pride. James tells us that God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Therefore, believe that you are helpless and hopeless apart from His grace. Trust in His covenant promises to be a God to you and to your children Do not be afraid to cry out for help. That sound that sounds maybe silly to say, but for Americans and especially for Western culture. That's a serious problem. We're afraid to ask for help because it makes us look weak. Well guess what? You are weak. I am weak, and we need salvation from someone greater than us. What child, when he's in distress, doesn't immediately cry out for his parents? And if you are a son or daughter of the Lord, then cry out to him for salvation. Be honest about your need. for a savior. And that's not just a word for those who are unbelievers. That's a word for those who are believers as well. Finally, just like the last two the previous two principles, being honest about your sin, being honest about your sorrow, there's sort of a two sides to each coin. have to be honest about yourself and honest about God, just like that. There's a another side of the coin when it comes To being honest about your Savior. And that is being honest about who your Savior is. And thankfully, it's all good news from here. The good news is that the scripture tells us exactly who our Savior is. and that he is a great Savior. He has done all that is needed to cleanse you from your sin. He has freed you from sin's penalty and is now conforming you to Christ. The sufferings and sorrows that you face are not meaningless acts. of random nature atoms banging together, but they are for your good to conform you to Christ's image. They are not meaningless evil in the world Even the painful discipline and suffering you face is for your good. And all things, as Romans 8 tells us, work together for good. of God's people. Not only this, but God, the Father as your Savior, Christ as your Savior, has sent his Spirit as a helper for you when you don't know how to pray. Going back to Romans eight, you can turn there if you'd like, Romans eight verse twenty-six and twenty-seven. Romans eight, twenty six, and twenty seven. It says, Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. So how do you pray when you don't know how to pray? Be honest about your sin. Be honest about your suffering. Be honest about your Savior. Because your Savior is the one who has cleansed your sin. And he has turned your suffering into blessing. And even when you do not know how to pray. There are no words for you to pray. His Spirit intercedes on your behalf and prays along with you. So that when your prayers seem weak, and when it seems as though they are hitting the top of the ceiling and not making it any further than that The Spirit of God, who knows your heart, is making intercession for you according to God's will. So, how do you pray when you don't know how to pray? Pray honestly about your sin, about your sorrow, and about your Savior, Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Psalm 38. We thank you, Lord, that you've given us these Psalms that When we don't have the right words to pray, you've given us words to express the emotions that we feel. And cannot voice. We thank you, Lord, that you've given us your Spirit who intercedes for us and prays for us when we don't know how to pray I pray that you will help us to, in our prayers, be more honest about our sin. Don't let us hide our sin from you. Help us to be honest about our sorrow. And not hide it from you. And help us to honestly recognize our Savior, Jesus Christ, and trust in Him. And we pray all of these things in Christ's name.