Please turn in your Bibles to the book of the prophet Jeremiah, where we will read chapter thirty-three. The book of the prophet Jeremiah, chapter 33. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah a second time while he was shut up in the court of the guard. Thus says the Lord who made the earth, the Lord who formed it to establish it. The Lord is his name. Call to me and I will answer you and will tell you great and hidden things that you have not known. For thus says the Lord the God of Israel, concerning the houses of the city and the houses of the kings of Judah that were torn down to make a defense against the siege mounds and against the sword. They are coming in to fight against the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the dead bodies of men whom I shall strike down in my anger and my wrath, for I have hidden my face from this city because of all their evil. Behold, I will bring it to health and healing, and I will heal them and reveal to them abundance of prosperity and security. I will restore the fortunes of Judah and the fortunes of Israel and rebuild them as they were at first. I will cleanse them from all the guilt of their sin against me, and I will forgive all the guilt of their sin and rebellion against me. And this city shall be to me a name of joy, a praise and a glory before all the nations of the earth, who shall hear of all the good that I do for them. They shall fear and tremble because of all the good and all the prosperity I provide for it. Thus says the Lord, in this place of which you say, It is a waste without a man or a beast. In the cities of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without a man or inhabitant or beast, there shall be heard again the voice of mirth And the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the voices of those who sing as they bring thank offerings to the house of the Lord. Give thanks to the Lord of hosts, for the Lord is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. For I will restore the fortunes of this land at first, says the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, in this place that is waste, without man or beast, and in all of the cities there shall again be inhabitants of shepherds resting in their flocks. In the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the Shebalah, in the cities of the Negeb, in the land of Benjamin, the places of Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, the flock shall again pass under the hands of the one who counts them, says the Lord. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will fulfill the promise I made to the house of Israel and the house of Judah. In those days and at that time I will cause a righteous branch to spring up from David, and he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. In those days Judah will be saved, and Jerusalem will dwell securely, and this is the name by which it will be called. The Lord is our righteousness. For thus says the Lord, David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne of the house of Israel, and the Levitical priest shall never lack a man in my presence to offer burnt offerings To grain offerings and to make sacrifices forever. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Thus says the Lord. If you can break my covenant with the day, and my covenant with the night, so the day and the night will not come at their appointed time Then also my covenant with David, my servant, may be broken, so that he shall not have a son to reign on the throne, and my covenant with the Blabidical priests as my ministers. As the hosts of heaven cannot be numbered, and the sands of the sea cannot be measured, so I will multiply the offspring of David, my servant, and the Levitical priests who minister to me. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Have you not observed that these people are saying, the Lord has rejected the two clans that he chose? Thus they have despised my people so that they are no longer a nation in their sight. Thus says the Lord: if I have not established my covenant with the day and night, and the fixed order of heaven and earth Then I will reject the offspring of Jacob and David, my servant, and will not choose one of his offspring to rule over the offspring of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. For I will restore their fortunes, and I will have mercy on them. The word of the Lord. I don't know if the writer of Jeremiah borrowed from Psalm 136, or if the writers of Psalm 136 borrowed from Jeremiah But I chose those readings because you clearly see who in this world does not have reason to proclaim his love endures forever, right? As he feeds all living creatures. As he made this creation and has given it to men, and of course, as he has redeemed his people, Israel, the church, the bride of Christ. Strikes down their enemies and endures with them and is with them in the wilderness and the sufferings and trials of life, that we all have reason to say his love endures forever. And we saw that in Jeremiah And the very low estate because of their sin, the very lowest state of Adam's race, because of our fall, God has promised, I will have mercy and restore their fortunes, and we saw how he's going to do that. Through the Lord Jesus Christ and that covenant made forever with him, the righteous one in whom we proclaim. He is the one in whom we dwell, and he is the reason why we can Say his love endures forever. And more so I chose it because we're reading about love today. That is just what the redeemed people of God spontaneously break out to say Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His mercy, his love endures forever. Well let's hear now from our sermon text this morning in 1 Corinthians chapter 13. We'll read the whole uh passage. Hear the word of the Lord. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clinging cymbal. And if I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing. Love is patient and kind. Love does not envy or boast. It is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way. It is not irritable or resentful. It does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass away. As for tongues, they will cease. As for knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part, but when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away When I was a child, I spoke like a child. I thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I gave up childish ways. For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face, now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I have been fully known. So now faith, hope, and love abide. These three, but the greatest of these is love. The word of the Lord When Nehemiah opened up the book of the covenant after returning from exile and it hasn't been opened up for so long, he broke out and said, Let us bless the Lord, the great God. So the Bible, the Word of God is open. Let us together bless the Lord the great God. Our Father in heaven, we thank you that even when we go into dark exile away from you for our sins, your promise of mercy and forgiveness is there. And your Lord Jesus Christ seeks us out and brings us back. And your word, like a light to us, never leaves us O Lord, we call only you, teacher, and we call upon you now that by your Spirit and your presence amongst us you would open our ears, soften our hearts. And lead us to hear this word and to obey it and to believe it and to practice it, that we might bear fruit and bring glory to your great name and this gospel. In your name we pray. Amen. The plan is to return next week back to Genesis, as Pastor Kathy's been preaching through Genesis. But I wanted to take an opportunity this week, as this will be my inaugural address to you all. You know what today is? June 6th. You know what happened on June 6, 1944? Right, D-Day, right? We invade. I thought, wow, I get to start my ministry on D-Day. I did want to preach a word from you that uh only becomes dear to me. As Paul is talking about here, the most excellent path and way That we individually and we as a church can walk, and that is this path of love. Let me give you Seven reasons I thought of briefly why I why I wanted to preach this sermon this morning. And the first I mentioned is that the way of love was And is Christ's way, right? He has not changed since he was on earth and ministered here and has risen. He is the same loving Lord that shows you patience and kindness and believes and hopes all things about you, and bears and endures all things with you, in his heavenly throne And so that we can say, as we go through and read this passage, right, Jesus is patient, and Jesus is kind, and Jesus does not envy, and Jesus does not boast, and Jesus is not proud, and on and on as we go. For those that were in attendance yesterday, you saw that one of my charges or responsibility as a shepherd here is to walk in exemplary piety, as an example before you in all godliness. What greater example of godliness is there than Christ in this way? So this would be the way that I will strive in fervent prayer by God's grace to walk before you, in which you can pray that I would walk before you in. As we'll see, and I hope to make it clear as we go through, and as Paul is counseling, why he's showing these Corinthians this path, they have broken off in divisions and are separated amongst each other. Love is the way back together. Love is how you come back together with one another. Love is also the way of staying together. It is called the bond of unity in the church. Love will keep us together for all the years that the Lord may give us together as we tied that knot yesterday, as you heard, that we are now married as pastor and people, the flock of God. Paul also wants to make a point, and you'll see it will become more clear. Love in this path is lasting spirituality. The great gifts that Christ has given to the church that I received yesterday, and the praying of the Spirit, the words of knowledge to help explain the Scriptures to you, and the grace needed to minister, all that that the Lord gives to His church to bring the knowledge of Him now through these means of grace, those go away. But what stays? Love is not called the gift in Scripture. Love is not something given for this present age and time when we wait for the consummation. But love goes on forever, as Paul says it does. So that is true in lasting and deep spirituality. So why strive for what's going away and boast in it and then have nothing at that day As I said, it ministers to me because it helps to put in perspective, right, whatever gifts I might have received from the Lord. Trust me, I went to seminary and I got really proud, and the knowledge I got and the things I learned And didn't know how to walk and do, and constantly you could ask my wife, she can testify to it. It became a point of my final year. I just said, if I could just but love All my relationships with my wife and my professors and my colleagues and seminary friends would be great, right? I would stop sinning against them and being miserable towards them. And so love helps to put in perspective the ways God has gifted all of us for his service. And lastly, and I hate to put a primacy on any of these. But I want this church to be a Christ-centered church. And it is very easy, I think, to have a church not centered on Christ if you're not walking in love. Because there is no way you will ever love like this. If you do not have Jesus Christ, this is how we keep Christ central to what we need: His forgiveness, His patience, His mercy for us to keep us going, and His Spirit and life in us so we can live out this love. You can get puffed up in knowledge. You can have all these things that are going. Judas had great gifts and healed people. And we know he had no love for the Savior. Love keeps Christ centered, because there's no way you can love like this without him. So those are my reasons. And so let's begin looking at this text. It actually begins in chapter 12, verse 31, that last verse, and I'll just read it to you. But earnestly desire the higher gifts, and I will show you a still more excellent way. So in this chapter, in chapter 13, in these thirteen verses, Paul gives us three reasons why love is a still more excellent way than the spiritual gifts given to this church or any church. First, love is a more excellent way because it is necessary for the right use of these gifts, and that's what verses 1 through 3 deal with. Second, love is a more excellent way because of its intrinsic character. Verses 4 and 7. Just what love is in itself is what makes it so wonderful. And third, love is a more excellent way because of its permanence. Outlasting this present incomplete and partial age. And that's what the final verse is about. So the necessity of love, verses 1 through 3. Paul's point in these verses is to show that without love, a Christian's use of his gifts is all but vain. All ministry, all service done by any of us in Christ Church Without love is vain. And so therefore love is absolutely necessary to our ministry. That's what he says in verse one, right, Yeah, for although I speak in the tongues of men and of angels that have not love, I'm a noisy gong and a Clinging symbol. I was Paul's point here. How vain and pointless would the ministry of the word be? Whether that is a public ministry in the proclamation here today or in private as uh we give counsel to one another for the word of God. If it were only ever received, right, as an irksome noise Because you're trying to speak truth to somebody without love, and it's just like a bang, bang, bang in their ear, and nobody wants to listen to you. How vain would this whole ministry be without love? You could have all the eloquence of anybody and get up here and train yourself hours to speak, to think that the ears of men will listen to it, and you'll just be a noise to them So whether we speak to men or whether we speak to God, without love, right, we're just an irritating cacophony. That's one of those anomanopiyah, the words meant to be like. That's what you sound like in somebody's ears, a cacophony of just a bunch of noise. Now I know, right, how musical this congregation is. So this this illustration and this point of Paul, right, I know it's not going to be lost and not have to be lost on any of us. What Paul's saying is if you wish to be music to somebody's ears, right, get music. Love. See how wonderful love is, right? The most eloquent without it are as if they had no eloquence. And I don't know yet in Southern Maryland, you know, every region has what we call right hillbillies or that, you know, the slang tongue or whatever. I don't know what they are here and I mean no offense to anybody, but you get right the people that speak and their Not generally the most eloquent, right? What's Paul saying? The most humbly amongst us, right? He's like a Cicero, right? The golden Latin orator or Churchill, right? Who can move a nation to war. defend right the the British Empire. That's what Paul's saying. If you speak with love, you'll be of great eloquence, even though you're really not, right? But that's the power of love. If you wish to be heard, right, in Christ Church, heard with delight, right? You'll be heard, right? You'll be heard when you speak But it'll be an irksome noise. If you wish to be heard with delight, right, get love. Because you'll be listened to, right, no matter who you are. I was talking with Pastor Martin, if you're here yesterday, right, he's the one who acted as a m acting moderator and did a wonderful job of reading the pastor was very enthusiastic and he asked me afterwards how he could be praying for me and I I gave him three reasons. One of them I was I prayed well I really want to get to meet the people here. I know I haven't met everybody yet, and I want them to know me, and I want to get to know them. And he said, that's wonderful, Damon. They will really appreciate your ministry if you do that. They'll receive your word. That's what he's talking about, right? You will be much more desirous to hear what I have to say, right? If you know that I actually love you and care for you. That's the power that love has and that we know. Thank you. I know you do. And uh so let's go on here. The second reason why it's necessary, Paul says in verse 2, and if I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith. So as to remove mountains but have not love. I'm nothing. These are the greatest gifts. Paul's talking about the most gifted person imaginable in the Church of Christ It's nothing. And this is very starking, right? Because it's contrary to human nature, it's contrary to our society to consider as a nobody extremely talented and gifted peoples. By these people, society lavishes awards and honors and titles upon. Yet in the church, you can have extraordinary gifts, as I mentioned, like Judas, who cast out demons and healed diseases, and was still a nobody. If you do not have love. Love is what gives us any sort of status and standing in the Church of Christ. How pointless then these guests are without love by themselves You're nothing. Even though you might have them all. You're nothing. If you want to be somebody, right? And what's Paul's point? Who here, right? The Spirit of God sovereignly administers who receives what gifts, right? And it is not in our hands. Although Paul does say desired. So there could be an aspect in prayer of seeking them from him, but it still has to be a yes from him, and it still has to be his desire to give it. But what's Paul saying? Even then the least gifted amongst us is more than the most gifted if they have And that's the power of love that puts in perspective what these gifts are in Christ's Church. And the third reason It's necessary. Paul talks to us in verse 3. If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing. Here he's talking about Christian service and doing good works Right, and we know it's an established doctrine. Our Lord teaches us that our good works done in Him, done in Christ, they will be rewarded by God. In Christ, right? Both our persons, who we are as sinners, are accepted because we are clothed in Christ's righteousness, washed by his blood, but not just our persons. Even are still yet sinful, unperfect, lacking good works, are accepted by God in Christ and will be rewarded on that last day. And what's Paul saying? How vain then it is to do seemingly the greatest of good works, giving away all that you have to feed the poor, giving up your very life and testimony to the gospel only at the end of it all to receive nothing from God because it was not done in love. What a thing love is then That the greatest of good works in the eyes of men are completely unacceptable before God without love. Yet with love, even the giving of a cold cup of water to the least of one of Christ's disciples, he assures them. They certainly will have their heavenly reward because it was done in love. If you want your life to be profitable to you in the end, Get love. Paul is teaching us that love is a more excellent way than gifts because it's necessary for their right use. It's necessary to have a standing in the church. You can have all the gifts and have no standing. It is necessary for a profitable life. You can do whatever deeds done in the church, but without love. They're of no gain or profit to you, but are as if you did nothing. Love is absolutely necessary to all that Christ calls and equips us to do in the church. Secondly, then in verses 4 through 7, we get into the character of love. Here in these verses, Paul wants to show us how great a thing love is. Love is a more excellent way because it's the way we'd all want to be treated. Love's excellence is easily seen by imagining yourself as being on the receiving end of it. As you hear Paul describe the quality of love. Think yourself, would I rather receive this or would I rather receive its opposite? And you tell me which is a better way. And I think that's what Paul's saying. I think if Paul said, if we all did that Paul knows that his point would be made, because we would all rather be loved than to be hated or to receive the opposite of these things. Paul begins right love is patient. The suffers long, love is kind. I spent a Some time this week and study looking at in a concordance, the usage of these words in the Bible and everywhere, the New Testament and the Old Testament The fact of God's patience and of his kindness are everywhere tied to forgiveness and repentance. Jesus teaches in the parable about the servant for given a huge sum of money. It's because his master is long-suffering towards his servants. and compassionate that they receive forgiveness. Or as Peter teaches that the end has not come yet, it isn't because God is slack, but that his patience, right, is our salvation, leaving room what? For repentance. Paul teaches the same truth in Romans that God's longsuffering and goodness are meant to bring us to repentance, right? And not further hardening. And that is the importance of love. Imagine, right, if if God lashed out. Patience is doing it in leniency towards us, rather than being a God full of passion and is vengeful towards us at the first wrongdoing. Or God is good or kind, God is gentle rather than being severe, right, and harsh towards us But there is no room there for forgiveness. There's no room for a space to have time to think, wow, that really was not a good thing that I did. There's no room to come to sort of remorse or sorrow for that if immediately lashing out and you're punished by God or treated like that by others. But it is our leniency and gentleness, God to us and us to one another, that will bring about forgiveness between us. Will leave room for that person to turn and consider his ways. Because isn't that what constantly cuts at our heart? That we still sin against a God who is so good to us? And so patient towards us as we continue on, and it's his patience and goodness that gives us any sort of encouragement to come back to him. If we did not know he was patient and good, we'd have nothing to expect from him. But a punishment and a judgment. Right, which would we rather receive? Patience or impatience? Kindness, right, or harshness from each other? If you want people, right? Sinful people as we all are, if you want people to be around you, then be patient with them and kind. Go easy towards people, right? The surest way to drive people away is to be harsh and severe towards them I was preaching through First John last summer and looking at the church there. I I use the analogy, we're still have rough edges, don't we? We haven't reached the perfection yet and haven't been perfectly polished by God. We're gonna jab each other and poke each other if we go fast and move quick with each other. We need to soften those edges and be gracious and patience towards one another. Paul next tells us that love does not envy, right? Envy is wanting what others have and being discontent with what you have. To borrow some examples from the Bible, right? It was because the Philistines were envious of Isaac that they drove him away when the Lord blessed them, right? Or it was because, as we heard yesterday in the sermon, it was because of The patriarchs, Joseph's brothers, they're envious that he would receive the blessing of God, or this vision of being the one bowed down to, is their envy that led them to get rid of their own brother and sell him into slavery My love is happy for others. Looking at the opposite, how would you rather be treated? Would you rather be treated with resentment because God maybe has gifted you or you have this? People being angry, but or would you rather have people happy for you and content with yourself? This is really just the tenth commandment But if you want to stop chasing others off, right, Paul says get love. Secondly, Paul, or thirdly, Paul says that love doesn't boast. This word means to be a braggart, and a braggart is a person who boasts about achievements or possessions, and boasting is to talk with excessive pride or and self-satisfaction about your achievements and your possessions or abilities, right? And if you're going, right, if you're now saying to yourself, well what's left to talk about but me, right, then you might be a braggart If it's hard for you to have a lengthy conversation with anybody without talking about yourself and boasting about yourself, you might be a braggart. And I found myself being a braggart when I was in seminary And it is demoralizing to keep your achievements before others and to constantly talk about what you're doing and have done and blah, blah, blah. What does love do then? Love it makes much of others. It thinks of them and praises them and not their own self. When was the last time, right, we praised somebody else? We thought about what they have done and who they are. There is a place, right, to acknowledge your achievements and your possessions, just not with excessive pride, right? Self-satisfaction, right? If you want people to enjoy talking with you, right, get love, because nobody likes to just be around a person or talk with somebody who only wants to tell them about themselves and who they are and what they've done and how great they are. Nobody wants to listen to that Get love if you want people to enjoy talking with you. You can see, right? Love is constantly bringing us together and keeping us together. And the opposite is constantly finding reasons to annoy and irritate and get on everybody's nerves and drive everybody away. Supposing that's exactly what's happening in this church. Not this church, but in the Corinthian church. Well God tells us that it's not arrogant, right? Love is not puffed up. That's the root of our boasting, right? Is our pride. It's interesting that this word is used seven times in the New Testament. Six all of them used by Paul, but six of them right here in this letter. There was clearly a problem in the Corinthian church with their pride and being puffed up as they had received. Paul acknowledges before the churches, you guys are not lacking any gifts. You have been greatly gifted by God, and it had gone to their hands. It was their pride which made them oppose Paul and give him such a hard time in his ministry there. They thought far too highly of themselves and they so they misconstrued everything that Paul did. Did he send them Timothy instead of himself? They thought that he was afraid to come himself. Did he withhold his right to benefit from them in earthly goods? Well, they thought he wasn't apostolic enough. They were so puffed up and self-assured and thought they were so self-important. Right? There was just no winning. There's no winning with proud people and people who are s think they're so important Are you such a person that sees fault in everybody else? Then you may be puffed up. You may have an exalted sense of self-importance. But what is love, right? Love is modest and love is humble. It doesn't make itself the center of anything. Dr. Richard Gaffin, you may know, he's a member of the this presbytery taught at Westminster Theological Seminary at our last presbytery meeting on May 1st. He was there. He received all kinds of honors for the work he's done in the last 50 years. is teaching and and instructing and bringing clarity to some important doctrinal disputes in our circles and others And you know what he did? I was talking to him because he knows my wife quite well and we were saying hi and someone came up and wanted to thank him, you know, or congratulate him for those honors. You know what he did? Just waved it off That's what love does, right? That's how modest he was. A modest man who labored those fifty years, just received all these praises into him. Oh, okay Let me talk to this person, or you know, it's just fine. I'm sure he he earned it, it's great, but he could just wave off his accomplishments. He wasn't a proud man If you want people, right, as Paul is coming against the church here, if you want people to stop coming against you in power, right, Paul's saying, get love, because if you puff yourself up, God's going to knock you down. Paul tells us that love is not rude, or I don't know why he keeps saying rude. Rude. Um That gets at half of the translation. I do think the older version that gets it better when it talks about love is does not behave itself unseemly. Rude behavior deals with part of what this word is I don't know yet how much this church likes hearing all the Greek and stuff behind it, your seminary professors or homoleic professors. So you don't bore the people with the with the languages and things. I'm going to not try to bore anybody, but it helps to hear those words. I'm getting a thumbs up. But this word here is is It's a schema, right? And a scheme. We our English word scheme. But in the Greek, right, a scheme was something that had uh a pattern or form to it Quite infrinquantly, such a pattern or form that it was of a type that the public considered it to be the standard or what is praiseworthy So it means really the word then the ah in front is that alpha privative. How many remembers their grammar, right? We could say something. That's a typical example of something. Or we could say that is an aw typical example, right? An aw then negates it being a typical example, right? This aw here negates this is not love does not do behavior that is contrary to the standard So it means love does not behave itself disgracefully, dishonorably, indecently. Right at one time, right, you know, it used to be the norm or decent behavior, right, was to be let women go first. And any place in the still do it right, but women go first. And if you ever went a place and you let men go first, people go, wow, that's quite indecent. That's disgraceful behavior. Or think what's going on today, right? It used to be the honorable and graceful and decent thing to do was for one man and woman to get married. But why is, you know, the LGBT want to change all that? Because they don't want their behavior to be disgraceful anymore Indecent anymore, dishonorable anymore. So they want it to be accepted. And that's what this word means. Not to act contrary to any standards. Love, as one commentator put it, does nothing of which one ought to be Another one says, love observes moderation and propriety Because we all know, right, how embarrassing it is to be around someone who is behaving themselves completely inappropriately, right? You just sort of want to melt away when they're drawing all that attention away and making a fool of themselves. So if you want to stop offending everybody and being made to feel ashamed yourself, Paul's saying, get love. Paul goes on and tells us that love does not insist on its own way, right? And here and I will fall so short of of explaining the importance of this and modeling it before you because this is the center and the heart of the idea of Christian love. Paul makes much of this aspect of love in in the Lord Jesus Christ's life in Romans 15 1-3 when he talks about the Lord did not live on earth as one who pleased himself. And therefore the reproaches of God fell upon him. Because he did not live here to please who he was, but to please God. And that made his life miserable. Paul also talks in Philippians 2, that famous passage right of. He says, Do not be concerned only with your interests. We all have interests. We all have God-given interests. There's not we can't get away from having interest But it's not enough just to have a concern for your own interests in your life. Paul says you must have a concern for the interest of others. And how does he finish that? Have that mind, because that is the mind of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Paul even goes on in this letter in in 1 Corinthians 10, 24, he writes Let no one seek his own good but the good of his neighbor. In 1033 he writes, Just as I try to please everyone in everything I do, not seeking my own advantage or profit but that of many, that they may be saved. Be imitators of me, right, as I am of Christ. That was Christ's way of living amongst us. That was Paul's way of living amongst the Corinthians. You know, I was thinking about that. Paul's talking about he lives such a life not to profit himself but to profit others, and I was thinking Try to imagine a business model based on that, right? Imagine Amazon and Google and these huge corporations not seeking a profit for themselves but for somebody else, what that might look like And I know this is a huge one, I think. How how do we begin to to apply and live in such a way of thinking about others' interest? Well, just when you meet people and deal and get to know them, the question might be to ask, right, how can I make that person profit? That person gained. Of course it's going to mean that we have to know them and be amongst them. It might just be a thought in the back of our brains, right? How can I do good for them? How can I make them gain in their life and not just myself This is also this not seeking your own is an extremely counter-cultural ideal. Um the Wall Street Journal often prints a lot of kind of psycho psych psychological help and reviews, getting people through COVID. They have a section in there. You know what the kind of constant doctrine is or teaching or help is? Be you, right? Be yourself. Whatever you do, do that. Self-authenticate who you are. And that is not, as one commentator says, finding oneself is not the highest good in this life. Love does not or is not enamored with self-gain, is not enamored with self-justification. or with self-worth. This whole idea of not seeking your own, again that's why I say there's no way we can begin to do this without the Lord. Because that's exactly what the Lord wants to do right now. Just be you, no matter who you are, just be yourself. And that is not the way the Lord Jesus Christ walked here. To make so much of himself and never think of good for any. I couldn't have, it's very I don't think we'd ever get to know Because we have the biblical record of what how he might have lived if we weren't so sinful, prejudiced, arrogant, upset. I can't imagine how he lived his I guess we know, let me take it back. We will know What it's like to live with him in perfection and glory when sin is gone. But we don't imagine how much he just changed his behavior, not in an ungodly way, but denied himself so that he could see us to be saved and live in such a way. And we'll get to see what it's like in glory to see him and live with him. It would be wonderful. If you're tired of wondering why everyone is put off around you, right? Get love. If you're constantly just me, me, me and seeking who you are, that puts people off. If you're tired of people being put off around you, Paul says, get love. Next, Paul tells us that love is not irritable or easily provoked. Love's not quick-tempered. You could think of the Lord, God, in the Old Testament. Paul tells us that In Deuteronomy 9, since the day I knew you people, you've been a rebellious people. Meaning since the day God brought you out of exile, you've been stiff, necked, and rebellious And from the time then all the way to Sinai, it'd been almost three months, you can think of the things that intervened. They're turning back at the river there, they're complaining and grumbling at the waters of Merah, they're grumbling to have food They're grumbling at the next water spot at Raphidim. Finally at Sinai, the Lord says, You've now provoked me to anger. Right, have you or have we put up right with rebellious two-year-olds or ten-year-olds, or have you put up with anybody who is rebellious for two whole months? Patiently answering their murmurings before being provoked to anger. That's what this is talking about. That love is not quick to anger, but it's slow to anger. If you're tired of people being skittish, hesitant, or walking on glass around you, Paul says, get love. Again, right? Love is what binds us and keeps us. And the absence of that is what drives us apart. Separates us. Love isn't resentful. Love doesn't get even. We know how our Lord prayed on the cross. Father, forgive them. So I know not what they've done. Some translate as love keeps no record of wrongs, right? All that's to say, right? Love is forgiving. If you want to have meaningful and lasting relations, get love, because we will all sin against each other. And unless you forgive, because that is the first step of reconciliation. Well, it might not be the first, but it's one of the very important steps of reconciliation and coming back together, is forgiveness. Love doesn't rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. And the point here is that love does not sympathize with evil but with good. Love wants nothing to do with sin and thought, word, or deed. Love wants nothing to do with people who want to do with sin. Love loves the truth. It means righteousness here, 1 John talks about practicing the truth. It wants everything to do with righteous people, righteous ideas, and righteous works If you find that your sympathies are more in tune with this present evil world, you need love. And finally, And this character of love, love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Love does not give up No matter the annoyances or troubles by others that it must face, it bears them all. No matter the sufferings and persecutions, the cross-bearing that we endure, it endures to the end Love credits to people what they say in their defense, it believes all things about them, it does not hold an unfriendly suspicion towards people I fell miserably at that the other day at the transfer station when some guy came up, clearly disobeyed the sign that said, do not throw area rugs away here, toss an area away rug in there, and I didn't approach him in a very lovely manner So don't you know you know you can't throw these drugs in here? And he's like, what am I gonna jump in there and pull it out? And I'm like, well, okay, well I'll leave him alone. And then the attendant comes over That attendant dealt so graciously with him. You know what he said? He blew up on that guy. You know what he said? I'll go in there and pull it out for you. And hear me, I'm sitting there getting ready to jump the guy if he starts attacking him, thinking I might have to help him out, because he's pretty angry. Yeah. Pray for me, okay Love believes all things. I should have given him so much the benefit of the doubt, but I didn't. Love does not despair. How often, right, did Jesus ask his disciples, do you not understand yet? Are your hearts still hard? Have you struggled in your Christian life to get things, to understand things, to apply this doctrine, to walk in these steps of faith? Know that the Lord Jesus Christ has patience towards you. you we ought to have patience towards one another because he never stopped believing the best for them. If you want to be there to the end for others, Paul says, get love. And finally, here the permanence of love. Here in these verses, Paul wants to show us the final reason why love is the most excellent way, and it's very simple. It's two words: it lasts. That is why it is a better way. It lasts. Although spiritual gifting is evidence of belonging to the age to come, the problem with the Corinthian church, they had all these spiritual gifts and they thought We are spiritual people. And in a way, they were, and they had what belonged to the future age. But Paul's saying, you're not the kind of spiritual people you ought to be if you're not walking in love. Because that is lasting and true spiritual life. So a lot of what Paul's doing in 1 Corinthians is laying before us what is the truly spiritual life that we ought to live. And so they have the evidence of belonging to the age to come. But the function of these gifts is only for the here and now, right? When knowledge is partial or in part or incomplete, and I'll let Paul explain what he means by that in a moment. So lasting spirituality is love. It translates or transcends the here and the now. Love never ends, Paul says. For prophecies they'll pass away, for tongues will cease, for knowledge, right? Those are the gifts that they boasted in. They had tongues, they had prophetic gifts, they had knowledge. And the knowledge he's talking about here is not general knowledge, but the gifting of knowledge, to be able to get up and explain to people the truths of the gospel. Talking about that knowledge. And Paul's saying here that love's permanent relevance to our eternal lives in Christ is what makes it superior to all present, temporary, spiritual gifting. No matter their usefulness, and they are very useful, as he makes clear in this next passage. For we know in part and we prophesy in part, but when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away These gifts of prophecy and tongues and knowledge were never meant to last. They are given for this present age to mediate the knowledge of God that we have here. Paul is going to go on and illustrate for us. That's like seeing in a mirror and reflection. Until we all come to the perfect of seeing God face to face. So the gifts are simply now given because it is by the means of grace the preaching of the word, the partaking in the sacraments, that we have the knowledge of God communicated to us and given. And Paul says the quality of the knowledge of God that we have now is like seeing in a mirror in reflection compared to seeing face-to-face. Or to use an analogy that from contemporary today, it's like seeing in a picture versus seeing in person, right? You've probably all seen something amazingly beautiful, and you snap a picture on your phone and you send it to your friend or your wife or your spouse, and the first thing you go is that falls so far short of communicating to them what I see. And that's what Paul's saying. The knowledge of God that we have now falls so far short to what we'll have of him when we see him face to face. And the guests given now are just to give people that reflection here. It's true, it's full, it's complete. Knowledge partial doesn't mean we haven't impart. Partial just means in the plan of God we haven't come to the completion, the perfection of seeing God face to face. Well, I summed up a lot because I know I'm probably running out of time. Paul is relativizing our present knowledge of God, and he is not dimming. There's nothing wrong with the given knowledge of God that we have now. He's just making, he's just relativizing it and the scheme of God. This is even made in the Old Testament. Moses saw God face to face and spoke with him, but all the other prophets, God spoke in visions and dreams. In 2 Corinthians, Paul says Even though what Moses had was like seeing in a dim mirror compared to what we have, and the revelation of the glory of God and the face of Jesus Christ even now ministered to us through these means of God. grace. And then of course, when it's all consummated, what we'll have then. So it's just a relative level of knowledge of God. It's not denigrating, it's true knowledge of God that we have. And finally, Paul says, so now faith, hope, and love abide, these three, but the greatest of these is love. And abide in here in context can only mean last forever. The gifts go, but faith, hope, and love last. Now does faith and hope go away? There are statements by Paul that makes it seem there'll be no more need There'll be no more need for hope because we'll have what we're hoping in now. But it also may mean that even as we continue on with God through eternity in his kingdom We'll always have reason to have a confidence in him, which is the root of what faith is, and we'll always have a reason or confidence to hope and expect greater good things from him, as he promises to lavish his kindness on us. The riches of his glory for all of eternity. So that may be what Paul means here. And love's greaterness, or the reason why love is the greatest of these, or greater, is because of its greater usefulness to others. Isn't that what Paul says there in verse 31? But earnestly desire the higher or the good gifts The ones that benefit people better, or more than just speaking in tongues, which only edifies you, which he goes on in chapter 14. Pursue love and earnestly desire spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy. So by greater love's Greatness compared to faith and hope is like this. Faith saves ourselves, but love has a benefit for others. Well, let me close an application. It's very simple. I began, right? This is the life and ministry of our Lord. Jesus is patient. Jesus is kind. But Paul is exhorting the church, and I'm exhorting you today to walk in this. So here's how you apply it. You begin going, Damon is patient, Damon is kind. And you plug your name in and you walk through that list and you find out, am I such? And what do you do when you're not? Because it's a matter of the heart, right? Here is what love is, and it becomes a matter of the heart when we are not walking this way. You turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. And you address your heart to him. You say, here's why I'm upset or impatient or bitter or angry. Here's why I'm mad. Here's why I have a right to feel like I feel. And you explain it all to him. And then you walk in love. But you deal with God. You deal with the risen Lord Jesus Christ. But say this daily. I would encourage you. I have now done it, have been doing it for over a month. Have memorized these verses and say them to myself every day. They come when I need it. They're there if you find yourself pushing somebody away and acting out of love. How do you immediately get in correction? What should you be doing? And it's also there anticipating that. As a situation arrives, and you're going to have to make that sudden which path am I going to go down in dealing with this person and these words flash into your mind. So I encourage you as your pastor, if I can encourage you and exhort you as your pastor, memorize these verses. And say them to yourself, that we might walk together. And may the Lord give us every grace to trod this most excellent path together in years to come. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have come and trod this path here on earth. That you might, by walking this path of love, work for us an amazing redemption and salvation. And we thank you for your Holy Spirit, which has brought back together not just one tribe. or tongue or one people, but you have done something the world continually fails to do, because it cannot do it without your love. To bring every tribe and tongue and nation together. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, thank you for bringing this congregation together 18 years ago and maintaining this congregation together as we prepare now to partake of your supper. and to eat of you, because it is in you and by you that we have this love and participate in it. And help us to come, Lord Jesus, to walk in love, we pray in your name. Amen.