Psalm four. Listen to the Word of God. To the choirmaster with stringed instruments, a psalm of David. Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness. You have given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me and hear my prayer. O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? Sila. But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. The Lord hears when I call Be angry and do not sin. Ponder in your own hearts, on your beds, and be silent. Sila. Offer right sacrifices and put your trust in the Lord. There are many who say, Who will show us some good? Lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord. You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound. In peace I will both lie down and sleep. For you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety Let's pray. Lord, we ask you to help us to grasp the meaning and the depth of David's Psalm, Your Word, and to make good use of it in our own lives, as we share so many things in common with him in his humanity and with Christ and his humanity also. So hear our prayer for Jesus' sake. Amen. So the question is, have you ever been kept awake by troubling fears, by relentless thoughts? I know some of you have. I know some of you have been very deeply concerned about family members, about your own life situation, about your marriage, about about health issues. I know that's true. You cannot get these things out of your mind, it seems like You may drop off to sleep for a bit, and then you turn over, and something wakes you up, and again the concerns come flooding back. And you stir awake, and now you've had just a bit of sleep, which just is just enough to keep you awake and thinking. and thinking and thinking. You try to dismiss them, but it's like a tape that is on a loop and it keeps playing in the circle of your mind over and over. And you don't Sleep. David was often on the run from his time as a young man in the court of Saul, when Saul was jealous of him. When he was a victor in battle and people didn't like it, Saul didn't like it, because Saul has slain his thousands, but David has ten thousands. He he was jealous, and so he couldn't get over that jealousy. It probably kept him awake too, you see. Saul kept thinking about how he could get rid of this Rival. And David felt the wrath even in the countenance and in the expressions that he had from Saul, and then in the actions from Saul, he was very Very concerned. And then his own son, Absalom, rebelled against him and wanted to take his kingdom, as Tom Tyson told us last time. Sunday evening. So David had reason to lay awake at night. And David's laying awake, it was often not in a comfortable situation because He had to flee Jerusalem for his life. And he was often hiding in uncomfortable places. Hebrews 11 tells us about the saints. Um by saints we mean the people who served God long ago, not not the Catholic, the Roman Catholic version of saints, but those who trusted in Christ long ago and who served him in difficulty. And it says in verse 36, after some other descriptions, it says in verse 36, others suffered mocking and flogging. And even chains and imprisonment, they were stoned. They were sawn into probably Isaiah. The tradition says that Isaiah was sawn into, put into a hollowed-out log and then cut in half. They were killed with a sword. They went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreated. Of whom the world was not worthy, wandering about in deserts and mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. And I imagine that very likely that the writer of Hebrews uh was thinking of many of these, but David too. David who wandered and slept in caves and was mistreated. So what does David do about this? Here we have it in verse one. David talks to God and then to men. David talks to God first in verse 1. Answer me when I call. He's speaking to God here. There is real pathos in David's cry. It's not just answer Answer me. It's answer me when I call. He doesn't just want to cast up words toward heaven. He needs God's attention. to his present problem. And I just want to pause to say, could it be that perhaps in some of our concerns And our prayers, that the power that should be in our prayer is lacking because there is little passion in prayer. Possible. We do not persuade God by our emotional displays. That's not the case. But God wants us to care deeply about the things that He cares Cares deeply about, and he cares about us. So we should care deeply about these things. Let me give you an example of that in the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul was full of pathos in his prayers. One example, in Romans 9, 1 through 3 Probably the most characteristic example. He says, I am speaking the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit that I have great sorrow and I Unceasing anguish in my heart, for I wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers, my kinsmen, according to the flesh. He is deeply concerned for the Jewish people. And he is full of pathos, crying out to God. And he's telling us about it. So this is the good example of David stirring himself up to take hold of God. And maybe we need to really consider Whether we stir ourselves up to take hold of God in prayer. And then he says in the next phrase, O God of my righteousness. Now, God is righteous, but this is O God of my righteousness And I think we can say from that, David knew that his being in the right came from God and not from himself. He knew that he was in the right, but he knew that the source of that righteousness, that being in the right, was from God and not from himself. He called upon the God who makes him righteous. Now we know from the Christian uh message, the New Testament, that that our righteousness is given to us, imputed to us by faith in Christ. It's a legal thing. But it's true of the Old Testament saints. It's not quite as easily and well spelled out, but David confesses it here that God is the one who is the source of his righteousness. His rightful office may be also in view. He's righteous in his claiming to be king in the face of Saul and in the face of Absalom. He's right. Because God has given him this office. He is righteous in his claim here also. Then he says, You have given me relief when I was in distress. He's looking back. You've done this before. You have done great things for me before, Lord. You have helped me at times when I needed help and had no other recourse, but you can't and helped me. You have given me relief when I was in distress. So now be gracious to me and hear my prayer. We are allowed to say, oh God, you are faithful. You were faithful before. Please now be faithful again to me. It's quite a a good prayer. In the familiar pattern, David uses past mercy as a ground for future help. And paraphrase it, God, I know that you have blessed me in the past, and you haven't brought me this far to abandon me. So Now please have mercy on me. Come to my help. This is another instance of David's common habit. I'm quoting Spurgeon here. This is another instance of David's comic habit of pleading past mercies as a ground for present favor, says Charles Spurgit. And then David talks to men. So he talks to God, and now he talks to men. Verse 2: O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? It's a metaphorical talking to men. They're not right there, but he's talking to them. How long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? Selah. But no, he's talking to men again. But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. The Lord hears when I call to him. Him. Know that. When he asked how long, David asks a valid question. Just how long will the ungodly keep to their way? They can't keep to it forever, so they may as well abandon it now and be blessed. If you find yourself on a compromising course, It is valid to ask how long if I extend this course? How long Will I go on this way? Where will it end? How long will I play around with this sin? He's asking these people to consider their course And he's asking himself, I suppose, too. And then he says, How long shall my honor be turned into shame? This was probably written in connection with Absalom's rebellion. His honor was at stake. His honor as king, as God's anointed. Absom's rebellion was the focus, probably, as well as his safety in his office, his kingdom. Wicked men slandered David because David, as Tom told us Leslie, had to flee from Jerusalem. And when you flee, then they make up all kinds of stories about why you fled and what's really going on and who's going to win this battle. And they're making up these lies against David. In this psalm, the problem is one of malicious slander, as James Montgomery Boyce says. It is the psalmist's reputation rather than his person that is being particularly attacked. Slander can hurt more than physical ways and deprivations. How long shall my honor be turned into shame? That hurts more really. A good name is rather to be chosen than what? Great riches. When your name is cast down, it's A terrible thing. How long shall my honor be turned into shame? Jesus experienced what David experienced. Jesus did. Wicked men tried to turn almost every glorious thing in his ministry into shame. When he cast out demons, not what could be wrong Wrong with that, really? Who could oppose casting out demons? Who is in favor of demon possession in Israel When he cast out demons and restored those who were oppressed to their right mind and clothing. Matthew 20. Matthew twelve, twenty-two through twenty-four. Then a demon-possessed man who was blind and mute was brought to him, and he healed him. So that the man spoke and saw. Good thing, isn't it? it. But all the people were amazed. And all the people, not but, and all the people were amazed and said, can this be the son of David? But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, It is only by Beelzebub, the prince of demons, that this man casts out. demons. See everything gets turned and twisted. So Jesus knew this, David knew this. Verse 3, but no, now he's talking Again to men, but know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. God has set the godly apart For himself. He's going to take care of them. David knew that he and other godly people were set apart for God. There are many reasons why we are set apart for God. We set things apart for our own enjoyment. God sets us apart for his own pleasure, his own enjoyment. We set things apart for greater purity. God sets us apart from the world and its ways, its system for greater purity. We set things apart for special service. God sets us apart for his special service. For all these reasons and more, God sets us apart unto himself. And David says this. And then David says, The Lord hears when I call to him. You think that I'm abandoned? You think that I am on the run? You're slandering me? You're saying all kinds of things about me But the Lord hears when I call to him. The ungodly have a disaster waiting for them, but the godly have a great reward in the Lord This is why David knows that the Lord will hear when he calls to him. Each Christian should have the same assurance. They should be confident that God will hear their prayers. When prayer seems difficult or ineffective, it is worth it to take spiritual inventory. To see if there is a reason for unanswered prayer. We've already mentioned perhaps a lack of passion. The Bible tells us there are many reasons why prayer may not be answered. You just a few of these. Not abiding in Jesus in John 15. Abide in me and I in you. If you ask anything and you're abiding in me, then I will give it. Okay? Unbelief in Matthew 17. causes a failure to to have effective prayer. Failure to fast. Sometimes fasting is necessary for prayer to be answered And a bad marriage relationship. 1 Peter 3. 7. If a husband and wife are out of accord, God doesn't hear the prayers of that. husband in particular, I think, there. Unconfessed sin blocks our access to the throne of grace. James 5. Lying and deceitfulness, Psalm 17:1, a lack of Bible reading and Bible teaching, Proverbs 28:9 Trusting in the length or form of prayers. Don't rely on how long and how many times you pray to get it done. I this is an anecdote, but I see uh I don't watch this, but I flip through channels occasionally and I see the Catholic channel and I see this these nuns. All around going through the the rosary over and over and over and over, exact same thing. Repetition, repetition, as if somehow that will win. The battle. It's not the length or the form of prayer that wins the battle. David now talks to himself. This is important. You need to counsel yourself sometime. You need to sit yourself down and have a frank talk with yourself. He calms himself first before the Lord. He says, Be angry, David, and do not sin. Anger can lead to sin. Sure can. I know that real well. I have sinned in my anger personally at times. Be angry. Sit yourself down and tell yourself to be angry and do not And then he says, ponder in your own hearts on your beds and be silent. Shut up. Quiet down. Lay down. Ponder. The word ponder is is important here. But before we get to ponder, the angry and do not sin with the ungodly around him, David has reason To be angry, but he had reason to also trust in God. He had reason to sin, but he needed to counsel Himself against it. So he reminds himself not to sin in his anger and to find solace in meditation before the Lord. Paul David Tripp, a good counselor. In Philadelphia, Christian Counselor tells about how he's interviewed so many people. He's counseled so many people. And one of the things that he was amazed to find is that So many times they are full of anger. Not only anger at people or at their situation, but really down at the bottom, they're angry at God. Because God is sovereign. He's allowed these things, and they don't like him for it. So David says, don't go there. That will not be right. That will be a sin. We don't have the right to be angry with God. Ponder in your heart, which is faithful meditation. With faithful meditation, we fill our heart and our mind with God's word and come to believe and confess that his purposes are Good. How can they be wrong if they're God's purposes? This does not mean that we get all our questions answered. By pondering my heart enough, will I get all the questions? Somehow I'll just know that it's It's all okay that it's I I won't have any more questions about anything. No, that's not right. Remember Job. Remember Job Okay, Job 1, verse 1, there was a man in the land of us whose name was Job, and that man was blameless and upright, one who feared God and turned away from evil, right? And then Job doesn't know what happens here, but in verse 8, and the Lord said to Satan, have you considered My servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man who fears God and turns away from evil. And Satan answered the Lord and said, Does Job fear God for no reason? You have put a hedge around him and his house and all that he has on every side. You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. But stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, and he will curse you to your face God takes up the challenge, doesn't he? But does Job hear about that? No. And the Lord said to Satan, Behold, all that he has is in your hand. God gave permission To Satan. Only against him, do not stretch out your hand. Don't kill him. So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord. And you know the story. Job doesn't ever get told, not even at the end, what was going on here. He's not given the privy to it. Job did not get the inside story. He didn't get told that his story of suffering and God's tests and contests with Satan would be renowned throughout the world in all cultures and languages where the Bible is printed and known. Uh he didn't get to know that. He didn't get to know you know what, Job, you're really gonna suffer an awful lot But it'll it'll be worth it in the end because you're gonna be famous. He doesn't get that. Meditating on the character of God is what David says we should do. Meditate on the character of God. Who is God? Anyway, that he is holy, and yet that this holy, perfect, creator God has with sinful people made covenant. And as even son. That is who I'm talking to here. That is who is dealing with my life. And therefore, I will suspend my judgment. I will suspend my anger against God. Based on my limited human view, I will suspend my anger against God. And I will Trust God. That's what David says. Ponder on your heart. Who is this God? Ponder. And then he says, verse 5: offer right sacrifices and put your trust in God Trust in the Lord. The offer of right sacrifices and putting your trust in the Lord, David knew here, the value of religious observance That's the offer of sacrifices. That's what Israelites were to do. That's how they worshiped God. Not just that, but that is exactly essential to what they did. Yet he also knew that he could not replace trusting in the Lord personally with just offering the sacrifice, just kind of checking the box. When religious observance is combined with trust in God, when church attendance and worship is combined with trust in God. Then we draw near to God and experience the benefits of being near God. And we're able to suspend our judgment against God. When we're not happy with our circumstances. Be angry, but don't sin. And then lastly, David contemplates the blessings of Noah. God. Verse 6, there are many who say, Who will show us some good? Ain't nothing good happening. And then he says, Lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord. We need to see you, God. We need to see your face. Then, he says in verse 7, if you lift up the Light of your face upon me, which is the the Numbers 6 blessing. The Lord bless you and keep you, the Lord make his face shine upon you, the Lord lift up his countenance unto you. And Give you peace. That's that blessing. If you have that blessing, then um you get to verse seven. You have put more joy in my heart than they have, my enemies, when their grain and wine abound. The voice of the ungodly cynic echoes in David's ear, and after continual disappointment you may doubt if God will show any mercy, any good But God says that he gives his blessings to his people, his light of his face. shines upon them and it is better than a lot of stuff. More than in the season that their grain and wine increase. The ungodly can be happy when the stock market is up. When the money is coming in and everything is prosperous and they feel really strong. But David can be happy even in distressing times because the Lord has lifted up his face, his countenance that sh then riches. And then we get to the end. This is where we go back to the sleep question. Because verse 8 says, in peace, in peace, I will both lie down And sleep. Now laying down is easy enough, but you can toss and turn. But in peace. I will both lie down and sleep. As a result, David can sleep all night well. Even in distressing times. See, the times haven't changed Even though he is surrounded by the ungodly, maybe sleeping in a cave or in a den or somewhere. And he sleeps well because he knows that his The safety is from the Lord, not from circumstances or even from feelings. I can imagine a man lying down to sleep, tormented by all of what his enemies or pretended friends are saying about him. Feeling that his reputation has been ruined and all that. And I've sometimes felt that way. David was that man, but he trusted in the Lord, and now he has gladness. That the world can't take away, even with all their slanders and lies. David also, I think, had a perspective, a historical perspective, that we can share in In a certain sense. He is, whatever age he is at this point when this psalm was being written, he can look back because something happened much earlier, and it's recorded in 1 Samuel 16. 1 Samuel 16, beginning at verse 1, the Lord said to Samuel, How long will you grieve over Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? Saul was a bad king, and God said, You're not going to be king. anymore. Fill your horn, Samuel, and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite. It's interesting, isn't it? The Bethlehemite, for I have provided for myself a king among his sons. And Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul hears it, he will kill me. And the Lord said, Take a hep. With you and say, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord, and invite Jesse to the sacrifice. And I will show you what you shall do, and you shall anoint for me him whom I declare to you. And Samuel did what the Lord commanded and came to Bethlehem. The elders of the city came to meet him trembling and said, You come peaceably. And he said, peaceably, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Consecrate yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. And he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice Verse 6. Then they came. When they came, he looked at Eliab and thought, surely the Lord's anointed is before him. But the Lord said to Samuel, Do not look on his appearance or his height of his stature, for I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as man sees. Man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel, and he said, Neither has the Lord chosen this one. Then Jesse made Shama pass by, and he said, Neither has the Lord chosen this one. And Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not chosen these. Then Samuel said to Jesse, Are all your sons And he said, There remains yet the youngest, but behold, he is keeping the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, send and get him, for we will not sit down till he comes here And he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy and had beautiful eyes and was handsome. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him for the This is he. And Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers, and the Spirit of the Lord rushed upon David from that day forward. Forward. And Samuel rose and went up to Ramah. David knew that he had been chosen by God. and anointed, that he had a destiny that was fixed and certain. And he could even evaluate these circumstances and say, I'm Know that God made me king. I was there. I was chosen from out of the field. The Spirit of God has been on me ever since. And he could have confidence that he belonged to God. The last bit is this: For you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. The Treasury of David says, this is a sweet evening hymn. Shall I not I shall not sit up to watch through fear, but I will lie down. And then I will not lie awake listening to every rustling sound, but I will lie down in peace and sleep for I I have nothing to fear. He that hath the wings of God above him need curtain. Better than bolts or bars is the protection of the Lord. Armed men kept the bed of Solomon, but we do not believe that he slept more soundly than his father, whose bed was the hard ground, who was haunted by bloodthirsty foes. Note the word only here. Only, you alone, means that God alone was his keeper, that though alone, without man's help, he was evil. Even then in good keeping, for he was alone with God. A quiet conscience, says Spurgeon, is a good bed Fellow, how many of our sleepless hours might be traced to our untrusting and disordered minds. And then he says, They slumber sweetly, whom faith rocks. to sleep. Isn't that beautiful? No pillow so soft as a promise, no coverlet so warm as an assured interest in Christ. And then he prays a little prayer at the end, which we will end with here. O Lord, give us this calm repose on thee, that like David, we may lie down in In peace and sleep each night while we live, and joyfully we may lie down in the appointed season to sleep in death, to rest in God. Amen. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you for this uh psalm of testimony of David Of his speaking to others, of his speaking to God, of his counseling himself, and of his reliance upon Christ. The Christ who was to come, who would be born in Bethlehem, the town from which David came, and who would save his people and give them his very cloak of righteousness. Help us to have a clean conscience and therefore sleep in peace. And help us even in our troubled times, in our times of perplexity to know that the sovereign and holy God is in control. Amen.