So let's just read it together in unison fourteen verses of Psalm twenty-seven. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Though an army encamp against me My heart shall not fear the Lord. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord. Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock, and now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me. And I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy. I will sing and make melody to the Lord. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me. You have said, Seek my face. My heart says to you, Your face, Lord, do I seek. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger. O you who have been my help, cast me not off. Forsake me not, O God of my salvation. For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. Teach me your way, O Lord, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies Give me not up to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me, and they breathe out violence I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait for the Lord, be strong, and let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. And we see in this Psalm David's great and deep desire for God throughout the Psalm. But we begin with a statement of proven confidence in verses 1 through 3. A statement of proven confidence. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? It's a statement of great confidence. evidence. It is probably particularly appropriate as a psalm for the evening, and I'll say, I'll tell you why I think so. In 2 Samuel 22, verses 28 through 30, we see something similar. You save a humble people, but your eyes are on the haughty to bring them down. For you are my lamp, O Lord, and my God lightens my darkness. Have you ever heard that phrase before? Lighten our darkness? We beseech. Teach thee. For by you I can run against a troop, and my God by my God I can leap over a wall. So it has to do with the darkness and the light. God is the light. He lightens our darkness. And I I think from that we get the great collect by Thomas Cranmer. It's called the Collect for the Aid Against Perils, and it's a collect for the evening We used to say here regularly in our evening worship services, it goes like this: Lighten our darkness, we beseech thee, O Lord, and by thy great mercy defend us from all perils and dangers of this night. For the love of thy only Son, our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. So he's saying something like that here: Lighten our darkness. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Uh I think David wrote this like many of the Psalms from a season of trouble, or at least looking back at a season of trouble. Yet it is a song of confidence and triumph because David was not in darkness or in ultimate peril. Because the Lord was his light and salvation. God brought light to David's life. He did not despair in darkness and all that represents darkness. His life was filled with the Lord and his life was filled with light. Light and darkness is throughout Scripture symbols that that inform us and help us to understand what God has done for us. God Himself brought salvation to David. He probably meant this as a rescue both in the immediate and in the ultimate sense. God had rescued him time and time again, and he knew God would do so in eternity. We'll get to a verse that says that a bit later. The Hebrew word for salvation here is deliverance. It means deliverance explicitly. And again, this probably has to do with the deliverance from his immediate circumstances, but also Also from his eternal uh doom. Although God says uh Boyce says, although God is often associated with light in the Bible, this verse is the only direct application of the name light to God. The Lord is my light. The Lord is my light. That is God's name. In the Old Testament, the only time it's put that way. But in the New Testament, we see In John's Gospel, don't we? That God is referred to as light. In John chapter 1, verses 4 through 9, in him was life, and the life was the light of men Men. He is referred to as the light, the incarnate word. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light, that is, John did. The light is Jesus So Jesus is referred to as the light. God here in this psalm is referred to as David's light. Light and salvation also are wonderfully promised to the Gentiles through the person and work of Messiah Jesus. He will lighten the Gentiles. If you know that phrase from the Messiah Messiah. He comes to lighten the Gentiles. And also it's repeated in Acts 13, 47. So he can say that uh illumine me, Lord, in the darkness of the night, which is a time of peril. In the darkness in the Middle East it's really dark, isn't it? Uh in those times There wasn't much light. There wasn't ambient light like we have in our city areas here where the street lights shine up into the clouds and the shine and the clouds shine down into the and make it all a bit brighter The only light they had at times was the moon and stars. But the Lord, David says, is his light even in the darkest darkness. David says that the Lord is the strength of life, too. Now, he was a skilled and experienced warrior. They sang songs about his strength and his victories as a warrior. But he nevertheless looked to the Lord as the strength of his life. He says that here explicitly. David knew something of what the Apostle Paul would write many years later when he said To us, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might in Ephesians 6. If we rarely know what it is to have God be the strength of our life, It is perhaps because we trust in so many other things to be the strength of our life. We find it easy to trust in our own wisdom, our own experience, our friends, our resources, our Our successes. But David knew a strength greater than all that, and so he celebrates it. And he says this poetically, Whom shall I fear? Of whom shall I be afraid? That's repetition. Whom shall I fear? Of whom shall I be afraid? This poetic repetition to bring together these parallel ideas. Because God was his light and his salvation and his strength. There was really no reason to fear And then he says, When the wicked came against me, they stumbled and fell. And David remembered how God had proven himself reliable in the past. There were times when the wicked, even an army of wicked, came against him, yet God still showed that he was David's light and salvation in his strength. David's confidence, therefore, in battle was deliver him. He did not have a fair weather faith that lived only in easy circumstances. He had a faith that was proven in the difficult circumstances of his kingship. And then I want you to notice this one thing. particular thing and perhaps you'll remember it every time you hear this psalm or read it. It says here, when the wicked came against me To eat up my flesh, my enemies and foes, they stumbled and fell. Now, can you think of a time when When something literally like that happened, my enemy came against me to eat up my flesh. My enemies and foes stumbled and fell. Can you think of any I think you're you're showing the uh the the slingshot by the young David who confronted the great Goliath, right? Exactly. 1 Samuel 17 tells how David confronted Goliath and Goliath told young David, Come to me. says Goliath, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field. Now what does David say? The wicked came against me to eat up my flesh. To decree the eating up of my flesh. I'm going to give your flesh to the birds and to the beasts of the field. Um but David says, What had happened to the uh old giant? By one smooth stone that hit him where his armor was a chink in his armor, he stumbled and fell, and then David did what What? He cut off his head. And I think we can if we study that passage we would see that the old giant is dressed like the devil. He's dressed like a great serpent. He's wearing a scaly armor, like like the devil, like the scaly serpent that deceived Adam and Eve in the garden And he's he's ten feet tall, right? Or the spear anyway is nine feet tall, I think it is. He's a big giant. He's got this scaly armor all over him. They tried to put one of those on David and he said, This is too complicated. I can't deal with this. Take it off. So but the giant has this great scaly armor. He's got this nine-foot spear, which is like the the stinger of a dragon. so forth and yet God causes the the Goliath to come crashing down, the great serpent, the great Satan really, to come crashing down So David, I think, remembers that and puts it into this wonderful song. The second section is verse 4, David's longing for God's presence. Because he trusts in God and so much. He actually longs for God's presence. It may be at times when David was on the run that he couldn't go to the tabernacle. He couldn't worship God in the tabernacle, and maybe some of that longing comes from those times. He says, One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell. in the house of the Lord, all the days of my life. Or the word dwell can also be translated meditate. You'll see a footnote in the ESV That I may meditate or dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. Now, is there an actual image of God in the tabernacle? No. You can't gaze upon a big old statue. That was absolutely forbidden. How do you gaze on the beauty of the Lord? By looking at his word, by looking at his character by contemplating, that's why it might be meditate, by meditating upon God's character, who he is, what he has done, who he is for Israel. Meditating upon that, gazing upon that. And perhaps seeing the mercy seat, seeing the Ark of the Covenant and the Mercy Seat. isn't gazing upon the Lord, but it's gazing upon who he is, what he has provided, a covenant and mercy and grace, and his footstool is the Ark of the Covenant. So he does think about those things, and he wants to be in the presence of God, to contemplate who God is and what God has done. One thing have I desired, the tone of the song changes from celebration here to contemplation. The experience of the goodness and greatness of God made David think about how wonderful it is to seek God and to experience his wonderful. presence. But he says that I may dwell in the house of the Lord. David wished he could live in the tabernacle itself, I suppose, surrounded every day by the presence and beauty of God. In these few verses we note the many ways that David referred to the house of the Lord. He used the Hebrew language in every way he possibly could. He calls it the house of the Lord, his temple, his dwelling, his tabernacle. In these few verses. Here, going on through five and six. To gaze upon the beauty of the Lord. David knew there was beauty in the nature and presence of God, beauty that could be perceived by the seeking eye of faith. He could think of no greater occupation than to fill his mind and heart with the goodness and greatness of God. And it indeed there is richness in God revealed to those who seek God with their heart. And if people don't seek God with their heart, they will never know this great richness. Spurgeon says, the character of God is attractive. And fitted to inspire us with love for him and to make us, as it were, run after him. The character of God is attractive And he says, to inquire in his temple. In God's presence, David wished to go from contemplation to inquiry He wanted to know more of God and more of his ways. We have a hymn, I don't know if it's in our book, but more about Jesus would I know, more of his grace to others. show more of his saving fullness see, more of his life who died for me. More, more about Jesus. That should be our prayer. I want to know more. I want to grow in my understanding. of God to inquire in his temple about who he is. And David Boyce says that David wasn't uh so fascinated with the earthly structure, uh the tabernacle at that time wasn't glorious. It was beautiful in its own way. There were tapestries and furniture and so forth, but it was just a tent. They took it up and they put it down until they finally brought it to Canaan. But the tent was a rather humble temple. But and nevertheless, because God had promised to be there. There. It was a glorious place. It was a place where God met with his people, and David wanted to be in the presence of that God. And he found it even in this humble tent. Verses 5 through 14, David tells about God's safety, the safety of God's presence. He says, For he will hide me. In his shelter in the day of trouble. I want to be where God is, for he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high up on a rock. Isn't that a beautiful poetic expression about what it means to be near God? I am sheltered, I am covered under his tail And I'm lifted high upon a rock, something stable and firm, something that won't go away, that won't shift and fall. And he says, as a result in verse six, now my head shall be lifted I like it when Pastor Tom uh gives the benediction here, when he says, Lift up your heads, and then he pronounces the benediction. Because I think people falsely tend to put their heads down for a benediction. No, he's right. Lift up your head, look up, see You're going to receive God's blessing. Now my head shall be lifted up, David says, above my enemies all around me, and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy. I will sing and make melody to the Lord. David is so happy to be thinking about God's presence. William Gernall, one of the early Puritan writers, says, two things make the head hang down, fear and shame. Hope eases the Christian's heart of both of these, and so forbids him to give any sign of despondency by being dejected. And he sees God's countenance. Let me try that again because it's old English. Two things make the head hang down, fear and shame. Hope easeth the Christian's heart of both of these, and so forbids him to give any sign of a desponding mind by a dejected countenance. bit complex, but you get the point. And now we move on to the next section 7 through 10. where we have a petition. David has already said he wants to be in the presence of God, he wants to trust in God, but now he says in verse Verses 7 through 10, he is seeking the faithful God. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud. It's a petition. Hear, listen, when I cry aloud. Be gracious to me and answer me. You have said, seek my face. And that's in the plural. He says that to Israel. You all seek my face. And David says, My heart says to you, your face, O Lord, do I seek. Hide not your face from me. And we're very familiar with the with the benediction from the book of Benjamin. Numbers, aren't we? The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine upon you. The Lord lift up his countenance unto you and be gracious unto you. And so David is echoing those beautiful words. Your face, O Lord, do I seek. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger. You have been my help. Cast me not off. Forsake me not, O God of my salvation. Then he gives an earthly contrast here. There's no historical record that uh his father and mother ever forsook him. You know, his father was uh was Jesse, right? Isn't that correct? Yes, we just did the genealogies from Obed to Jesse and then to David. There's no record of his father and mother ever forsaking him, but he I think it's a hypothetical My father and my mother have forsaken me if that should happen. If the worst thing should happen, the dearest and closest people in my life should forsake me, you won't You won't. But the Lord will take me in. If it should happen, the Lord will take me in. If the nearest and closest person in my whole life forsakes me, God will take me in. Isn't that comforting? We don't want any of that to happen, but it's the worst thing that could happen. And yet God would take us in. So we have a constant Confidence in David's voice here. Spurgeon says: note his anxiety to be heard He wants to be heard by God. Pharisees care not a fig for the Lord's hearing them, so long as they are heard by men. Pharisees want to be heard by everybody. They want to cry out on the street corner. And show their offering going into the offering plate. He says, Pharisees care not a fig for the Lord's hearing them, so long as they are heard of men. Or charm their own pride with their sounding devotions. But a genuine man, the Lord's hearing to him is everything. Virgin says. So now we come to verses eleven through thirteen, which is a believing prayer for guidance. Do you ever pray for guidance? You ever know not you don't know what to do, you're not sure where to go, you're not sure which path to take next. Maybe there's a job opportunity or there's a school question to answer. Training to get, whatever it may be, you pray for guidance. Here's David's prayer, verses eleven through thirteen. Here's what he says. Teach me your way, O Lord. Teach me your way, O Lord. He doesn't say, here are my options, help me choose the right one so that I can make the greatest success possible That's not necessarily a bad thing, but he's putting it the other way around. I'm listening. Teach me your way, O Lord. And then lead me on a level path. A level path. Help me to see the way. Teach me, lead me on a level path because of my enemies. What enemies? Well, he had, we know, all kinds of political enemies, but I think we can certainly understand the enemies of our of our spiritual condition. There are enemies that squeeze us all around, enemies that influence us badly and in the wrong direction. He so he says, please put the put the path level for me so that I won't be Destroyed by the things that would destroy me. The world, the flesh, and the devil, all those things are my enemies. And then give me not up to the will of my adversaries. For false witnesses have risen against me, and they breathe out violence. And again, we could spiritualize this legitimately, I think. We have great adversaries, spiritual adversaries. That are calling us condemned, calling us sinners, and telling us that we're failures and they're not going to make it, and we're no good. And Jesus says about us, mine I have died for you. I have given myself for you. You belong to me. And that's a level path, isn't it? So, give me not up to the will of my adversaries, the accuser, Satan. Give me not up to the will of them, for false witnesses have risen against me, telling lies about me You know, the lies are that I'm worthless, and the truth is that Christ died for me, and I'm very valuable. They breathe out violence, and then he says, verse 13, these are beautiful Beautiful words. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living Land of the living. David would have lost heart unless he had believed that he would see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the of the living. David seeking after God and his knowledge of the Lord led him to his triumphant statement here. He would have given up, he would have lost heart. But he knew that the good God would find a way to show his goodness in this life as well as the next. David had attested that, found it to be true, but he also knew that no matter what happened in this life, he would see the goodness of God in the future. The land of the living. I think we could say that in a sense this is the land of the dying, isn't it? This is the land of the dying. What is the land of the living? is the future, is the resurrected life. It is with God, the land of the living. Um I think it's a view of the resurrection. Many commentators have gone different different directions on it. Some say It is the a view of the resurrection, but I know for certain that David believed in the resurrection. He believed in a great, glorious, redeemed future. And so he had his hope there. So now he finally gives us in verse 14 counsel to others. Counsel to others. He says to me me and you tonight. Here it is. You want to hear David's advice? Wait for the Lord. Be strong and let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. That's his advice. Coming from all his background, all his struggles and all his joy and his seeking after God and he says, wait. For the Lord. Be strong and let your heart be of good courage. Here, King David spoke to you and me, his readers, from the reservoir of his experience. He can encourage us to seek after God. God and to take courage in God. Wait at his door with prayer, says Spurgeon. Wait at his foot with humility. Wait at his table with service. Wait at his window with expectancy. And G. Campbell Morgan says, to wait for Jehovah is ever to find the plain path. However rough that path may be. And he shall strengthen your heart. This profound promise is for us. Across the centuries, David spoke to us to tell us to be confident that there is strength in the Lord for those who seek him. Trust him. Wait for the Lord. As Isaiah forty, verse thirty-one says, those who wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. Right? They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Wait for the Lord. David Goodzick says, wait as a beggar waits for a handout at the rich man's door. Wait as a student waits to be taught. Wait as a servant waits on their master. Wait as a traveler waits for the directions of the guide. Wait as a child waits upon its Parent. Many of his promises bear a long date, but they are sure and infallible. Wait, therefore says Trapp. Many of his promises bear a long date, but they are sure and infallible. Wait, therefore. Let us wait upon the Lord. Let us pray just now. Lord, we thank you that we may wait upon you, we may trust in you, we may test your promises like David did, and know that you Lift up our head. Help us to desire your presence in our life. Help us to desire to be near you and to have your face shine upon us. And help us to have a level path as we wait upon you. We thank you that there is light in the darkness. And that you are the great salvation. The Lord is our light and our salvation, and there is nothing to fear. He is our stronghold. There's no one to be afraid of. He brings down our enemies, our spiritual enemies all around us. And preserves our life. We thank you and praise you in Jesus' name. Amen