The Old Testament reading is the text of the sermon as we come to our second in the new series in the book of Exodus. Exodus chapter one, beginning at verse one These are the names of the sons of Israel who came to Egypt with Jacob, each with his household. Reuben, Simeon, Levi and Judah, Isakar, Zebulun and Benjamin, Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher All the descendants of Jacob were seventy persons. Joseph was already in Egypt. Then Joseph died, and all his brothers and all that generation But the people of Israel were fruitful and increased greatly. They multiplied and grew exceedingly strong, so that the land was filled with them. Now there arose a new king over Egypt who did not know Joseph. And he said to his people, Behold, the people of Israel are too many and too mighty for us. Come, let us deal shrewdly with them, lest they multiply And if war breaks out, they join our armies, our enemies, and fight against us and escape from the land. Therefore, they set task masters over them to afflict them with heavy burdens, and they built for Pharaoh store cities, Pithum and Ramses. But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied. And the more they spread abroad. And the Egyptians were in dread of the people of Israel. So they ruthlessly made the people of Israel work as slaves. and made their lives bitter with hard service, in mortar and brick, and in all kinds of work in the field And in all their work they ruthlessly made them work as slaves. Then the king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, one of whom was named Shiprah, and the other Pu'ah. When you serve as midwife to the Hebrew women, and see them on the birth stool, if it is a son you shall kill him. But if it is a daughter, she shall live. But the midwives feared God, and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let the male children live. So the king of Egypt called the midwives and said to them, Why have you done this and let the male children live? The midwives said to Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women, for they are vigorous and give birth before the midwife comes to them. So God dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied and grew very strong, and because the midwives feared God, he gave them families Then Pharaoh commanded all his people, Every son that is born to the Hebrews you shall cast into the Nile, but you shall let every daughter live. So far, the reading of God's Word. New Testament reading will be from 1 Peter chapter 1. Verses one through twelve, and then chapter five, verses six through eleven. First Peter one, one through twelve. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion. in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood. May grace and peace be multiplied to you. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance which is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed at the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory. Obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Concerning this salvation The prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating When he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories, it was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves, but you in the things that Have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit, sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look And then chapter 5, 6 through 11. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God. So that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, Will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be the dominion for ever and ever. Amen. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. O Lord, since you inspired these words to be written as the very Word of God, illumine our hearts and minds by the same Spirit. That we may understand the truth, laying it up in our hearts and practicing it in our lives. Amen. This is a Facebook post. Mrs. Garcia posted this as her status update. Long day. Jesus makes things so hard on me. A few minutes later, her acquaintance, Beth. Answers back, doesn't he? But it's for the best. Just keep him in your heart and keep praying, girl. Spelled G-U-R-L It will get better. Jesus works in mysterious ways. To which a bit later Mrs. Garcia replied, Beth, Jesus It's my 14-year-old son. He was suspended from school for punching the janitor again. But there is a note of truth in it, isn't there? It does seem to us sometimes that Jesus makes life hard. Why is it that God allows his people to suffer? Why is it that we sometimes suffer when we're seeking most to please God, when we're doing our best to serve him? When we're trying to live according to his word and suffering is what we get for it. God does not always tell us. We try to find justifications. We try to find reasons to justify God. We'll have some sort of quip about making lemon made from lemons Or that if I go through this suffering, then I'll have the insight to be able to minister to others But sometimes we find that in all of our attempts to justify God, nothing really satisfies. But I think the text in Exodus 1 will give us some helpful insight here today. First, let's go back and look at the text. And especially those first four verses, which we studied last week, there in verses one through seven, we saw the blessings on Israel and Egypt. They had come out of the land in the past, and now they're in Egypt, and 400 years have happened, and here they are multiplying like crazy. Verses 1 through 7 are explicit that they're multiplying and nothing will seem to stop their multiplication in this beautiful land of Egypt. And what do we see here in this multiplication of these people in Egypt? We see, and looking back, we see the the fulfillment of God's mandate that his creation from the time of Genesis chapter 1 should multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. That's what Genesis 1, 26 through 28 teach. And what it means is that from the beginning, from the creation, the King of creation wants his image bearers to fill the earth. He wants his image everywhere, and he wants his image bears to subdue the earth, to govern the garden, to care for the whole place. Because he is the creator and caretaker of the whole earth. We noted also that soon after the creation and this mandate that was given, Adam and Eve fell into sin. And that changed things. And now Adam and Eve and their descendants will no longer perfectly image God in the world. But we also see that God promises to countervene this situation. In Genesis 3:15, he promises that the male child of the woman, the seed, will come and will undo this situation, will crush the serpent's head, will destroy the works of the devil and restore man to his dignity. But we also see there a curse on birth, the very thing that is to bring forth the image-bearers to fill the world is cursed. Birth is now painful and sorrowful and difficult. And many women in the history of the world have died in the pains of childbirth. And we also see a curse on work. The dominion that man was to have over the whole creation is now cursed so that it's hard. Blood, sweat, and tears, thistles and thorns shall the earth bring forth for you, God said. So work is also hard. The dominion is difficult. But God promised that he would establish a holy line. That even though he establishes this holy line, the seat of the woman The male child who will destroy the works of the devil, that there will be enmity, there will be strife, there will be struggle, there will be persecutions and sufferings. But God will prevail in it all. God will prevail in this process. And so we see, that's what's going on here. God is keeping his promise. His people, chosen by him, that family of Jacob, have now come, as was foretold, to Egypt. And they're multiplying like rabbits. They're filling the earth. And the Egyptians are scared of the situation. And we see that this coming of the Israelites to Egypt was a great blessing. God had said that Abraham's descendants would be a blessing to all the world. And they were a blessing when they got there. Joseph. It was a blessing. Joseph was full of wisdom. He made the storehouses. He kept them alive during drought. Not just the Israelites, but the Egyptians were blessed. Because of Israel's presence in the land. There was safety and there was preservation in Egypt. This is in keeping with the creation mandate, which was given again after the flood. As soon as Noah came out of the ark, God said to him, Fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over everything. And the same thing that God had promised to Abraham in Genesis 15 You will have descendants that are as many as the stars of the sky that can't be counted, or as many as the grains of sand on the seashore that cannot be counted, you will have this many descendants. So God is keeping his blessing. The blessing in Egypt is being forgotten. Because in verse seven, we read this Then Joseph died And all his brothers and that generation, but the people of Israel were fruitful and increased greatly, they multiplied and grew exceedingly strong, so that the land was filled with them. I want you to note that in verse 7 there are seven Hebrew words. Why seven? Because that's the number of perfection. The Hebrew writer here is showing us that God completely keeps his promise. The people of Israel were fruitful, increased greatly, multiplied, grew exceedingly strong. The land was filled with him. Seven Hebrew words. But Joseph has been forgotten. Joseph has been forgotten. And the blessings that came to Egypt 400 years earlier, forgotten. And now there is a new king who rose who did not know Joseph. And that's going to lead to suffering. And that's what we get in verse 9. And he said to his people, Behold, the people of Israel are too many and too mighty for us. Come, let us deal shrewdly with them, lest they multiply, and if war breaks out, they join our enemies and fight against us and escape from the land. Therefore they set task masters over them to afflict them with heavy burdens. They built for Pharaoh store cities, Pitham and Ramesses. But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied, and the more they spread abroad. And the Egyptians were in dread of the people. And then in verse 13 and 14 we have seven more Hebrew words. to describe what happens. This is the suffering described in seven Hebrew words. So they ruthlessly made the people work as slaves, made their lives bitter with hard service In mortar and brick and all kinds of work in the field, and in all their work they ruthlessly made them work as slaves. You can't count the sevens, because you don't have the Hebrew, but there they are Complete persecution as a result of this blessing of God on his people. Persecution comes. They are too many and too mighty, exceedingly mighty, verse 20. We've got to do something about this. So, what happens is labor, and then hard labor, and then ruthless taskmasters, and then finally slavery. Verse 15: The king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, one of whom was named Shipra, and the other Pua: When you serve as a midwife to the Hebrew women and see them on the birth stool If it is a son, you shall kill him, but if it is a daughter, she shall live. What's going on here? We tried it one way. We made your work harder. Then we made it even harder. Then we set quotas for you. And you keep on having babies, you crazy Israelites. So we're going to have to do something about it. This is going to be not a public thing. It's going to be kind of a private thing that's talked about in the corridors of power somewhere What can we do to limit the number of these Israelites? We've tried everything and they keep multiplying. What are we going to do? Ah, let's talk to the midwives. Let's talk to the birth department. When they give birth, if it's a boy, the midwives were supposed to, and the midwives are probably uh the heads of a midwife cadre The midwives were supposed to, before the mother could see that the baby was fine, the midwife was supposed to maybe hold its nose And uh as it's coming out, you know, shut it down so that it's born still. And then you just say, oh sorry. And that'll be it. That's the way we'll deal with it. Keep it under cover, no public discussion of it. We'll just uh take care of it this way. But verse 17 says, But the midwives feared God. How novel. They see that God is the creator, that God is the one who ordains life, and man cannot take it into his own hand. The midwives feared God, and they did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them. They let the male children live. So the king of Egypt called the midwives and said to them, Why have you done this and let the male children live? The midwives said to Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women. Probably kind of a sanctified fib here. They are vigorous and give birth. Maybe they really were vigorous and gave birth. Maybe God made it so that all these women popped out like crazy with babies. I know someone who did that not too long ago. So verse 20, what does God do in response to this? God dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied and grew very strong. Here it is, God's blessing again. Blessing, blessing, blessing, keeping what God had said to do. Multiplying and growing very strong. And it says in verse 21, by the way, and because the midwives feared God and he gave them families. Probably what happened was these ladies were uh women who were not able to have children, or maybe were not married, but God rewarded them because of their faithfulness and they were given families of their own. They were given husbands and they were given Given children. God rewarded them. So one more measure takes place. We've got to do something about this Hebrew population growth. We've got to stop these Israelites. From taking over the land. God is blessing them. Now they don't say that, but we know that's what's going on. Then Pharaoh commanded all his people. Every son that is born to the Hebrews you shall cast into the Nile, but you shall let every daughter live. Well, we tried it this way and that way and the other way. We tried being subtle, we tried keeping it under wraps. Public! Slaughter of the innocents. Make it a policy. And we'll limit this growth. You've gone from private persecution and the midwife plot to public persecution and the Nile plan to solve the Jewish problem, so to speak. And this is very ironic too, by the way, because the Egyptians considered the Nile the mother of life. The source of life. They consider the Nile divine, the divine giver of life. And they're making it into a vehicle for death by throwing these babies into it. And they did throw the babies into it. To it. The Nile was floating with little children. Water The Nile is water. The water here and in many other places, as we will see as we go into this study of Exodus, the water here plays a role in salvation. The watery placement was meant to destroy the leader of redemption, Moses, but it becomes rather the source of salvation because he is drawn out of the water. Water is a judgment, and yet out of judgment comes salvation. Despite all his clever schemes, Pharaoh is continually and thoroughly outdone by God. And by the end of the first chapter of Exodus, we find what? We find the Israelites still increasing in number. Verse 20. And this is exactly what God had promised to Jacob in Genesis 46, verse 3. In Genesis 46, verse 3. God had said to Jacob, I am God, the father of the God of your father, do not be afraid to go to Egypt, for there I will make you into a great nation. And that's exactly what he's doing. But we're going to see one more thing here. We see the blessing of God. We see the frustration of the Egyptians, and now we see that the suffering has an effect. The suffering leads home. God had promised in Genesis 35 these things. Genesis 35, verse 12. You have to think back because this all fits together. He said to Jacob, the land that I gave to Abraham and Isaac, I will give to you, the land of Canaan. And I will give the land to your offspring after you. Then God went up from him in the place where he had spoken with him. And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he had spoken with him, a pillar of stone. He poured out a drink offering on it, and poured oil on it. So God called the name of that place where God had spoken with him, Bethel. And God had promised That he would go to Egypt, that he would multiply the Israelites there, but that he would bring them back. That this land where this was being done, where God is encountering Jacob, would be their land. God's purpose is to give a land, and that's not going to be fulfilled if the Israelites multiply and increase in number and stay in Egypt. They can't fulfill God's purposes in Egypt. They have to go to the land which is promised to them. And that leads us back to the question of suffering. I want to note for you that suffering is a part of the promises that was given, that promise that was given in Genesis 15. You remember that great time in Genesis 15 where God met with Abram and he cut the animals in half and he walked between the halves of the animals and he made promises. This is a most momentous event in the history of redemption. Let me read it for you. And he said to him, this is God speaking to Abram. I am the Lord who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess. And he said, Oh Lord God, how am I to know that I shall possess it? How am I to know? You've made this promise, but how am I to know? Verse 9. He said to him, Bring me a heifer three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtle dove, and a pigeon. And he brought all these and cut them in half, and laid each one half against the other, but he did not cut the birds in half. And when the birds of prey came down on the carcasses, Abram drove them away. And then, as the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram, and behold, dreadful and great darkness fell upon him And the Lord said to Abram, he had asked, stop for a second, he had asked, how will I know? How will I know? And here's the answer. The Lord said to Abram, verse 13: Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs. and will be servants there, slaves. And they will be afflicted for four hundred years. But I will bring judgment on the nation that they serve, and afterward they shall come out with great possessions. How do I know suffering? That's how you'll know. How will you know that God is with you? How will you know that he's keeping his promises? God's answer was Suffering is part of the answer. Suffering is part of the answer. And it's this because they need to get from Egypt, where God is blessing them, to Canaan, where God has promised that they will be. And how will they get there? Suffering. Not without suffering. What will induce the Israelites to leave the lush gardens? of Ramses and Goshen and all that beautiful place. What will induce them to leave? If Moses comes along and says, hey everybody, I'm one of you Follow me out into the wild desert full of snakes and beasts, where there is no water and no food. Come on, follow me, let's go They're gonna say, what? Are you crazy? We like it here. This is our home. We've been here forever. We're not leaving Only suffering. Only suffering pulls them out of this place. Philip Graham Riken, in his helpful book called Why Does It Have to Hurt, says, God saw the suffering of his people and delivered them. But why did he allow the suffering to happen in the first place? Could he not rather have simply prevented it? And the answer is, if he had done so, would the Israelites have ever desired to leave Egypt? It was hard enough to get them to leave even when they were suffering. Egypt was the only home they had ever known, and it was the best part of the land, according to Genesis 47. Again, these were the best places in Egypt. How would the satisfied Israelites respond to Moses saying, come on out into the desert with me? Spurgeon says this about it. He said, in order to cut loose the bonds that bound them to Egypt, the sharp knife of affliction must be used. And Pharaoh, though he knew it not, was God's instrument in weaning them from the Egyptian world and helping them as his church to take up their separate place. and received what God had appointed for them. Suffering is what brings them out of Egypt. It's part of God's plan. Sheldon Van Auken captures this concept In his autobiographical book called A Severe Mercy, in which he, telling his own story and the story of his wife. He, a son of privilege, tells how he was a listless, disconnected person seeking meaning for life in an America still ravaged by the last waves of the Great Depression. And Jean Davis, his wife, was a rebel soul on her own, escaping from poverty and rejection of her family, and they found each other. In what was nearly an idyllic love. But later they encountered C. S. Lewis on a visit to Oxford. And his humor and wisdom caused them to question their paganism. They were pagan, young, idyllic lovers and pagans. When Devi is nearly raped, that is the wife Devi is nearly raped in a random attack, she descends into a deep struggle with the reality of evil in the world. She finds her way out through a profound encounter with the sufferings of Christ. Her transformation sends Van, her husband, into a spiral of confusion and anger as he finds himself the other man in a love triangle with the Christian God. As Devi moves into deeper levels of holiness, a vindictive van plays at sin, driven by pain and love Davy makes an offering of her life for Van and soon after is diagnosed with a fatal illness. Terrified, Van embarks on a frantic spiritual struggle with God for his wife's life. In the end, Van surrenders Devi into the hands of a god he has gradually come to know Know as Lord. His friendship with C. S. Lewis helps him to articulate this severe mercy that saved his soul. Severe mercy is what we have here in Exodus. God's blessing on his people, fulfilling his promises, and yet suffering. And it is a severe mercy. To bring them out of Egypt. Suffering, you see, brothers and sisters, helps us to look for a savior. And his promised land, the new creation, the new heaven and earth, instead of making our home here. It's hard enough for us to give up our attachment to this world of suffering. How much harder is it if our lives are easy? When our lives are easy, we are prone to focus all our attention on our pleasures here and care little for the heavenly land. Now I like pleasures and I like beauty, as you do I love a beautiful vacation. We went to Yosemite National Park and saw beautiful places. We went to the Pacific Coast. We went to the Napa Valley recently. We had a nice time. We enjoyed many good things. Pleasures and beauty can, however, lead us to idolatry of these things. Making them all our focus. Or they can, with the Holy Spirit's help, lead us to gratitude and hope of a far better place. Far better pleasures in the new Jerusalem. Suffering can lead us to bitterness toward God. Or it can lead us to seek the things above where Christ is seated. We read in 1 Peter chapter 1 that Christ suffered to bring us home to God. 1 Peter 1. 21, for this you have been called because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued in trusting himself to the one who judges justly He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed, for you were straying like sheep, but have now returned to the shepherd and oversee of your souls. And then we also read in 1 Peter 5 Peter's description of what we should do: humble yourselves. In suffering. Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. Be sober-minded. Be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, firm in your faith. Knowing that the same kind of suffering are being experienced by your brothers throughout the world. And then this phrase, verse 10, this phrase. And after you have suffered a little while, after you have suffered a little while, and what is that little while? Is it just a few weeks of trouble? Or a year of trouble. The little while here that Peter's referring to is all of life. After you have suffered the little while, which is life, The God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be the dominion forever and ever. After you have suffered a little while in faith, you'll go home. You'll be home. You'll be in Canaan. You won't be in Egypt, making an idol of all those things. You'll be in Canaan. Paul likewise says in Romans 8, I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing, nothing to compare with the glory that will be revealed to us. A very old prayer that we often say here Which was used by nearly all Christians for the first 1600 years, contains this petition. In all the time of our tribulation, that suffering, In all the time of our prosperity, in the hour of death and in the day of judgment, good Lord, deliver us. May the Lord deliver us in our suffering. May the Lord deliver us in our prosperity. There's the danger, is our prosperity. Good Lord, deliver us. Without trial and pain, we are never ready for true salvation. Physical struggles, emotional struggles, spiritual suffering And spiritual suffering is like something like struggling with a stubborn sin that we can't seem to overcome, that we repeat again and again. These can make us long for home, for there will be no more tears, no more pain, no more death. New heaven and new earth, wherein peacefully dwells righteousness True comfort of God in suffering shows us that we are made for immortality, for a better place. We are made for home. So, dear brothers and sisters, after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace Will confirm and strengthen and establish you. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Now as we come to this table Let us commune in the Savior who suffered for us. Let us eat by faith his broken body, share in his precious blood, which is poured out for our life. to bring us home to God. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we praise you and thank you. That you did not leave your people merely to enjoy the blessings of growth and the blessings of prosperity in Egypt. But you allowed suffering in their lives. In order to drive them to yourself, in order to make them willing to leave. We thank you that you saved Moses from the death of the Nile and made him the leader of redemption. We thank you that we also have a Savior who was baptized for us, who identified completely with us. So that he might save us and bring us home to God. And now as we commune in him, help us to find in him our all-in-all. Amen.