Psalm forty-five. My heart overflows with a pleasing theme. I address my verses to the king. My tongue is like the pen of a ready scribe. You are the most handsome of the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore, God has blessed you forever. Gurge your sword on your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor and majesty. In your majesty ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness Let your right hand teach you awesome deeds. Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies. The peoples fall under you Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of uprightness. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God your God Has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. Your robes are all fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia From ivory palaces stringed instruments make you glad. Daughters of kings are among your ladies of honor. At your right hand stands the Queen in gold of Ophir Hear, O daughter, and consider and incline your ear. Forget your people and your father's house, and the king will desire your beauty Since he is your Lord, bow to him. The people of Tyre will seek your favor with gifts, the richest of the people. All glorious is the princess in her chamber, with robes interwoven with gold. In many colored robes she is led to the king. With her virgin companions following behind her. With joy and gladness, they are led along as they enter the palace of the king. In place of your fathers shall be your sons. You will make them princes in all the earth. I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations. Therefore, nations will praise you forever and ever. And now we turn to Ephesians five, twenty-two to thirty-three Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. their husbands. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. That he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own fool But nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife. And the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church However, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. And finally, Hebrews one to nine. Long ago At many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son. whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels. As the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. For to which of the angels did God ever say, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Or again, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, let all God's angels worship him. Of the angels, he says, he makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire. But of the Son, he says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companion. The writer to the Hebrews knew his Bible, didn't he? Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. A few weeks ago Seth took us during Sunday school hour on a tour. Through the book of the Song of Solomon. He was very clear and I believe correct in concluding that the theme of that book of the Bible. Is the glory of human love in marriage. He maintained, in contrast to a variety of interpreters, both Catholic and Protestant, that the Song of Solomon is not an allegory of Christ and the Church. And that it is not only fruitless, but even more so contradictory to the truth to try to identify detail after detail of the song as pointing to the parallel of these two realities here and there and everywhere. Human marital love on the one hand and Christ in the church on the other hand. That was, and it's clear enough, and it's important for us to read the Song of Songs rightly At the same time. That is not to say that there is no relationship whatsoever between the two. Which brings us to our text tonight. Namely Psalm 45. If the song of Solomon is not an allegory, neither is Psalm 45. But Psalm forty-five, although it's not allegorical, is clearly typological. There's a difference, and we need to understand that. An allegory looks glory And the reality that the story seeks to picture. Grimm's fairy tales are allegories. Every figure and every action was intended by the brothers to demonstrate the qualities and the performances of the characters displayed one-on-one. Whether it's Pinocchio, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, or Jack and the Beanstall. We distinctively recognize that we're confronted here not with mere artificial and fanciful tales, but with allegories Of human reality. Typology, on the other hand, insists upon an important relationship Between two realities. One we call the prototype, and the other the antity. The prototype is a reality, not a made-up story, but a reality that points forward to something else. It's typological. The antotype is that something else that was pointed forward to. And that's exactly what we've got here in Psalm 42. Here is a marriage. And at that a very special marriage. One between a king. And a queen. But that marriage points forward to another higher relationship. And so the question that cannot be put down is exactly this. Just what marriage is being depicted here in Psalm 45. What's the antity? Is it human marriage such as that which God instituted in the garden between Adam and Eve and thus all subsequent human marriages? No. Is it the marriage, as it might be called, between the Davidic kings and the people of Israel? Or even that between Yahweh and the covenant nation of Israel. Well, perhaps those suggestions are getting closer to the truth But somehow, none of them serve to satisfy clearly and fully the terms of the psalm when attended to carefully Well, it's at times like this that the biblical preacher needs help And that help comes often from material expressive of how others have read the Bible and how they have sought to answer questions such as the one we have posed. What is the royal marriage of Psalm 45? Whose is it? And what does it mean for us tonight? First, I checked the study material attached to our psalm in both the New Geneva Study Bible, which uses the New King James James Version. And I also looked at the Reformation Study Bible, which uses the English standard Version, the one that we use here at Grace and Peace, OPC. And what's interesting is that R. C. Stroll, the general editor of both study guides, Together with his staff, when it came to an introduction of Psalm 45, used an identical paragraph. In those two study guides. Even though the other study material found in the two guides differs substantially Not that they are contradictory. It's just that they are not identical. But not here. When it comes to how to state what Psalm 45 is all about, and for my purpose in understanding what is the marriage depicted here, both study Bibles Say exactly the same thing. So I thought, ah, I said, you're all set. You found it. And so I give it to you here now. Quote. You take it from either one of those study guys. Here's what it says. Psalm 45 is a wedding song. There are no other examples in the Psalter. The closest parallels are the love poems found in the Song of Solomon. This song is appropriate for a royal wedding and was probably used in many royal weddings throughout the history of Israel. Since the Davidic kingship reflects God's ultimate kingship and anticipates Christ as King, the Psalm has a second application. To Christ, the King and Bridegroom, and the church as his bride. See Ephesians 5, 25-32, which we read. Psalm 45 is applied to Jesus Christ in Hebrews 1, 8 and 9, which we also read. End of quote from the two study guides. Identical paragraphs. Well, that seemed pretty good. And I started writing the sermon and got ready to have my wife edit it for me See whether I made things clear. And I thought that I had received some helpful guidance from that footnote as I paid attention to what Dr. Sprohl and his staff had written. No wonder that they decided to include this particular paragraph in both study guides, unedited and unimproved, because they believed That these words are a true summary of what we have here in the marriage, the wedding, the love psalm. That is Psalm 45. But then something happened that gave me pause and brought about a rethinking of whether or not Tyson had at last gotten the point. Gene and I had some house guests this past week. Jim and Althea Scott. Came down from Philadelphia to visit us here in what Jim described as paradise, no doubt referring to our address, 1860 Paradise Court. Whatever. One of the things that we did together was to hold a colloquium, the four of us, on Psalm forty-five. Jim is a New Testament scholar of some reputation. You may remember that he was the managing editor. of our magazine New Horizons. Actually, when I was general secretary, I hired him to do that job back in nineteen eighty. And he served in that capacity until just recently. So I thought I would take advantage of his expertise in biblical interpretation while he was in my house. As I struggled to prepare this sermon on Psalm 45 and thought that I was well underway Well, first we read the psalm, and then I sat before Jim, somewhat following Dr. Scroll's lead, given in the footnote that I just read to you. The idea that the Psalm's royal marriage is of the Davidic king, and it points to Yahweh's ultimate kingship over his covenant people. And only do you hear the capitals secondarily prefigures the relationship between Christ and the church. Jim is a humble man. He listened carefully. Then he spoke. He dropped a bombshell with this remark: I don't buy that study guide at all. It states things backwards. Jesus Christ is not a second application of the Psalm. He's the first. And then he went on to explain why he drew that conclusion and how important it is. Look at verse 6. Here we have the psalmist addressing God. Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. Then he goes on to say, apparently still addressing God, in verse 7: Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you. Wow. However can that be? God has a God. It makes our heads spin. But not for long, if we know our Bibles. Because we also know what the apostle writes in Hebrews 1. That God in these last days has spoken to us by his Son. And we know of whom he speaks. But he then goes on to point out in verse 6, there in Hebrews, that this son, S-O-N Has already been introduced and prophesied in sacred scripture. And where? You guessed it. In Psalm 45. And that's why Hebrews 1:6 says, but of the Son he says, and then there follows an exact quotation of Psalm 45, verses 6. That did it. Psalm forty-five is about my Savior, the Messiah Christ Jesus. And yours. And my task in this sermon is to cause you, maybe I should say invite you. No cause will do. Cause you to read Psalm 45 in that light. It's typological indeed. But typological in the very first place of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Of the Sun, indeed, is Psalm forty five So that drew me to be able to say this is the proposition that expresses the point of Psalm 45. I had to rewrite it. The glory of Jesus Christ, God's Son, is pictured as his wedding. Secured in time by his sacrificial offering, and consummated at last with his bride, the church. So that was a rather long introduction and transition, but at least I think it puts us on the right track to make three We're going to talk about the engagement, the wedding, and the marriage, briefly. First, the engagement. When two people become engaged, that means that they have planned to marry. And it's a very momentous step, indeed. Often a ring is given, the bride to be. Perhaps by a suitor still saddled by college debt. Yet willing to stretch his depleted budget in anticipation of something wonderful to be. But even more fundamentally, and this is so in the case of numerous sociologies, societies, I should say, over the course of history Marriages then are planned and are planned by families, parental units. And even relatives of the individuals that are to be joined. We don't do it that way here in America today. We're much more individualistic. than all that. And I have no intention whatsoever to enter now into a debate over the relative merits of differing social mores. But I will say this: there is one thing in common throughout. Marriage, my friends, is a big deal. A lifelong and a life-influencing arrangement, and not just something to do today. And that fact explains why the psalmist, when he thinks about a certain marriage, the coming marriage of a king, says, My heart overflows with a pleasing theme. I address my verses to the king. My tongue is like the pen of a ready scribe. You can't just report this engagement with two lines at the bottom of page sixteen of Monday's Jerusalem Herald. You have to speak. You even have to sing about it. You might even say that Psalm 45 is an account of the engagement party of the Messiah. Yes, Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of the Father, Yahweh incarnate. is about to fulfill the prophecy uttered at the onset of human history in the Garden of Eden. To overcome and set right the disastrous effect of the fall of mankind into sin, degradation, and ultimate eternal punishment. The seed of the woman will bruise the head of the serpent. God, having out of his mere good pleasure From all eternity, elected some to everlasting life, did enter into a covenant of grace to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery. And to bring them into the estate of salvation by a redeemer. Westminster Shorter Catechism 20. There's going to be a royal marriage. Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God, is going to take unto himself a bride. The unworthy but blessed by grace, Church of the Ages. And Psalm 45 is its newscast. Oh my hearers, don't miss the force and the grand reality of the Messiah extolled in you. In verse 2. You are the most handsome of the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore, God has blessed you for your lips. This groom is unlike any other. He is the second Adam Unfallen, and about to take to himself a restored Eve, all glorious and beautified, according to verses 11. seven and thirteen by her marital relationship to this suitor Who loves her and provides her with gorgeous robes of gold? Secondly, the wedding. The wedding bans have having been announced It is now time for the actual ceremony to take place. Admittedly, there is no time-oriented description of such a ceremony outlined in our psalm. But the joining of Christ to his beloved church is presupposed throughout the poem. We have indeed fulsome praise of the royal bridegroom, and it is no stretch to see the psalmist lines as descriptive of our beloved Messiah. Jesus. Listen to verse 2. You are the most handsome of the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore, God has blessed you forever. His beauty is not like that of Saul. External only. His beauty is his character, his heart, his person Verse 7a, you have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. So that he is rewarded by divinely ordained exaltation. Verse 7b, therefore God, your God. Has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. That leaves him without equal. Consequently, his reign is sweet. Verse 8a: Your robes are all fragrant with myrrh and aloees and kascia. The fragrance of his clothing is but symptomatic of the pleasantness and blessing of his person, especially on On his wedding day. The ceremony of his marriage is beautiful, furthermore, both visually and audibly From ivory palaces, stringed instruments make you glad. The wedding party itself is royalty. And the king's bride is accorded the place of honor and blessedness. Verse 9b: At your right hand stands the queen. In gold of Ofer. Gold is a symbol of wealth and well being. all kinds. And notice that this is no narrow parochial celebration. This bridegroom is accorded prestige by neighboring states and nations who send their princesses to the wedding. Verse 9a, daughters of kings are among your ladies of honor But more than all of that, more than all of that, there is one other critical feature of this wedding. That must not be neglected. Otherwise, you will fail to see what is really happening here. I refer to what has been termed in some societies As the bridal price. The bridal price A groom bent on securing his beloved as his wife needs to sacrifice something. He needs to pay if he expects to get her as his own. Jesus likewise paid a bridal price. And let me tell you, it was a costly one. Listen to verses 3 and 4. Gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor and majesty, in your majesty ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meet. And righteousness. Let your right hand teach you awesome deeds. You see, the head of the serpent needed a fatal bruise. Without that, Satan's accusation would stand, and the whole host of mankind would fall under God's judgment. But the only way that head could be removed would be via the bruising of the heel of Eve's seed. That's Jesus Christ, the bridegroom, who, in order to secure his bride, the church, had to enter into colossal warfare In which he would suffer abuse, false accusation, extreme loneliness, physical torture Death on a cross, and ultimately burial. That was the bridal price. Without it, there will be no wedding, because there would be no bride. And there would be no groom either, were it not for what happened next. He rose triumphant from the dead. He paid the price, and he received the reward. True it was, as the psalmist puts it in verse 5: your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies. The people fall under you. Thus he goes on to exclaim, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The royal wedding took hallelujah. Jesus has his bride, and that bride is you. congregation. You who have made your wedding vow by trusting in Jesus Christ as your Savior. As he has made his wedding vow to you by dying for you. Now, third and last, the marriage. We must say something about the marriage itself before we close our consideration of this one. Psalm. Once more the emphasis falls upon the groom. Of him the psalmist says in verse 4: Grace is poured upon your lips. Grace is poured upon them. This bridegroom knows what to say. And his words are both well chosen and laced with affection True affection, backed by action for his beloved bride. His words, therefore, are proof of his heart's blessedness Once more, we are driven to the conclusion that only in Jesus Christ do we find the ultimate fulfillment of Psalm 45. Could Peter have had Psalm 45 in the back of his mind when he cried, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And we have believed and have come to know that you are the holy one of God. And there's more What of Messiah's kingdom? What of this groom's bridal palace and estate made ready for his blessed bride? Well, it's not a matter of territory. The royal groom, this royal groom, doesn't take his new bride to a particularly large house. Because the the whole earth, both this one and the next one, is his already. No, the triumph of his kingdom is the triumph not of land and possessions, but of truth. Meekness and righteousness. This psalm was fulfilled in him because he had the words of life. His was the blessed humility that procrude your procr. your redemption. And his was the submission to the Father's will, which took him to the cross. But still it falls upon us to say at least something about the bride, because the psalmist does in verse 10. Hear, O daughter, and consider and incline your ear. Forget your people and your father's house. And the king will desire your beauty. You Christians, wives of Christ, need to obey your husband and respect Respect him. You are exhorted to a loyalty to him superseding all previous loyalties to father, mother, and home. Yes. Loyalties to the world. And all its fancies and sinful pleasures. Bye-bye. You have left them And you belong to your groom. That submission, my friends, will not be arduous. Because He loves you. He will, in the psalmist words, desire your beauty. The beauty of the church, Jesus' bride, is not extended. It's not found in possessions, power, or prestige. It's found in the willing submission of the bride. to her husband, who has loved and does love her, not only for a lifetime, but forever. That is the marriage of Psalm 45. And it is a fruitful one. For listen to verses 16 and 17. In place of your fathers shall be your sons. You will make them princes in all the earth. I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations. Therefore, nations. We'll praise you forever and ever. The bride has kids. The church grows via covenant children, local evangelism And both home and foreign missions, bringing God's plan for the marriage of his son And his son's bride to fullness. Isn't he, and isn't that great Amen. Let's pray. Father, we didn't even have time to talk about how that'll be worked out and the way in which we as husbands treat our wives and our wives how they treat our husbands, their husbands. That's another whole sermon. But I think we have gotten the the basement, we've gotten the foundation for it here in Psalm forty five, and we thank you for that tonight. And pray in Jesus' name. Amen.