Please open your Bibles to the 35th chapter of the book of Isaiah. We will read the entire chapter, verses 1-2. 10. Isaiah 35. The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad. The desert shall rejoice and blossom like the crocus. It shall blossom abundantly and rejoice with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given to it, the majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the Lord, the majesty of our God. Strengthen the weak hands and make firm the feeble knees. Say to those who have an anxious heart, Be strong, fear not, behold your God will come with vengeance. With the recompense of God, he will come and save you. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped. Then shall the lame man leap like a deer. And the tongue of the mute sing for joy. For waters break forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert. The burning sand shall become a pool in the thirsty ground springs of water. In the haunt of jackals where they lie down, the grass shall become reeds and rushes And a highway shall be there, and it shall be called the way of holiness. The unclean shall not pass over it It shall belong to those who walk on the way. Even if they are fools, they shall not go astray. No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast come upon it They shall not be found there, but the redeemed shall walk there, and the ransom of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, and they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. John chapter 5, 1 through 18 is the preaching text. John 5, 1 through 18. As we continue our journey in the Gospel of John. After this, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheep gate a pool in Aramaic called Bethesda, which has five roofed colonnades. In these lay a multitude of invalids, blind, lame, and paralyzed. One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up. And while I am going, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Get up, take up your bed and walk. And at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked. Now that day was the Sabbath. So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, It is the Sabbath. It is not lawful for you to take up your bed. But he answered them, the man who healed me, that man said to me, Take up your bed and walk. They asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Take up your bed and walk? Now the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn from there. And there was a crowd in the place. Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See you are well. Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. And this was why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working. This was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal. with God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, shine the light of your spirit's illumining power upon this passage of Scripture, that we may understand it In the scope of redemptive history, that we may understand it personally for ourselves That we may apply it and be changed as we ponder these truths and these teachings. For we pray in Jesus' name Amen. John continues to select narratives in support of the basic message that he is proclaiming, and that is this. And you see it in your outline. Jesus is the long-promised Messiah. And he is rejected by many. Yes? Believed on by some, he is the creator of all things and has been made flesh. He is light in darkness. He is truth in falsehood. He is joy and refreshment in a world of pain and sorrow. And now in this passage, he begins to show that Jesus is the one who rightly uses and explains the meaning of the Sabbath in contradiction to the Jewish leaders. So let's look at it. First, we have the act of healing. Verse 1 and verse 2. After this, there was the feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. I've said this before. He was in Galilee, but he goes down geographically to Jerusalem. But any time you go to Jerusalem, you're going up. Because Jerusalem is a high place. And it's a spiritually high place too. So he goes up to Jerusalem. And in verse 2, now there is in Jerusalem by the sheepgate a pool in Aramaic called Bethesda. which has five roofed colonnades. This pool is near the gate where sheep were brought into the temple area. This is important. Where sheep were brought in to be washed, possibly in this very pool, and made ready for sacrifice. And Jesus visits this spot, likely it is, to consider and ponder the sacrificial system. He is growing in his human, although all divine, human awareness of his role and what God is doing in his son Jesus. And he's looking at the temple, the sacrificial system. Pondering what he's going to do. Let's remember in the background of this passage in John chapter 1, verses 29, and then 35 and 36. 29. The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him. This is uh John the Baptist. And he said, What? Behold the Lamb of God. And Jesus remembers that, doesn't he? And then in verses 35 and 36, the next day John was standing with two of his disciples, and he looked at Jesus as he was walking by and said, Behold the Lamb of God. So Jesus is here at the sheepgate, probably pondering his role as God has called him, the Father has called him to it. It is in this location where we now find Jesus acting and speaking in a way sure, a way sure to have him treated like a sacrificial lamb. Indeed, from this point on, the Jewish leaders are out to kill him. Here's the scene, verse 3. In these, these five porticos lay a multitude of invalids. Blind, lame, and paralyzed. One man was there who had been an invalid for 38 years. What do we see? We see a congregation of the fallen. Sickness in body and spirit is the result of the fall of the first man, Adam, into sin. Sin and sickness and death comes from Adam. And here is a concentration of people, obviously broken people, Jewish people, who were suffering. In verse 6, when Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? That is a pastoral counselor's question, really. Someone comes to receive pastoral counsel and there's an issue, a real problem. that they're dealing with especially a sin problem, and the pastoral counselor's question is something like that. Do you really want to change? Do you want to be made well? Do you want to be healed? It's a good question because one commentator on this passage says that an Eastern beggar often loses a good living by being cured Cure has its implications, particularly when the need is so long-standing that a whole way of life has been built up around it. So Jesus' question must be faced head-on by anyone who really wants to be delivered. To the hearer, both then and now, the question is: do you really want to get free of your sin? Or would you rather just get some temporary relief from the pain of it and keep it around for future purposes? comforts. To many in the nation of Israel at this time, the ritual sacrifice and the dietary laws and the Sabbath, which is so much in view in this passage. had become a way of keeping God under control, you see. To such persons, Judaism was like like a credit card. Indulge now and pay later. Just keep making the minimal monthly payment while going deeper and deeper into debt year by year. They weren't all that way though. They weren't. This is not a picture of all Judaism. There were others like Joseph and Mary and Zechariah, the old man, and Elizabeth, his old wife And others like Anna and Simeon, whose song we sung between the Psalm, between the Old Testament and the New today. There were others like them who were hoping in the grace of God. To which Israel's worship and Israel's laws always pointed. They were hoping in the unearned forgiveness. Of God, his mercy promised to Adam in Genesis 3, and to Noah later, and to Abraham and to Jacob and to Moses and to David and through the prophets. Forgiveness grounded in a future Savior. That was the message those saints believed. So this question came, do you want to be made whole? Do you want to be free of your sin? Sin becomes a way of life, just like this man's condition became a way of life. We get used to it. It becomes natural and stubborn. For instance, lying, lying, telling lies. Can be some can become so habitual that a person lies even when there is no particular advantage to lying. Just it's normal to not tell the truth, so it's just what they do. Or another one like stealing, Augustine, the saint Augustine, you know, he stole, he tells it in his confessions, how he stole pears that weren't even ripe, and he didn't even need any pears. He stole them just for the sake of stealing because it was what he did, you know? And so for us, rage In angry words and cynical responses, such things become normal. And we often defend ourselves by saying, that's just the way I am. Take it or leave it. Stubborn, right? That reminded me of the phenomenon of recidivism. Recidivism is a curious phenomenon of prisoners returning again and again to prison. I was once a frequent visitor to prisons and prisoners in Delaware. I conducted Bible studies and ministered to individuals, some of them I knew personally, and uh it was just a phenomenon that I couldn't understand why, after being in such a miserable place a place of fear and discomfort and lousy food. Why would anyone ever want to return there after being released? Recidivism of prisoners was studied by Cooper Duros Schneider back in 2014, and it studied 30 states from 2005 to 2010 patterns, and it said that conclusion was that three of four, three out of four prisoners will return to prison within five years. Now there are various factors, no doubt, for that. But a return to something familiar, predictable for an inmate is sometimes a very real attraction. And it's like our sin, isn't it? Or like this man's condition. It's hard to give it up. In the healing, in the gospel text here, in the healing, there's no mention, by the way, of faith In this man who is healed. Many other healings describe the faith of the individual, but not here. And there's no faith mentioned. And there's no acknowledgement by this man of who Jesus is, no confession of who he is. There's no mention of forgiveness. Sometimes those who are healed are also forgiven, but there's no mention of forgiveness here. And when the man was asked if he wanted to get well, he gave an excuse. Rather than asking for help. And yet Jesus went ahead and healed him. So it appears that this healing is not about this man's faith or salvation. But it is an occasion for Jesus to proclaim his person and work, pure and simple. Verse 7. The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up. And while I am going, another steps down before me. What he's recounting here is the popular hope of those who are gathered around the pool, the popular hope of being healed by this water when it would be disturbed. probably the water was disturbed because it was a spring fed pool and every so often there would be bubbles or a flow of water that would come up and disturb the surface. The King James Bible and it's one of its in in renditions has an angel explanation to this stirring, but that's not well attested in the manuscripts. Anyway, Jesus in verse 8 says, get up, take up your bed. It was a mat, like you know, an exercise mat, and you roll it up. It wasn't like a bed that we carry around, you know, we have to move in a moving truck these days. It was just a mat. Get up, take up your bed, and walk. And at once the man was healed and he took up his bed and walked. So children, if you're listening, children, if you're drawing, don't draw a guy with a great old big bed. You know, no, it's just a a mat that's rolled up. He took it and walked. And then in verse fourteen, afterward Jesus found him in the temple And skipping down to verse 14, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See, you are well. Sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. Evidently, Jesus knew the cause of this man's 38-year inability to walk and knew that it was caused by some particular sin. We cannot speculate, but we can imagine that he might have been injured while engaging in some evil act, or committing a crime, or by being injured by an enraged victim of his deeds. Jesus knew what it was. We don't. In any case, Jesus warns him not to repeat the sin that got him in that condition. Now, by the way, Jesus elsewhere disavows the idea of a direct correlation between sickness and sin. In John chapter 9, the man who was born blind, Jesus says it's not because of anything he did or anything his parents did. He warns this man, however, not to return to a particular sin that caused his situation. And he says, something worse may happen to you, and the thing that's worse is no doubt the final judgment. So let's go on then to number two, the official response. We've got the background, the scene, the situation, now the response versus 9B And following. That day was a Sabbath. So the Jews said to the man who had been healed, It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for you to take up your bed. But Jesus answered them, the man who healed me, but he answered, not Jesus, but he answered them, the man who healed me, that man said to me, Take up your bed and walk. And they asked him, Who is the man who said to you, take up your bed and walk? We're going to go after him. See, for a for a rabbi like Jesus To command someone to break the law of God, oh, that was worse than this man breaking it And in verse 13, the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, as there was a crowd in the place. And then we skip down to verse 15. The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. Verse 16, and this is why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. Now, the message that John is trying to give to Israel and to us is do you really want to get free from your sin? Do you understand the meaning of sacrifice? Do you understand the meaning of the priesthood ordained by God? Do you understand the meaning of the Sabbath? Or are these just ways of managing God, staving off the debt and penalty of sin? Their anger proves their attitude about Jesus. Their response is anger and outrage and persecution. You see what they forgot, what they repressed is the passage that we heard read from Isaiah 35 and other places that describes God's wonderful Sabbath. He says, when Messiah comes in Isaiah 35, say to those who have an ancient heart, be strong, fear not, your God will come with vengeance. He will come with the recompense of God and he will save you. And then what? What will happen when Messiah comes? When he brings the great Sabbath? What will happen? Then the eyes of the blind will be opened. I'm sure there were some blind around that pool. And then the ears of the deaf will be unstopped. Then the lame man shall leap like a deer. And the tongue of the mute shall sing for joy. Waters will break forth in the wilderness, streams in the desert, burning sand become a pool, paradise restored, you see. God's Sabbath reinstituted, renewed. They didn't like that. They didn't understand that. So Jesus now takes what he did and their reaction and teaches. And this is the point And this is the third section, the teaching of Jesus in verse 17. But Jesus answered them, he says, and he says this, you have to really get it in your mind, the picture of it, as they're standing there and they're talking about these things. things he says my father my father is working you're you're you're upset about me working on the sabbat my father is working until now. And I am working. That shook them up. The work of creation, as you know, ended, and God rested on the seventh day. It's in Genesis chapter 2. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. The work of creation ended on the seventh day. But the work of providence never ends. And the Sabbath, according to Jesus, is not about idleness. It's not about doing nothing, but it is a sign of a relationship that saves, a world that will be made whole, healed, put right. The Sabbath, you see, was to point to the future, glorious, eternal Sabbath described in Isaiah 35 and other places like it. The Pharisees had turned it in a different direction, hadn't they? The Pharisees had developed a list of 39 forms of effort which were not allowed. To be done on the Sabbath. And the 39th one was that you must not carry a load from one habitation to another. It's recorded that some of the rabbis in Rome, four rabbis, pondered the question of God working on the Sabbath, the seventh day of creation. And they maintained that God carried no load outside of his own dwelling, so that was okay, because he was dwelling in heaven and earth, so it didn't matter if he carried anything. And he lifted nothing to a height which exceeded his own stature, so that was okay. Therefore, what God did fell within the limits of their interpretation of what was permissible on the Sabbath. But Jesus here, and you have got to get this. puts himself in the place of God by justifying his healing work by claiming equality with God in working Pharisees had a tradition that if one Jew, just one Jew, would keep all of the law perfectly for just one day, then Messiah would come. How ironic. Here was the Messiah who keeps all of the law all day every day. The Messiah who is Lord of the Sabbath, who knows its real meaning, and who, working, works the works of God. This great one is standing right here in their midst, and they are displeased with his works. But this was more than a squabble over Sabbath observance. Jesus was making a claim that they simply could not abide. And that's what we get in verse 18. This is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own Father, making himself equal with God. What's that about? It was not unusual for the Jews to speak of God as any father or to speak of God as their father corporately. Um they were the elect of God, you see. But Jesus was making God his own unique Father. He was claiming to be uniquely the Son by saying that his own works Were the works of the Father. In current popular religion, it is nice for folks to think of having God watch over them. God watch over them from a distance. But they do not want Jesus to reveal God up close. These Jews were happy to think of God at some distance And they could manage God by keeping the rules, but they didn't want God up close. People like that get a sense of accomplishment from keeping the rules. But if God comes and tells them that they have missed the point, they are outraged. And that's what happened here So John as evangelist, as counselor, is showing the darkness and blindness and hypocrisy of their unbelief on the one hand, and the glory and the grace and the light of Jesus the Messiah on the other. Jesus shows their hypocritical covenant-breaking for what it really is. It is using religion for self-aggrandizement, power over others, and power over God. It is a rejection of God in the name of God. In the contrast, here we see the revealed gospel of God's grace. Folks, it is a work of grace. It is a work of grace that God wants to be in a loving relationship with Israel and through Israel, the whole world. It is a work of grace that God sent His Son to redeem you from guilt and shame and life-crippling sin. He did this by sending a Savior. He did this by being God the Creator, God the lawgiver, and God the law-made flesh The word made flesh. And so this is the message that comes to us today as it did then. Do you want to be well? Do you want to be well? Would you be made whole? Or do you like slavery? Are you ready for freedom? Are you ready to be delivered and free to serve God? Are you ready for that? We've already been told in John's Gospel that those who receive Jesus, those who say yes to Jesus, Have an endowment, a gift, the Holy Spirit is given to them, and in that gift of power they have the authority to become the children of God, to be changed from children of Adam. To be made children of the new Adam Christ, children of God. They're given the Spirit that changes us, really does change us. Causes us to reject our old habits, our old ways, our old sins, and say yes to Jesus and be willing to be healed and not stay the same anymore. If you trust in Jesus, you are given the Spirit. Do not grieve the Spirit. That's another problem we have. We have the Spirit, but we grieve the Spirit. Do not grieve the Spirit The Spirit of God, through Jesus, through faith, gives you the power to break free from past enslavements. Do you want to get well? Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that you will help us to not quickly move off of this place. Where we have been confronted with the question of change. Confronted with the question of Of having your spirit actually deal with the stubborn sins, the habits, the patterns that we have gotten stuck in, and shows us Jesus We pray, Lord, that our religion would not be a way of keeping you at a distance, but a way of embracing you and knowing you and loving you. For it is the religion that Jesus gave us in himself. It is the faith of salvation and grace and peace. So we ask your help in his wonderful name. Amen.