Please open your Bibles to Isaiah 55. We'll read the entire chapter. Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. And he who has no money, come, buy and eat. Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligent to me. And eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food. Incline your ear and come to me Here, that your soul may live. And I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast sure love for David. Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples. Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know And a nation that did not know you shall run to you, because of the Lord your God, and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts Let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are my what your ways my ways, declareth the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth So are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty. But it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. For you shall go out in joy, and be led forth in peace The mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress, instead of the briar shall come up the myrtle, and it shall make a name for the Lord, an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off. This is the word of the Lord. And you may turn to John chapter 4, 39 through 54. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you have said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. After the two days he departed for Galilee. For Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown. So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they too had gone to the feast. So he came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill. When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. So Jesus said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will not believe. The officials said to him, Sir, come down before my child dies. Jesus said to him, Go, your son will live. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering. So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, Yesterday, at the seventh hour, the fever left him. The Father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, Your Son will live And he himself believed, and all his household. This was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Gracious God, we pray now that you would give us humble, teachable, and obedient hearts, that we may receive what you have revealed and do what you have commanded. Amen. Well, in this portion, John continues to select Narratives in support of his basic message. That's the program of the Gospel of John. The other three Gospels are what we call synoptic Gospels. They begin at the beginning and go to the next thing and the next thing and the next thing and the next thing and the next thing. Very chronological, synoptic, but John's gospel is different. John is Preaching to his audience that Jesus is the Christ, that believing in his name brings eternal life, that he is the Savior of the world, and he's gathering bits and pieces to prove that thesis. And this is one of those. This is one of the select narratives in support of his basic message. Jesus, the long-promised Messiah, his message is, who is the creator of all things, has been made flesh. John chapter 1. And he is light in darkness. He is truth in falsehood. He is joy and refreshment in a world of pain and sorrow. And now he shows that Jesus is the one who brings health in the face of death in this particular instance. This is the context, and you need to have the context in mind. The Samaritans, as you'll remember, received him. And believed in him, even though he did how many miracles there? None. The woman was told something about herself, and I suppose that could be a sort of miracle, but that wasn't the reason they believed. They believed Because Jesus went and spent two days with them, and they believed in him because of his own word to them. They believed that he was the Christ, the Son of God. They believed in him. The Samaritans Unlikely people because they were Samaritans. They were not people on the inside. They were not in the know. They were not thinking the right thoughts religiously and so forth. So that was unlikely, but it happened They believed in him. That's what we read from chapter 4, verse 39. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony, first of all. But then they believed in him, verse 41, because of his word. And they said, We have heard for ourselves. Doesn't say anything about any miracles or signs there, but they believed. Now, we are certainly appreciative of the amazing things that Jesus can do. We ask for safety when we travel. Not wrong to do that. We ask for healing when we're sick or others are sick. We ask for help in trouble, and Jesus can help us in trouble. Even small things that concern us are that are of in a larger scheme of little consequence, like like losing something and then asking God to help us find it. I do that sometimes. Please help me find my car keys. I have to be somewhere in 30 minutes, you know. Where are they? But God wants us to love him for himself, not for the things that we can get from him. Not for the mere temporal benefits. He wants us to love him for himself. He's trying to win us to himself. To glorify him and love him and serve him and know him and enjoy him forever for himself. He wants that for us. And that reminds me of the great story of Job in the Old Testament. If you remember, Job was a man blessed with many, many wonderful temporal blessings. Great things that Job had. He had family, large family. He had riches. He had honor. But Job was more devoted to God than to his possessions and his relations in this world. Job had it right. When all these things were taken away in a rapid fire of events, all removed from him, what did Job do? Chapter 1. Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head. He dealt with reality. He was sad. It did trouble him. And he fell on the ground and worshipped. And he said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. You see that? Do you hear that? He worshiped God He dealt with reality, but he worshipped God, and he said, Blessed be the name of the Lord. And then it says in verse 22 of that same chapter, in all this Job did not sin or charge God with wrong. So he had a right attitude and perspective about God and knowing God and having God versus all the blessings and things that he had but lost for a while. How do you like it when you discover that you are only wanted or appreciated for the benefits that you supply to someone else? How do you like it? like that. When you get the feeling that people only like you or or or are nice to you because of the things they can get from you. Is that a good feeling for you? Now that's fine at work, by the way. It's fine at work, isn't it? Because work product is the bottom line. But how do you like that from your spouse? Really? No. How do you like that from your child? I only like you for the things you can give me. Not a good feeling. Or how do you like that child from your parent? I only like you if you do what I want all the time. And not a good feeling either. Older folks. How do you like it? To think that your heirs are only attentive because they want to inherit, not a very good feeling. No, and grandparents. You know, there's this commercial on TV where two grandchildren arrive at the porch of these two grandparents. And the grandparents are so happy to see them. And they bring out all their electronics and say, these are all broken. They don't work. We're so glad to see you. Not a good feeling. We want to be loved for ourselves, not for what we have or what we do. The gospel tells us that God wants us. And it is his glory to be in union with us. And we were made to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. So this is in keeping with our standards. Again, I reiterate to you that Jesus did not do a miracle for the Samaritans. The Samaritans had not heard of Jesus' actions in Jerusalem, like the Galileans had. Or his miracle at Cana. Probably hadn't heard of that either, because they just didn't talk, the Samaritans and any Jews didn't talk. And yet they believed. They believed. God worked a miracle in their heart. He put faith into them, and they believed Jesus. Marcus Dodds, a 19th-century Scottish theologian, says this. He says, although we must all be ceaselessly and infinitely dependent upon the good offices of Christ, Our faith, he says, should be something more than counting upon his ability and willingness to discharge these good offices. A faith which is merely selfish Which recognizes that Christ can save from disaster in this life or in the life to come, and which cleaves to him solely on that account, is scarcely the faith that Christ approves. He says, there is a faith which responds to the glory of Christ's personality. That's the Samaritan's faith. which rests upon what he is, which builds itself upon the truth he utters, and recognizes that all spiritual life centers in him. It is this faith he approves, says Marcus. So look on on to the next portion. In contrast to the Samaritans are these Israelites in Judea and in Galilee. And Jesus, or John has it this way, after two days he departed for Galilee. He's left Samaria in the middle between the two. And he's gone on to Galilee, verse 44, for he, Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown. So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast, for they too had gone to the feast. Now, it is difficult to discern here whether Jesus is referring to his hometown as Judea, where he was born, but not well received Or to Galilee, where he grew up and is not going to be well received at Nazareth. This again, I say, is in contrast to the Samaritans who heard his word. And believed. He tells us that the Galileans will always be looking for miracles. They will always be looking for signs, especially miracles and signs that give them a benefit. But now we see this notable exception to that. Verse 46. He came again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill. Now the Bible says it's in the Greek, this is a royal official. He's probably, he might be a Jew, but he's definitely working for the Romans. He's a royal official. He's probably attached to the Tetrarch Herod Antipas, who was a little king. Of the region under the Roman Emperor. This man was possibly a Jew, but was probably not very well liked if he was a Jew because of his government service. He was a G. S. 9 or 10, right? I don't know, but uh when verse forty seven When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee He went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. Desperate condition. Very desperate. The man hurriedly traveled 20 miles. That's how the distance is between Capernaum and And Cana. He pleaded with Jesus to come and heal his son. He's in a desperate situation. And you would know what that means if you Can imagine if you've ever had a child who was sick, you can imagine how fearful and dreadful and frantic he felt at the possible loss of this son In verse 48, Jesus said to him, but there were probably others listening. He said to him, Unless you, and then it's in plural, the you is in plural, unless you people He said it to him, but he's speaking to everybody around. Unless you people or you all see signs and wonders, you will not believe. That's the characteristic. Of those in Judea and those in Galilee, unless you all see signs and wonders, you will not believe. But this man is different. Jesus is challenging him to the kind of faith that goes beyond immediate material benefits In effect, what he's saying is, Do you believe, sir, that I am the Messiah? In verse 49, the official said to him, Sir, come before my child dies. And Jesus said to him, Go. I'm not coming. Go. Your son will live. And then this is being selected by John to teach us. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him. And went on his way. That's a faith, isn't it? He didn't get a miracle. He didn't see. Jesus didn't do some kind of incantation He didn't see anything, he just believed. He believed and went on his way. Would you believe him? That's the question that's really being put here. Would you believe him? Now there were reports from those who had been in Jerusalem. This text says that. There were reports about the wine at the wedding, perhaps that was being discussed around Cana. But it's possible to doubt anything, right? I didn't see it myself. I don't know if that really happened, you know. Uh it's possible to doubt anything and everything that you haven't personally tested in the scientific laboratory. It's possible. But he believed, that's the point. He believed, he believed, he believed. And then the Lord supplied faith strengthening After that, he believed first, and then the Lord came and helped him and encouraged him and strengthened him. Verse 51: As he was going down, going back to Capernaum, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering. So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. It just left. And the Father knew that this was the hour when this when Jesus had said to him, Your son will live. And he himself believed. Now he had already believed, but he himself believed more, you see. And all its household. This was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee. It is a sign, and yet it's a sign of God's ability to create faith. Without proof, without scientific proof on everything. He believed somewhat before he left. He believed more after his servants reached him on the way home. And he believed even more when he got home and found his boy possibly sitting at the door smiling and saying, Good to see you, Dad. Completely well. Folks, in a world where things are terrible and things happen and people get sick and die, and and things are we're not made for that. We're not made for sickness and death and trouble and That's not the way God made the world. That's not the way it was originally created. That's a fallen world. That's a fallen condition. That's not the way it's supposed to be. And in the midst of all this fallenness and trouble and suffering, we should expect a Messiah. There should be a Messiah. This isn't normal. There must be a Messiah. Our hearts cry out for God. Our hearts cry out for life beyond the grave. Our hearts cry out for a love that will never fail. That's what our hearts cry out for. out for. We are thinking and reasoning creatures. We are not mere biochemical machines existing because of some accident. There really has to be love and hope and joy and a satisfying relationship that will not end in death. The existence of the Messiah is not just wishful thinking, but the missing key to the meaning and hope in life. And that's what John later reminds the beleaguered early church in the book of Revelation. He reminds them in the face of martyrdom, in the face of persecution, in the face of being exiled himself, he reminds them in verse chapter 3, verse 7. Jesus says this, the words of the Holy One, the true one, who has the key of David, his keys, who opens and no one will shut, and who shuts and no one will open. This is the one that we expect down in our hearts. And this is the one that that man believed in. Not because he saw some proofs Signs and wonders, which can always be doubted, by the way, but because he believed in a Christ and a Messiah who needed to be there and must be there. John is tapping into your heart and into your mind to show this Messiah to you so that you will stop trusting in vain. things, and things that cannot deliver, things that will not satisfy, that do not last This faith, this Messiah, this Christ can deliver. He will not fail Psalmist says in Psalm 4, O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words? And seek after lies. People are living their lives for lies. They're serving lies. They're seeking lies and vain things that will not work. Psalm 60, oh, grant us help against our foe, for vain is the salvation of man. Man's salvation won't work. And then we have the passage that was read by our elder in Isaiah 55. Come everyone who thirst. This is the message of the Spirit. Come to the waters, and he who has no money, we are worthless, we have nothing. Come and buy and eat. Come by wine and milk. Come without money, without price. Why do you spend your money on that which is not bread and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen to me, God says, and eat what is good and delight yourselves in rich food. Incline your ear and come to me, hear that your soul may live. And then here's the Messiah. Apart. And I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast love for David. Behold, I have made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and a commander for the peoples. That's what our hearts cry out for. That's what this man's heart was crying out for. The royal official in God's providence had come to a point of crisis. His son was near death. Everybody knew that this was true, but he had heard the news that the God of Israel was working great things through Jesus. And so he traveled quickly those 20 miles to Cana. That took some faith, didn't it? He asked Jesus to come and heal his son. That took some faith. He believed Jesus when Jesus told him that the boy was already recovering. That took some faith. And the Holy Spirit, through John's gospel, now as then is calling you to faith. to believe. And the reason and the way we get this faith reinforced and strengthened in us is by keeping on Gathering on Sunday, singing about the Messiah, telling each other the story of his grace, telling each other the story that we're not just Machines or accidents that happen to be here in this world, but that God has a purpose and a meaning for us, and that we're here by his design, and that Jesus has come. To save us. We keep telling each other that story. We keep telling that story to others around us. That reminded me of I I I know so many hymns from my childhood, not one in our hymn book, but I want to recite part of it for you. This is, I imagine, a child telling the parent, keep telling me about Jesus I need to hear about Jesus. Here's the words by Catherine Hankey, 20th century, early 20th century. Tell me the old, old story of unseen things above, of Jesus and his glory, of Jesus and his love. Tell me the story simply as to a little child, for I am weak and weary and helpless and defiled. The child says, tell me the story slowly, that I may take it in, that wonderful redemption, God's remedy for sin. Tell me the story often, for I forget too soon. And don't we all forget too soon Tell me the story softly, with earnest tones and grave. Remember, I'm the sinner whom Jesus came to save. Tell me the story always. If you would really be in any time of trouble a comforter to me. Tell me the same old story when you have cause to fear that this world's empty glory is costing me too dear. Tell me the old, old story of Jesus and his love. Today, in the gospel Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of Mary, the Son of God, is alive. He's alive not only in the gospel, but he's alive here today, ministering among us. He's promised to gather with his gathered congregation, to feed us at his table, to bless us. He's promised to be here. Believe that, that he's acting powerfully in all who come to him by faith, and you come to him by faith. Well, he comes to fill your life and take away the emptiness. He comes to make life abundant and everlasting. He comes to make us whole. Believe this good news. Believe it. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for the gospel that you inspired to be written. To continue to demonstrate and prove that you want us. You want us to know you. You want us to love you. And you want us to be yours for your sake and for ours. Help us to believe the good news, the old, old story of Jesus and his love. Amen.