Please turn in your Bibles to Psalm forty-five. Psalm forty-five. To the choir, Master, according to Lilies. A maskle of the sons of Korah, a love song. My heart overflows with a pleasing theme. I address my verses to the king. My tongue is like the pen of a ready scribe. You are the most handsome of the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore God has blessed you forever. Gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one, in your splendor and majesty In your majesty, ride out victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness. Let your right hand teach you awesome deeds. Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies. The peoples fall under you. Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of uprightness. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companion. Your robes are all fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia. From ivory palaces stringed instruments make you glad. Daughters of kings are among your ladies of honor. At your right hand stands the Queen, in gold of Ophra. Hear, O daughter, and consider, and incline your ear. Forget your people and your father's house, and the king will desire your beauty. Since he is your Lord, bow to him. The people of Tyre will seek your favor with gifts, the riches of the people. All glorious is the princess in her chamber, with robes interwoven with gold. In many colored robes she is led to the king, with her virgin companions following behind her With joy and gladness they are led along as they enter the palace of the king. In place of your fathers shall be your sons. You will make them princes in all the earth. I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations. Therefore, nations will praise you for ever and ever. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. So let's turn to Romans chapter 1, 1 through 7. Romans 1, 1 through 7. We ended up with David being anointed king last Sunday in the preaching. And now we pick up with another mention of David in this text, Romans 1, 1 through 7. Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle Set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. Concerning his son, who was descended from David, according to the flesh, and was declared to be the Son of God in power, according to the Spirit of Holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship, to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you for That beautiful Psalm, Psalm 45, which described the royal king in all his splendor. His amazing throne, which lasts forever, and his anointing. And we thank you for the good news, the gospel of Christ. As we approach this text today, we pray that your Holy Spirit will help us to unpack it and understand each particular part of it, and that we will see the glory of your good news as we go forward. Forward. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. As we begin to go through the letter of Paul to the Romans, I have a list here of important historical impacts. This list was compiled by a fellow named David Guzik. The first one is Augustine of Hippo. In the summer of 386, a young man wept in the backyard of a friend. He knew his life of sin and rebellion against God left him empty and feeling dead. But he just couldn't find the strength to make a final real decision. to follow Jesus Christ. As he sat there, he heard children playing a game, and they called out to each other in these words. Tola lege, tola lege, over and over, tola lege, which means take up and read, take up and read And so he thought maybe God was speaking to him, giving him a message, and there was a scroll laying nearby. And it was the scroll of Romans, the letter of Paul to the Romans. And he picked it up and began reading, and he read these words, not in reveling and drunkenness. not in debauchery and licentiousness, not in quarreling and jealousy, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. Romans 13, 13 and 14. He didn't read any further. He didn't have to. Through the power of God's word. Augustine gained the faith to give his whole life to Jesus Christ at that moment. Many years later, Martin Luther, in the year 1513, in the month of August, he was a monk. He was lecturing on the book of Psalms to seminary students, but his inner life was nothing but turmoil. In his studies, he came across Psalm 31, verse 1, which says, In thy righteousness deliver me! The passage confused Luther. How could God's righteousness do anything but condemn him to hell as a righteous punishment for his sins? How could God's righteousness deliver him? Luther kept thinking, and he thought about a verse from Romans 1, verse 17, which says, the righteousness of God is revealed through faith for faith. As it is written, He who through faith is righteous shall live. Luther the monk went on to say, Night and day I pondered. I grasp the truth of the righteousness of God is the righteousness whereby, through grace and sheer mercy, he justifies us by faith. Therefore, I felt myself to be reborn and to have gone through open doors into paradise. The passage of Paul's letter became to me a gateway into heaven. Martin Luther, born again, and the Reformation began in his heart. Third one, John Wesley in the year 1738, the month of May. He was traveling back from Georgia, where he had been a missionary in Savannah, Georgia, a failed missionary. And he went to a Bible study of some other Christians on board the ship, where someone read aloud from Martin Luther's commentary on Romans. As Wesley, the failed missionary, said later, while he was describing the change which God's works in the heart through faith in Christ, I felt my heart strangely warmed. I felt I did trust in Christ, Christ alone, for my salvation. And an assurance was given me that He had taken my sins away, even mine. John Wesley was saved on board that ship. The testimony of others regarding Romans. Martin Luther praises the book, the letter to the Romans. It is the chief part of the New Testament. And the perfect gospel, the absolute epitome of the gospel, he says. And Martin Luther's successor, Philip Melanchthon, called Romans the compendium of the Christian doctrine John Calvin said of the book of Romans, when anyone understands this letter, he has a passage open to him to understand the whole scripture. And Samuel Coleridge, an English poet and literary critic, said, Paul's letter to the Romans is the most profound work in existence. Frederick Godet, 19th-century Swiss theologian, called the Book of Romans the cathedral of the Christian faith. Finally, G. Campbell Morgan said Romans was, quote, the most pessimistic page of literature upon which your eyes ever rested, and at the same time, the most optimistic. Poem to which your ears ever listened. Romans is beyond question the most dynamic of all New Testament letters, even as it was written. at the climax of the apostle's career. So let's dig right into this wonderful letter. Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God. Paul first. Paul. The life and ministry of the Apostle Paul, earlier known as Saul of Tarsus, is well documented in Acts chapters 8 through 28. As well as in Galatians 1 and 2 and in 2 Corinthians 11 and 12. It is almost universally agreed that Paul wrote the letter. to the Romans from the city of Corinth, as he was wintering there on his third missionary journey, his last missionary journey, as described in Acts chapter 20, verses 2-3. The probable date of the letter is the middle to late 50s A. D. , which is about 15 years before the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple predicted by Jesus in the Gospels When Paul wrote the letter to the Romans, he had been a Christian preacher for some twenty years. He was on his way to Jerusalem, and he had three months in Corinth without any pressing duties. He perhaps thought that this was a good time to write ahead to the Christians in Rome. A church he had never visited before, but which he had planned to visit after the trip to Jerusalem. The church in Rome was probably established not by Peter, but by believers who were present on the day of Pentecost and who were converted through the apostolic preaching of the resurrection. And if so, they returned to Rome and preached the gospel to the Jews and Gentiles there years before Peter ever arrived. Paul hoped to go to Rome, but the Holy Spirit warned him that it might not happen. In Acts 21, 10 through 14, here's what we read. While we were staying for many days, a prophet named Agabas came down from Judea, and coming to us, he took Paul's belt. And bound his own feet and hands, and said, Thus says the Holy Spirit, this is how the Jews at Jerusalem will bind the man who owns this belt and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles. And when he heard this, we and the people there urged him not to go to Jerusalem. Then Paul answered, What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be imprisoned, but even to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. And since he would not be persuaded, we ceased and said, Let the will of the Lord be done. Why do I quote this now? Well, I think Paul might have considered that warning about going on to Jerusalem. It might not happen that he would get to Rome after all. And so maybe while he's wintering over there, he decides, I'm going to write a really comprehensive statement of the Christian faith to the church at Rome in case I don't make it there. The letter to the Romans focuses more on God and his great plan of redemption than particular issues in particular churches. This letter, like the other letters, is different in this way. All the other letters, Galatians Philippians, Colossians, and others are focused on particular issues in those particular times and situations, but he's writing this letter as a compendium of the Christian faith No issues are particularly brought up in this letter. The letter to the Romans was prized by the Christians in Rome. We know that. Clement of Rome. wrote a famous letter to Corinth in 96 A. D. , and in that letter he shows great familiarity with Paul's letter to the Romans. It may be that Clement memorized the whole letter to the Romans. People did things like that back then. They memorized great quantities of things And it is very likely that the letter to the Romans became a regular part of the reading in the church at Rome. And it is known by scholars that edited versions of the letter to the Romans without the personal greetings were distributed to churches all over the world. So it's not just for the Roman church. It's for everybody. Paul, a servant now of Christ Jesus. This is Paul's identification of himself. It's very important. A servant of Jesus Christ. And then called to be an apostle. The first thing he says about himself is, I'm a servant. Sometimes this word is translated slave, but we should not think of chattel slavery as in the American past. There were several ancient Greek words used to designate a slave, but the idea behind the Greek word doulos Here is complete and utter devotion. That's what Paul is saying about himself. Complete and utter devotion. Not drudgery and misery. But complete and utter delightful devotion to Jesus Christ. The fact that he has this position is to him a higher title than any emperor or king. He declares with joy, I am a servant, a dulos of Jesus Christ. And then he says, called to be an apostle. The idea of being an apostle is that you are a special ambassador with a particular message. And Paul's message is the gospel of God. The good news of God The gospel of God in the sense that it belongs to God and it's about God. It's the gospel of God from God. And it isn't a gospel that Paul made up. He simply is a messenger of this wonderful gospel. When he says set apart, we need to think about that for a moment. Paul may be referring to his former state as a Pharisee. What does Pharisee mean? The set apart ones. Set apart from all the other Jews. That's what they call themselves, the set apart. Now he says, I used to be set apart like that. Now I'm set apart like this. I'm set apart for this work, for this glorious gospel, to this calling. I'm set apart for the gospel of God. Leon Moore says, no topic is treated here with anything like the frequency of God himself. Everything Paul touches in this letter, he relates to God. In our concern to understand what the apostle is saying about righteousness, justification, and everything, we ought not to overlook this tremendous consequence. Concentration on God. It's the gospel of God. And God occurs in this letter 153 times. An average of once every 46 words. More frequently than any other New Testament book, it focuses upon God. We can compare some other words. The word Christ appears 65 times. The word law appears 72 times. The word sin 48 times. Faith 40 times. But the letter to the Romans is mostly concerned with God. Second point of the message as we take these statements apart. Is Paul's list now of the essential elements of the gospel in verses 2 through 7? He promised beforehand this gospel through his prophets. He promised beforehand. That means the gospel is not new. We talk about the New Church, the New Testament, all these new things, but the Gospel itself is old. It goes way back to the very beginning, to the Garden of Eden. So it's not new, it's old. It's not a clever invention. Paul's world was a lot like ours. People were always looking for something new, some new idea, some new thing, some new teaching. But Paul didn't bring something new. He brought something very old in the plan of God, something foretold by the prophets. And then he says it's concerning his son. This is the center of Paul's message. Like the sun in our solar system is the center and everything orbits around it. The sun, Jesus Christ, is the center. Who is Jesus Christ? He mentions his name, but who is he? He is Jesus human. He has a human origin. He says, made or born of the seed of David, according to the flesh. So he has a human progenitor going back to David. This is what Nathan the prophet had said in 2 Samuel 7 to David when he was on his throne as an old man. He says, When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you. He shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom. How long? Forever! And then verse 16 and your house and your kingdom shall be made sure before me. Your throne shall be established forever. So he is not only human, but he is also eternal and divine. Declared to be the Son of God is the next phrase. The evidence of Jesus' humanity is his human birth in the line of David, but the evidence of his deity Is his pre-existence as the Son of God before all the worlds were created? And the evidence that points back to that is his resurrection from the dead. Resurrection of Jesus shows his divine power because he rose by his own power. Remember what Jesus said about himself? He said to the Jews that were listening, destroy this temple, pointing to his own body. And in three days I will raise it up again. So he raised himself, which demonstrates his power, his resurrection power, his deity. Leon Morris therefore says: there is a sense in which Jesus was the Son of God in weakness before the resurrection, but the Son of God in power after the resurrection. And then notice this was declared. Declared. He uses that word here. He was declared to be the Son of God with power. The ancient word is the Greek word horizo. It's used here, uh the word means in the ancient Greek to make a boundary or to define or to determine. That's how we get our word horizon. The line that determines the farthest visible part of the earth in reference to the sky is the horizon. When he was declared horizo to be the word of God, the Son of God, with power, according to the spirit of holiness. So the Holy Spirit, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are all working in concert here to declare who Jesus is, the Spirit of Holiness, by his resurrection from the dead. And now we know that he is Lord. That's another word that Paul uses. Jesus Christ, our curios. in Greek, Lord. Now, the word kurios, uh Lord, in other ancient writings, could just mean Like Sir, or in Spanish, senor, or mister in English. But in this context, It's important to note this. In this context, it is used for God because the Greek translation of the Old Testament, the Septuagint, which was the Bible used by most Jews, rendered the divine name Yahweh. So he is Jesus Christ, our curios, our Lord, our Yahweh, in Paul's letter, as he's declaring who he is. And then he says about that, through him, through Jesus, we have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith. The faith. Grace, what's that? It is unmerited favor. It is a gift And we could actually add more than that. It's not just unmerited favor, not just a gift. It is favor that was demerited. We earned and deserved the opposite of what we get from God. We get grace and mercy and favor. We earned the opposite. Disfavor. And he says, I've got that. I've received that. By his wonderful grace, I've received grace and apostleship. Apostleship. What's that about? It's significant that Paul makes the claim of the office apostle in the New Testament. It ordinarily was limited to the original disciples who were with Jesus and who witnessed with their own eyes his resurrection. In order to be an apostle, you had to be with Jesus and witness his resurrection. But Paul was not converted until Jesus was gone back to heaven. So how is he an apostle? Well, we know the answer to that story because Jesus made a special appearance to Paul. It's recorded for us in Acts 22. In verses 6 through 16, as I was on my way and drew near to Damascus, he's on his way there to uh arrest Christians and take them back to Jerusalem in chains and have them punished. He's on his way. As I was on my way, I drew near to Damascus. About noon, a great light from heaven suddenly shone around me, and I fell to the ground, and I heard a voice saying to me, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And I answered, Who are you, Lord? And he said to me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting. So Jesus made a special appearance to the Apostle Paul that announced himself to him. And then a bit later in that text. He goes to he goes to the city of Damascus and he sees an Ananias there. And Ananias says, the God of our fathers appointed you to know his will and to see, see he saw him, the righteous one, and to hear a voice from his mouth. And for you to be a witness for him and every one of what you have seen and heard. And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name So Paul did see Jesus and did hear Jesus a special appearance. And so he claims to be an apostle because of that. And later, just this apostle, Paul, as we study his life, he was caught up in the heaven. Something called seventh heaven, I guess. He was caught up into heaven and received a direct revelation of the full meaning of the person and death and resurrection of Jesus, which he calls my gospel in certain places. Because this is really God's gospel entrusted to Paul. This full revelation, this complete unpacking of the meaning of the whole thing. And that's what we have here in the book of Romans. And other places, but especially in the book of Romans, we have this revealed understanding of the depth of the meaning of the gospel of God. He revealed to his apostle Paul. God's gospel, we'll see it coming, impacts individual lives. It's not merely an interesting theory or a philosophy. It is life-changing good news. And it is accompanied, you see, by the working of the Holy Spirit. It's not just an interesting idea thrown out there, a paradigm, a way of thinking or something. It's It is accompanied by the working, the powerful working of the Holy Spirit, the spirit of resurrection from the dead. The spirit that raises individuals from the dead. In the time of God's plan, those chosen for salvation are raised from spiritual death to spiritual life and enabled to believe the truth. That's what happens when the gospel is preached. And he says this gospel is to be preached for the sake of his name among all the nations. So it's not just a Jewish idea, it is an international idea. Relevant to every culture and time and place and people. The gospel for the whole world. The gospel is big enough and great enough for the whole world, and it must go out to all nations. That's why we have missions. Jesus Christ's name will be honored among all the nations, and this is the fulfillment of what was promised back in Genesis 12 to Abraham, he was told that in his seed that is singular, one person coming in the future, all nations will be blessed So he ties that into this picture of who and what he's talking about in the gospel of God. Now in verse 6, he says, this has come to everybody, everywhere, but including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. Now we've got to think about that. What does it mean to be called to belong to Jesus Christ? And he says it again in verse 7, to all those in Rome who are loved by God and called To be saints. What is called? What is that? Called here does not indicate an invitation that you might Except or not, like a wedding invitation with an RSVP. That's French and I'm not going to try to pronounce it. It is sometimes used, this calling idea is sometimes used of vocation. Paul says that he's called to be an apostle, so his vocation is apostle. That's one way to use that word. But here In these two places, verses 6 and 7, and other places in the New Testament, it refers to an irresistible drawing power that never fails. If you are called, you come. Without fail. Paul says that God is using the preaching of the gospel, empowered by the Holy Spirit, to call or drag or fetch People into the church fellowship in Jesus Christ. So it's not just called, maybe I'll go, maybe I won't go, but called that brings you in, ushers you in. you in, drags you in, fetches you in. C. S. Lewis has one of the most intriguing stories of calling. In his autobiography, Surprised by Joy is the name of it, he described himself at the time of his conversion. He calls himself at that time. the most dejected, reluctant convert in all of England. Dragged and Into the kingdom, kicking, struggling, resentful, and darting his eyes in every direction for a chance of escape. That's how he was called. It's important to see what C. S. Lewis isn't saying. He isn't saying that he regrets becoming a Christian. C. S. Lewis is saying that God often pursues you long before you have any inkling of what he's up to And more often than not, you don't enjoy the pursuit. But when you are caught, dragged in, kicking and screaming and darting your eyes every direction. You're caught by God and cleansed and set free, then you're full of thanks. That's what Paul's talking about here when he says, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints. It's that kind of calling Now, one more word. Saints. Saints. Called to be saints. What they had in Rome was a gathered church, not terribly unlike ours. Paul lists many of them by name in chapter 16. These were ordinary people, wives, mothers. Children, young men, old men, members of Caesar's household, slaves, rich Poor. They were not perfect, but they were holy. The meaning of the word saints Is that of a congregation set apart for the Lord and his kingdom, and in that sense, holy Scripturally speaking, the saints are the collective body of Christ, Christians, the church. All Christians are saints. And at the same time are called to be saints. The words sanctified and holy come from the same Greek root as the word that is commonly translated here: saints. Christians are saints by virtue of their connection with Jesus Christ. You might think about it this way: His perfect holiness infects us. Like a healing disease. Christians are called to be saints, to increasingly allow their daily life to more and more match their position in Christ. This is the biblical description and calling of the saints. Now, let's think about this word saints. We live in St. Mary's County. With its strong Roman Catholic heritage. We can be thankful for the important areas of doctrinal agreement that we share with the Roman Catholic folks. But there are important areas where we disagree because we follow the Bible instead of tradition. How does the Roman Catholic understanding of saints compare with the biblical teaching? Not very well. In Roman Catholic theology, the saints are in heaven. There aren't any on earth. In the Bible, the saints are on earth and they're sitting here today. In Roman Catholic teaching, a person does not become a saint unless he or she is beatified and then canonized and all that after they're dead. In the Bible, everyone who has received Jesus Christ by faith is a saint. In the Roman Catholic practice, the saints are revered and prayed to, and asked to use their superior status to intercede for those on earth In the Bible, saints are called to revere and worship and pray to God alone. Who, through faith in Jesus Christ, has given us his all-surpassing status, the very righteousness of God as our own That's what saints means in the Paul's letter to the Romans. And finally, the last part of verse 7, Paul's Christian greeting, we call it salutation, and we say it every Sunday here, Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace. This greeting that you're very familiar with if you're around here combines the normal Greek charis and the normal Hebrew greeting. Shalom. And Paul basically coined a slight variation of the normal Greek greeting to deepen the Christian truth of grace. He changed it from careen to care. Which goes beyond the typical. And it doesn't just mean greetings, it means grace, God's grace to you. Through God's marvelous grace, sinners are delivered from their sins and brought into a saving relationship with a holy God by the work of God on their behalf, completely and free. Free. Grace is always free, not something you own or earn or deserve, excuse me. This grace does not end with salvation, but continues on as the foundation of the believer's life with God throughout all eternity. These blessings of grace, Paul joyfully announces to his readers when he says, Grace to you. Grace brings benefits. One of the benefits is reflected in the word peace, which the Apostle Paul always associates with God's grace In fact, the order of these two is significant. First grace, then peace. Until we know and appropriate grace, we won't experience peace We'll experience enmity and strife. Peace then is the second part. It's a typical Jewish greeting. Shalom, shalom, shalom. It carries a much deeper meaning than it did with the ancient Hebrews. Peace is the end of hostility between you and God. And as its work and its power is working in your life, between you and other people as well This is the foundation of fellowship amongst the people who are by nature, we all all by nature hostile against each other and against God. But grace brings peace. Which brings an end to that hostility. It makes us get along with one another, even though we're very different, like all those who are described at the end of the book of Romans, are very different. The poor, the rich, the noble, everyone loves one another because they're all in Jesus Christ, united to Him. This is the foundation. Grace brings peace. There can be no better greeting. I'm glad we named our church Grace and Peace. Well, I gave that picture to the children at the beginning, the Millennium Star Diamond. It's a huge colorless diamond with the highest color rating in the world. This remarkable diamond was found in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 1990, and it weighs 777 carats, that's more than a third of a pound. The diamond is currently owned by the DeBeers Group and is valued at an estimated $140 million. It has so many facets and reflects the light in so many ways that it is captivating and amazes those who view it. This is the way we will be exploring this wonderful, brilliant, many faceted gospel set forth in Paul's letter to the Romans. Amazing in grace and peace. Believe this gospel and live in peace. Amen. And now, Lord, we thank you for this introduction of Paul's letter to the Romans. May we apprehend in all these words and phrases, the glory of your goodness and the wonder of your saving. A person like Paul, Saul of Tarsus, who was sent to persecute the church and transform him into Instead of a separatist, one who includes everyone as he preaches the gospel of God's grace everywhere. May we imitate those good things in our lives and in our relationships. In Jesus' name. Amen.