Please turn with me to Leviticus 25, verses 8 through 17, we'll read about the year of Jubilee Leviticus twenty-five, we'll start in verse eight. You shall count seven weeks of years. seven times seven years, so that the time of the seven weeks of years shall give you forty-nine years. Then you shall sound the loud trumpet on the tenth day of the seventh month On the Day of Atonement, you shall sound the trumpet throughout all your land, and you shall consecrate the 50th year and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you, when each of you shall return to his property, and each of you shall return to his clan That fiftieth year shall be a jubilee for you. In it you shall neither sow nor reap what grows of itself, nor gather the grapes from the undressed vines. For it is a jubilee. It shall be holy to you. you may eat the produce of the field. In this year of Jubilee each of you shall return to his property, and if you make a sale to your neighbor or buy from your neighbor, you shall not wrong one another. You shall pay your neighbor according to the number of years after the Jubilee, and he shall sell to you according to the number of years for crops. If the years are many, you shall increase the price And if the years are few, you shall reduce the price, for it is the number of the crops that he is selling to you. You shall not wrong one another, but you shall fear your God, for I am the Lord your God. This is the word of the Lord. Be to God. And then we read from John chapter 3, 1 through 15. John chapter 3, 1 through 15. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Jesus answered him, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you You you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born Is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered him, Are you the teacher of Israel? And yet you do not understand these things? Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know, and we bear witness to what we have seen. But you do not receive our testimony. If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, So the Son of Man must be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. And then 1 Peter 1. 3 through 12, as we continue in the new series in 1 Peter. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him You believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls Concerning this salvation. The prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully. Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves, but you in the things that have now been announced to you. Through those who preach the gospel or the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, as we come now to approach these portions of Scripture, particularly the portion From Peter's letter to the Gentile believers in Asia Minor. Help us understand deeply and spiritually. Help us not to go away uns Changed, but by the power of your working in us, speaking through your word, ministering at your table, and lifting us up to your throne in heaven, change our our lives. Help us to be reoriented and better live to your glory and honor. In Jesus' name, amen. Well, in the Old Testament, which we have been studying for the past many months, in the book of Exodus in picture particular, in the Old Testament there are some very amazing stories, I'm sure you'll agree. You have stories where God speaks directly to people. Audibly, they hear his voice. He tells them something and they act upon it. We have cases where God acts by providing food and food and more food. The manna in the wilderness, the quail, and so forth, water from a rock in the Exodus. Amazing acts of God back in those days And then we also see the the great Red Sea crossing where the waters part and the people of God go through on dry land, but then when Pharaoh and his armies attempt the same thing The waters close over them and they drown in the Red Sea. And there's a great song about that in Exodus 15. We have stories of blazing fire on Mount Sinai. Tremblings and earthquakes and shakings and all kinds of phenomenon that no doubt brought great interest to those who were there at the time. We have the story of water from the rock that followed the people of God. And we have later on the tabernacle. Which was built, and then much later on in Israel, the temple which was built, and the glory of God filled the temple, and it was overwhelming the presence, the experience of God in those kinds of events. But we don't expect such things in our present epoch of history, do we? But we do have something for ourselves today in this text from 1 Peter 7. Something that's not for Israel, something that's not, doesn't require any theologizing, doesn't require any decoding, doesn't require, require any typological thinking. We have something that is directly teaching for you and me in this text in 1 Peter. Something to give us hope here and now and for all eternity. We know that this letter was addressed to the Gentile believers in Asia Minor. But it is addressed and applied directly to you here, sitting here today, because we live in the very same epoch, the very same era that these people did that received. Here's what we see in verse 12, and I This is the orientation, then we move forward. It was revealed to them, that is the Old Testament prophets and people who received God's revelation, it was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves But you, you, me, here today, they were serving you in the things that have been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you By the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look. So that's the orientation here. This is for you and me now So what we have here is straight from the Holy Spirit through Peter. It fits our life situation, and it is meant to speak hope. Hope to you and me. And that hope is based on four things, and you find the outline in the folder. The first one is born again through the resurrection. That gives us hope. That we are born again through the resurrection. It says in verse 3, Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again. To a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Born again. Well, you know what? Born again is most necessary. It was necessary for the earth to be born again. Jesus talks about that in Matthew 19, verse 28. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, in the regeneration. The new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will sit also on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel He's describing the new birth there, the new world, the regeneration, a born-again earth, a born-again world. And we read it from the Gospel of John chapter 3, that Israel needed to be born again. In John 3, Jesus answered, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, that's one individual, you and me. Born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said, how can one be born again and so forth? And then Jesus begins to answer in a different way down in verse 7. He says says, do not marvel that I said to you. In other words, Nicodemus should have understood some of this stuff. Do not marvel that I said to you. And then he uses the plural. You plural, you Israel, must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it's coming from or where it's going, so it is with everyone who is born the Spirit. Nicodemus again asks the question, how can this be? And then in verse 10, verse 11, Truly, truly I say to you, we speak of what we know, we bear witness to what we have seen. But you plural, you Jews, you you Israel, do not receive our testimony. I have told you plural earthly things, and you plural do not believe. How can you plural believe if I tell you Earth, heavenly things. Jesus was saying to Nicodemus that Israel, the nation, chosen by God, gifted, blessed, needed nevertheless to be born again. The whole thing needed to be born again. And we see that the old world needed to be born again. The old world needed to be born again in the Garden of Eden God had brought to birth this world. He called it into existence. It was fresh. It was new. It was glorious. But then sin entered. And the world became sin-cursed. Adam became sin-cursed. Eve became sin-cursed. Things began to deteriorate and fall apart. Death came upon the scene. And the old world needed to be born again also. And so, because of that, because all these things needed to be born again, Jesus came. And was born of the Virgin Mary, but then he was born again Because in the resurrection, he came forth from the womb of the earth with a new body, a new body fit for a new creation, the new world that was going to be born again. And now, here's what Peter's saying to you and me. We who are united with him in his death. Are also now, now, today, July 5th, united with Him in His resurrection and new life. So being born again is not so much merely an experience as it is a reality for all who are united to Jesus Christ. Christ by faith, which is noted in baptism. The apostle assumes that there is no other kind of Christian than a born-again baptized Christian. That's what it means to be a Christian. So we're looking for a new birth, and we have it in the resurrection of Jesus Christ to a new life from the dead. And that leads us to a living hope. That's the next thing in this verse. Living hope. Not mere passing hope. Not mere passing. passing hope. Now we have many passing hopes in this life, don't we? You who are students who are working on accomplishments. You who are working on competitions, you who are in jobs are looking for, hoping for years to come, hoping for retirement, hoping for funds, hoping for good things to happen. Jobs, if we don't have them, we're hoping for that. Success in our projects in life, we're hoping for that. Recovery if we're sick, we're hoping for that. Cure. And if you have children, parents, you're hoping, aren't you, for their success. But these are not living hopes. They're good hopes, but they're not living hopes. Because even if they're all realized, all of our hopes and dreams are realized, they are passing. Hopes. They changed. They're passing away. Because of the fall of Adam, entropy has set in The second law of thermodynamics observes that all things tend to run down. All things tend to run out of energy and die. Even The sun, astronomers tell us, will someday stop giving its light. Everything is running down. All these things, therefore, are passing hopes. But we We need a living hope. We need something steadfast and sure that never will change, that we can count upon. Some of you may have heard of Viktor Frankel. He was an Auschwitz Concentration camp survivor. And in 1946, he wrote a book called Man's Search for Meaning. He was describing his psychotherapeutic method in this book and describing the experiences that he observed in Auschwitz And he says that his psychotherapeutic method involves identifying for people a purpose in life to feel positively about. And then, he says, the way that he helps these people is to help them identify that thing to feel positive about, and then immersively imagining that outcome. Having them immersively imagine that outcome. And according to Franklin and his observations, the way a prisoner imagined a future affected Frankel concludes from his experience that a prisoner's psychological reactions are not solely the result of the event. conditions of his life, but also from the freedom of choice he always has in severe suffering. The inner hold a prisoner has on his spiritual self relies on having a hope and a future. And once that prisoner loses the hope of the future, he is doomed, according to Frankl Years ago, I attended a seminar, a two or three-day seminar in Indiana It was led by the Reverend Lyle Schaller. He was a Methodist minister. And he was an expert in church administration and church programs and all this business. And so all these clergy had come to this gathering to hear Lyle Schaller talk about these things. And there were Methodists there, and there were Baptists and Lutherans and Presbyterians and Adventists. And there was one Unitarian. Now I hope you all know what a Unitarian is. A Unitarian is someone who doesn't believe anything. But it's religious nonetheless. And so here were all these clergy, and Lyle Schaller's kind of wrapping up the whole discussion, and he's giving his best advice to these clergy. And no matter what the programs, no matter what the administrative work of the church, he says, let me tell you this one thing. Preach hope. Preach hope. People need hope. And I looked over at the Unitarian and her head was shaking like a boy. Because she doesn't have any hope. She doesn't have anything to preach. We all need A living hope, not a passing hope. Even Frankel's method was just to help people get a grip on some passing hope that would get them through the rough stuff for a while. But what Peter is saying to us here is that because of the resurrection of Jesus and our union with him, we have a living hope. A hope that endures. God has identified a reason to live and feel positive even in the worst circumstances. A reason which is alive, which is born again, which grips the new creation and has an anchor on the other side And so, as Peter tells us, we begin with this living hope to say, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has given us this living hope But then he goes on to describe another aspect of it, and that is the irrevocable inheritance. irrevocable inheritance. Verse 4 and 5. To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Now, as I pointed out last Sunday, Peter, in addressing these Gentiles, has been using terminology which was known to the Jews. He called them, first of all, exiles, and that's Jewish test. That's a Jewish term. The Jews were the ones who were sent away from the promised land Because of their covenant breaking with God. They were the ones who were in exile in Egypt. They were the ones who were in exile in Babylon. But he calls these Gentiles exiles. And we talked about how I think we're becoming more like exiles in this country as Christians. But he also used the word diaspora. Or those who are dispersed, those who were sown out into the world. And he says that of these Christians, that they're sown, they're scattered, they've been displaced from Well, not from Israel, that would be a Jewish way of thinking, but they've been displaced from Jerusalem, the heavenly Jerusalem, that's their true home. They're living in the world, displaced from heaven, which is their true home But now he uses this term, inheritance, and it's another Jewish term, another specialized term. In Israel, God had given the land of Canaan to the patriarchs early on, to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. He gave the land to them. It was God's land, and he gave it to them. It didn't matter who lived there. But they actually possess very little of it by title and deed. You know, Abraham bought the cave of Machpilah and the the field of Machpilah. That was about it. That's about all he had title to. And when the people of Israel left Egypt, God told them that they would they would get there eventually and that they would divide the land amongst themselves by tribes. And finally, he told them that each clan was to inherit land for their family forever. And that's what we read about in the in the passage about the Jubilee. That once the clan got this land, once the families owned this property, even if it had to be sold because of debt or something It would be returned to them in the 50th year, the year of Jubilee, so that they could never be permanently dispossessed of it as long as Israel lived in the land. It could never be irrevocably lost during the period of their living there. Peter now takes that Jewish idea of the irrevocable inheritance and he applies it to these Gentile Christians living in Asia. Peter applies this term to them, and he says, in effect, just as the old Israel had hoped that their inheritance could not be irrevocably lost, You, here and now, you the church, the new Israel, have an inheritance that absolutely cannot be lost. And he uses negative definitions to say that. He says, it is imperishable, negative. It can't perish. No perishing. No defiling, undefiled. No fading. And then he says, kept in heaven for you. And you think of the word kept, so that's guarded or managed or there for you. It's not going to fade or pass away because it's in a secure place, heaven. And then he says, beyond that in verse 5, you who are by God's power being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed at the last time. Now the Greek word guarded here, it doesn't just mean guarding from some thieves who come in to steal and you guard the treasure that way, but it's actually guarding from the outside from theft, but also guarding like a prisoner is guarded from being escaped A prisoner kept in. And God is saying that He's guarding this inheritance from anyone who might take it from you, and He's guarding you from messing it up. He's keeping you in this inheritance. He's not going to let you mess it up. That's what the word guarded here has as its meaning. And he says finally that it's ready to be revealed, ready to be unveiled. He wants these Gentile Christians suffering and worrying about future suffering to suffer. See something that God has provided so securely, so wonderfully, so fantastically, this new creation, this new born-again world that's coming, He wants them to see it by faith. He says it's ready to be unveiled, just like you've got some huge statue that's been produced by a master sculptor and it's draped with some cloth, right? And there's a cord and on the unveiling day the cord's going to be pulled and the the drapes going to fall off and there's going to be that magnificent statue. Or it it might be kind of another way to think about it is the reading of a will, you know. Some fantastically rich uncle of yours has left a lot of money, and you are his favorite. And the wheel, the the day of reading the will comes and the unveiling of what was left for you, right? Or another way to think about it is uh in our modern wedding ceremonies. You know, the uh if they're following the protocol, the bride is all dressed in her glorious uh dress and she's been in in there and the hair is being done and the jewels and and the dress is perfect. The maid Makeup is perfect, and the groom hasn't seen a bit of it, right? But then the doors open, and there's the unveiling. The groom standing looks and sees his beautiful bride. That's what Peter wants us to think about. About what God has got for us. It's ready to be revealed. And so, because of this, number three, he says, we can rejoice. Even in our trials. A new world is coming, it's going to be revealed. It's all there for us. So we rejoice in our trials. Verse 6: In this you rejoice. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than And gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Now when he begins to describe trials, he doesn't say, let me tell you about this trial and that trial and another trial. He just uses a general term, various trials. They come in all kinds of shapes and forms. They can be inward and personal trials. They can be outward trials of persecution, which they were concerned about. They can be long-term trials, or they can be short-term in duration. There are various trials that come to you and me that sit here today. Trials are the norm for life. And we also see he speaks He speaks of these for a little while. For a little while. Now, did he mean by that that uh the persecution that was coming would just be for a few years or maybe Maybe just for a few months? Just a little while? No. When he says little while, he's talking about earthly life. That's the little while. That's the little while. Little while. A few weeks ago we had the Morrison young men here stating their faith and being received as communicate members. And in the liturgy of that part of the service, I spoke to them. I addressed them after they had made their profession of faith. And I said, Rest assured that if you confess Christ before men. He will confess you before his Father who is in heaven. May the God of all grace, who called you into his eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while. That's life, isn't it? A little while is life. After you have suffered a little while, perfect, establish, and strengthen you to him, be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Little while. That's that's what we have. The sufferings of a little while. Try to imagine how to uh illustrate this, but here's a a way to think about it. Uh I got this from some other preacher. But imagine a summer job that you have received. A summer job, it's going to be June, July, and August. And during this summer job, June July and August, you are going to be digging ditches. You're going to have a pickaxe and a shovel. You're going to be digging ditches day after day after day, twelve hours a day digging ditches. There will be the heat. and the humidity, and there will be blisters, and there will be mud and bugs, and you will be Well, what will you be getting at the end of it? If you were just getting the minimum wage, it would be a lousy, lousy, lousy job But what if you had this job and you had secret knowledge? You had a secret knowledge that at the end of August, you We get five million dollars. Five million dollars. Now if that was your secret knowledge You might have other people working alongside of you at minimum wage, whatever, and they're complaining and groaning and awful. And uh and someone says to you, how's the job going? You say Not too bad. Especially if it's August, right? It would change your perspective, would it not? That's what Peter says to us. Because we know who we are, we know what we have, we know what's coming, we have a changed perspective. We don't have a passing hope, but we have a living hope. We have a glorious inheritance. And that perspective will be shown at the revelation of Jesus Christ when everything is unfortunate. And that's what he says finally in verses 8 and 9, though you have not yet seen him, you love him. You haven't seen the money yet. It's July. But you believe. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory. Job ain't too bad, is it? Obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Faith. Faith in what It's not sight yet, but it will be seen. The writer of Hebrews says, Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. And I would add, not yet seen, because you have a conviction that they're coming. Peter, the eyewitness of Jesus Christ's resurrection, the one who saw him after after he had denied him, the one who was elevated and raised and given apostolic work to do, Peter the eyewitness, tells them that they must see by faith what they will see. with the eye someday. And then he finally says in verses 10 and following that they are to be envisaged. Envied. These people living in Asia Minor, and you here today are to be envied. Envied. He says in verse 10, concerning this salvation, the one I'm just talking about, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully. Indicating, inquiring, I should say, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glory. What Peter is saying is that prophets and sages of Israel received bits and pieces of the revelatory jigsaw puzzle. The bits and pieces were relevant to them in their time, but those bits and pieces also pointed to something more complete that was coming. So let's take that analogy for a second. Think of it. My wife loves to do these thousand-piece jigsaw puzzles. And she gets the whole thing laid out, turns them all over so you can see the colors and everything. And the thing lays on the table for days There might be a break in the work and she goes and puts a piece here and a piece there. I might come by and look and say, hmm, I think that piece might fit there and I find a piece or two and fit them in. This is what we have. The Old Testament saints and sages were seeing the little bits and pieces but they were coming together for us, coming together for you and me. He says that these things were fitting in and adding in where a picture was taking shape and emerging. And finally Finally, they would see the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. Now we see the picture. You and I see the picture. The picture of God, the Holy Trinity, the Father sending the Son as the servant to redeem his chosen people. We see the suffering one raised up to glory. We see him ascended, reigning, and someday returning as King of kings and Lord of Lords. Verse 12, it was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves, but you. You and me, in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit. sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look. Oh, there's the, there's the future thing. There's the um the envy thing. Angels, it says. The word in in Greek for long, about angels longing to look, the word there is epiphymia. Um in it means hyper desire. Hyper desire. Over desire. Well, it's like when I get um a marrowbone out of my refrigerator and show it to my dog. There's a hyper desire. But we have angels with this hyper desire and it says they long to look. They long to look. And the word look there is the word for stooping. down. Angels are looking down from heaven. They're viewing what God is doing with people like you and me, saving us. And it says therefore angels are extremely interested. The saints and sages of old wanted to know what was coming. They saw and they felt something about the Spirit of Christ in them, showing them the sufferings and glory that would come. They wanted to see it. Angels longed to look into it. And you and I have it. We are to be Envied. Envied. When we lived in Delaware, there was a family that we uh were friends With through our Christian school, the Williams family. And they had nine children We had eight. Well, yes. They had nine. But the Williams family were wealthy. They had an auto mall, the Williams Family Auto Mall, which is on Route 40 at the Maryland-Delaware line. I think you know about that place. In Elfton, Maryland. Um, they had a huge home in Chesapeake City, multi-million dollar house. All the kids had their own room Now they had a seven-car garage, and they always had nice cars, these Williamses. The Williams kids Would talk about, not brag, they weren't that sort, but they would talk about their annual vacations. And they had a condominium at St. Martin in the Virgin Islands Our kids always felt that the Williams kids were lucky kids. Very lucky kids. Our kids drove old beaters and they had to pay for them themselves. Lucky kids, those Williamses. The prophets and the angels are said That about you and me. Lucky kids. Lucky you. You now get to see the complete salvation. You get to live in the born-again creation. That's about to be unveiled. And it says they were serving not themselves, but you, you and me, in the things that have been announced to you in the gospel. Peter says, in effect, everyone who knows anything about this, everyone who's in the know envies you and me. You lucky Christians, you've been born again through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. You have an irrevocable inheritance. You can rejoice in trials, and you are to be envied. for all these things. This is for you. By the very same faith in God, the Holy Trinity. Amen.