Please open your Bibles to the book of the prophet Isaiah, where we'll read verses sixteen through twenty-five. Thus says the Lord, who makes a way in the sea, a path in the mighty waters? Who brings forth chariot and horse, army and warrior? They lie down, they cannot rise, they are extinguished, quenched like a wick. Remember not the former things, nor consider the things of old Behold, I am doing a new thing. Now it springs forth. Do you not perceive it? I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. The wild beasts will honor me, the jackals and the ostriches, for I give water in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, to give drink to my chosen people. the people whom I formed for myself, that they might declare my praise. Yet you did not call upon me, O Jacob But you have been weary of me, O Israel. You have not brought me your sheep for burnt offerings or honored me with your sacrifices. I have not burdened you with offerings, or wearied you with frankincense. You have not bought me sweet cane with money, or satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices. But you have burdened me with your sins. You have wearied me with your iniquities. I, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins The word of the Lord. What a beautiful picture it is to live under King Jesus' rule. Turn in your Bibles to Mark's Gospel and chapter 2, and we'll read the first twelve verses. We read in the prophet uh Isaiah, because as you heard there. The Lord alone will forgive their sins. And the Lord alone has forgiven their sins. And we'll see here today in the Gospel in Mark Jesus forgiving sins. And what must that mean then? Who is Jesus to forgive sin? So Mark chapter 2, and beginning at verse 1, we'll read the first 12 verses. Hear the word of the Lord. And when he returned to Capernaum after some days, it was reported that he was at home. And many were gathered together, so there was no no more room, not even at the door. And he was preaching the word to them And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men. And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him. And when they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven. Now some of the scribes were sitting there questioning in their hearts Why does this man speak like that? He is blaspheming, who can forgive sins but God alone? And immediately Jesus perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves Said to them, Why do you question these things in your hearts? Which is easier to say to the paralytic, Your sins are forgiven? Or to say, Rise, take up your bed and walk, but that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. He said to the paralytic, I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home. And he rose and immediately picked up his bed and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this, the word of the Lord. Let us pray and ask the Lord's help, both in preaching and in hearing this morning. Let us pray together. Our Father in heaven, we acknowledge before you that your word is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. That without it we are blind and stumbling our way through this life and to destruction. But we thank you for your grace to us in the Lord Jesus, to open our eyes to see what great light you have brought into the world, your gospel of grace. And ask now for your help, help in the preaching of it, to be faithful to what you've said, and help in the hearing of it, that your word might be received with glad hearts. And ready to obey, ready to hear, that the fruits and the good fruits of faith and hope and love may be increased amongst us. To the glory of your name. In Jesus' name we ask all this. Amen. Well, I will begin like I did last week, and I'll speak to the youngins first, to our children here with us today. And I want to say this to you, children. I know we have Many really small ones, and it's hard to get a word for a two-year-old. But we have other ones to say this: that sin is like a barrier between you and God. Sin is like a barrier between you and God. For example, think of a little plant. Have you ever done any you know plant projects in class? You take the little plant you put it in its potting soil. Imagine if you took that plant and you put a bucket over it. You know what's going to happen, right? It has been cut off from light, cut off from rain, and it's going to wither and it is going to die. That is what our sin is before God. We build up a wall between them by our sins. That's why God will say in Isaiah 38, 17, I've taken your sins and cast them behind my back. The Lord Jesus Christ, as we see today in the gospel, can take that bucket away. Can take that sin away. And the importance of it then is now God is brought back into your life. Because He is the source of light and of life. And without Him shining upon you. We shall all wither and die. Well, we are starting the second chapter here in Mark's Gospel And let me give you a little bit of the context. We spent the whole first chapter getting introduced to Jesus, those first few verses, identifying him and his baptism as the Son of God and servant of the Lord, the Messiah. And then began to see he really amazed the people. There was nothing on earth like him had happened before, the authority with which he commanded unclean spirits uh diseases and even then we weren't so quick at uh listening to that authority and his popularity has spread But here we get into chapter two, and we begin to see a more sinister side of the story. And I like to maybe think of this as um I think most people here know of the Lord of the Rings, right? The the eye of is it the eye of Mordor, that big red eye, and it turns its gaze on things. Here you get official Israel coming down from all of Galilee and Judea, and they've turned their gaze on Jesus. And they're beginning now to study him to find reason and fault with his ministry so they can get rid of him. I like to think of it as new authority meets old opposition. The new authority of Jesus Christ meeting the old opposition. But it's bigger than just The old way of life under the law with the Pharisees, because God did not set up the Mosaic law to be in opposition to his grace in Jesus Christ, but to point to him. And a transition from him. So the opposition isn't with the law, but what Jesus says about these Pharisees. You listen to your father the devil. What we see is the new kingdom of God, which is really the grace of God present to us in Jesus Christ. That grace now present to us by the Spirit of Christ, as the gospel and the word of Jesus Christ makes them present to us all. Meets the old kingdom of Satan. And that's what we begin to see in Mark chapter two going through Verse 6 in chapter 3, this opposition. Now, this passage here to outline it for you briefly, it's just one episode with three parts. Well I want to make this point just clear and then we'll we'll continue to clarify it as we look at and study these opposition over the number of the n over uh the next number of weeks. At the center of this dispute between Jesus and the scribes and Pharisees, it's a theological dispute. It's not merely about the law. and how to keep it or whatnot. It's about who is God. Because they trip and stumble over the God of grace. They have a hard time coming to terms with the God who is so gracious and kind to sinners, so free with his mercy. Able to have company with them and sit down at table fellowship. So at the center of it is Because the evidence is clear, as we'll see again. The evidence is clear. This is God in the flesh. They can't get over their own prejudices of who God is. And this is a theological dispute. So there's three parts to this text. The first part is, of course, these men coming to Jesus in faith and just pardoning the sins of the paralytic. That's in the first five verses. And then the second part is the evil reasoning by these scribes as they accuse Jesus of blasphemy in their hearts. Those are verses six and seven. And finally, we'll look at verses 8 through 12, Jesus' demonstration of his authority to forgive sins by healing this paralytic man. The message here today is probably, if not the, one of the most fundamental messages of the gospel. Man is in need of forgiveness, and Jesus forgives. Jesus can forgive your sins. That is the clear and evident teaching of this passage. That Jesus Christ can forgive your sins to all who come to him in faith, that his word of pardon is as true and effective as his word of Healing. That's the message here this morning. Man needs forgiveness and Jesus gives it So let's look here at part one. That's the first five verses, which I'll just label for it as faith and forgiveness. Faith and forgiveness. The first thing, if you look here at verse one. is that Jesus is back in Capernaum over the first two verses without any loss of popularity. He'd been on his preaching circuit through Galilee. And by the time he's come back to Capernaum, his hometown, they can't even wait to the Sabbath day to hear his teaching. It's the middle of the week, and they hear he's at his house, probably Peter's house, and they are just storming the door and filling it up And Jesus is taking every opportunity to teach these people, which this is just a small point, but it gives me hope, and probably hope to any minister or any person that the Lord blesses of the popular ministry. The hope that you can still remain faithful, right? Jesus was a man who understood the temptation of popularity. He had all kinds of followings and people calling for his attention, wanting him to do this, present the gospel this way, do these things. And all along we know he never swerved from doing the Father's will. But the main thing we see in these verses, and that sort of sets the context, Teaching probably in Peter's house, a house full, as we'll see in a moment. We see these five men of faith. And I call them men of faith because these men stop at nothing to get to Jesus. Right, faith is confident of success. Or as Jesus will tell us about it later in the gospel, right? Faith is asking as if you already have it. So how do we know this is right true faith of these men? One, it's confident of success, which is evidenced by the fact that it perseveres to the end. Right, this packed house would have been a great test. Easily could have just turned away and thought maybe another time Or any or whatever, but Jesus seems to be a man of nobody's schedule. You don't know if he's going to be there tomorrow or when the next time's going to be. Because you've got to imagine imagine if someone was drilling a hole through this roof right now That man is center of attention. Imagine a shame and embarrassment if Jesus comes before him and says, no. He had absolute faith that Jesus both can and will. And I hope that's your faith of forgiveness and of health, of wholeness, of restoration to life. But not only can Jesus can do it, but he will do it, and you'll stop at nothing to come to him until you get what you ask from him. Because this man did not. How easily you could have come to that house in full uh another day. Let's go back. You know what it's like when you sort of work up the courage to do something and the first thing in your way, you give up. This was a test to this man's faith. Pastor Tyson preached on God testing our faith last Lord's Day evening. This passage, it's no doubt of my mind in God's providence. Why this man faced a house overflowing with people, and they went through the roof to get to him. It was to try their faith. Here is the faith that they had of these four men. I'll use uh some words of a commentator. This is what they thought. If we bring them to Jesus, we'll never carry them anymore, right? If we carry this man to Jesus, we'll never have to carry him again. And that was their faith. And they persevered to the end. And what was Jesus' response? That's the fourth thing we see here. We see Jesus pardoning this paralytic man's sins. Now I wanted you to notice this first word here in verse 5: Son. Or another way to translate it, my son or my child. Now when do we speak like that? When do you speak like that? Have you ever spoken like that to anybody My son, my child. You see, it's hard to say those words right and to stand aloof and back, isn't it? Even as I say them to you, I'm wanting to hunt over and speak them to you. Right? We use these words when we want to remove doubts and fears. From people. So we draw near to them in our language. Right, the kingdom of God Is God in Jesus Christ drawing near to us to assure us of his forgiving love? And you might be asking yourself, well, what was this man afraid of? That Jesus had to draw near to him in very assuring words. He was afraid because this was the doctrine that he grew up with under the rabbis, and they're not completely wrong with it either. They taught the people, unless you are forgiven, or you'll never be healed. Or healing can only begin if you are forgiven. So Jesus knew that this man's, though he had the faith that Jesus could and would heal him, he feared that possibly his sins might get in his way of being made whole. And I want to make the point that Jesus here is not first and foremost trying to make a point to describes. But he is ministering as the Messiah God's grace to this man, who thought he would never get well again because of his past life of sin. This man was a sinner. He he probably had done many things. And he God had brought him to the point in his life where he didn't even have the control of his body. And he was afraid, I'll never get well if my sins aren't forgiven. And that's why Jesus speaks to him these words of forgiveness. And I want to make it pliant to us today. What do you think of our absolution and our service? That Pastor Young getting high and mighty, I'll be honest, I tremble when I do it. To think that such authority would be given to a person, not in personal authority, but in the name of Jesus Christ, whose name I minister to you all in. Where do you hear your pardon? Do we think of this as God's ministering his grace to a burdened sinful conscience who might be amongst us? Those words of forgiveness spoken in our services, are they just, oh, we do those every week and they're just nice formal words? Or do you see this? As evidence, as Jesus will say later, that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. And that this is a part of God's ministering his grace to everybody who will come to Jesus Christ to be made whole. The God, that the Lord Jesus Christ wants them to know, your sins are forgiven. And don't live in fear and burden by them. Okay. That is the first part here. Jesus ministering God's grace to this man. And his greater need. He had a greater need than just the restoration of the use of his limbs He needed to be restored to God. And he needed that relationship to be made whole. And we'll talk more about that. uh later. So let's go on here to part two, verses uh six and verse seven. Here we see the evil reasoning by the scribes. The first thing we see is the text tells us that the scribes were sitting there. Now you might read by that and think, oh that's that's nice. But remember the what's the scene? The house is so full you have to be close if you're going to be sitting and see Jesus and hear Jesus. So there's more of a sinister intent involved than we think. They wanted to be up close, right? Luke tells us that these are scribes and Pharisees from every place in Galilee. From every place in Judea and all the way from headquarters, Jerusalem, have come down here to observe Jesus. They would have been a very intimidating presence to the people. Very intimidating. I could imagine imagine if the first three rows here this morning was all my brethren ministers in the OPC, my theological faculty, right? You better be thinking I'd be dotting my T's and crossing my I's, making sure what I'm teaching is right on the dot. But that's what's happening here with these scribes, both intimidating the people and intimidating the presence. But they want to catch Jesus in his word. They have already come prejudiced against him. I've mentioned before how important John chapter 5 in John's Gospel is to understanding his Galilean ministry. Read John 5 this afternoon after reading this account. You'll see the same message that Jesus already preached here six months ago in Jerusalem when he healed the lame man at Bethesda of 38 years. And told them, go and sin no more, something worse happens to you. And they got in a big tiff about it. And Jesus right spoke those words. I'm just doing what the Father does. And spoke to him about his authority, his identity with God, and they completely rejected that. So these are people that have rejected him already, and they've come down here to cause trouble for him. But the second thing we see here then in verses 6 and 7 is that they accused Jesus of blaspheming in their hearts. Now, they have correct doctrine. There in uh in the verse 7, who can forgive sins but God alone, right? That they are they are theologically correct. They would get good marks on their exam for answering that God alone can forgive sins. That's not the problem with these scribes. The problem with these scribes is they have, for whatever reasons, right, and I don't know their reasons, the text doesn't give us here. And to be honest with you, I think sin is not something rational. So I think it's very hard to come up with good reasons. That's how God speaks to David. Well, we're going to reference David's here in a moment, sin of Bathsheba and Nathan forgiving him. What does God say to David? I gave you every concubine of your of the land and all the women you wanted. Why did you go sin? Would I not have given you more? What's he getting at? What good reason do you have to sin? What good reason do any of us have to sin? What good reason do these men? have to prejudice themselves against the clear evidence because when Luke records this story, these men have already known, Luke records that this isn't the only man who was healed that day But the power of the Spirit was present and probably many people had been healed. But they'd heard reports all over the land. They've had to deal with a man lame for thirty-eight years. Probably as long as they'd been ministering there, they'd pass by this guy in the way into work. But now he's standing. Why are they shutting their eyes to the evidence? Because they have they have already precluded the ideal. Just maybe God might have uh given Jesus this authority. Just maybe. There might be something new here. And what this and what this evidence is telling them, this authority is telling that matches with Jesus' words, that I and the Father are one. But they don't want to hear that. They're not dealing with the evidence of what these miracles mean. Because they have prejudiced their hearts against Jesus And that will be the case of every sinner who won't believe the evidence of the gospel as it's proclaimed in the world. We proclaim an empty tomb. That's the evidence. Nobody's ever found the body. Because it's not there to be found. It's in heaven. Well that's the point. They're prejudiced. They've precluded already that no, this can't be truth. And Jesus even makes it clearer to them. I don't even think it's so much they're stumbling over Jesus pronouncing pardon here. As I mentioned, prophets in Israel did that. David said, Oh Lord, I've sinned against you. And what did Nathan tell David? You will not die. God has put your sins away. That's what Jesus told this man. Your sins are forgiven. In a way, he's doing nothing more than what the prophets of Israel have done. He's doing nothing more. Prophets of Israel have done miraculous healings. So why? Why won't they receive this testimony as at least a prophet? And we know something far greater than a prophet in the things that he does, because they are prejudiced against him. And it's so evident here, because how does this episode end in verse 12? They all glorified God. It was so evident that God was present to them right at that moment. Present to them by the imagine if we just saw a man get up in front of our eyes. They're so blinded by their sin. But how does Jesus, and then let's that brings us here into the third part, which I like to call the proof. Jesus really rebukes them. They censor him for blaspheming, and he censors them for wrong reasoning, for evil reasoning, is what Matthew says. Look here at verses 8 through 12. And the first thing that we see in that verse is one, Jesus knew what they were thinking, and immediately perceiving in his spirit. Now that's an indirect way of stating what. Who can read men's hearts? Who alone not only can forgive sins, but can read men's hearts? God. There's an indirect statement or showing of Jesus' divinity. But then Jesus goes on and he demonstrates both the truth and the effectiveness of his pardon. And how does he do that? Well, he asks the simple question, right? Which is easier? To say that the sins are forgiven, or to say, rise, take up your bed and walk. Now it seems much easier, right? It seems as if anybody could just say, hey, your sins are forgiven, because where's the proof, right? Then maybe what they're thinking, so Jesus played, it seems an easy thing to do, right? Because anybody can say, hey, your sins are forgiven, and how do you validate that? But then he says, well, if that's the easier thing, what about the harder thing? What about the person that can say, rise, take up your mat and walk? And then it happens. What does that mean? Have you ever watched the uh strongman competitions or the Olympic man? You ever see him pick up the Atlas Stones? It's pretty clear the guy that can pick up the biggest one can go pick up the little one, right? The person that can say, Rise, get up, your sins are forgiven, and it happens. If his word is effective there, before everybody to see, well then his word is just as effective in pardoning your sins. But the third thing we see Jesus say here, showing the proof here that he can do this, is he identifies himself to these people as the Son of Man. And we're going to have opportunities to go through Mark's Gospel to look more at that term, but I'll just briefly tell you what it means. Son of Man comes from Daniel chapter 7, verse 13. And in Jesus' context, all the rabbis and teachers of Israel taught this and understood this as a messianic title. So by saying Son of Man, he is identifying himself as the Messiah. But the name Son of Man implies a higher nature. And what do I mean? I I was in the Marine Corps, you're in the Army, right? This could go for anybody fighting, right? And you're fighting in somebody's country and you get some natives to join your side, and there's always a question, right, are they really one of us? But what do you do to assure people that they are, right? You say, well no, he's a real patriot, or he's really one of us, and you have to say he's really one of us because he's something else. He's also not of us because he's a different he's a foreign citizen. So the reason we call Jesus identify himself as the Son of Man, because he's something else too, Son of God. And that's what the title Son of Man means in Daniel 7, as you see the figure in the cloud. God rides on the cloud, coming before the ancient of days. He's called Son of Man, pointing to and assuring us that he's somebody else. And he's the only person who uses it because it's not a it's not a title of honor. But as the gospel teaches us, it's a title of humiliation that God has made himself a man to serve men. And that's probably, as commentators say, the only reason, if you read the Gospels, that term is only ever on his lips. Because it would be quite a thing for humans to call God Son of Man. If he didn't assure them that he was son of man and really become a man. Okay, so that's what the title son of man means. Some commentators as they interpret this wonder Did Jesus actually say these words or is Mark going back and saying and adding these to his readers that they would know, hey, the Son of Man has authority on earth to beg sins? Because Jesus, as you know, is something we'll have to deal with as you go through the gospel Conceals his identity in a way. He doesn't say, I God, pardon your sins to this man. Well, the Pharisees understood what he was doing and charged him. Why doesn't he just say that? Why does he silence the demons from who they're they're happy to testify he's Son of God? Why doesn't he let him do that? That's a great mystery. And Jesus wants to work at it slowly before the people to make the evidence uncontrovertible to them. Come to terms with what I'm doing. If it's too much for you to take the words from my mouth that I'm God. then deal with the things that I'm doing. Because the things that I'm doing speak clearly about who I am Because later in Mark, after Jesus heads to Jerusalem, this title is on Jesus' lips like nine or ten times. And these earlier usage could either be editorial comments by Mark or just a two three list. So I'm kind of of the opinion it's probably Jesus speaking in here only because they understood that he was claiming to forgive sin. But either way, it doesn't matter. The point is that Jesus is the Son of Man. He's God. So he can forgive your sins, is the point. And the fourth thing then is that we see Jesus here, he heals the whole man. He didn't just heal his body. For by the forgiveness of sins, his man is restored to God. And he's healed his whole man. Really, the healing of his body is the visible proof that this man's sins are forgiven. The healing of this man's body was the visible proof, a sign that this man's sins are forgiven. Because we know this man, like every other human being who's gone that way, his body eventually died. So this miraculous healing Was a sign that this man's sins were forgiven. That leads me here to state what I think is the main teaching here. That the good news that Jesus' pardon is both true and effective teaches us that the forgiveness of God is the beginning of health, or the beginning of lasting health. And it contains the promise of all future health. We say it again. The forgiveness of God, God forgiving our sins, that is the beginning. of lasting health and contains the promise of all future health. Let me quote uh words of one commentator say very well. A genuine wholeness only occurs when the breach occasioned by sin has been healed through God's forgiveness of sins. Just having health in our body isn't proof that we have real health. Nor is not having health in our body proof that we don't have real health. Passages in the Bible like Jeremiah 3:22 and Hosea 14, verse 4, they show an interchange between healing and forgiveness. God says, I forgive you. And the next line He says, I've healed you. That is, to be healed is to be forgiven and to be restored to God. Somebody just apply it this way. A sick body may argue for the absence of God in a person's life The sick body may evidence the absence of God because somebody has turned from God and has hardened their heart towards God, and God has plagued their body with sin. This could be both for non-Christians, and it can also be for Christians. If you read James chapter 5, verse 13, you'll see what was the practice. and the early church Christians who had fallen under very sudden illness. I don't think it's talking about just the aging of your bodies. I don't think the healing there, God's going to turn back the clock on everybody and keep these bones, you might say, going forever. But those kind of illnesses that lay you down and people evidently ill. Like go to the elders, right? Anoint you with oil and sign of the Holy Spirit and the prayer of it, not the oil, but the prayer of faith. Believing that Christ can and will heal you, and the Lord will raise you up. And if they've sinned. Right, their sins will be pardoned. So maybe if you know your own self or others, how you can minister God's grace to them in a time of illness. is to examine your heart. Have I put a bucket between me and God? And turn from him. And is this his hand? Encourage you to read Isaiah 38. 17, dealing with how God dealt with Hezekiah. Beautiful. And God dealt with that for his ultimate peace, that he would return to God. But a sick body may not argue For the absence of God in that person's life. There's a prayer request that's gone around this week, and we'll pray for this morning of a sick person who is radiating. The light and warmth of God in their life. Because the Spirit of God is so present to that person. So sin doesn't always argue That there is a barrier between God and that person. So turn towards God and examine your heart. You be such a person ever afflicted, and believe in Jesus' pardon. But also let me comfort you that even if your body withers away, Or even if you feel yourself in a season of not so much spiritual growth and it feels stagnant, that the forgiven soul And this is the importance again, right? Why does God tell us to come to the elders and make confession and make profession of faith? And confession of sin. So that you're not left on your own, wondering, have I really searched my heart? You can use the body of Christ to aid you in searching your heart. And to assure you, because if if they're men of faith and of prayer, and they hear that and know that, you can receive God's pardon with us like we receive it every morning here. With the assurance that those sins are taken away. But even if your body withers or you find yourself in seasons of stagnant spiritual growth, The forgiven soul is in God's light. And I said that our forgiveness of sins also carries with us the promise of all future health. Because God will raise us from the grave and you will have a body that will never know sickness again. But secondly, just to increase Encourage you, remind you, maybe that you are in a season where God is sending roots into the ground and not blossoms out the top. And do not lose heart. But to continue seeking God's face and living in His light Because your sins have been forgiven by your coming to Christ. Let us seek the Lord now in prayer together. Let us pray Heavenly Father, we thank you that you look towards our greatest need and that the real sickness of our souls as sinners As the sin that we have put between you and us. And we thank you for your grace and mercy to us in Jesus Christ. And the power you've given to Him to pardon those sins and to take them out of the way, that our souls, all the days of our life, might bask in your light And in your warmth. And whether we face days of withering bodies and illnesses Lord, if those be for such sins, we thank you and your mercy for afflicting us and calling us to leave those sins. And Lord, may you restore anybody here in such a case, if that be the state of their heart, that they would return to you. And that you would heal them. And Lord, if it not be your will, because you have greater purposes and better purposes in our sufferings. Then encourage them, and we thank you that your forgiveness still changes the nature of what these sufferings are, that they're not under your angry, wrathful hand. But under your kind hand as our Father, to work a purpose and a fruit that we could never fathom. And so help those who be in such a time. To persevere in their faith and to wait patiently until, if you do, restore them to health. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.