The scripture reading is Psalm fifty-two. Listen, this is the Word of God. To the choir master, a masculine of David, when Doag the Edomite came and told Saul, David has come to the house of Ahimelech. Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man? The steadfast love of God endures all the day. Your tongue plots destruction like a sharp razor, you worker of deceit. You love evil more than good, and lying more than speaking what is good Right. O deceitful tongue. Land of the living. The righteous Shall see and fear, and shall laugh at him, saying, See the man who would not make God his refuge, but trusted in the abundance of his riches, and sought refuge in his own destruction. But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever. I will thank you forever because you have done it. I will wait for your name, for it is good. In the presence of the godly. The word of God. The title of tonight's message, which didn't make it into the bulletin because I was late providing it, is a vivid memory. A vivid memory. Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, what in the world shall we make of this psalm, my dear congregation? So many questions will not down. Who is this mighty man? What's going to happen to him, and when will it happen? Who is like a green olive tree? Could that be David himself? And whatever does that designation mean? You're going to have to put on your thinking caps tonight, I'm afraid, because the answers to these and perhaps other questions are not apparent. When you are faced with Psalm 52, I faced them myself in preparation of this sermon. And it took me four or five days, literally, before I could say at last, I think I get it. The breakthrough came when I paid careful attention, of all things, to the heading of the psalm. You know those words in caps before verse 1? To the choir master, a maskil of David, when Doag the Edomite came and told Saul, David has come to the house of Ahimelech. So now, brothers and sisters, let me read that story, that true story, to you out loud. It's anything but a bedtime story. Let me warn you. It's history, sacred history, and we've got to let it sink into our mind If we're going to understand tonight's Psalm. I suggest that you don't open your Bibles to it But rather sit back and listen carefully as I read 1 Samuel 22, 6 through 19. Now Saul heard that David was discovered. And the men who were with him, Saul was sitting at Gibeah under the Tamaras tree on the height with his spear in his hand. And all his servants were standing about him. And Saul said to his servants who stood about him, Hear now, people of Benjamin Will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards? Will he make you commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds That all of you have conspired against me. No one discloses to me when my son makes a covenant with the son of Jesse None of you is sorry for me, or discloses to me that my son has stirred up my servant against me to lie in wait as it is this day Then answered Doeg, the Edomite, who stood by the servants of Saul. I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob to Ahimelech, the son of Atob. And he inquired of the Lord for him and gave him provisions and gave him the sword of Goliath, the Philistine. Then the king sent to summon Ahimelech, the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house. The priests who were at Nob. And all of them came to the king. And Saul said, Hear now, son of Ahitob. And he answered, Here I am, my lord. And Saul said to him, Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse, in that you have given him bread and a sword, and have inquired of God for him? him, so that he has risen against me to lie in wait as at this day. Then Ahimelech answered the king, And who among all your servants is so faithful as David? Who is the king's son-in-law and captain over your bodyguard and honored in your house? Is today the first time that I have inquired of God for him? No. Let not the king impute anything to his servant. or to all the house of my father, for your servant has known nothing of all this, much or little. And the king said, You shall surely die, Ahimelech, you and all your father's house. And the king said to the guard that stood about him, turn and kill the priests of the Lord. Because their hand also is with David, and they knew that he fled and did not disclose it to me. But the servants of the king would not put out their hand to strike the priests of the Lord. Then the king said to Doag, You turn and smite the priests And Doeg the Edomite turned and struck down the priests, and he killed on that day 85 persons who wore the linen Ephod. And Nob, the city of the priests, he put to the sword. Both man and woman Child and infant, ox, donkey, and sheep, he put to the sword Psalm twenty fifty-two is addressed to the choir master So it is apparently to be understood as part of the recommended worship material for Judah, God's covenant nation, to use. It should be, therefore, an often selected hymn at that time. But even more importantly, it is said to be a maskil of David. What's that? Hebrew scholars tell me that it probably means a contemplation of David. It's a setting forth of David's recollection of a particular slice of history, the story of which I just read to you. out loud. That's the point of the when in the heading. David some years later, after he had become king, perhaps lying in bed Found himself unable to shake from his memory that faithful, fateful day when 85 priests of Yahweh, together with the entire city of Nob, Were slaughtered. The mention of Doag the Edomite, who served as King Saul's executioner on that gruesome occasion Is relatively unimportant. It merely identifies the particular time when it took place What matters is that it happened, why it happened, and what it portends. Psalm 52 is a poetic but powerful account of the sense That David, the man after God's own heart, made of that horrendous event that totally besmirched the history of Judah. And Psalm 52 teaches us that the wicked, who trust in their own ability to destroy the good, will be themselves cut off from life. By God, whose steadfast love endures forever, whose life will be maintained forever through his promised Messiah, the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. So I have just two points to make. And the first one is to speak of the nature and destiny of the world. That you have in verses one through seven of our psalm. These verses describe the nature of this mighty man, a worker of deceit, whose tongue plots destruction like a sharp razor He boasts of evil more than good, and loves lying more than speaking what is right. Ever guilty of loving all words that devour This person deserves to be addressed by the stinging epithet, O deceitful tongue. He's not human. He's one whole lying tongue. The seed of the serpent who infected the whole race in the beginning with that fateful question, remember Did God actually say? You know, there's a sense, my friends, in which the ninth commandment Is in fact the summary commandment. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. The Lord God was Eve's most significant neighbor. And Satan was accusing him, God, of being a Liar. Buying that lie, Eve transgressed and fell, Adam with her, and their seed. Together with them. Sin, wickedness, is characterized by nothing so much as this. It's calling God a liar. And despising all his words. It's the original sin. From it comes total avoidance of all his commands and unashamed violation. Of all he forbids. That's the exact picture David paints for us as in his memory he recalls the events of that horrendous day. In the city of Nob, when King Saul and Doag the Edomite murdered 85 faithful church officers Of Yahweh's covenant. What they did was to David a cardinal example of wickedness. It all started with a lie. That David was conspiring together with Ahimelech to bring about the death of King Saul. Not true. In fact, time after time, when David had opportunity to slay him, he refused to do so Because Saul was God's anointed king. Neither was Ahimelech guilty of that slanderous accusation brought forth by Doag And acceded to by Saul. And that lie was followed with gross bloodshed of innocent victims. But what they forgot was that the steadfast love of God endures all the day They trusted in what they had by way of weapons in their hands and in their arrogant ability to destroy anything standing in their way to dominance over Judah and its inhabitants. But what they forgot was that a small, seemingly insignificant Near Eastern clan of Abraham's children Was in fact the object of Yahweh's indestructible and never-ending covenant love. Love they could never extinguish Even by wiping out the entirety of God's faithful human instruments, those eighty-five clergymen. Together with their high priest. Yes, David, that sheep herder from Bethlehem, killed Goliath, the Philistine giant, with one small stone. These were Yahweh's beloved, and his steadfast love for them will protect them too, even in spite of the destruction accomplished by wicked men. In contrast, the destiny of Saul, Doeg, and all enemies of God's church will not escape God's judgment But God will break you down forever. He will snatch and tear you from your tent. He will uproot you from the land of the living. Actually, the Bible doesn't record the fate of Deleg, the Edenite. But we know that he who served idols, like the rest of fallen men. Outside of God did perish and perish eternally. But what of King Saul? Well, the sacred record chronicles that both he and his three sons were hard-pressed in battle, defending attack by the Philistines at Mount Gilboa. The scene is depicted in the last chapter of 1 Samuel. His sons all killed. Saul, when wounded by the archers, Committed suicide by falling on his own sword. Later, his body, mutilated by the Philistines, was taken away by the remnants of the Judean army, and his bones. Were buried under the Tamarask tree in Jabbeth. And so ends 1 Samuel. Thus was ended also the life. Of this tall, handsome, and supposedly mighty man of Judea, who was supposed to make the kingdom of Judea. Like the other nations, having strong and victorious forces able to protect them from the advances of the pagans surrounding nations. But he proved to be a man who would not make God his refuge, but trusted in the abundance of his riches. and sought refuge in his work of destruction, his work of destruction, as the final words of verse 7, may be rendered. Thus Saul proved to be not the kind of king that Judea needed. That role would pass on to his successor, Daniel. David, a man truly after God's own heart. Though himself a sinner, as the Bible doesn't hesitate to make abundantly The son of Jesse was, by the grace of the Lord, a man saved from the nature and destiny that was and would have been. His. David was one for whom the steadfast love of God endured all the day. He, together with others, faithful members of a covenant of grace, secured by Yahweh, the true and living God, were preserved from destruction. Oh, they too died physically one day, like the rest of mankind. But their eternal spirits were preserved from separation. From Yahweh, their God. Yes, David, Himelech, and indeed the rest of the covenant nation of Judea. Were not annihilated. They together with their progeny persist to this very day. Psalm 52 goes on to tell the rest of the story. A remnant will remain. Though the entirety of the human race fallen into In a state of sin deserves eternal destruction, there will ever be a church of the living God faithful to his covenant of grace. By which he has redeemed a people no longer characterized as the wicked, but as the righteous That brings us to the second and final point. The nature and destiny of the righteous This designation of certain people as righteous is not unique to Psalm 52. Where they are mentioned in verse 7 as seeing the destiny of the wicked and are said to fear. Fear what? Fear that their fate will be the same as that of the wicked man described in the first part of the psalm. For they know full well that they too are guilty before God against as of as speaking Sinners against his law, and no more deserved life than did Saul and Doag. For instance, In Psalm 92, verses 12 through 14, we read that the righteous flourish like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon. They are planted in the house of the Lord. They flourish in the courts of our God. They still bear fruit in old age. And they are ever full of sap and green. Then the psalm adds to this remarkable assessment these words. To declare that the Lord is upright. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him Do you appreciate just how amazing that statement is? God is Himself righteous, and yet He still declares certain sinners Righteous. How can you make sense of that? Seems inconsistent, doesn't it? David in our psalm tonight picks up the same mind-boggling affirmation, this time applying it to himself personally. Listen to verse eight, but I am like a green olive tree in the house What in the world allows David to distinguish himself thusly from the wicked, whose destiny is dryness and death? He tells us, I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever. I will thank you forever, he says to Yahweh. Because you have done it. Yes, God has done it. He has done something to make it possible For him to declare that David, clearly himself a sinner, is going to escape eternal death when such will unmistakably fall Upon the wicked. To put it another way, how could the righteous God do that without himself being unrighteous? Is there one standard of judgment that applies to all, or are there two? Only one, my dear friends. Only one Well then whatever has God done to make David a green olive tree Not any old tree, but an olive tree. Why is that genus of plant picked as representative of what has happened today Well, let me tell you. Because the olive tree in Palestine is unlike any other growing tree Thing. For one, it provides food and fuel for people. And for another, apparently, it doesn't die. It is remarkably resistant to drought and disease and seems to live forever. The symbolism of an olive tree persists throughout the Bible, particularly in the Old Testament. Jeremiah, for instance, says that the man who trusts in the Lord will have green leaves. Undoubtedly referring to the olive tree. And the same prophet says that Israel, the covenant people of Yahweh, has been called this name by the Lord. A green olive tree, beautiful in fruit. And then Psalm 37, the wicked man is described in these words, saying, He spreads himself like a green tree, but like Nebuchadnezzar, he will be cut down. Now, in our psalm tonight, David says that he is like a green olive tree. He means that he will not suffer eternal death. He is delivered from the destiny that will befall the wicked. And why? Because he trusts in the steadfast love of God. Now that love is consistent with his justice. And the way this mystery is unraveled appears as we listen. To the words of Jesus Christ in Luke twenty-three, sixteen through thirty-one The words of Jesus Christ to bystanders along the Via Dolorosa. The way of the cross. Listen. And as they led him away, they seized one Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country And laid on him the cross to carry it behind Jesus. And there followed him a great multitude of the people and of women who were mourning and lamenting for him. But turning to them, Jesus said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children For behold, the days are coming when they will say, Blessed are the barren and the wounds that never bare, and the breasts that never submissed, nursed. Then they will begin to say to the mountains, fall on us, and to the hills, cover us. For if they do these things When the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry Do you get it? Here Jesus, who knows his Old Testament quite well, declares himself. To be that green olive tree. Here is the gospel, my beloved congregation. God dries up the green tree in death and then restores him in resurrection so that he might make the dry trees flush. Jesus dies on the cross so that all who believe in him might have eternal life. David is blessed, looking forward to Jesus, who is truly the green tree The one through whom God has done it. And in union with that Messiah whose name David didn't even know, David is able to say, and because of it, I am. Like a green olive tree. This is how God, who is righteous, yet pardons all his believing people. You who believe. Because he has punished Jesus Christ in your place. He cut down the green tree so that you might live. If you have put your trust in that green tree. wonderful Savior Jesus. In conclusion then, I want to read verse nine of our Psalm. I will thank you forever because you have done it. I will wait for your name. For it is good in the presence of the godly. That's why you come to church. In the presence of the godly, to wait for his name. Now I ask you, congregation, listeners to the dread and grim reality of the nature and destiny of the wake And hearing the gracious nature and destiny of those who are righteous in union with Jesus Christ by faith. Have you put your trust in that name? And do you ever thank him for what he has done for you? Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord, what would have been a mystery to us and we couldn't quite sort it out? Jesus explains to us in just those words on the way to the cross: I am the green olive tree. And in union with me you will live and not be cut down eternally. Hallelujah. Blessed are you, eternal God, for your plan of salvation and that you have been Please to apply it to us, unworthy people, who are sinners like the rest, but who by your Holy Spirit's work in our hearts have led us To trust in Jesus. Amen