So evident, so clear, Christ taking a man who was dumb, that means he can't speak, because his tongue was tied, unable to articulate human speech So much is imagine right if you couldn't communicate clearly your tongue. We would we would say that's not a f a full human life, right? Being fully alive, the inability to uh use our fun in the ways that uh God made them to be. Praise Him to uh build others down, love people with all the things we we use our mouths to Or imagine right if we couldn't hear. And many suffer under that. And we understand that to be not a part of the life given to us in God's original creation. We know, as Jesus tells us, not just because we're sinners, but ultimately to give God's glory, people have these things. But we see Jesus so clearly, right, taking his finger Putting it in the man's view. Now do we we don't we know that he doesn't need the faith. We also think so clearly taking this on his own slide that don't ask me why, I d I don't know. I didn't spend time this week looking there. If you want to look it up. I don't know why he used his own saliva. Then why bum that other person? Don't ask. But he did it. Well we know he doesn't need a saliva Yet he uses these mean, his finger and the ear. Fly on his but what's the result? Five A healed tongue, a tongue untied, able to speak and praise and glorify God and and use it, maybe in a way he's never used it, or in a way in which he lost it. I don't know how that works. From ears to hear. Again, the all the noises, right? How many of you you know you just just hits you, you're in this world, you go to a place you familiar you've been to before or a new place and the sights and sounds overwhelming and you're so thankful to be alive again, right? Because the creation is so glorious Yes, there's much to be mourn about in the men, and yet there's still a goodness and a glory so around us and we hear the sounds of our environment. Things and here this man has it restored to him. But who did that? Christ. The law of Moses didn't do that. Do this didn't do that. The point was Christ view. And what's going on in uh Second Corinthians is uh well they seem to lost sight a little bit of that And there's a reason because of some super, which are really false apostles, came preaching a different Jesus, which is really not Jesus these believers and Paul has to defend that. But what Jesus did in making that man alive, restoring life to him, Paul says That's what he did to you. Now we didn't read these verses, so I'll read them real quick at the beginning of chapter three. Paul asks, are we beginning to commend ourselves again? We need as some do letters of recommendation to you or from you You yourselves are our letter. You want to know whether we're God's ministers or not? Let me remind you, Congress Corinthians, right? You are our letter of recommendation. You yourselves written on our hearts right to be known and read by all. You show that you are a letter from Christ. What does he mean? He means Go to Corinth pre-Paul's evangelistic missionary trip, no church. No people washed from their sins, no people leaving the temples and idols and living in sin and debauchery and evil and wickedness to now a church of Jesus Christ, saints justified by God's grace, washed by God's grace, and dwelt by the Spirit, and Paul says Christ wrote that letter and he did it through our ministry as me and Sylvanus and Timothy and other ministers of the gospel and and possibly right even as y as converted people shared that good news with family members and friends. They shared that good news to the ministry of men again, see the means through which then Christ does work. So what we We see so clearly in the gospel, Christ singing life, we must always remember He does it in His church as Christ brings us to life Yes, he'll use the ministry of men and ministry of women as they share this good news written down here and faithfully impart the message of Christ, but it's Christ working through His message according to the new covenant by his Spirit, writing his law in our hearts, bringing us life. Now the purpose is uh of these uh verses is Paul wants to reclaim these Christians back to his apostolic authority, but more than that, just back to his apostolic gospel. They have turned to another one and began listening to another one about how to go on in perfection, how to uh live morally and pleasing to God and sought it through the law of Moses as some were preached to them, you need to do it through the law of Moses And Paul's willing to recover them to the gospel of Christ. So I suppose this morning may the goal be here to uh if any of you have turned through another gospel Finding some other way to perfect yourself in holiness than the gospel of Jesus. May this recover you back to the gospel of Christ May it also keep you, if you're there, centered and squared on Christ and rejoicing in the lasting glory, as we read, that He is imparting to you As he, as the Son of God, imprints his own image upon. That's the lasting war. The transformation taking place in our midst, day in in day out as the Son of God transforms you by His grace, by His Spirit, into His Lord So let me that's just introductions. Let's praise it. Let me see if I can introduce and launch into what I want to look at with you this morning is Uh I was on vacation last week, you know, and the Olympics were going on and I was at my parents' house and we've got a cable TV we can watch that and so I watched some of the Olympics. And I was struck by How glorious some of it was. Uh one of the events I watched was the men's four by four hundred relay. You know, four laps around the track. It was a tenth of a second victory by the American athletes. I I I'm gonna butcher the name of the country. I think it's Botswania. Apologize if I got that wrong. To anybody from there and But I think it was about twenty but it was so neck and neck and that third guy and the way he expertly got to the front and cut the curve according to the rules and stayed there and passed it off to the last guy who's running lead the whole time is just Wonderful to see that exertion of man's strength and that glory as of them being crowned as a victory, but then thinking, ten years from now, they're not going to be running like that, are they? It just got me thinking about everything in this world is second best goal. There's a real glory to it. There is a real glory to the old covenant. Paul makes it clear. But it wasn't a lasting. There's a real glory to the things that transpire uh in this world. Remember Satan tempted Jesus with that. Look him up Show them all the glory of the kingdoms. If you've traveled around the world and seen these kingdoms and seen the impressive things they build and the things they do and the beauty of their kingdoms and way they harvest its power and what they're to produce and do, there's a glory. here in this world. There's a glory in our actions born in this world. But it's secondary. We can't focus only on it. Because much of it's Sad just really comports to the pride and arrogancy sin of Adam in man And what man can achieve or man's name apart from God. What we can do to get on without him because of the things we can do. And it's not the true glory of Christ, the humble servant who suffered and died. You see, the world rejected that life And said no to that human being. And God said yes to him. Raised him and said, No. That's glory. Going to the cross Denying yourself and laying down your life. Because you love me. Jesus makes clear because you love him. God asked it because he loves us. It's that's the lasting glory. It's the glory of cruciform lives, self-denying lives. That's the glory that doesn't fade. And you read about it when you read, right, the history of the church. You read about and read biographies, and we just had a prayer meeting for a missionary, so some of this sermons will be encouraged towards you can see from the title, Able Ministers, which by the way means more than just me, but all of us So we'll talk about sharing this good news and what's said here about it. You read about it in biographies of missionary, you read about it in biographies of mission. You see it every day in the church when you see humble acts of service Self-denying love. And you may not even be aware of it. Because the thing about self-denying love, you're not out to draw attention to yourself. You're just doing it. God sees it. God doesn't forget, and he knows that's the lasting glory. Glory of this world, but second death. Faith. And to be effective ministers of the new covenant, effective witnesses to Christ, we must be focused on the coming glory, the lasting glory. Make it our re live for Christ, like Christ, in Christ, by the power of Christ. I want to look at verse six with you. So 2 Corinthians chapter 3 at verse 6. That's what I want to focus our attention on the rest of the time this morning. Chapter 3 of 2 Corinthians verse 6. Let me read it once. Who has made us sufficient to be ministers of a new covenant? Not of the letter, but of the spirit, for the letter kills, the spirit gives life You see really two things there. You see what God has done? God has made us sufficient to be ministers of a new covenant, not of leather, not of the letter, but of the spirit, and why he's done it. For the letter kills, but the spirit gives life. So we're going to look at those two things. What God has done and why he has done it. As I said, Paul is having to defend himself against uh others who've come into the church styling themselves, self-styling themselves as apostles. Puffing themselves up, but sharing a different message. And Paul has just said that you guys, the church You're my letter of recommendation. Because God was pleased through my ministry. Christ was pleased through my sharing the gospel with you to work and to transform you. And then he begins there in verse 4, lest lest his opponents, because the the thing about 2 Corinthians is Paul's having to do this dance. Because he's got people there saying, Paul just builds himself. Paul's just commending himself. He's got to deal with people who are just against him. Have you ever been in a situation right where people twist every word you say and put the worst light on it and spin on it? That's what Paul's dealing with here. So he has to affirm We are sufficient for these things. He he asked that question back in chapter 2. Guess I should go back there. I know context is really important, isn't it? So let's back up even a little bit further, real quick, to the end of chapter two Paul says, Thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal procession, and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of God or of Him everywhere. So if you want to if you want to like maybe sum up uh evangelism in a word uh ever since pentecost and the in the gospel witness to christ going out from jerusalem to samaria uh Judea, Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the end of the earth, as it still goes today. It is spreading above the knowledge of God to us, building Christ But see, the world doesn't have it. We re saw in Psalm nineteen the world has a knowledge of God. Heavens declares glory. So every human being born in this world has that And they know that knowledge of God as he screams to them and says to them every day, Look at my glory, I'm your maker, the one who put these heavens over you. Me, me, me, worship me The law is all around us. It says the law is even in our heart. And and human beings know that as their conscience is condemned when they don't live even up to their own standards. So the world's filled with this knowledge of God, but it's the knowledge of God in Christ that the world doesn't have. That you can't get by just being born into the world that must be spoken to. And that's why it's called a mystery. Mystery doesn't mean it's hidden anymore. Mystery means it was once hidden, but now revealed and it only God's the only one who can reveal it God has revealed. And we have that in the New Testament. Evangelism is taking the knowledge of God as He's revealed Himself to us in Christ. Father, Son, and Spirit, the God man Jesus Christ, His atoning sacrifice, laying down his life, reconciling to Father. Us to his Father by His death, rising in glory and sending the Spirit, who is the King and Lord, reigning and coming in the end of judge, and who will save all who call upon us, spreading that good news of God's grace His love, his willingness to give and save all and whoever would turn to him. are doing. That's what we came and did in forint. We're the aroma of Christ to God. That's what he means. We're sh we're we're making Christ known and the knowledge of God in Christ known. Among those who are being saved, among those who are perishing. To one a fragrance from death to death, to another a fragrance from life to life. Many ask that question, right, who's sufficient for these things? You know. The gospel tells us, right, the Son of God Who has eternally resided in the bosom of the Father, who knows the Father, declared the Father, right? He's sufficient for these things, right? Jesus is definitely sufficient to reveal God, Himself being the Son. But he is sufficient. Anybody in this world, just by how he speaks and lives and acts, right, he reveals God because he's the word of God. He is sufficient. But then comes the question. But us who don't know God, don't want to know God, who's so weak, and we get the frailty of our mind, so slow to understand even Jesus has earthly things, how about heavenly things? But us Can we really, truly, effectually spread abroad the knowledge of God, being one a saver of life to those who believe? A savor of death even to those who don't. Can we really do this? Paul says he raises that question because there were those who were saying they were, but they weren't really And Paul's saying here now in verse 4, such confidence is the confidence that we have through Christ towards God, not that we're sufficient ourselves to claim anything is coming from us Right, but our sufficiency is from God. And Paul says, Yeah, we are sufficient. We apostles, all true Christians, you are sufficient for this Because your sufficiency comes from God. Then Paul says, because God's made us sufficient. Let's start first with that first part. God has made us sufficient. What does it mean to be sufficient? Be sufficient, it means be adequate for a purpose. Now if you've ever seen an info commercial, If you don't know what I'm talking about, an info commercial is where there's some great new product that's going to change your life, and they present it in such a way that they make clear to you that everything else other than this is completely inadequate So they uh take your normal run-of-the-mill paper towel that you can buy, uh the cheap roll or whatever, and they have some massive spill and they wipe it up and they show you it just rips and shreds in a big gaping hole and doesn't do anything. completely insufficient, but you need the superabsorbent multure or super absorbent multi-fiber whatever patent pending cloth that they have that's gonna absorb everything that ever gets spilled and it'll make your life so wonderful That's what it means to be sufficient, adequate to meet a purpose. And Paul is saying this purpose, spreading abroad, knowledge of God in Christ. Yeah, we're sufficient. Don't look at me. See you Corinthians are so prone, always at looking at man. Because you've had your Greek philosophers. All of us were so prone to look out with thee. I I I I I didn't. As you know I moved my study and I've not hung my things back up in my study yet In my old study I had on my wall all my diploma, right? And my licensure and my ordination things. I'm half tempted to say What is all that, right? Because it's too easy to think we're sufficient because we've been to a seminary, we've gone to a Bible study, we're done whatever, and we lose sight that God alone By his calling of us and converting us makes us sufficient. These things are fine. Unless they get rid of license or nation. My simple point is we all can be tempted Trust in other things and find sufficiency in other things, but in God, who's reconciled us to Himself. Who wants this task to be done, who's called this church to do it, I think we can trust that he himself will make us Sufficient. So God has made us sufficient. Well, if God has made us sufficient, then we can say with Paul in verse 4, we're confident. Who here is confident in evangelist? You all should say, I should see two hands. I should see two hands, right? Paul's telling you, I evangelize, there's you, this church. I have confidence, but not in me. We should all say, yeah, I have confidence in God. See, we're again we've got to get out of the mindset of the new covenant is God, His grace, His Spirit, active and operative in and through us, all those whom he reconciled to Himself, everybody who believes in Jesus. We can have confidence in spreading abroad that knowledge of God as we live as Christians in this world, in this county, in this place, and wherever else we go. We can be confident. And and this is really, I think, where Paul would say that confidence comes from. First and foremost, it comes from our calling We know all these apostles were called by God, even hand-picked and chosen for. We know that every Christian himself is hand-picked by God, chosen, and called by him effectually. But if God has revealed himself to you, which he has of your cult, convinced you of your sin and misery Illumin your minds with the knowledge of who Jesus Christ is as your substitute, as your surety, as your mediator, in whom you are to trust forever your soul, for everlasting life. He's revealed that knowledge to you, renewed your will, persuading and enabling you to receive Christ. That effectual call by which brings about your conversion, that's where that sufficiency comes from. Because if I could put it in a little phrase that maybe will help you remember it, saving faith, which is receiving and resting upon Christ for salvation, right? Saving faith enables one for serving faith. Because what we are serving the world with, right? Saving faith is the faith by which we believe in Christ. Serving faith, we use faith. Faith is used in scriptures in these two different ways. One, the faith by which you actually believe, so your trust, your belief. But faith can also mean the object that you believe in, the faith. And what we mean, and then we say, I believe in God the Father. So saving faith, the faith by which we receive Christ and rest upon him for salvation, enables us for serving faith. And the faith that we are serving people with is that faith that saved us, right? You don't have to, you're not sharing a new message with people. Let me see if I can put it this way to help you with that. If you're a professing believer, to to be a communicate member in Christ's church, right you have to acknowledge and profess before this body, I know who Jesus is. And I trust in this Jesus revealed in his gospel for my salvation. And I'm relying on his grace and his grace alone. That's the saving message. That saving faith that you have is now the serving faith that you go out and tell others about. This faith that saved me, Jesus The Savior can save you. Trust in Him, right? Is that I adequately get that point across? I don't know. This is very important because confidence in evangelism is an issue But let's be confident in God, who has called us, brought us to a true knowledge of Himself, true knowledge that he gives to every believer whom he calls. Every believer has that knowledge of Jesus. That saving faith enables us, serving faith. As we live out that faith every day, share that same message. A message that saved me can save you. Let me tell you that. I'm a sin. You're a sin. Let me tell you about God's love and grace and reveal in Jesus. And I'll say more in a minute, so I won't go through the gospel here yet. That's the message that God has made us sufficient to share. It's all in God. Pray about it. I was uh this week trying to do this with my neighbor, trying to live this out, and I came across my neighbor and um we're talking, I haven't met him, he's uh he's only there on the weekends, it's a vacation house, he's down there more now. And uh uh I I'm just praying the whole time, Lord help me to to share the message with him, right? And he says, Well Finally my uh my health got so bad I've had to retire. I said, that's my intro. Yeah, we're all sick, aren't we, and dying? He said, took the bait. Yep, we're all dying. I said, but one, Jesus. Shared Jesus with them. Told them about Jesus. And I asked him if he was a Christian, if you want to be a Christian. He said, no, I'm not. He said, by the way, I'm not going to lie, I heard you were a pastor. Oh my god, sorry. But uh he you know what he told me? This is where we get a little bit of that uh Paul says it's it don't think you're always gonna be a Roman to life. He told me he would prefer to die than be a Christian He actually preferred death. That's how much he didn't want to be a Christian, right? Wanted me to probably stop talking about it. But Paul says, right, true apostolic ministry doesn't mean everybody's going to believe. True apostolic ministry means just sharing faithfully the message of life of Jesus. But Jesus can save every sinner. The message that He died and you can identify with that death and have your sins forgiven and live in the power of His life. Just share that. Paul God that. Maybe if I can put it this way. If you are a person here this morning concerned with evangelism, let me ask you this question. Did you care about evangelism before or after you were converted? Yeah. It's God's new heart. It's God's love and concern and care for this world and sinners that's driving you to do it. So our sufficiency is not in ourselves. I guess what I'm trying to say is you can trust in your call as Christians And relying upon the Spirit in prayer to faithfully set before people the same message that you rely on, give them that same message. The same Christ you are trusting to save you. Share the same Christ them. God's made us sufficient. God's made us sufficient, and we can have confidence never in ourselves. The confidence that God, as we rely upon him constantly, we can faithfully share knowledge of God that he's revealed in Christ. Those we have But secondly, what what has God made us uh sufficient for, competent for? And Paul said he's made us competent sufficient to be ministers and Since that has uh a technical term in the church ministers of the word, and that's part of it. The word is diaconoi, which also just means servants. And Paul's just meaning God's made us servants. I'm going to use instead of ministers, I'm going to use the word servant here They mean exactly the same thing. God has made us sufficient to be servants And what has God made us sufficient to be servants of a new covenant? Well let's stop here real quick and talk about what is what does Paul mean by a new covenant In Hebrews chapter eight and verse thirteen, Paul writes, preacher writes In speaking of a new covenant, he God makes the first one obsolete. Now in the context there, that comes after Paul just quoted Jeremiah 31 Verses 31 to 34, where God says, Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel, with the house of Judah. Not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out to the land of Egypt. So the old covenant is the covenant God made with Israel when he brought them out of Egypt unto himself and made with them out Mount Sinai. And the new covenant he goes on and says is this And then first he tells you why I'm making a new covenant. They did not continue in my covenant. The letter kills. We'll get to that. And so I showed no concern for them, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. You're a Christian, believe in Christ. This is the covenant you have with God. This is that new relationship that you have established with your God, guaranteed by his word. Now this is the new covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my laws into their minds. I will write them on their hearts. I will be their God and they shall be my people. They shall not teach each one his neighbor and his brother, saying, No, the Lord, they all shall know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them. For I will be merciful towards their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more. Paul is saying, that covenant through the preaching of Christ is what God then Christ then used to convert you and work in you those promises of writing that law, giving you the knowledge of God, of sealing that to you as believers in Christ. So the old covenant or the new covenant Paul's talking about is in contrast to the old covenant, the one made uh with Israel at Mount Sinai. You can read about the Exodus 24 And Paul says we are made servants of a new covenant, and then he defines it more closely to make clear what he means. Not of the letter, but of the spirit. What does Paul mean when he says, not of the letter, but of spirit? We read as our Old Testament reading this morning from Exodus 34. Paul was using that in this passage to talk about the glory of the Old Covenant. We read there in chapter 34, in verse 28. So he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights. He neither ate bread nor drank water, and he God wrote on the tablets The words of the covenant, the ten commandments. So Paul says not of the letter, he means As he says back in verse 3 of this chapter, you show yourselves to be a letter from Christ delivered by us. Written not with ink, but the Spirit of the Living God, not on tablets of stone, but on the tablets of human hearts Which he says again in verse seven that the ministry of death carved in letters on stone came with such glory. So when Paul says not of the letter, he means old covenant versus new covenant. was given to Israel, to God's people, in its codified s summary form of what we know as the Ten Commandment. Two tablets of stone and which God Himself wrote upon and then gave to Israel. Paul says that's not the covenant that we're ministering to people. And maybe if I can put it this way, Paul's saying we're not going around the world and preaching Moses. Paul's saying we're going around the world and we're preaching Jesus. And we're going around the world and we're preaching Christ. And God, according to his promise in the new covenant, Through Christ, the risen exalted Christ, by the power of the Spirit is then writing and transforming and regenerating and renewing the hearts of his called and chosen people. Let me see if I can also illustrate it this way from Paul's letter to Galatians, because they were dealing with the same issue of Judaizers. In chapter 3 and Galatians, Paul says, Oh foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. So you get a sense of what Paul preached through the gospel. Crucifixion of Jesus Christ, of course, telling them why. Preaching Christ crucified. And then he says, let me ask you only this, right? Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Or you see none of you. None of it. And not one soul ever has or ever will receive the Holy Spirit by doing works of the law. You see, because doing works of the law isn't effect saying I don't need the Spirit. God told me what I should do, and I'll just do that, and he'll be pleased with it. Well saying that letter kills. We'll talk about that next. How does somebody receive the Holy Spirit? Through the preaching of Christ. Christ crucified for you for sinners. Son of God loved me and gave himself for me. It's believing that message and identifying with him crucified That union with the risen Christ, of which then we receive the Holy Spirit, and He works upon it So God, beloved, has not only made us sufficient so we can be competent and confident as Christians, shedding the knowledge of God, He's also made us servants, right? So that's serve. See the thing about a servant, right, is you don't want servants getting in the way. If you've ever gone out, if you have a birthday celebration, a wedding celebration, or some celebration, and you Book a nice table at a restaurant and you go out and eat there, you know how quickly good servants or bad servants can make and break a meal, right? And good servants And part of good service is you you hardly even know the servant's there. He's just keeping drinks with the making sure things are living, making sure your needs are met, but he's not distracting. from what's happening with you meeting and gathering and celebrating for whatever person. Nobody's going, where's that guy at? Doesn't he know what his job is? Can't he do anything? Because that would be distracting as a servant from what you're meant to do. So where am I going with this? We need to be very careful that we don't distract from the message. We as Christians don't get in the way of the message. Because we can easily get in the way of the message if we draw too much attention to ourselves, if we have lies that pursue worldly values, don't look any different down the world. You see, the world today, right? What does it say? Be you. Express yourself as you and how you dress and what you do and what you say. What does Paul say? How does the gospel operate as servants? Be all things to all men. What does it matter in the grand scheme of things, beloved? These clothes are going to rot, burn up. These homes are going to decay and burn up. All the treasures and earthly treasures we have are going to fall apart. And have no place because they're perishable in what's to come. In the grand scheme of things, and ultimately, what is your taste and my taste Your taste and my preferences compared to a soul, right? A living soul. What does it really matter? Don't seek to get everything out of this fight. You won't. You never made. God has made us service. He's made as many And please have a home. Wear clothes, please. Beloved, God is bringing the lasting glory. Not the second death. The lasting glory already into this life through cruciform service and sharing the message of the crucified Savior Jesus. That's wonderful. That's greater than your dreams for your life, my dreams for my life All I tell you, I can tell you is you asked me something though. I had dreams and God gased all this way and I think these are better ones on that form. And I know people who are scared to be Christians because they think, well God might call me into the mission field and then all my dreams are gonna wake. Well he might, but So what? You're involved in the greatest work ever, the work of God, bringing lasting glory and apart in the glory that doesn't fade, the transformation of hearts and lives. ultimately leading in the whole renewal of the whole cosmos. All that's tied up in the new covenant. So what? God's made us servant. Let's serve. Let's submit. How often do we ask the children the question, what do you want to be when you grow up? And what a oppressive question, right? How much weight is put on that? What if you get it wrong? What if you mess it up? How many of us functionally live like this? If I marry the wrong person, I'm on plan B with God and we just give all this strange Where is the question of where is God calling my child? Where does God want my child? What does God want my child? What does God want to each my child? Or where's the question of child asking, where can I be most effective, Lord Jesus Christ, for your name today? Why can I be asked to serve you and spread abroad the knowledge of God and Jesus Christ? Because as a called Christian, I'm here to serve. Finally, then, why has God done all this? Why is he doing this? Why has he made us sufficient? Why has he made us sufficient to serve him in preaching Jesus? Because the letter kill, the spirit gives life. Because God is the God of life. God is the God of grace. What does Paul mean when he says the letter kills spirit gives them? Well the letter is God's will, written on tin stones. God says don't do this. God says do this. The law says, curse is everyone who doesn't continue in all these things. If you don't do all of this, if you don't avoid doing that, The letter kills you because not only were you once ignorant and still culpable, mankind can be ignorant of God's will and still culpable. But now when God comes with this commandment and makes clear to you what you're to do and you don't do it, now you're a transgressor. And that's worse. Because now you have knowingly rebelled against God. Law spells your condemnation. Kills you. Doesn't bring you life. Spirit. Spirit of Christ. Does Jesus love his father? Yes. Does Jesus do everything the Father says? Yes. Does Jesus avoid everything the Father says, don't do? Yes. That spirit of Jesus in you. gives life. Obedience comes from the Spirit. The Spirit of Christ. My redemption's made you a son, a child of God, and now that Spirit in you has given you a love for God A delight in God, a delight in his will? That gives you. Here's what I do when I preach the gospel to you. So we can all go away both competent in our call, but also compet in our message. The letter kills. And thanks be to God by his grace that killed Jesus. Right? Letter kills. God in his grace, giving us his son, knew no sin, killed him because he took our sin. Wore them away on the cross. So you see, it's identifying with that, that Apostle Paul says it this way: You have died to the law. If you're a believer in Christ, you've died to the law. The law says, kill him! Kill him, he deserves it. And the gospel says you got what you deserve through the body of Christ. You died to that law Through the body of Christ. You know what that means? No more condemnation. So if you identify with that death Died to the law. Through the law. For what? Paul says, this is coming from Romans 7. You might be married, joined to another. Risen Christ. and in union, raised in Christ, filled with his spirit, the spirit of Christ, to then love, serve, A God. That's the message we have to share. The saving love of God, the saving death of Jesus, calling sinners to identify with that death. Receive God's grace that Jesus took that death they deserve. And in him, faith in the risen Lord can live in the power and might itself. Praise be to God. Isn't it the greatest news to take? It's hard when you have to be the messenger of death, right? But we're not the messengers of death. The death that comes is only because they reject the message of life, but we are the messengers of life. The Christian church has the word of life. If you are a believer, been reconciled to God, you have the word of life, not the word of death. You can go to any sinner. And hold Christ out to them, any sinner, and hold Jesus Christ for them to take. The latter kills the praise be to God. Let me tell you about the latter that killed Jesus human for me. Trust in him. Believe in him. Receive from him the Spirit of the Living God. That's asking you this question. Is that a message you want to share? What else is being shared in this world? Isn't really at the end of the day a lot of it just a bunch of air? Meaningless gibber chat. Pointless talk. And if it's not that diabolical lie. And yet you and I Now reconciled to God, now an epistle of Christ with a new heart. You and I, lost sons of Adam, redeemed in Christ. Now have a message that matters. Now can lead lives of lasting glory and be a part of God's program to impress lasting glory. On his people, his church, and this world, leading to the entire transformation. That's a wonderful thing. As we prayed this week, yesterday Committing ourselves to the new com the Great Commission again. Let's all do it today. We have the word of light and beloved, it is just preposterous. That we would be quiet about the word of life, the message of reconcilation. If if if you really believe that message that God has really reconciled us through this And you really have eternal life through. It is just preposterous not to share it. I think you would agree with me, right? To sit on that message And to be quiet about that message and what God has done, even if it's been twenty-one centuries and it seems the world doesn't hear, too bad, world, you don't get to drive our agenda, we're gonna keep preaching it. Because Jesus says, preach it, because it is the greatest master. The good news That God has to offer for this world. So let's do it together. Let's encourage each other in it together. Parents, let's ensure that our children really get the gospel. Teachers, let's ensure our children in our class really get the gospel. Students, let's ensure our brothers and sisters, our friends get the gospel. Let's all ensure we get this message. We are excited about this message. We want to share this message. And pray for each other as we go about that we're gonna share this message. Because what else do we have to give Christ? May God continue. Give us his grace. Help us. Do this one. That we may see new epistles of Christ in our faith. And that we may see old ones renewed and rebuilt up, see that lasting glory. The glory of a new covenant. Amen.