Jesus is constantly and perpetually blessing his church. He's the great high priest who ever lives to intercede for his people. His is the throne of grace to which we come with confidence, assured that Jesus constantly blesses his people with good things. He is a Savior who was last seen on earth with his hands up raised in blessing as he ascended up into the clouds and as uh Jesus took his leave of his New Testament church with his hands upraised and blessing. You and I can be assured that Jesus continues to bless his church. Do you believe that? May very well have been that there were some in the congregation to whom Paul was writing in Rome who were in doubt about that. Oh, their doubts and misgivings were probably not related to the doctrine that Paul has articulated in the early chapters of his letter. Who could uh Well, who could take issue with that? Those glor that glorious unfolding of the doctrines of grace with which the uh Roman Christians were revealed as Paul expounded the redeeming work of God In the person of the Lord Jesus, the only Savior of His people, the one who has come into this world bringing salvation. Who can take issue with that exposition of God's sovereign saving work, all of that solid biblical theology, dare we say it, all that reform theology that Paul lays out for the Christians in Rome Now, if the Christians at Rome were having doubts and misgivings, it sounds from what Paul has to say at the end of his letter that some of those doubts and misgivings were rooted in the fact that congregational life was maybe not as easy as they might have expected. And of course it is true that we put our theology into practice. We really learn our theology. When we work it out In communion and in community with the people of God. And we heard Paul describe from Romans chapter 12 something of what the consecrated life looks like What does it look like uh to be a Christian, someone who has embraced uh solid theology, not just with their head, but with their heart? And Paul on folds those practical realities and practical realities in terms of living in fellowship with the people of God. People who really have their theology down who really have engaged with Jesus by faith, those ones are going to be working that theology out in their expressions of brotherly love. They're going to be working it out in their patience with one another. They're going to be working it out in their constant prayerfulness. They're going to be working it out in their sacrificial love and in their cheerful service and in their uh generous Giving. We put our theology into practice as we work it out in communion with the saints. And that's where the Roman Christians seem uh to have been experiencing the rub, because that was not quite as easy. as they might have expected. And it may very well be this morning that uh you are experiencing the same kind of rub that those uh Christians in Rome nigh on two thousand years ago were ex Experiencing, it's not quite as easy as you might have expected. Maybe maybe you're new to this congregation of God's people, and I've the I have the happy privilege of being able to speak to you as someone who doesn't know you. So, but here you are, uh as I here you are visiting and maybe you're having difficulty finding your feet, difficulty getting oriented. How do I fit in. It all seems so strange and so new and so challenging. I want to encourage you to uh persevere in that, but it may Very well be the case that you've been around here for a good long while. And uh you also are experiencing some of the challenges, the needs of your brothers and sisters are uh so pressing. Uh their claims on your time are so insistent. Their uh habits are so irritating. Their Uh there the things they do are wearisome. Paul has words of encouragement. The words of encouragement that we heard in the form of a blessing at the a at the end of uh the passage we read in verse fifteen. The God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. There are words Not just words of hope, but words of blessing that are addressed to those who are the people of God. And I want you to hear those words this morning. And I want you to take heart from them because Paul directs us to a God who overflows. with blessing and who gives to his people an abundance of hope. And you may have noticed that as we read that verse together It's a verse that's beautiful in its Trinitarian emphasis. The Trinity shines right through it. Paul identifies, and we can walk through the verse Paul identifies God as being the God of hope. He calls our attention to the Father who gives us hope. He calls our attention to the Lord Jesus because he speaks of the joy and peace that Christians have as they believe, and he directs us And to the Holy Spirit as the one who empowers and enables hope in the lives of the people of God as they work out their faith with fear and trembling. And those last words of our text, that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. Let's walk through our verse, shall we? And first of all, Paul identifies God as the God of hope. Paul's talking about uh the father. You'll know that typically in Paul's letters when he speaks of God without any further identification he has in mind God the Father. Paul is a Trinitarian apostle He speaks of God here, and as he does so, he speaks of God the Father. He says, God is the God of hope. Isn't that marvelous? There are different ways that we might characterize God The different ways that we might think of God, Paul calls our attention to the fact that God is a God of hope. The God in whom we believe, the God whom we confess, the God whom we address as Father is a God who is a God of hope. Paul uses that expression. Expression, that characterization of God, it's unique in the New Testament. You don't find the expression God of hope anywhere else In the New Testament. But of course you realize, as we read through the passage, that Paul is looking back to the uh previous verse, verse uh twelve, as we read it, in which uh he's uh drawing on the Old Testament, in him shall the Gentiles put Their hope, the God in whom the Gentiles put their hope, is a God of hope. Paul knows God to be a God of hope because that's how the Bible speaks of God as a God of hope. How do you know who God is? It may be that the week that you've just had uh leaves you with all kinds of questions and misgivings about who God might be. Does he love me? Is he looking out for me? Does he watch over me? Is he protecting me? Will he provide for me? And of course, we're very tempted to characterize God and draw a portrait of God on the basis of the experiences we have day by day. Paul draws us back to the scriptures God identifies Himself in the Scriptures. It's in God's Word that we discover who God is, and we discover that God is a God of hope. That's how Paul speaks of him. Because Paul realizes, and Paul is able to quote from Isaiah, God is a God of hope. And as Paul speaks on that, Paul's latching on to a glorious truth Because the God of hope in him shall the Gentile This God is the one in whom the Gentiles shall hope all rights in the context of the going forth of the gospel The gospel message of hope is going out from the Jews to the Gentiles as the Lord Jesus intended it. His disciples His apostles are making disciples of all nations. And Paul is able to write as one who is able to point to the realization of prophecy. In him shall the Gentiles hope. And Paul says, it is happening. of that glorious fact. The Roman congregation was a witness and testimony of that fact, I'm guessing most of us here also bear witness and testimony. The gospel has gone out to the Gentiles. It goes out to people. Who live in a world that is bereft and devoid of hope, from which hope has been evacuated And where people discover that the things that they grasp after, the things that they might have sought to put their trust in, are vain and empty Paul writing from a New Testament perspective sees the ingathering of those Gentiles It's something foretold not just in Isaiah, it's foretold throughout the Old Testament, it's foretold by the prophet Jeremiah. Jeremiah in chapter 16 envisions prophetically the ingathering of those Gentiles Jeremiah beckons us over so that we can hear the testimony of some of those Gentiles who are being gathered in. We hear their testimony in Jeremiah chapter 16, verse 19. Our fathers inherited nothing but lies, things that are vain and without profit. Our fathers inherited nothing but lies, vain things in which there is no profit. What a contrast. I want to encourage you, covenant parents, parents of covenant children, what a precious thing it is that you have inherited in Jesus Christ. Great and precious promises. Promises that are for you and for your children. What a bitter contrast Jeremiah paints with those others. Who by God's grace are awakened, but they're able to look back and say what we inherited from our forefathers was profitless. It was nothing but lies. Of course, it's not just the not just the Gentiles in Jeremiah's day The people who surround us day by day are people who live in a world in which they have inherited lies. In which they have bought into an agenda that has left them hurting, that has left them feeling betrayed, that has left them confused And wondering and perplexed and bewildered. And as Paul tells us, as Paul reminds us, God is at work gathering in people like that. By God's grace, maybe some of you are here from that kind of background. What do you do with people like that? Paul tells us earlier on, back in verse 7, Paul says, Welcome them. Make them welcome as God in Christ Jesus welcomed you. The blessing of extending a welcome in the name of the Lord Jesus, it is a thing And I hope you have experienced it here at grace and peace. It's not just those who are coming in as seekers wondering where truth is to be found. The person sitting in the pew beside you has spent the week in an environment where there is discouragement Uh a week in w and an environment where there was disappointment, uh where all kinds uh where there was all kinds of Barrenness and hardship and trial, and they come among God's people on the Lord's Day looking for the encouragement, looking for the reassurance, looking to be enfolded and welcome for the sake of the Lord Jesus, so that hope will be reawakened and strengthened in their hearts. Don't feel them. Don't fail them. Welcome one another with the welcome. with which Jesus has welcomed you because the people whom God is gathering in to be His people are people that He is drawing in from an environment that's hard and difficult. hopeless and disappointing that brings uh nothing but trial and hardship and betrayal. And Paul's celebrating the uh In gathering of those people, Paul says, welcome them, so that together with one voice you may glorify God, our God and Father. The unity of God's people speaks eloquently of the hope that we have in our God. Our God is a hope-worthy God. He is worthy of your hope. Read the scriptures. Discover who God is. Put your trust in him. Love him Know him as your Father, speak of him to your brothers and sisters, and reassure them that just as the Heavenly Father welcomes you in Jesus Christ, so you welcome your bruised brothers and sisters who are going through trial and hardship. God, our Father, is the God who gives hope. But we said Paul's words of blessing are words of Trinitarian blessing. And as Paul speaks of God the Father, he goes on and he says, God who gives uh the God who is the God of hope. May He give you joy and peace in believing as you believe You have joy and peace. Paul's talking about an abundance of blessings, expounding these verses so decades ago Alexander McLaren said, We're not we're not talking about A shrunken stream. We're not talking about a narrow trickle from a rift in a rock. We're talking about an abundance of blessings. And so Paul speaks of a God who blesses abundantly with joy and peace in believing. And you say, in believing what? And Paul's going to say to you, did you not read the first 15 chapters of my letter? Because of course when Paul speaks about believing, Paul is harping on a chord and that he's been harping on right from the very beginning of Romans. He talks about Uh he talks about believing, he talks about trust, he talks about faith, believing, trust, and faith in who? In the Lord Jesus The one whom the Father has sent to be the Savior of sinners. It is glorious. And Paul starts off with you, oh the verses are so familiar to us. We think right back to where Paul says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. It's the power of God for salvation to everyone who has faith. Isn't that glorious? Everyone who has faith in the Lord Jesus, the gospel is God given power for salvation. Paul goes on to talk about that righteousness that is ours because we have faith. The righteous live by their faith. He spells it out further when we come on to chapter three, where he speaks of the way in which And the way in which all who believe in the Lord Jesus have a righteousness from God that comes by faith. And so there's joy and there's peace and believing. And Paul's already been speaking about that. We heard as we read those verses together, we heard the uh sense of joy that resonates right Uh throughout the passage. Back in verse ten, uh Paul talks about the uh the celebration, the the great uh uh uh evangelistic celebration of a gospel of hope that goes out, and he speaks of the joy. The rejoicing that there should be that we have a message for the Gentiles that's a message of hope that whoever believes in the Lord Jesus will not perish, but will have Everlasting life. In verse 10, we hear Paul call on the Gentiles to rejoice together with the people of God. Praise God, rejoice God, rejoice in God all you Gentiles. And then we come to verse 11, and there's that great mass choir of Jews and Gentiles, let all the nations celebrate and praise and rejoice in God. There's a note of joy that runs right through Through because a gospel of hope is going out way beyond the boundaries of the Jews to to penetrate the far and darkest reaches of the places that are occupied uh by gentiles. And as Paul says in verse ten, to the for the Gentiles uh to rejoice, the word that he uses uh the word that he uses is uh a word that has the sense of merry making It's the word you might use of a party. In fact, it's the word that Luke uses in his gospel to describe what the elder son heard when he came to his father's house in the heels of his prodigal brother, and he came and he heard the sounds of merry-making And he disapproved because what has his brother done to deserve this kind of generous Extravaganza of celebration, and the older brother's heart can't be moved or warmed to join in the merry-making, because he sees the grace of a father extended To someone who absolutely did not deserve it. We gather and worship on the Lord's Day to celebrate the grace of a heavenly Father to people who absolutely did not deserve it. We leave the the praises of God people cause our hearts to be strangely warm, don't they, as we're directed away from all the misery And all this stuff that we've been bombarded with all week. And remember that our Father's house is a place of joy and celebration where those who were hopeless are brought in and seated at a table and welcomed as the sons and daughters of a Heavenly Father And so Paul is able to talk of the Gentiles rejoicing and Jews and Gentiles rejoicing together and making merry. Because God has shown mercy to them in Jesus Christ. And Paul uh Paul uh speaks of Uh joy and peace in believing. You might say, why does Paul take out those couple of things? There are many things that he might speak of that flow to us. Because of our faith in the Lord Jesus, certainly joy and peace. We remember his words. There's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. We think of him speak of how there is speaks of the joy that we have on account of the grace in which we now stand. But we look at Romans chapter twelve, verse seven. And Paul says, The kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of peace and joy. in the Holy Spirit. Paul's got this thing about peace and joy, and he says, the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. And of course Paul says that because the Roman congregation was allowing its fellowship to be divided. The fellowship was being fractured over matters of eating and drinking. Over things that Paul says are not important. They are secondary. They don't appear in the creed. They don't appear in the common confession we make of our faith. And yet The Roman congregation was allowing itself to be divided by secondary issues. And Paul, when he speaks of the joy and peace that is to be theirs in believing is calling them back. Calling them back to the things that are central. And let me encourage you, it's very easy for us to ride our hobby horses. We all have them There are things that are important to us, and in our heart of hearts we know that they may not be important to other people, and yes, we realize we can't bind other people to them. Don't let those things divide your fellowship. And don't let those things come in between to cause a separation to bring about uh discouragement and and a sense of hopelessness. That's where we as we interact with one another. We do need to be careful of our brothers and sisters with the tender consciences. There were some tender consciences uh in the room in the congregation in Rome that that got kind of trampled on because of the insensitivity of their brothers and sisters, because their brothers and sisters had these well thought out positions on issues that some others hadn't given a thought to. Paul says, keep the main thing, the main thing. Celebrate the joy and peace that is yours. in believing in the Lord Jesus. We remember how when Paul went to the city of Corinth to preach the gospel there, there were a multitude of issues that the Corinthians would have loved Paul to take a position on, take a stand on all kinds of topical Uh all kinds of topical things that were being debated in the public square that the philosophers of the day were arguing over. And Paul said, When I came among you I was determined to know nothing Except Jesus Christ and Him crucified, He determined not to speak with eloquent words so that their faith would not rest in the wisdom of man, but rather in the power of God. Rejoice that you have the gospel. Let the joy and peace of the Lord Jesus be a present reality for you as a congregation of God's people. and give thanks for the Saviour who brings to us the hope that is ours in God. And oh yes, we said it was a Trinitarian blessing that calls our attention sequentially to the persons of the Holy Trinity. And Paul is very explicit right at the very end that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. He draws their attention front and center to the work of the Holy Spirit who is powerful, who empowers the faith of God's people to trust in Jesus and enjoy the hope that comes from the Heavenly Father. And Paul speaks of Paul speaks with confidence of the power of the Holy Spirit. And you think uh we're Is the power of the Holy Spirit to be seen? Where is the power of the Holy Spirit showcased? And of course we know that There are those who've got all kinds of ideas about where the power of the Holy Spirit is to be seen and where it's showcased and where we might look for it But of course, as we heard God's word read this morning from the Old Testament, the power of the Holy Spirit is showcased gloriously in the person of the Lord Jesus. They shoot from the stump of Jesse. And the one upon whom the Holy Spirit rested without measure. The one who was filled with the Spirit of wisdom and understanding and of power and of the fear of the Lord, who delighted in the fear of the Lord, the Lord Jesus, who was endued by the power of the Holy Spirit And then, of course, the glorious fulfilling of that prophetic declaration seen in the Gospels. And we we turn to the Gospels. with anticipation and we hear Luke speak in chapter four verse fourteen of Jesus going up into Galilee in the power of the Holy Spirit. The Messiah has come empowered by the Holy Spirit going up into that Gentile region, going into Galilee in the power of the Holy Spirit going into the synagogue and saying, Today the scripture is fulfilled in your hearing, I have come to proclaim the free freedom for the prisoners, the opening of sight to the blind, the liberation of those who are in bondage. And The proclamation of good news to the poor. And as we look for the power of the Holy Spirit, we see the power of the Holy Spirit evidenced in the person of the Lord Jesus. And as Jesus comes endued with the power of the Holy Spirit, he comes as one who opens the eyes of the blind, who dispels darkness, who liberates from bondage those who are in hopeless and who preaches good news to the poor. And who by his word and spirit Continues to preach good news to the poor, to poor souls like yours and mine, that desperately need to hear a message of hope that sounds out with trumpet clarity. In the midst of a world in which there is a hubbub of conflicting and confused voices, and we come here and we turn to the scriptures and we know, thus says the Lord. And the Holy Spirit is pleased to work through the means that He has appointed. The power of the Holy Spirit is experienced as we give ear to the word of God. The power of the Holy Spirit is experienced by poor, weakened souls as they as they're nourished at the table that Jesus spreads for his people. The power of the Holy Spirit is experienced as in those dry and barren places of conflict and trial. We remember, I have been baptized. I am not my own. I belong to the Lord Jesus. He has his mark of ownership upon me. His eyes are upon me. I am not removed from the protection of his hand, and so the Holy Spirit uses the invisible mark of baptism. To give us confidence and boldness to live in a world that is difficult and harsh and hopeless And so let me encourage you this morning. As you reflect on those things, and you may be here this morning as someone who is hurting You may be here this morning as someone in whose life the light of hope is dimmed. Direct your eyes to the Lord Jesus. See in the Lord Jesus, the one who is powerful to say. Give ear to the words Of the Savior, it is through endurance. We heard Paul speak in verse four of our passage, it is through endurance and through the consolation of the scriptures that we have hope. Give ear to the word of God. The Holy Spirit uses it. Remember your baptism. The Holy Spirit uses it. Make it your business to sit regularly at the Lord's table as those who recognize that they need the soul nourishing grace that the Holy Spirit provides through the sacrament. Things are real. These things are thrust into our hands by our God, who is the God of hope Who gives us joy and peace in believing the Lord Jesus, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope.