Now we'll turn to the Heidelberg Catechism. I hope you all have the worship folder because we're going to be looking at questions 108 and 109. So please give me the answer after I ask the question. What does the seventh commandment teach us? All uncleanness is the curse of God, and that therefore we must with all our hearts determine the same, to live chastely and temperately whether in holy bell or in single life. Does God forbid in this commandment only adultery and such like gross sins? Since both our bodies and soul are temples of the Holy Ghost, he commands us to preserve them pure and holy. Therefore he commits all unchaste Actions, gestures, words, thoughts, desires, and whatever too. Thank you. Let's pray. We ask the Heavenly Father to enable us as we attend to your word, paying reference particularly to the seventh commandment. That you will help us to understand how deeply important and far-reaching this commandment is. We pray, Father, that you will specially enable us as your witnesses. on this earth to show by our marriages or the way in which we consider marriage, in light of your holy word, that we are your obedient servants and that you know the right way for us to live. We pray that you will bless us and guide us as we preach and listen to the preaching of your word tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well our text tonight is Exodus twenty-four, which is very short. You shall not commit adultery. But we're going to read in connection with that seventh commandment, Matthew 5, verses 27 to 32. Matthew chapter 5. 27 to 32. You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. It was also said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. This is the word of the Lord. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, marriage Marriage, in spite of all the romance that surrounds it, in some cases brings misery more than we care to admit. The sea of grief that sweeps round the world because husbands and wives hate each other is immeasurable. The rising divorce rate in countries like ours documents the collapse of marriage in this century. Now the ratio of marriages to divorces is something like two to one. And an estimated forty percent of the population. Is directly, has it directly experienced what divorce can mean. The breakdown of marriage is expressed by other social evils, desertion. and flagrant promiscuity. There is plenty of public evidence that the institution of marriage has fallen upon very evil days. In fact, we even have some new definitions of what a marriage is, gender-wise. Sad to say. But the public evidence tells only a fraction of the total story of marital unfaithfulness. unhappiness. There are countless marriages which appear to be strong, but the heart has gone out of them Though neither party will ever sue for divorce, the marriage relationship in these cases has been destroyed somewhere along the line. Love has been extinguished. And obedience as well. The husband and wife still live together. But they distrust one another, fight with one another, and generally make trouble. And if they have children, the children know it too. Sometimes people like to tell their pastors about their problems. Sometimes they don't. And it's difficult for their pastor to help them because they're not asking for help. And if the session seeks to counsel them, they often refuse to come and eventually leave the church. Don't mess with our marriage, it's our business The causes of unhappy marriages are well known. Marriages become unendurable because of very common, earthy circumstances. People whose marriage is unhappy should sit down and explain exactly why they are so disturbed and miserable. But whatever the causes may be, the results are always deplorable whether there are children involved or not. Children who live in homes in which the parents are constantly at war are scarred and injured by their parents' behavior, as really as if their parents actually struck them physically. Children are sensitive to the tension that hangs heavy at the dinner table. They taste the bitterness of the loveless exchange. between their parents, and they are frightened when the foundation of their home trembles beneath them. You cannot blame children for fleeing the charged atmosphere of their unhappy homes as soon as they can. And you cannot really blame them either when their own homes later become just like those they have escaped. Well, perhaps that is not correct, but you are more interested in helping them out of the ditch onto a road they've never seen than in assessing blame that they go off that went off the track. It's not surprising that many marriages are miserable dismal failures. When you observe the thoroughly unrealistic approach to marriage that prevails, it could hardly be otherwise. Magazines, TV programming, and the motion picture industry especially Give the impression that marriage is a hilarious lark. You fall in love. You get married. Until you don't love each other anymore, then of course you get divorced. The news media have told us about couples who have been married in novel ceremonies This is how they begin sometimes. One couple was married in an airplane. Immediately after their vows, they parachuted to the reception. A couple was married underwater, I read, wearing aqua lungs. In New York City, another embarked upon the sea of matrimony in little boats. that bobbed on a motel pool while the minister in clerical robes read the marriage form standing on the diving board. The diving board? If people tread so lightly on the marriage ceremony, how are they able to adjust to the seriousness of the marriage itself? Those who try to make a joke out of it will discover soon that the joke is on them. And their laughter will become cynical and hollow very soon. Evidently, a good many people get married rather nonchalantly and carelessly. The romance that has led up to their marriage was somewhat accidental They think of marriage as a very common occurrence that happens to everyone. Notice that, happens to everyone sooner or later. Not that they enter it with their eyes wide open. But that it happens to them. And if their marriage is going to be successful, they expect that success to be automatic. That will also happen. But when it proves less than ideal, they are not prepared to make the proper adjustments. It's not their fault, after all. And so circumstances go from bad to worse until finally they do not know where to turn for help Usually they don't bother to seek counseling, and they just get divorced. Friends The Bible has a message for men and women who find themselves painfully involved in the modern collapse of marriage. Not that I think that there are many or any here. tonight in that case. But we know that God has given a special commandment that deals exclusively with marriage. Yes, the seventh commandment, which states, you shall not commit adultery, indicates That marriage is not an insignificant relationship between men and women that can be entered and dissolved at will Nor is it a relationship which we may destroy with our petty hatreds and malicious selfishness If you are not married, I say to you tonight, do not enter the estate with such a low opinion of what you contemplate to do And if you are married, know that the health of your marriage is extremely important. That's why God gives one whole commandment to it. If you willfully destroy your marriage, You're not just destroying yourself with your children, but you are disobeying a fundamental command of your Creator. With his second commandment, God has commissioned every man and woman to make his or her marriage sacred and significant The simple statement, you shall not commit adultery, surrounds the institution of marriage with divine protection. So when the Bible talks about adultery, it means exactly what we mean by it. Adultery is that gross infidelity by which an individual violates the sacredness of his or her own marriage or the marriage of another. Because adultery like this ruins society. This sin was punished by death in Old Testament times. Can you imagine what would happen to the population of the United States of America if that were carried out today? But the Bible goes beyond the narrow concept of adultery. Jesus explains that it is possible to commit this sin with your mind. The Bible insists on talking about adulterous imagination and adulterous attitudes. In Matthew 5, 27 and 28, we see this to be the case. Listen again as I read it You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. That's Jesus' words, and Jesus here calls thoughts and attitudes which are detrimental to marriage by their real name. Any free and easy attitude with respect to the sexual elements of human life is essentially adulterous because it tends to degrade marriage And parents. May I say this also to you It's a mistake to trust your children to learn the right and godly view of human sexuality on their own Parents in the 21st century have to answer to their responsibilities toward their children in a superior way than did their predecessors of, say, not just the Victorian age, but even In the early part of the 20th century, while at the same time avoiding the crass and insensitive openness of their own time period, I think that you will have to be frank and forthright with your children. Why should you allow them to learn that sex is something bad that people do anyway, and thus is a prime target for jokes and lighthearted thinking. Why not teach them what the Bible says, filling their minds with positive truth and a wholesomeness which will be part of their defense Against the whole onslaught of temptation and folly today Of course, even the most educated Christian can fall into grievous sin. Knowledge of the Bible's view of sex will not ensure the purity of yourself or your children. You need to pray that the Lord will regenerate your heart and their hearts and guide your steps together and sanctify you wholly And you will, of course, have to set pure and righteous examples before your children. But neither will ignorance of the scriptures aid them or you in purity of life and thought. Tell them. Tell them what they can understand. Make it the truth and not fairy tales. But make it those truths which they can grasp at each level of their development. For surely this too is part of the nurture and admonition of the Lord, isn't it? And then you will be able to help them to fight against the awesome evils of our times. How will they escape the stain of sexual sins and perversions today? You can't shelter them. Everything you see, they see. You can only train them in the right path, setting before their mind's eye the beautiful principles of God. Word and pray that the Holy Spirit will bring them to true faith in Christ that will enable them to grow up as clean men and women in a dirty world. Well, that's all I'm going to say tonight about the negative side of the commandment. you shall not commit adultery. But to spend the rest of our time in realizing that there is a positive side to the seventh commandment by implication. If you're not to break your marriage negatively, then positively it follows you ought to be sure to make sure that it's in good shape. shape that it's strong and unbreakable. When God prohibits the committing of adultery, at the same time he gives people the responsibility to do all that they can to make their marriages stronger. He gives men and women a task, a task just as real as any other that confronts them in life And so, as I've said, we may not think of marriage as something that has happened to us, for better or for worse, while we sit back and see how it all turns out. We may not just sit by hoping our marriage will work out and become a glowing success. You must work at your marriage. And Jean and I have been married now for almost 60 years. And we both know that we still have a job to do. The seventh commandment brands every action and attitude that weakens your marriage as evil. So anyone who has a frivolous, slothful approach to his or her marriage is an adulterer, as really as if they had mocked their marriage. with actual and gross infidelity. One of the main reasons marriage is in such trouble today is this Too many couples have failed to live up to their responsibilities religiously and realistically and courageously. That husbands love. That's the verb, remember? They're wives. And that wives respect and obey. their husbands. Many of them today have been married too hastily. And when the giddy excitement of the wedding is past and the honeymoon is over The reality of their new relationship is just too much for them. The problems come one after the other, don't they? There are many disagreements, of course, until finally there are a host of subjects they cannot talk about anymore without becoming emotionally upset. And they try to find a way out. But the worst thing about it all is this: they view their present situation just as they viewed their falling in love When they fell in love, they both felt rather helpless. That's why it's called falling. In love. Their romance swept them off their feet. Their love at first was a simple fact that practically compelled them to get married. And they look at what's happening as a collapse of their marriage. As if it were some kind of phenomenon. They think of it as a situation in which they are helpless. They think of all their troubles as unfortunate events that are just happening to them. And they can really do nothing about them. They resent it if anyone suggests that they are responsible people who must make their marriage a success. You see, may I put it this way? Marriages don't break down. They're dropped And the Bible makes very clear that of all people, Christians are responsible for making their marriage a success. They must work at it, understanding that they are to make any adjustments necessary to make their marriage wholesome and helpful for them and for any children that God has given them. That's why he gave these commandments to his Old Testament people, the Israelites, and why he gives them to you today. Not as ladders by which folks climb up to acceptability to God. It's not what the commandments are. They are markers by which they are identified as people who have been the objects of his gracious salvation through Jesus Christ. And they are the family rules in this case. for his redeemed ones. They've not only been forgiven their sins for their sins, but they have been enabled by God's grace to behave themselves according to his righteous and blessed rule. So, when God commands them, for instance, in this the seventh commandment, you shall not commit adultery, he says, in fact, by implication, You shall work at your marriage, and you shall make it holy. And even more, you can Because God has given you the sanctifying Holy Spirit to enable you to do what you have no inherent power to effect. Marriage, after all, rests upon an oath of faithfulness taken before man. and God. The events leading up to any given marriage may have been exciting and romantic. But the strength of marriage does not rest upon the heat of emotions that mark the period of courtship. God has not decreed that men and women consider marriage a perpetual flirtation, but he has founded it upon an oath of grave serious. Seriousness. The path taken when one is married announces that both husband and wife voluntarily assume new obligations. which they consider to be and which are binding until death releases them. Thus, because marriage is a vocation, it's a calling that demands your constant attention and careful efforts God has not only protected it with a commandment, but he has also provided you with great resources with which to make your marriage meaningful on the highest level. What God commands, he also gives grace to do. Left to yourself, you would be careless and right Reckless with respect to your marriage. But God has sent his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to be your Savior if you have put your soul trust in Him. And part of that salvation is to sanctify your marriage. Being a Christian is not merely to be destined for heaven. I think I might have said that before. It is to be destined for a life here on this earth, now that escapes the self-centered tyranny that destroys every human relationship, including that of the conjugal bliss. we call marriage. Yes, when a husband and wife know that God has commanded them To make their marriage a success. And when they know as well that Jesus Christ is the great redeemer of their lives, they have something that will give their marriage a stability and power that it never could have had otherwise. No marriage is perfect. True. None comes near to being ideal. All of us have our personality defects and irritating faults. But when both husband and wife ask their Savior, To make their marriage strong and happy, their success is secure. Not because of them, but because of God, who promises to hear all those who ask for grace. to keep his commandments. So I say to all of you, believers in Christ, here tonight, who are married And to all of you who are not, but who someday probably will be married, you are challenged by this seventh commandment of God's holy law, both negatively and positively. Negatively, you are forbidden by your sovereign God to commit adultery in any shape or form. If you have done that already. Or if you do so in some future day, know this, believer, forgiveness is available to all who confess their sin and who plead for pardon on the basis of the blood and righteousness of Christ. Christ. Aren't you glad for that? And positively, ask God to give you grace and power to be obedient to his command. by his life-giving spirit, who will fill your marriage and the marriage that you someday might contract and enable it to glorify God. Consider it to be what it is, a holy task, a vocation, that has as its purpose not so much Listen to me. Not so much the advancement of your own personal happiness as the glory of your Savior God. Yes, to glorify him is first. And when you do that, then you will enjoy him forever My dear brothers and sisters, will you not bless God for this his commandment, you shall not commit adultery? He presses it upon you because he loves you. Though the people of this world might complain, That it takes away our freedom to act as we think best to achieve our own personal ambition and plans. Those who know him as their personal redeemer. Be loved by him, no otherwise, that it actually underlines and secures the promise That all the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness for those who keep his covenant. and his testimonies. Ask God to help you to obey all his commandments, including number seven. Confess your sinfulness. Look to Jesus Christ and beg him for his strength-giving spirit to give you the power. To do as he commands for his glory. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for giving us this commandment, which many people would see as Hard to hear, overbearing, not uh responding to the particular needs and cares that we have in this world, and being rather on the whole old-fashioned. But we thank you, O Lord, that it is very up to date. And we praise you for it. And ask you to help us, to love you for it, to receive your Holy Spirit's power, to be in obedience thereto. For Jesus' sake, Amen.