Dear Saints, our epistle reading this morning comes from Ephesians chapter 5, beginning at verse 1 through verse 14. Ephesians chapter 5, verses 1 through 14. Ephesians 5, beginning at verse 1, hear the word of the Lord. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children, and walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us A fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness Must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints. Let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking which are out of place, but instead Let there be thanksgiving. For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure or who is covetous That is an idolater, has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words For because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore, do not become partners with them For at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light For the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true. And try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them. For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret. But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible for anything That becomes visible is light. Therefore it says, Awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. And our gospel reading this morning comes from the gospel according to Luke chapter 11, and we'll read beginning at verse 14 to verse 28. Luke 11 beginning at verse 14, hear the word of the Lord. Now he was casting out the demon that was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the people marveled. But some of them said he cast out demons by Beelzebub, the prince of demons, while others to test him kept seeking from him a sign from heaven. But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided household falls. And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Bilzebu, and if I cast out demons by Bilzebu, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore, they will be your judges. But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. When a strong man fully armed guards his own palace, his goods are safe But when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, he takes away his armor, in which he trusted, and divides his spoil. Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest. And finding none, it says, I will return to my house from which I came. And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order. Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that person is worse than the first. As he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breast at which you nursed. But he said, Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. This is the word of the Lord. Congregation of the Lord, you know in these uh morning services this year we've been going through uh traditional readings of the Christian Church that have been in use for a long time. I've been reflecting on that more and more because when I brought this to the session about an idea for a preaching series, I was very much interested in the pedagogical or teaching value of it. As I've been reflecting on it, discipleship, right, that is the Great Commission. Jesus once disciples. Jesus died and he is going to make disciples of his called and chosen ones throughout this world and nothing's going to stop it, right? Praise God, nothing will stop it. Praise God, you can't be uh thrown in a pit by your brothers and discarded and sent away, so these horrible promises will never come to pass. May you only fulfill God's will by treating his people poorly. He will bring them to exaltation and glory Praise God that this his kingdom has come. The finger of God is in this world. His power is present, delivering his people by the risen Lord Jesus Christ who suffered and died to redeem them. And Satan's kingdom has come to an end. So our discipleship making, as I've been reflecting on this, as we think through these readings, really transcends the life of just our local church. Every local church is a church. United to the one church and under the wisdom of its session goes through the year, does different teaching series to meet the needs of the people or Whatever program they came up with. But by following something as old as this, we got a discipleship that transcends just our congregation, even our century, even our millennium. These are readings that have been used at least for 1500 years in the Christian church to shape disciples. More and more as I've reflected on it too, following these readings, and again, let me be clear, it's not the only way. It's a way. But what's the value in the way, right? That's the question. But what why did the church decide on these readings through years anything good for it? Well, they follow the preaching of the gospel All the prophets, all the apostles and they preach the gospel gospel, if you read Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, all start with this phrase. The prophet said, meaning the time is fulfilled, and that's what Advent's about, right? Advent as the prophets are saying, He's coming, he's coming, he's coming. We get the Advent readings, the Messiah's coming, and then Christmas, he's come. They're a king, there's no other king past Jesus. There's no other prophet past Jesus. There's no other priest. Past Jesus. There's no other kingdom past his kingdom. This is the final kingdom. The reality of God's promise has already entered into this world. So we celebrated Advent, we celebrated Christmas. But what who's come? Not a mere man has come, a God in the flesh. What is Epiphany's about? God's taken on our flesh. Even the child Jesus at twelve years old has manifests himself to be the Son of God here in this world as the Savior of it. And then what Lent is about is reminding ourselves How he has saved this world. Why did he suffer and die? And it is for our sins. There's a lot of sins in these readings if you are listening to them. Envious brothers. Jealous that God would privilege somebody else. Have you ever been envious of another person because they had what you didn't? Children, a spouse, a job, a calling in the church? Lots of sin in opposing the light and blaspheming the Spirit, lots of sin in disbelieving all the signs of God from heaven and Jesus and asking for another one? 'Cause you don't want to believe in him and it's so obvious and clear he's God's man, his anointed? That's a sin And of course, all the sins we read in Ephesians, and we'll be looking at those this morning, so I won't be dealing with him yet. Maybe our mantra then for this Lenten season could be the words of First Peter two twenty-four or As he quotes from Isaiah 53, 5, right, by his wounds you have been healed. We wait for the day when our bodies will be healed perfectly, but by his wounds you have been healed now from the fall of sin. From a life of sin, to be a child of God. That's a definite healing. So that's the joy of the gospel. You're not waiting to be healed. You're waiting for your bodies, yeah. You've been healed if you're in Christ. You've been restored. You've been made new. By his wounds, you've been evil. Now, children, I have a question for you. I saw a bunch of heads pop up. Children, if you had a chicken, would you expect your chicken to moo? It'd be kind of weird, wouldn't it? It would be out of place. It wouldn't be proper for a chicken to move, would it? Children, if you had a bunch of piggies. Maybe somebody went and visited the Rolands when they have their piggies. I know some of our kids have gone over there. Ours did. You know piggies like to wallow in mud, right, and eat slop in fills. Would you expect if he went and saw a bunch of piggies? Solomon understood this wisdom too. Wearing gold crowns and gold earrings and nice fancy clothes. Do you expect to dress up a piggy like it's a princess? So none of us is gonna wallow in the mud and each slop. Out of place, right? Let me ask you another question, children. Would you expect a Christian, a child of God, a saint on this earth to tell a lie? Would you expect a Christian to disobey God? Would you expect a Christian to be unkind? No, for the same reasons as you wouldn't expect a chicken to move. It's out of place for a Christian to be sinning. It's not proper for saints, God's holy ones, to be wallowing in filth. Because they've been clean. They've been washed. They've been made new. And that's Paul's whole point as he's writing to not just the Ephesians, but all the church in Asia Minor to remind them he's in prison, going to die under Nero in a few years. Of the gospel of God's grace, you were this, or you aren't anymore. A definite, final change has taken place in your life. Definitive. No going back. You are new. And you need to live and walk in the new So we do not expect Christians to act that way because Christ shines on them Christ shines on you if you're a Christian, if you're a believer in the Lord Jesus. And therefore you are now become light. In the Lord. That's the gospel. If you have your Bible open to Ephesians 5, that'll be our text this morning. That's what we're going to look at. Is verses 1 through 14. If you look there in the second part of uh verse 14, you'll see it if you're looking at the Pew Bible. It's it's set apart in its poetical form there, and it stands as And many believe because you'll see Paul introduces it by therefore it says and generally when an apostle says therefore it says, says where, and he's referencing scripture, but if you Go from Genesis to this point, you're not going to find these very words. You'll find something close in Isaiah 60. Find something close in Isaiah 26. And that means many bright scholars who read all this stuff and studied all it to come to conclusion. You know what these words probably were? Probably words spoken at their baptism. Baptism is that great sign of God's grace. It does not affect God's grace, it is the sign of God's grace. His definitive grace of dying to this world, to the body of Christ, and rising To the life of the world to come. You know, God taught his people after Moses, right? He brings them out of Egypt and they get to a sea and they think, oh no, we're dead meat. What does God do? Opens the waters? They go through. Their enemies think to follow them. Drowns them and just as much as they couldn't get through without his grace, they can't get back through and go to Egypt by His grace. Those waters have been sealed That's why it's so horrible when Christians want to go back to the flesh parts of Egypt and live as if they haven't been cleansed and made new and changed and brought into God's heavenly kingdom. So these are probably words spoken at their baptism. Awake, O sleeper, sleep of sin. Arise from the dead, the death of disobedience, and Christ will shine on you. That's the gospel message That's the good news for dead sinners sleeping in sin. There is a light that can change you, Jesus Christ, God's Son, who's come into this world. Lived, preached, healed, suffered, died Rose again and reigns in heaven, and is coming as the judge of all men and savior of those who wait for him That light, Jesus Christ, will shine on all awake Arise. That means repenting. That means leading the darkness, leaving the old, and coming to the light So Paul's point here and our point this morning will be this: that as a believer in Jesus Christ, you have been altered, changed. By the grace of the gospel. The gospel I just preached to you, the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. By that gospel grace, you have been changed or altered to bring forth As you see, my catchy sermon titled Alternative Behavior. We'll talk about that. You have been altered by the grace of the gospel. As believers in Jesus Christ, to bring forth alternative behavior. So my sermon has two points One, we're going to look at the life-altering grace of the gospel, and the thing I want to emphasize to you and show you is how it is definitive. That's a fancy theological term called realized eschatology. Eschatology, I know is that word we hear, but we don't really understand what it means. It's kind of a scary word It comes from the Greek asketos means final, the end, the final thing in a series. As you know, beloved, history, creation, God didn't make this world out of chance You didn't make it so we can just bumble on down through history with no order or purpose. Good reformed Christians, right? We hold to the decrees of God, which are his eternal purpose. Which he executes through providence and creation. The question is, what is God bringing the world to? What's the final state he wants it to be at? Right, in the hope of the prophets, it's that phrase, the kingdom of God. All wicked removed, all sin judged, the power of evil broken. And eternal life given to God and his saints and the new heavens and the earth. That's the goal, that's the end, that's the eschatology. But what the apostles preached to us is what Jesus announced to them is that's come. As believers in Christ, you've passed through the day of judgment. Christ died in your place. He has risen into the eternal order. And united to him, you too have already experienced the definitive change. And there's no going back. You already are enjoying something Of the eternal life. Not only to say something. You are enjoying eternal life. It's not consummate, but you are enjoying now, already, eternal life. If you like at all, Jesus Christ. As Paul would say to the Philippians, if there's any thousand mercies and compassion in Christ, anything of his love, anything of the comfort and encouragement of the Spirit, I'm so happy for you because you'll know it forever. It doesn't go away. We're only going to grow deeper in our knowledge of how much Christ loves us But Paul writes this church, right? It's going to take every single one of the redeemed through all the ages to try to get their head around how much Christ loves them, how deep this is, how high this is. How broad this is, how wide this is. One of the reasons we gather every week every week should be an attempt, right? Here's a corporate attempt to come to terms with how much Christ loves us, right? As we hear again his grace and feed on it in word and sacrament, because we are, as Christians, enjoying eternal life. So we're going to look at the life altering grace of the gospel, and then we're going to look at the alternative behavior of the gospel. But let's get centered on the grace of the gospel, because it's the grace of the gospel that changes us to then have the behavior of the gospel. Now I already said to you right that good news given there is what Paul will say in verse 8 One time you were darkness, that's bad news, because that means judgment. One time you were that. But what's the good news? You're now light in the Lord. That is very good news. Now you are light in the Lord. And I hope in a moment you're going to see how good this is if you don't know how good this is. Very, very good is to be light in the Lord. Now, why are you light in the Lord? Paul tells you they're right in verse 14. Why are Christians light in the Lord? Because Christ shines on you. You heard it there in Psalm 36? You heard it in uh Elder Huckabee's prayer for illumination? You sung it in Psalm 36. In your light we see light. We must be in the presence of Christ as Christians. We must be in the presence of God as Christians because it's only in His light that we see light Seeing how good this is getting, right? Your light in the Lord? Why is that? Because Christ shines on you? Christ is the light? That must mean I must be in the presence of Christ. Now something we do as a family every morning in family worship, I ask the children, Children, who's your God and king? Jesus, God! Both good answers. Yes, God the Father is your God and King. Jesus is your God and King. He's the anointed. Then I asked him, where is Jesus? He's in heaven. Now what does that do now? Follow the logic, right? If Jesus is in heaven and he's shining on you, where are you at? You're in heaven. Paul wrote that to this church back in chapter 2. He said, You died with Christ, you were raised and made alive with Christ, and you're seated in heaven with Christ. Did you know that, Christian? You're in heaven already? See, we all think we ought to get to heaven. No. Get to heaven, God brought his heaven to you. The kingdom of the heavens has come. The gospel isn't how do you get to God? The gospel is how God has come to you in his grace and has given you eternal life in his Son Jesus. So your light in the Lord, because Christ shines on you. Christ is in heaven, therefore you're in heaven. We fill out a little bit of how that works out for our understanding. If you turn back to chapter 1 in Ephesians, you'll read there in verse 11, In Christ we have obtained an inheritance. You'll see Paul also mentions there in verse in our chapter five that those who are sexually moral and pure are covetous They have no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ. Now, Paul's saying in Christ you have obtained an inheritance. That inheritance is where is that inheritance? It's where Christ is at. So you've already attained an inheritance in Christ, because remember, the only reason we can preach that the kingdom of God has come, the eschaton has come, is because the head that we're united to is in it. By faith in him and union with him, we share in what's his. That's why Paul can say, as Christians, you've been blessed with every spiritual blessing. Where? Not on earth. The heavenly places. Because you're there, you're seated with them, already experiencing them. Paul says, what is that down payment, that earnest of your inheritance? The Holy Spirit, right? When Jesus baptized you with the Holy Spirit. Uniting you to him by faith and by that spirit. You have been raised with him, and you are in the heavenly places with him, and you are In his presence, because the Holy Spirit is the Lord. The Holy Spirit is the third person of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit is also light. The Holy Spirit indwells us as Christians God is present in this world, not just in his omnipresent way, but in his life-saving, life-illuminating, life-changing way in the body of Christ. The third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit. So being sealed with God's Spirit, you're already enjoying the first part of your inheritance. You're already raised with Christ, and he is shining on you. Therefore you have new identity, is what Paul says. You're now a child of God. You're now a child of light. You're now a citizen of God's eternal kingdom as believers in Jesus Christ. And before we pass from the grace of the gospel, let me make it clear, right? How do you become How did this happen in the Ephesians' life? How do they become children of God? Paul says there in verse 13 in chapter 1. In Christ, you also, when what you heard the word of truth, you have to hear the word of truth. The same thing as the gospel of your salvation, that message I've already preached to you. Christ has come. We're not waiting for the Christ to come. He has come. He has suffered and died according to scriptures for our sins. He has risen from the dead according to the scriptures. He has ascended into heaven. He has poured out the Holy Spirit. That gospel message, it is by hearing that Jesus, the gift of God's grace, the Savior, and believing that saving message, believing in Him, that you then become united to Him By faith, we are united to Jesus, joined to him. That's why the Reformed tradition is always stressed, and I'm sure the history of the church is always stressed. It has to be a personal union, right? A real trusting in him every day, a real calling upon him every day, a real turning your heart of hearts to him. And believing and receiving. And it's by i Paul helps us, right, with the marriage analogy. If we like in the marriage analogy to faith in Christ, right, that means what? A living together A loving submission by wives, a loving laying down of lives by husbands and that union in life Paul says, now that's the same thing to help you understand what it means to be saved of Christ. A real turning to him and saying, I do. And he's saying to you, I do, and death will never separate us. It's a real making of a covenant, a real believing into him, a real reaching out to him and taking what's from him, eternal life. Because you can't get it anywhere else. So truly then, Paul can say, for believers in Jesus Christ, by grace, you have been saved through faith God's great gift to you. To bring Jesus into your life. Shine him before you in his glory. And you behold his glory. And you believe in him now and forever. I was also really blessed. I'd apologize. I want to say one more thing before I move apart. I forgot my notes I was really blessed in the way this is illustrated for us from the Old Testament. The Old Testament is so important. The Old Testament has prepared us for the gospel. Helps understand and know the gospel. I'll be brief about it, but this has really helped with understand what the apostles are preaching, what the joy of the gospel is. You may turn if you want, and I'm going to look real quick at Leviticus chapter 25. I'm going to look at verse 8, probably 8, 9, and 10. And these are dealing with the year of Jubilee. You remember what the year of Jubilee is, right? The Jewish people are meant to work their land for six years and then they're meant to let the land rest for a seventh year. And God said, Don't worry, I will bless you on the sixth year. You'll have enough food till the eighth year, and then you'll be ready to eat your own on the ninth year. And then every seven cycles of that, so on the fiftieth year They were to announce a Jubilee, but do you remember what day they were to announce the Jubilee on? Pop quiz. The tenth day of the seventh month. What does that mean to you? The day of atonement. And the high priest went once a year before God to make atonement for his sins, to ascend to the building. What does that mean, beloved? Well, you know, of course, Jesus died on the cross as an atonement. It means when you look to Jesus Christ and believe in him, you've been set free from your sins. The blood shed on the cross is applied to you, and then what happens? Jubilee. Everybody goes back to their inheritance. Freed, if you were so poor you had to sell yourself to your brother, guess what? You get your land back, your house back, your dignity back. That's the gift of the Holy Spirit, Paul says. That's it. First part of your inheritance, the gift of the Holy Spirit to those who look to the Son, the atoning sacrifice for the forgiveness of your sins. When you look to Jesus, not only is his blood applied to you Or you're given the liberating and life-giving gift of the Holy Spirit. It is the Spirit in you that breaks the power and bondage of sin in your life. It is the spirit in you, right? As Ezekiel said, breathe on those dead bones, son of man, and you come to life. A joy. But definite, definitive thing has happened when you looked and believed on Jesus. You united with him. Your sins are forgiven, and you're given already part of that everlasting inheritance in Christ and the liberating gift of his Spirit. Well, what has that brought about? Because that's what Paul's concern is here. He's laid the foundation of grace. What has happened now that we are seated and rooted and grounded in Christ? What's taken place That we have died with Christ and risen with him. What has happened in our lives? Well, we now live lives of alternative behavior of this gospel. The grace of the gospel has changed us definitively To live changed lives. Paul's point here, if you look at Ephesians 5, these 14 verses, could be said like this: from our new identity, right? We're no longer darkness, we're light. We're no longer sons of disobedience and therefore children of wrath, but we're children of God, dear children, beloved children. That means God loves you. Your child of God, right? God loves you. Don't ever forget that. Wake up every day and say, God loves me. It will do good to your soul. From the change of our new identity, right, comes a lar life marked by Instead. Here's me wanting to use alliteration to help you remember, right? Identity leads to instead. You see there in verse 4, right? Let there be no filthiness, nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead, let there be, right? Stead means place, instead means in place of, right? A new identity means you're in a new place, and in place of these old ways, you now do these things. Is that point clear? You can nod your head, let me know if you're track along, so no you track along. Alright, that identity, thank you. It's one part of the sermon I know you all got. An identity leads to a life, Paul's saying of instead. He says it again there in verse eleven, right? Take no part in fruitful works of darkness, but instead In place of that, expose them. That's Paul's whole point, right? You have been placed in Christ. So instead of those things, do these things. So let's look real quick. at our new relation towards these sins as believers in Christ. First and foremost, look there at verse one, right? We're told to be imitators of God that's therefore is telling you Every time you read a therefore in the Bible, you should ask yourself, uh, wherefore is that therefore there? I got that from another preacher. Wherefore is that therefore there, right? That therefore is there because of verse 32. Be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you. Paul's saying therefore be imitators of God, his beloved children. You've been loved by God and his giving, reconciling, and forgiving love. Now he says, beloved, imitate. So what Paul's saying, right? Forgive instead of holding grudges. Forgive instead of uh Go back to verse 31, being bitter and wrathful and anger towards each other. That's what Paul is saying. As believers in Christ, our new attitude towards the sin of others. is not to be angry and bitter and hold on to it, but forgive instead of holding grudges. Because We're children of God and we have to imitate God, right? You know, parents, this will be helpful to you and and anybody, right? I'll I'll give it to parents. It would be helpful to you who are discipling younger, newer Christians. Any relationship, right, where you're dealing with with somebody who's under your care, right? When you're talking to children, right, you've got to give them that instead, grounded in that identity, right? You've been baptized, you've been washed, you've been clean, you've been brought into God's house Christ claims you as his own, you're a child of God, so instead of that son, instead of that daughter, we do this. Give them that new identity, ground them in that new identity in Christ, as you give them that instead. Because that preaches the grace of the gospel and keeping it away from why you're really bad and you need the law to change you. Just do that. You're really bad, you need to be changed so you'll love the law and do it, is the gospel. Problem's not the law. God's will is never the problem. The problem's you who don't want to do God's will. But praise be to God in his grace, he's done something for you in Christ. So here's a new identity. Instead, son, daughter, do this. You can teach, right, your children as you bringing them up in the covenant, right? Children, in God's house we forgive one another. Because God forgave us. Children, we forgive each other and God's house. That's where we're at, right? That's our new identity. That's our new place. God's house. We forgive each other because God forgave us. What's the second instead? Look there, verse 2. Walk in love instead of walking in self-pleasing or really preservation, right? What do you mean by that, Pastor? How do you get walking in love instead of self-pleasing and preservation? I'll tell you how I get it. Because of what Paul says, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Uh let me remind you, dearly beloved, if you are a sinless Savior and you are arraigned before God That means brought up on your charges, judged before God, sentenced before God, and executed as Jesus was, but you're sinless There must be two things in place. A whole lot of God's grace and giving you to be the charity for people and a whole lot of sin putting you to death and you never did anything wrong. Remember, that's how the cross is preached. By the definite plan of God, that's his grace, you wicked men crucified him. You don't go to the cross as a sinless savior without being sinned against. As Christians, your new attitude is not to Self-please and preserve your life because you're afraid that if I live openly as a Christian, I might get name-called, abused, mocked, killed, because you might But it is not loving to deny the truth to anybody. I was going to say in a minute it's not loving to actually be darkness, because you'll never bring them to light. It is light that changes darkness. It's truth. Light is all that is good, all that's righteous, all that's true. How many people did Jesus bring to the light, right, through his sacrifice? I don't know. It's an untold number we're told in Revelation. Multitude we can't count. So great was the power of light that changed the darkness of that day. So we have to walk in love. That means we gotta speak the truth in love. That means we've got to be Christians. We've got to be openly Christians. We have to say to ourselves every day, this is my Father's world. This is God's world. His. It's always been. It's never been anybody else's. Sinful men think it's theirs. Read the Psalms so clear, they fade away like chaff. All the kingdoms of men go away. One kingdom will last, Jesus. God the Father has given to his Son, the Redeemer of this world. The world. Every day as a Christian. Because I know the world makes you think you're the odd one out. You've got to learn to think, no world, you're the odd one out. This is God's world. It is right to thank him everywhere, as Paul says in a moment. It is right to praise him and worship him everywhere. Wouldn't it be a joyful if there wasn't a public place you didn't go to And you didn't see Christians singing praises to God, wouldn't that be a glorious world? Why don't we? It's not their world. They have no right to it. They're no inheritance in it. They're sinners. They need to repent and they can have a right. They need to join the people of God and they can have it all in Jesus Christ. I know you probably feel like I'm beating you up, but I'm not beating you up. But this is deadly serious and earnest It's going to affect our quality of life. Because Satan's really good at making us feel on the defensive, having to justify ourselves and our existence in this world. We don't have to. The justification of this world is the gospel. The world has been judged. Satan has been cast out. Christ does reign. And as believers in Jesus Christ, you have the right to be here. It's all God's grace. We don't pat ourselves on the back. We're called to live this life in this world. The life of the world to come in this world. No longer walking in self-preservation, but living openly, joyfully as Christians. You can understand then why it is so needful for the body of Christ. Jesus sent them out in two. Some of you maybe know Adrian Rogers, Love We're Finding, his radio ministry. He once said, see the problem with Christians are they want to be light together. They want to huddle together. He said, what's the what's the what's the more important light? One more light bulb in the chandelier or light at the bottom of the cellar steps so you don't break your your leg going down, right? That lone light I was talking to my wife this week, she's like, I think we should make it two lights, because it's better for Christians to be together. I said, okay, you're probably right. But you get the idea. Now We should huddle together every week on the Lord's Day twice and be refreshed. And then we should go our way into the world and live where God's planted us and be like there. Paul says you need to have thanksgiving instead of trash talk and trash walk. That's what all those words mean. Sexual morality, all impurity, covetousness, mustn't even be named among you. It doesn't mean if you're counseling somebody and talking you shouldn't talk about sin and talk to their pass by your problems. That's what it means But it means our daily lives, not the stuff we're watching, listening to, reading, talking about. Why? It's filth. It's trash. It will defile you. You'll feel dirty as a Christian if you watch and expose yourself to it You'll feel dirty as you hear that kind of trash talk. You can also call it locker room talk, filthiness, foolish talk, crude drug. I'm out of time, so I won't take you to the verses. I'm running close out of time, but foolish talk means godless talk Oh, since this whole world is foolish, doesn't know God. All that talk of university professors or atheists, I'll pick on the avowed atheists, so I'm not picking on every professor. Of course, by God's grace and natural light, they do good, helpful things To stand up and tell everybody we came from nothing and evolutionary is the principle of everything and blah blah blah and all the foolish and godless talk. You're a Christian, you hear that's just great. You hear the glory of God stolen from him. The majesty is his name now given his honor. Paul's saying there's no place for that. There's no place for unchristian, godless, foolish talking its ideals in the Church of Jesus Christ. It's trash. Instead of that Give thanks. Why am I supposed to be I was thinking this, why didn't he say thanks? Imagine if you and I only said thanks to each other today at our fellowship meal. What would that conversation be like if we just said Oh, thank you for serving me and thank you for being here. And thank you that you're close you know for sending me that gift last week and thank you for praying for me and thank you for being here and encouraging me today and thank you for bringing this food and thank you for showing up faithfully and thank you for your ties and service. Well one, that might be kind of great. Do we say that at our meals? We could say that, but what's Paul, what happens when you turn to gratitude, particularly towards God? You remember him, right? I call this prayer talk. Locker room talk, ow, but prayer talk, right? We're constantly reminded in thankfulness of our debt that we owe to God, constantly focused on him and who he is. And if you're living a life focused on God, you're not going to be in the gutters. So thanksgiving instead of trash talk. Paul says we're to walk in light instead of associating with darkness. Light is all that's good, right, and true. Darkness is everything that's bad, wrong, and false. Instead of bad things, wrong things, and false things, you're now to do good things, right things according to God's will, true things Because you're a child of life. Paul says, rather live now pleasing the Lord instead of self. Oh, this is a hard one, isn't it? Every day, beloved, we are to wake up and submit our lives to the Lord Jesus Christ. I hope you wake up every day and the first thing you do is fall on your face and worship him, confess him as your God and king, and say, Lord, how shall I serve you today? Here's my plans, but my life's in your hands. Lead me. We're to live lives pleasing to the Lord. It's not our kingdom. Tis Our lives are to please him. You want to make a decision? Bring it to the Lord. Is this pleasing to you? Submit it to him. Finally, we're to expose darkness instead of exposing ourselves to darkness, we're to expose it, not expose ourselves to it. Notice what Paul's saying here, darkness can be changed to light. He says when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible. It's illumined. And anything becomes visible becomes light. What a hopeful life we can live as believers in Jesus Christ as his light reflects off us in this world because we're gazing at him. Your behavior has the power to expose darkness right as you do the right thing The right thing regarding marriage, the right thing regarding relationships, the right thing regarding friendships, the right thing regarding living as citizens in the world, just the right thing in everything, as you live the light It's going to shine in people's lives. It's going to show up the shamefulness of how they're living by God's grace. It's going to bring them to the light and they themselves can become light. Your behavior really can bring others to Christ. As an elder at New Life at Hoket, one of the first churches I was a member at Who got in his car one morning with his colleague? He'd been working with for years. He said, what is different about you? Your face is lit up. You are all smiles. I became a Christian last night in my family. I said, what? He says, yeah, it's because of you. What? Because of me? Yeah, I've watched you for years at work. Years he had been exposed to the light, and it brought him to the light. The joy. Don't think your life doesn't matter. Don't think being a Christian is insignificant. Don't think being the light isn't going to change the world, change people. Because by God's grace, it does, it has, it will. It's part of the joy and privilege of being Christians. The impact, because you're united to Christ, bathed in his light as it shines off you. Can change others. Maybe next time someone talks to you about the moon and they say that oh you mean that ball of dust up there that just came out of nowhere? No, I mean that lesser light that God made to rule over the night Because that's the light. That's the word of God. Pierce that person's heart by God's grace. Bring them to acknowledge that Almighty Creator put it there. That's what we don't do in darkness. Think and speak biblically, beloved. Call things by what God calls them. As we heard in our prayer this morning. The world renames everything, gives it a false name, calls it by whatever they add so they can hide from the light All of God's word gives glory to Him. And they need to acknowledge that and turn to Him. And they're not, if you're not shining the light into their life. Dear Saints, Christ does shine on you. Therefore, it is not proper, but out of place for any of you to partake in these sins in any way. Or to let another brother or sister do so too. Our Lord's kingdom is present, walk in the light, and let our gospel be to the world this Instead of sleeping on in sin, instead of disobeying in death, await, and Christ will shine on you as he shines on me. May God give you his grace.