Genesis 2, 18 to 25. Now we're coming tonight to a subject that is becoming increasingly denied to be God's will for mankind, namely marriage. And uh our pastor referred this morning to a new book by Carl Truman, professor at Westminster Seminary, entitled The Rise and Triumph of the Modern Self. And uh in that book, uh, I was reading it this week, he refers, Truman refers to the poet Shelley. around 1910, who argued for the uh abolition of marriage. He wanted it to cease to be at all. And uh we're going to tonight hear God's word. And so let us turn then to what God's Word says about marriage, contrary to what Shelley says. So Genesis 2. Verse 18. Then the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him a helper fit for him. So out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name. The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him. So the Lord God caused the deep sleep to fall upon the man And while he slept, he took one of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh. And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman and brought her to the man. Then the man said, This at last is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife And they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. Now we turn to Ephesians chapter five and read verses twenty-five through thirty-three. Beginning at verse 25. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing. that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church. However, let each one of you love his wife as himself. And let the wife see that she respects her husband. The letter to the Ephesians, we have seen Is a prime example of the ongoing need for renewal and daily conversion in the lives of the people of God. Paul wrote to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus, to those chosen by God and destined in love. But these Christians, like all Christians, need direction and instruction as to how they are to practice what they preach. They are actively called to break away from the influences of a wicked and evil world, or we should say perhaps the modern self To follow the only standard for obedient living, God's holy and infallible word. What is taught in church is to be applied in all human and social relationships. In Ephesians 5, 22 to 24, Paul discusses the role and function of a wife in a Christian marriage, as we proclaimed to you two weeks ago. In that sermon, we sought to highlight what characterizes the relation the wife is to express toward her husband, namely, submission. Which he summarizes in the concluding phrase of chapter five as respect At the same time, we brought out the wrongness of the sometimes forgotten wrinkle That attaches itself to that command, namely, that in the marriage relationship it is suggested that only the wife needs to submit to the husband. That's the only submission. It goes on there in marriage. But the truth of the matter is that the wife is not the only one who has a duty to submit. A husband also has a duty to submit to his wife. Yes, the wife submits to her husband in that she follows, obeys And respects him. And the husband submits to his wife in that he exercises love to her. To the extent that he is willing to do for her whatever is necessary to promote her well-being. That's love. A married woman is to be subject to her husband and acknowledge him to be the head of the family. By being submissive, a woman acknowledges that it is her husband's task to lead the family and the marriage in the ways of the Lord. A husband, as we said, is also to be subject to his wife by loving her. It was that equality of submission that we sought to bring to the forefront in our previous sermon on these texts, last two weeks ago. Now tonight As we take a second look at the text, we want to center attention on the submission that the husband in particular needs to render to his wife. That is why we entitled this sermon, An Appeal to Married Men. I hope that nobody stayed home. From coming tonight because they're not a married man. And they thought that the sermon wouldn't have anything to say to them But wives and unmarried women who might be here, you may indeed, let me assure you, listen in. I assure you that your God has something important to write upon your hearts also. And our proposition tonight is just this: in one sentence: A married man is to be subject to his wife by loving her. He is to love her by following what Christ did for his church in dying for her, and he is to love her as he loves his own body. So, just those two points. First, the inspired apostle has this to say to the husband: he is to love her following Christ's example. As an apostle and witness of the saving work of the Lord Jesus Christ, Paul appeals to husbands exhorting them to love their wives. That sounds easy enough. If you ask your average husband, do you love your wife? He will most likely reply, What do you think? Of course I do. Why do you think I married her? What he probably means, however, is that he feels something for his wife. Perhaps that he has fallen in love with her. So he married her, and he is still attracted to her and regards her highly. Maybe he even tells her, perhaps several times a day. I love you, darling. And that is most surely a good practice, which I would recommend. But the love referred to in our text, my friends, is a verb. Again, I say, not a noun, it's a verb. It is a deed, an act of sacrifice and self-surrender, not merely a state, merely of one of feeling. And it certainly is not something that one has fallen into. When you hear the explanation of one opera after another, and you know I love opera. They tell you that this man or that man had fallen in love with this woman or that woman. That's the way they begin the opera. So you're supposed to keep that in mind now as you listen to all this beautiful music Now, however, the Bible says that love is something that one does It is not the emotional, passionate love, in quotes, so called that people dream and fantasize about and even write operas about. True marital love, as defined by the Bible, is a commitment that seeks and is carried out in action. In this case of marriage, what is good for one's spouse? Particularly, what is good for the husband's wife It places that need above one's own need. Now, don't get me wrong, such love, of course, includes feelings How could it not? But it doesn't depend upon the feelings. That's the point. You get it? It flows from doing what is right and necessary, not just from what one feels that they want to do. Husbands are to submit to their wives in love, not reluctantly, not selfishly, but joyfully, eagerly, and sacrificially. But I'm afraid that much of what is called love today is really self-gratification. Such love is passionate And it works over time, seeking to be turned on. But it doesn't take long to discover that such selfish action is not enough to establish a lasting relationship like marriage. And that's why so many marriages break up and end. I think something like 50% of them, isn't it? Yet all too many couples begin their marriages thinking that this type of love is all they need and expect to get. But marriages that are built on sacrificial love, such as that is in view in our text tonight Will blossom and flourish, especially as that love is shown in the husband's relationship to his wife. Apparently, this, the Apostle Paul's advice, is directed specifically to the husbands I'm guessing, because men seem to have the simple tendency to dominate and manipulate So that women are made the objects of their pleasure rather than the objects of their love. And for this, his message gives the resources that will enable the husband's relationship to function the way God intends it to be. The husband who draws from these resources will not put himself first, but will rather ask, how can I mirror The relationship that exists between Christ and his church. He will demonstrate his love by being willing to be the lesser. To forgo what he judges pleasurable for the sake of his wife. So husbands, or husbands to be If you really want to know what love is, you will have to turn to Jesus Christ. In verse 25, the apostle directs you to the example of your Lord and Savior. You are to be subject to your wives by sacrificing and surrendering yourself as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. He was willing to do everything for her sake. Christ's headship is rooted in his sacrifice for his people. Similarly, a husband's headship stems from his love, the sacrifice of himself for his wife. Now let it be understood. The sacrifices husbands make in loving their wives do not have to be accomplished and accompanied with drama And flare. Perhaps you think sacrifice means something dramatic, like dying in an attempt to rescue your wife from drowning. Sacrifice involves the little things, much more than any such act of courage. And don't expect a band to strike up a ceremonial march for every sacrificial act. Love for your wife is shown in the daily sacrifices that are not even noticed by others. Perhaps not even noticed by her. Furthermore, keep in mind that Jesus sacrificed himself for his bride not because she was so attractive. Quite the opposite. When he took her to himself, she was filthy and impure, and had to be made beautiful He showed his love in that according to verses 25 through 27, this is what he did. He loved the church and gave himself up for her that he might sanctify her Having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself In splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish Christ subjugated himself to the judgment of God and shed his blood to save you from all your sins. A greater and more profound example of love cannot be found. Jesus doesn't seek what is good for himself. But he acts for what is good for his bride. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. Do that even if your wife has character traits or weaknesses that irk you. You may not become critical or bitter. A loving husband will have patience with his wife. He will talk to her about anything that bothers him rather than let it fester inside. He will do his utmost to help his wife so that her gifts may be fully employed. His love is not controlled and governed By the performance of his wife. After all, how did Christ love the church? Unconditionally Therefore, a husband may not say to his wife, I'm going to love you when you submit to me first. He must love her through thick and thin, even if she does not always notice or respond as he would like. And if he does not so love her, he is being disobedient to the Lord by not copying Jesus' love. Husband, I ask you, what are you doing for your mate? Do you really love her? If you do, you will talk to her and never close her out. You will regard her as being more important. Then your work, friends, hobbies, or whatever, you will pay attention to her feelings. Value what she says and respect her opinion. You will be gentle with her. Comfort her and pray for her. You will show that you need her help to do your work. And to lead your family in the service of God. You will notice with a compliment what she has done. And you will be willing to share responsibilities in the home. And the list could go on. Do you love your wife in the way God demands, following Jesus' example? He endured abuse, was ridiculed and scoffed at, as we heard about in the sermon this morning. Because of his willingness to lay aside his heavenly glory and suffer the pain, agony, humiliation, and degradation of his arrest. and eventually of his death on the cross. And presently he intercedes for you before God's heavenly throne. Now, of course, it is quite impossible to match what Jesus has done for you His sacrifice was perfect, and it was made in atonement for sin. Yet you husbands are to follow your Lord in his example of true love And give yourselves unselfishly to your wives. If a man does this, it will certainly not be a chore. For a wife to submit to him. How can you men become more sacrificial and loving toward your wife? You must begin by asking God for insight and wisdom to show you where your love has been lacking. You must be eager and willing to let the Word of God shape your thoughts, words, gestures, and actions. And most of all, you must pray that the Holy Spirit will point out to you ways Means and opportunities that will enable you to crucify your own flesh and give yourself for your wife. Now why all this? Why does God command husbands to love their wives this way? The purpose and goal is not simply to satisfy her, nor is it a tactic to keep the peace. Or to make the marriage work. Love is designed to produce holiness, loyalty, integrity. And purity in the marriage. Christ loved the church, giving himself up for her, that he might sanctify her. That is, he might set her apart and make her into something special. He promises the church Cleansing and renewal through the preaching of the Word. And He makes this promise visible through baptism and through the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. In the same manner, a husband must be devoted to his wife. She is to be set apart from other women and given special treatment. And that treatment ought to be noticeable. True love, then, does not remain hidden or concealed. Now that does not mean that you have to hang all over your wife all the time. There is a time to embrace, and there is a time to refrain from embracing. Yet a husband must show that he honors and loves his wife in the way that he speaks to her and speaks about her in public. That he must do. That for the first point. Now, the second point is that the apostle goes on to say this in his advice to the husband, namely He is to love his wife as his own body. Now what does that mean? Well, a man and a woman joined together in marriage become one body. Just that. That's what we read in Genesis 2, wasn't it? They are much more than partners who sign a business contract. A business can be run by partners Since they have the same goals. In marriage, however, matters are much more intimate. Two people may marry not because they have interests that overlap. And coincide. Maybe they don't. I could play the piano when I married my wife and she couldn't, but she could also crochet and I couldn't Thus, if something is not good for a husband, it is not good for his wife either. It's not good for me to try to crochet, and it's not good for her to try to play piano. God created mankind in his own image as male and female, but they work together as one. This is the basis for Paul's command in verses 28 and 29. In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church. Notice that Paul does not say, love your own wife like your own body. Doesn't say that. He says, love your wife because she is your body. Her body has become your body. And yours, hers. You are one flesh. Therefore, you cannot keep her at arm's length and say, I have no need of you. That's why I wondered why some of the missionaries in the past would go off to other continents and leave their wives back here in the United States, because they had a calling to be a missionary And I guess the marriage is just gonna have to be laid aside. They've done that in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. I always wondered about it and couldn't understand how that could be right Obeying this command leads to practical action. I'm going to suggest six things. Are you ready for this? First, husbands who love their wives as their own bodies strive to do all things together. They will not speak in terms of I and me, but rather we and us. How will this career decision affect us? How will buying this item bring pleasure to us and not just to me? In marriage, a couple become parts of one another, members of the same flesh. They may not live beside each other without involving each other. in what is going on in their own lives. A married man simply may not live as if he were still single And free to pursue his own interests, ambitions, and entertainment. Or even, I could say, what he thinks is the will of God, because it's not. Two, a husband who loves his wife as his own body is not to abuse her. There are husbands who abuse their wives physically Emotionally, mentally, sexually, spiritually, and even financially, because they treat them as objects or tools to get what they want But children of God are to honor their bodies as a temple of the Holy Spirit and a Christian husband. must allow himself to be controlled by the Spirit of God and not by the emotion of the moment To put it another way, marriage is not merely a legitimate way to fulfill my desires. Thirdly, one who loves his wife as his own body will not neglect her. He will make sure that all her needs are met and will go out of his way to let her know that he treats her as his own body. He will communicate with his wife about his own personal life as well as matters of mutual interest. Fourth, treating your wife as your own body will keep you from taking her for granted. You will not have her do what you are unwilling to do. Or what you find too mean or low. Don't do that. Fifth A husband submits to his wife and shows his love by sustaining her. Verses 29 and 30 say as much. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church. Because we are members of his body, therefore a man shall leave his father and mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. That's 30 31 as well. If you love someone, you meet their needs as if those needs were yours. Likewise, a husband must provide his wife with that care physically, spiritually, and emotionally. He makes sure that she is looked after on time and all the time. Sixth and lastly, a husband should always guard the oneness of the marriage relationship. But God is joined together in such a wonderful way, man may not break through adultery, but adultery of any sort. Even by lustful thoughts, which are adulterous. He who is thus unfaithful to his wife does not love her. And he does not harm only her. He harms himself If only men would realize that he who does not love his wife is as one who neglects to care for his own body. Now we're closing up. Once again, the apostle draws a comparison to the relation of Christ and his care for the flock. Our Lord Jesus surrounds us with all his people and looks after all our needs. He tends and feeds his sheep. The members of his body are nourished to everlasting life. Jesus is always busy with his church. That is why his spirit was poured forth upon the church on the day of Pentecost. And for the same reason, he gives officers in the church to equip the saints for service. Likewise, husbands make sure that your wife is looked after properly. Always ask yourself What does my wife need? What will help and strengthen her? Maybe you thought that way before you married her. The young man is out to please his girlfriend Before they get married. Now that shouldn't diminish once the knot is tied. Rather, it should be intensified. For after the wedding day, the unity has become even stronger. A married couple must speak together about the service of the Lord. They must pray concretely about the sin and guilt. Present in their personal lives and in the marriage relation. Together, they must ask for cleansing, renewal. protection, wisdom, and insight. The husband who sets out to do these things treats his wife as his own body. Which she is. The Bible says so. Thus, husbands and wives who do follow what the Lord says in this text, as he's looked at now in two sermons. are a blessing to the entire church. For they have learned an important lesson to be applied to the communion of the saints. As we submit to each other, not in marriage, but in the communion of the church. True love, not only for a spouse But also for another church member, gets you out of your shell and makes you a vibrant part of the church. You don't live in your own family or in your own personal island without any concern for others. You are to use your time, energy, talents, and gifts for the benefit of others. Whether you are married Or single. Beloved, in God's name I implore you To see to it that what is said in chapter five of Ephesians be believed and lived by you. In order that God might see in you the same love that He has shown to you. Amen