Turn in your Bibles to Mark's Gospel. I'll go ahead and read back from verse 21 because it is important to the context. I know we've been here for a number of weeks, and it is my intention to um to get through these verses today and to go on in the Gospel of Mark. You saw there in Isaiah's prophecy, God's word of promise of his people who were in captivity and under other powers that they would one day be returned to Zion The whole goal of God's redemption in Christ Jesus is to bring his people to dwell with him. And you see the picture of that living before their king, and that one statement, one of the reasons I picked this, because you see in Mark's gospel, many people were ill in the land of Palestine in Jesus' day, and God's promises. Because their iniquities will be pardoned. There will be no more sickness. But that day is not quite here yet. Because we have not dwelt with God face to face. But it is coming Let us hear again then from the Gospel of Mark, chapter 1, beginning at verse 21, and remind you that what we read in Isaiah is getting fulfilled here. And they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one who had authority and not as the scribes. And immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent and come out of him. And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice, came out of him. They were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, what is this? A new teaching with authority. He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee. And immediately he left the synagogue and entered the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John. Now Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever. And immediately they told him about her, and he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and the fever left her, and she began to serve them. At evening at sundown they brought to him all who were sick or oppressed by demons. And the whole city was gathered together at the door, and he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons. And he would not permit the demons to speak, because they knew him. And rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place. And there he prayed. And Simon and those who were with him searched for him, and they found him and said to him, Everyone is looking for you. He said to them, Let us go on to the next town, that I may preach there also, for that is why I came out. And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues. and casting out demons. The word of the Lord. We've already blessed God, but let us pray and ask for His help. Let us pray. Our Father in Heaven, we do thank you for this word. This word you spoke through your prophets many thousands of years ago. This word that you have fulfilled upon earth many thousands of years ago. And this word that you have caused to be written down for our learning and our comfort and our patience and our edification. This is a word that cannot be understood, cannot be grasped without your help, without the Holy Spirit O Father in heaven, help myself, help me to preach this word and help the people to listen. That we might be built up in our most holy faith. That faith and hope and love may be increased amongst us today. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Since we have taken a hiatus for a few weeks and the Gospel of Mark and we began studying it now a number of weeks ago. I thought I would just briefly recount for you the events that we have seen in this gospel. I'm also aware that I have not given you an introductory sermon, told you much about Mark and who he is and why he was writing It's not because those things aren't important. I just find those sermons kind of boring and would prefer to give them to you in the exposition of it. So when it is appropriate to the exposition of a passage I will be sure to tell you why Mark wrote. But if you don't know who Mark is, Mark, John Mark was a Jewish Christian in the first century. Barnabas's cousin journeyed with um Peter or sh not Peter well did journey Peter first with Paul for a while, but was Peter's interpreter. After Peter died in Rome and was martyred. Mark wrote this gospel for the Roman church there. Church under the persecution of Nero. So this gospel has everything to do with encouraging a Christian community that is facing for the first time martyrdom. There are members dying and being persecuted, and all the effects that come with that. But the gospel of Jesus Christ, as Mark has given it to us, begins with a messenger. John the Baptist, right? The messenger of the Messiah, preparing his way. We saw that. And then we saw at the baptism of Jesus Christ the revelation of that Messiah. As he was made known to Israel, this is the coming one. This is the Son of God, as it was declared from heaven. That is a remark back to Psalm 2, verse 7. I will tell them to agree, today I've begotten you. The Lord's talking about his anointed one. So Jesus there is revealed as the King of Israel. Messiah. But also a particular kind of Messiah. Because we learn that that second part of that statement, in whom I am well pleased, comes from Isaiah 42. He is that suffering servant. Not a Messiah above the suffering, but a Messiah who's come to suffer, to take away the sins of the world. We also get a picture of that immediately afterwards in his in his temptation in the wilderness. He would be a messiah that would suffer. He would be a messiah tempted by Satan, but helped by God. And after that, we saw a report in verses 14 and 15 of the Messiah's message. You know, it's interesting. Mark is writing this gospel about Jesus Christ. That is Jesus of Nazareth, who is the Messiah, and telling us that person and what he's done, that's the gospel. But then he shows us that the gospel, the Lord Jesus there in verses 14-15, preach the gospel. He preached to people in his day. The kingdom of God has come. And by that phrase, he's not talking so much a region has come and a kingdom over which God would reign. But that is an active noun. It means God's kingly rule has come. God's reign in time, in the person of Jesus Christ, has come amongst men. And of course, where is that reign seen? God's kingly rule, which he promised through Isaiah. Isaiah 43 was used to introduce this gospel. About John, Isaiah 40, 10 tells of the sovereign Lord coming, who will rule by his might, and his mighty arm will rule. Isaiah 52, 7 was a promise that, oh, the feet of the good news, right? That the people that preach the gospel, how beautiful their feet. They're coming to tell us about salvation, about peace. Tell us that your God reigns. Because that's good news to God's people, that their God reigns. I mean Satan can't do anything about that It means these powers we see in the play can't stand against God's mighty armor rule. And one real sense, then, if you'd help you understand what that phrase kingdom of God means. It's almost it means essentially Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is God's kingly rule in this world as the King. He is the one through whom God exercises his mercy and his almighty power in saving sinners, as well as the one in whom God exercises his judgment. And then we see that message. So Jesus preached this message that the kingdom has come because a king is amongst them, which he said requires two things: repentance. Because if the king's here, and if God's reign has come amongst us, then people can't go on living indifferent to God and indifferent to his will But must live accord must live no longer as if they're the king, right? Because the king's here. And that makes all the difference. And calling people to believe that good news. Because we all know the gospel story. He hardly looked like a king anybody was looking for. Same today. Where is that kingly power seen in the Church of Jesus Christ? You you mean that weak body of people with God's rule on earth and his Holy Spirit? People laugh at that, right? Because it doesn't look glorious. And then we see Jesus picking, laying for the future, knowing he would suffer, the foundation of these preachers that would follow, but also giving us the whole goal of this preaching. To catch men, to save them from the judgment of God. As the purpose of the gospel. And preaching Jesus Christ and the forgiveness of sins in his name, it is to bring sinners out from the judgment of God. And that brings us up to our text here. And in verses 21 through 39, let me read to you from verse 39. And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons. What we have in these verses is a program of preaching. Mark is giving us in these verses Jesus' program of preaching. That he went throughout all of Galilee proclaiming in their synagogues. The good news that God that their God telling the Israelites who think that their God doesn't reign because they're under Roman impression, your God reigns. And preaching that message to them and calling them to believe that their king has come. Going into their synagogues and reading from Isaiah, telling them that is fulfilled in your day. Believe it. I am the one anointed with the Holy Spirit. I am the one sent to tell you good news. I am the one to bring prisoners out from captivity. I am one to heal the sick and the lame and the blind. So Mark is giving us in these verses Jesus' program of preaching. Jesus was a preacher of the gospel. And I want us to look and see three things then that we learn about Jesus in these verses. The first thing that we learn about Jesus in these verses is that he was a powerful person. He was a powerful person. We see that in verses 21 through 34. The second thing I want us to see in these verses, he was a prayerful person. That Jesus Christ was a prayerful person. And third, and that's in verse 35, and third in verses 36 through 39, that Jesus was a prioritized person. He was a prioritized person. Here is Jesus' program of preaching the gospel in the first century in Galilee, and he was a powerful man. He was a prayerful man, and he was a prioritized man. What does it mean then that he was a powerful man. What what is this power that he had? The text makes it clear, right? When he got up and he spoke in their synagogues He did it with an authority that astounded the people. That's what it means that he was a powerful man. He was a king. He spoke to the people like a king. More than just any mere king in the line of kings and David's line. But a king that equated God's word with his voice. The king that equated obedience to him with doing God's will. He was an extraordinary preacher. Today all we have is ordinary preachers. The apostles were extraordinary preachers. They preached with an authority that ministers of the gospel today don't have. The only authority I have is to make this word very clear to you. To say nothing more than what this word says, but Jesus spoke in the authority that called everybody that heard him to personal obedience in him. The apostles who had that authority delegated to them spoke with that authority. But the ministers today just make this word and proclaim this word to you all. So that's what it means that he was an authoritative or a powerful person. He spoke with authority and majesty in what he did. And we see in these verses, in verses 21 and 34, who did he have that power over? Who did he exercise his authority over? Men. Jesus is your King, whether you like it or not God has set him upon his throne. Jesus exercises his authority over men in the gospel. We also see Jesus exercising that authority over demons. And we also see Jesus exercising that authority over illness. Now it's interesting, how does he exercise that authority or that power? I know we think of these healings. I know we think of these exorcisms, like we use the phrase miracle, right? Or some power maybe came out of him and drove him. But what does the text say? Why does the demon leave the demon-possessed man? Because Jesus commanded him. Because that demon trembled in fear and wouldn't dare disobey him. And that is a picture of what the last day will look like when Christ returns in his glory and he says, Depart from me into everlasting shame. They won't dare disobey him. Men don't tremble before the authority of Christ in his church today and his presence in this world by the Holy Spirit, but they will one day. He exercises that power by his word, by his command. And of course, what is this teaching us? Jesus Christ doesn't want our fearful obedience from us. What does the Bible say that He wants from us? Obedience coming from love You love him because you But that's God's great grace that he would love because we owe it to him by right. Don't mistake what I'm saying here. This clearly must, I don't know if it would have caused anybody in the synagogue to reflect and think, you know, I was listening to Jesus telling me all these things that he thought I should do, and I sort of wrote him off. And then I saw a demon listen to him. I wonder if that ever caused anybody to reflect on who just spoke to me. And then we see also in Luke's account of the gospel when he goes in and heals Peter's mother-in-law. That he actually rebukes the fever. Matthew doesn't, or Mark doesn't say anything about that. I I don't know why the difference is. But that same language that he uses towards the demon, and rebuking the demon, Jesus is um Disapproves of what the demons are doing. Disapproves of their trying to confuse the people and to precipitate a confrontation. Because they're telling the people the one speaking to you is God, and we know that's the one thing, one of the charges that got him crucified. They thought he was a blasphemer. So these demons aren't helping his cause by telling the people the good news that God has come amongst them. We're trying to ruin his work. Because he's trying to testify to these people from God's word. Read the scriptures. See it fulfilled in me. See the things that I do. That is God testifying to me, and I don't need demons testifying to me because they're not doing it out of good motives. And he silences them. Now, I just painted to you a true picture from here of the authority that Jesus has as King. But I think all of us can envision, right? We've all seen people get authority, right? And as soon as they get authority, maybe they think, you know, they start to distance themselves from the people. That's not what Jesus does because what does Peter's account show us? Lossing people that get authority and begin to be one above everybody else and to be separate from them. But look at the authority that Jesus has that even demons obey him, that men ought to obey him. He has said, even this august person, you might say. He's still approachable in his authority, isn't he? He is a powerful man, an authoritative man, but he is approachable by sinners, is he not? Look how easily his close disciples and friends can come to him, speak to them about their ill mother, and Jesus marked as he didn't recount this as a word, he seems to have just gotten up. Walked over to her and raised her up. Fever gone. Have you ever had a fever? Do you recover from a fever like that? And immediately, that's what Mark's showing us, she immediately could begin to serve. No downtime. No faint thing because if you have a fever, you haven't eaten, you're probably going to dehydrate. Nothing like that. Ready and and fully whole. But even in his power, he is approachable. And what we begin to see here A great truth in the gospel that Jesus will make explicit later on, that Mark will show us make explicit in verses 10, 45, when Jesus says, right? Why does he have all this power and authority? What does he use it for? I have not come to be served, but to serve Now I say that. And it's also very interesting in this gospel, and we'll look at this at the final part. Let us rejoice. And a God who is on a so humble to empty himself doesn't have to cling to be God and a man so humble. To die on the cross to serve us. A man who, in while on this earth, bent down and washed another person's foot. Feet. Several men, actually. All authority. And yet does the lowest job. Now that Mark's going to make that point, so I'm not going to belabor it here, except you begin to see it. But Jesus, as much as he uses this authority in the service of men, he does not become a slave to their service. Because they wanted him to stay there in Capernaum and be their genie in the bottle. He is. He did come to serve us. He is not a slave to us. We do not get to impose our will upon him. He uses that authority for our good. But he is not our slaves in that sense that we then get to make him do what he wants and to change his plan. We'll look more at that in a moment. So Jesus, as we see in this program of preaching that he goes throughout, you could see why it's important in his preaching ministry. It demonstrated to the men and the people of Galilee their good news that a real king is here. Because in the very preaching and teaching that he did, his authority was on display for all. And you also see the conflict that emerged. You begin to see what that gospel is, right, when God is saying God reigns. Because what does the power of darkness do? What does Satan do with that? But trembles. And that's another reason we'll get to that here why it's part why you preach the gospel first. The importance of proclaiming the gospel, because it is an attack on the powers of darkness and the power of sin. Jesus was a powerful man. An authoritative man, and yet he is approachable by sinners. So if you're coming to know him and don't know him, don't be frightened off by his authority yet, unless you deny him. But know that he is approachable, an utterly approachable man. The second thing we see of Jesus there in verse 35 is that Jesus in his program of preaching was a prayerful man. It says in thirty-five, and rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place, and there he prayed. He spent the whole Sabbath day laboring, doing works of mercy for these people, and yet still found time. And yet still prioritized prayer to rise early in the morning and to go out and pray. What is Jesus teaching us here? Who is Jesus, right? He is the man, he is the Messiah on whom the Holy Spirit dwells. And he's showing us then the key, the fundamental thing to the spiritual life is prayer. Because what's encroaching upon him at this time? Popularity and the will of the people. Everyone is looking for you. He's not unaware of the effects that his miracles, if we want to call them miracles, have had on the people. And now what they're going to want, but how does Jesus combat that? And stay true to his Father's will by prayer. Prayer is essential to us to keep our hearts aligned to God's will. It is essential to our spiritual lives that we be a people who approach who make time and prioritize time for prayer, a people individually, a people corporately as a church. I couldn't imagine what would happen if God did begin pouring out the Holy Spirit in earnest upon us. And people were flooding to hear the preaching here of Grace and Peace and to be a part of this church And they've got all these needs and they want these things done and it's great and we begin what what happens if we begin to turn from all that and lose sight of the preaching How are we going to stay focused in the spiritual lives together, but through prayer? I think it also shows us another thing that's very important, the spiritual life. The only people, we call them people, that knew who Jesus was with these demons, even his close companions yet fell very far short of understanding who he is. Why is prayer important then to the believer? Why is prayer important to the child of God? Who do you think most knows you and understands you? Your Heavenly Father. Have you ever felt that? You know what I'm talking about? But you have the Spirit of God in you, and He's changed your life. You no longer live by the will of the world, seeking the pleasure and delights of the world. It's possibly maybe caused you lost the relationships. Other things. And you realize the only person who really gets me is my Heavenly Father. And the necessity of being alone to Him and crying out to Him. Because nobody else seems to get me anymore. I'm a very new person in Jesus Christ. I have whole new affections and heart. Prayer is so important to the life of Christians, to the life of our spirituality, that we do not capitulate to the will of the world and popularity. And that we might be comforted and call upon the one who knows us. And the third thing that we see in Jesus is program of preaching throughout the synagogues there in Galilee was that he was a prioritized man. We read at When Jesus went out from them, it must have caused some alarm to Simon and the others, some of the other people there. Where did he go? And get him back here was their thought. And his disciples found him in these words, everybody is looking for you, is said in a sort of a rebuke. Why are you out here when everybody over here is looking for you? And Jesus' response to them is, let us go on to the next towns. That I may preach there also, for that is why I came out. And there you see him Show them the priority of his coming. Jesus did not come primarily to heal people. Or to cast out demons, at least as something on its own, apart from the proclamation of the gospel. But as Mark gives us in verse 39, he preached and cast down demons. You see the order. He preached and he cast out demons. Because let's be honest, Peter's mother probably got sick again. She eventually died. God's good news is not to keep you here on earth as long as possible. That is not the hope of the gospel. Jesus turned away from such people that wanted to use him for immediate relief of pain and never looked to the long picture. Only wanted from him something now, and never would hear his message of repentance and of coming to God. Because at the end of the day he makes the same point. What is the big deal of casting out a demon from somebody? When seven more are going to come in their place, unless they believe the gospel and receive the Holy Spirit from me. If a person is not converted to Christ, Who cares how long on earth they are in an ultimate sense? And Jesus understands this. He's not preaching a good news of live here on earth forever. We will indwell, we will inhabit this earth forever. This is the new heavens-earth having. But his primary announcement to people was: God's kingdom is here. The king is here. And that means a change of life if you don't know him. That means leaving sin and turning to the King and living in the light of the King. That's what he's calling people to do. That gracious Kind, patient, loving Jesus is calling to you to live your life in his light and with him. That's what he's calling men to do. I will say, though you do see in the gospel, he never, you never read of Jesus turning away anybody, coming and asking for help and healing Don't misunderstand what I'm saying about Jesus and diminish any of his kindness to us. But when a people here wanted to leave us, he knew also why he came. Was it ever his intent to live here on earth forever and healing everybody and the next time they got sick and healing him, and the next time they got sick and healing him and the next time they got sick? What was he really going to do? Die. Before he came to the first importance, even above this preaching the gospel, is he came to earth to die, to ascend, to pour out the Holy Spirit. I've been thinking about this for weeks now. Because as a pastor, it's a thing that I feel so overwhelmed about. Sicknesses. Because we all suffer from them. And how to comfort people in them. What to say. Because don't we all just wouldn't we love to just be able to go to Jesus and say, Heal me and be done? I'm not going to downplay the work of the Spirit still in healing people. It may still happen. God using means to give us life and health. But it but it the challenge here in the gospel is What is that in an ultimate sense? If you never return to God, if you never believe the good news That God reigns, that your God reigns. And he offers you a full pardon of sins and life with him forever. So in Jesus' program of preaching, we see that he has revealed to us, Mark is showing us that Jesus was a powerful man, a man with authority, and spoke with it. approachable in his authority, using his authority to serve us, but never becoming a slave to it He did not let the will of the Capernaum people drive his program, but did the will of the Heavenly Father and went on to preach the gospel. You see, Jesus is a prayerful man in his ministry on earth while preaching this gospel, calling upon the Heavenly Father to strengthen him and help him in his task. Imagine it could be a great temptation. He I don't want to downplay. He seems to be a man, and he was a man very ready to help people. He didn't turn a single person away on that night that came to his door. But he knew he had to go on and preach. Because who else was going to do it? And we see a prioritized man who kept his father's will first. What does that mean for grace and peace? Who are we, right, as the Church of Jesus Christ? The people in whom God's Holy Spirit dwells. The same mission that Jesus was involved in in preaching the gospel, we're called to. The same authority that he did it in, we are called to use. Thus saith the Lord. The same prayerful attitude must be ours, that we do not turn aside from what is most important to us here on earth and preaching the gospel. Telling ourselves, telling our children, telling our children's children, and telling the people around us in Southern Maryland, their God reigns. You don't have to stay under sin any longer. That's what that message means. That's what you see happen here in the gospel when Jesus preaches that message. And the demons try to uh confront that, what happens? They lose. Let me illustrate that to you from A seminary professor of mine who was involved in ministry in China and you're aware of Buddhism and many, many idols. And his wife told a a lady there, you know, you don't have to worship them anymore. Said, oh no, don't tell me about another God. That's the whole message of the gospel. Paul's very clear. Our God is their God. And we're a church left here. We must have a program of preaching the gospel. That means to be the number one priority on our list of what we do together is to preach the good news that God reigns. And you don't have to stay under your sin a moment longer. But call upon Jesus Christ and believe in His power to deliver you. Believe in His forgiveness. and turn to God. That is our message here still today. Let us pray together now. Holy Father, we thank you for sending your Son Jesus Christ. To work, to preach this good news, who is the good news? He is the Messiah. He is the King through whom you rule. He has poured out his Spirit upon us, in whose light that we live. We thank you, Heavenly Father, for His life And that he prayed to you, and that he stayed on task and completed this preaching ministry. And we ask for your help and the Spirit's help that we would stay on task ourselves. To be a prayerful people, a people ourselves who submit in every way to the authority of your word and stand upon it And proclaim this gospel and the power of that authority to ourselves and our children, to those around us. Help us to keep this prioritized in our life. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.