Please open your Bibles to the prophet Isaiah chapter two, where we will read verses one through four. The word that I Isaiah, the son of Amos, saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem. It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord Shall be established as the highest of the mountains, and shall be lifted up above the hills, and all the nations shall flow to it. Many people shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, and that we may walk in his paths For out of Zion shall go the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. He shall judge between the nations and shall decide disputes for many peoples And they shall beat their swords into plowshears, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn the war. anymore. Verse five. O house of Jacob, come, let us walk in the light of the Lord. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Now, children and everybody, listen to the reading of God's Word from John 12, 20 through 36. John 12, 20. Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethseida in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them: The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit Whoever loves his life loses it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If any one serves me, he must follow me, and where I am, there will my servants. Be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Now is my soul troubled And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name Then a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, An angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the ruler of the world. Now is the judgment of this world. Excuse me, now will the ruler of this world be cast out, and when I am lifted up from earth will draw all people to myself He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So the crowd answered him, We have heard the law, that Christ remains forever. How can you say that this Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of the light This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. And so it begins. That is the first line that occurs in Peter Jackson's production of Lord of the Rings, the Two Towers. In which the character of Gandalf, played by Ian McKellen, takes part in the Battle of Helm's Deep. He sees the armies gathering and knows that the battle is now inevitable. And he says, and so it begins. The phrase, and so it begins, has come to be used more widely since then to signal a large-scale event. A major change, either for good or ill. Jesus could have thought something very similar to this when Andrew and Philip came to him. And it's recorded in verse 20 and following. Now, among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Bethseita in Galilee, and said, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. So what's so ominous about this phrase or what was going on here in these verses? More pertinently. What's so ominous about it? Well, first, it's ominous because it is the beginning of the salvation of the world. Listen carefully. The gracious God of all history has been planning a world-changing event. A rescue of all the lost daughters and sons of Adam. From the very day that Adam and Eve were called out of hiding after their treachery against God, God was promising A Savior. Even after he banished them from the garden and stationed angels with flaming swords to keep them from coming back. He was only doing this in order to bring them home eventually. Ransomed, healed, restored, forgiven. And when he later called Abraham to follow him and become his own special nation This was done in order to bring a blessing of salvation through Abraham for all nations. Not just Abraham's family, or not just Isaac's lineage, or the twelve tribes of Israel that came from Jacob. No, but for all nations, all races, all families of people. And that is, by the way, why racism is such a sin Against God's purposes. It is a sin against God's great plan to ever have any kind of hatred or vitriol for people of other races or nations. In John's gospel, we find Jesus here in Jerusalem on the final week before his crucifixion. And these Greeks are there requesting to see and meet with Jesus. The term Greeks here does not mean people from Greece. Strangely enough, it means people from anywhere in the whole Roman Empire which had become Greek in culture and language. It's called Hellenism. And this was what was meant by Greeks here in this section. All non-Jews were Greeks in this sense. We are all Greeks in this section. And when Jesus heard on the last week there, waiting for the Passover and all the things that would happen, when he heard that these These Greeks, these Gentiles wanted to see him, he knew that it was time to give his life for the world. He knew that it was time to bring all people together into one family, reconciled to him and to one So that's the first thing. It was the beginning of the salvation of the world. But it was also the beginning of the death of Jesus. The following verse 23. Jesus answered them, Truly the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. So what we have here is Jesus knew very well the price that he would pay so that these Greeks and all Greeks and all peoples would come into the family of God. Jesus saw himself and described himself here metaphorically as a seed, a grain of wheat. Now I like to garden. I enjoy making in the springtime that well-prepared bed of soil. I like to clear the last of last summer's weeds, which I let grow after I get tired of it all, and get the leaves out and the debris and everything. And let that soil be there, and then I dig and turn some things over, and then I have to break up the clods to make a nice seed bed and get it level. Then I go up and get the seeds out of storage. I have some seeds that have been laying around in their packages for years. But when I take them out and give them a burial in the bed of my garden, I can expect something to happen. I go out every morning and look after that I can expect something to happen. I can expect them to rise up and to grow and to provide beauty. This year I didn't have a really great crop of vegetables, just some cherries. tomatoes and a couple of squash before the bugs got them. But I have had a glorious harvest of zinnias. That's my wife. Do we always have zinnias in our in our house? Well, Jesus is describing himself here as a grain that's going to be buried. He's going to die. And he is the most precious seed ever planted. He goes on to say, in the same context, in verse 25, whoever loves his life loses it. You try to cling to yourself. He tries to cling to his earthly life. If he's not willing to go to the cross, he will lose it. Whoever hates his life in this world by comparison. We'll keep it for eternal life. And then he says to his followers who are listening, if anyone serves me, he must follow me. Follow me where? He must follow me, and where I am, there will my servant be. If any one serves me, the Father will honor him. Jesus is basically saying If anyone delights in this life more than in God, he will lose out on what he might have had in enjoyment with God. And verse 26, if you think little of your life in comparison to your delight in God, you will have so much more than you can imagine. With God in the future. And even in the present. Right now, some of our brothers and sisters in the The world are dying, literally dying in service to Jesus It was in the United Kingdom newspaper called The Express, September 29th, the headline, Genocide of Christian Martyrs Laid Bare. Sick ISIS butchers crucify thousands in Syria. Crucify thousands. It says that in areas controlled by the Islamic State, Christians have been crucified, beheaded, raped, and subjected to forced conversion. Children are being sold as slaves And the author of this, the person interviewed, says it's like going back a thousand years, seeing the barbarity that Christians are living under. He says, I think we're dealing with a group which makes Nazism pale in comparison, and they have lost all respect for human life. And then he says, crucifying people is sending a message. They believe that that message is sanctioned by Sharia Law. And the article says that while it is known not known how many Syrian Christians have been murdered by the Islamic State, the numbers of those living in the country have fallen rapidly since the start of the Civil War in 2012, more than 700,000, a serious population of 1. 1 million Christians, more than 700,000 of those have already been Taken away, dead, whatever, forced to leave. It's believed that there are now no more than two hundred and fifty thousand Christians living in Syria where there were were one point one million before. Yes. Jesus must die In order to secure salvation for the world. And many of his disciples have died in service to Christ. as martyrs. The word martyr is a Greek word and it literally means witness. But all of you must be willing to follow him and must be willing to die to sin and self every day. One of our membership vows here is the fourth one, and it says, Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as your sovereign Lord? And do you promise that in reliance on the grace of God Of God, you will serve him with all that is in you, forsake the world, resist the devil, put to death your sinful deeds and desires. That's a question. And Jesus echoes the content of that question when he says: if anyone would follow me, let him take up his cross daily and follow me. We sing a hymn from our hymn book that asks the question. Am I a soldier of the cross, a follower of the Lamb? And shall I fear to own his cause or blush? Do we ever blush to speak his name? Then the second stanza says, Must I be carried to the skies on flowery beds of ease? And our answer would be, oh yeah, I'd like that. And it goes on to say, while others fought to win the prize and sailed through bloody seas. Men, women, girls, boys, parents were in a war. Not just in the Middle East or in the Crimea or in parts of sub-Saharan Africa. And places in that world there we have ISIS that hates Christianity and calls those who worship and follow Jesus as God made flesh. They call us infidels and make us Deserving of death. And may God draw these people to Jesus. And he is doing it. But there's one thing that Isis is right about. out one thing, and that is that our society is rotten We live in the modern Western world that either rejects God's word or gives mere lip service to God. We live in a decadent culture where immodesty and blasphemy against God's name and word has become acceptable. Where sex is worshipped and sexual perversion is applauded and given favored legal status. One of the latest perversions is, I heard this in the news this week, that little children are being asked if they would like to change their gender. One psychologist recommended this as early as age three There's a war going on. There's a battle. We're not going to be carried to the skies on flowery beds of ease. It ain't going to happen. Are you willing to stand and die to self and sin, but even if necessary to die along with Jesus The final stanza of that hymn I quoted says, thy saints in all this glorious war, the whole war-long season. Shall conquer though they die, They view the triumph from afar, and seize it with their eye. Jesus, even there and then was seizing the conquering with his eye of faith. Jesus was ready to die. die. And so that's the second thing. The third thing is that this is the beginning of the glorifying of Jesus Listen to verse 27 and following. Now my soul is troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? Is that what you're going to say? But for this purpose I have come this hour. No. Father, glorify your name. Then that voice, the voice came from heaven. I have glorified it and I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there heard it, thought it had thundered. Others said an angel had spoken to him, and Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. The voice of God was heard about the glorifying of God, the glorifying of Jesus. This happens in the Old Testament in major events, such as when Abraham was being called, God's voice was heard by him. When Moses was being called, the burning bush, the voice of God, was heard. And Samuel, when he was being called in the night, he heard the voice of God, and he finally learned to say in response, listen, O Lord. Lord, for your servant, our hero. Speak, O Lord. I got it right now. Speak, O Lord, for your servant is listening. When you heard the voice of God. In the New Testament, the voice of God is heard at Jesus' baptism, and now at the Transfiguration, and now here as he faces the cross cross, the voice of God is heard. And in that voice, Jesus is being reassured by the Father And his followers are being reassured by the voice that God is working his plan. Things are not messed up. God is creating salvation. God, the original gardener, is sowing a seed, and the crop will be glorious. But there's more in this section. Jesus is about to beat the devil. That's here too. The devil has been deceiving the nations. All these centuries, the nations have been left in the dark, so to speak. The Greeks have been outsiders, dogs, unwelcome, not God's people. But now God's son has come, and so it's a moment Momentous thing. Jesus is about to defeat the devil. In this narrative here in John, the devil was using the hands and the hate of the apostate Jewish leaders to destroy Jesus. The devil, who's a psychopath, by the way, the devil thought he could destroy Jesus. But Jesus says in verse 31 What's going to happen here? Verse 31, he says, now, at this moment, what's happening? Is that the judgment of the world is taking place? The old deceived world system before Jesus is coming under a judgment. And then he says, now the ruler of this world will be cast out. What does this mean? It means the devil's power was about to be ended. His darkness was about to be illumined by God's searchlight. His lies were about to be destroyed. Exposed by the truth. His kingdom was and is, believe it, by faith, it was and is collapsing like the walls of Jericho. Let me try to illustrate this in a more contemporary way. During World War II, there was the famous Battle of Normandy. Normandy, which lasted from June 1944 to August 1944. It resulted in the Allied liberation of Western Europe and Nazi Germany's control It was codenamed, and I love this codename. It works really well with the sermon. Operation Overlord The battle began on June 6, 1944, also known as D-Day, when 156,000 American, British, thank you, British. And Canadian forces landed on five beaches along a 50-mile stretch of the heavenly, heavily fortified coast of France's Normandy region. From the invasion was one of the largest amphibious military assaults in history and required expansive extensive planning. By August 1944 All of northern France had been liberated. And by the following spring, the Allies had defeated the Germans And when Berlin was surrounded and Hitler's troops fled away, Hitler committed suicide in his Fuhrerbunker in Berlin The Normandy landings have been called the beginning of the end of the war in Europe. That's what we have. When Jesus says, now will the ruler of this world be cast out. Jesus was about to invade and destroy the devil's false kingdom. Jesus was going to bring it down, and in the end he will be cast into the lake of fire. read in Revelation. And then he says in verse 32. He's about to end the devil's reign, and then verse 32, when I am lifted up From earth I will draw all people to myself. There's that all nations again, the salvation of the world. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. A Roman cross. And then verse 34. So the crowd answered him, We have heard from the law, they're trying to figure this out. We have heard from the law that Christ, the Messiah, remains forever. How can you say the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? They say this doesn't compute. How can the Messiah die? That's not workable. These folks and the whole world will begin to see how that can happen and how it did happen on Easter morning, when the first day of the new creation begins Finally, we see here the ominous and wonderful beginning of the light of the world Jesus said to them, Listen, the light is among you for a little while. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he's going. While you have the light, believe in the light that you may become sons of the light. When Jesus said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. And we read earlier from Isaiah 2 about the light coming to the world, the light As the nations come, it's recorded in Isaiah 2. It shall come to pass in the latter days. These are the latter days. Those were the latter days. That was the beginning of the latter days. We still live in the latter days. It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains. What is that talking about? This is is that there's gonna be some big upheaval and and Mount um Everest is gonna be lower than Mount Zion in in Is in Israel? Is that what's gonna No These are figurative of governments. Mountains in the Old Testament are figurative of governments The mountain of the house of the Lord, the government of God, shall be established as the highest government and lifted above all the hills. The other little governments are hills. And what will happen? And all nations will flow to it. That doesn't sound right. Things flow downhill, don't they? But not Not here, they flow uphill. Verse three, and many people shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, that we may walk in his Passed. All these Greeks are coming up to the mountain of the Lord. For out of Zion shall go forth the law and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And then this wonderful Peaceful picture. This is a picture of paradise. He shall judge between the nations and decide disputes for many peoples. They shall beat their swords into plowshares instead of using swords to stick people. They'll pound them down and make them into agricultural implements. And their spears they'll make into pruning hooks. Well, we've got to prune that little branch there so that we can get better fruit. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. This is the great fruit of the kingdom of Christ. And so in verse 5, which thank you for reading. The beginning of the light of the world, verse 5 of Isaiah 2, O house of Jacob. Jacob, the chosen people. Come let us walk in the light of the Lord. Come, let us walk in the light of the Lord. And oh Grace and Peace Church, folks, are you walking in the light of the Lord? In your personal lives, in your private life, in our congregational life, are you walking in the light of the Lord? Any other place is the darkness Of an old world that has been condemned and is passing away? Are you living the new creation life buried with Jesus? To the old world and its deceptive lies. Are you living in the truth, walking with Jesus so that you're ready to live or die or whatever, as long as it's with Jesus Jesus. And I close with this. One of our newest friends here at Grace and Peace is an Usher. At the Kennedy Center. This is part of his work. He helps people find their way at the Kennedy Center He knows where everything is and how to get there. He knows how to help people to get where they need to go. He knows when to open the doors and when they must be closed. He is a guide, an usher. Dear friends in Christ, we are all called to be ushers. God has called us into his kingdom by grace, by the death of Jesus for our sins, by the resurrection, life that he has given us, united to him. And now he is bringing the nations in. He's bringing the nations in. The doors are open. It's time for the great events to begin. And we are to be. Ushers. We began today in verse twenty-one with those Greeks, And so they came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. And Philip went and told Andrew, and Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus, they're being ushers, aren't they? Nations that are seeking Jesus. God calls us to be ready with a smile With the love of God, with the gospel of peace, he calls us to show others, especially those in our daily path. Show them where to find Jesus. Show them how to see Jesus. They're blind to Jesus. Will you be an usher for Jesus? Are you walking so closely with Jesus that you can show people where to find him? Are you willing to usher others to Jesus? Nations are coming, friends. And so it begins. Amen. Lord, we pray That what we have heard today may not be quickly forgotten, that we and the children of this congregation may ponder these things And consider these things deeply. May your spirit help us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.