Congregation, hear the word of the Lord. Mark chapter ten, verses one through sixteen. And he lived there and went to the region of Judea beyond the Jordan, and crowds gathered to hear him again. And again, as was his custom he taught them. And Pharisees came up and in order to test him asked, is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? He answered them, What did Moses command you? They said, Moses allowed a man to write a certificate of divorce and send her away. And Jesus said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, he wrote you this commandment. But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. And in the house the disciples asked him again about this matter. And he said to them: Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. And if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. And they were bringing children to him, that he might touch them And the disciples rebuked them. But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant. And said to them, Let the children come to me. Do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God Truly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. And he took them in his arms and blessed them Laying his hands on them. Beloved Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, the question of babies and belief has bothered some folks. They wonder what the baby's situation is because he or she cannot believe Some say that babies cannot be saved until they do believe. And others say that they all are saved. At least until they arrive at the age of discretion. And then I'm not quite sure what happens under that view. Yet others say we just don't know. Well, let's look at this text. I want to read it again so that it sinks in. Mark 10, 13 to 16. And they were bringing children to him, that he might touch them. And the disciples rebuked them. But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, Let the children come to me Do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them Well, just how young were those children in our text, by the way? Matthew calls them little children. And the word used in the Lucan narrative of the same event is infants. A word that is used even of the unborn. Mark, for his part, here uses a word which in Greek refers to babies. That they were still quite young is clear from verse 16. He took them in his arms. How many exactly we're not told, and whether it was serially or all at once, but he took them, and they must have been reasonably small, in his arms. We think of Psalm 8. 2, which we just sang. Out of the mouth of babes and infants you established strength because of your foes. Apparently, the crying of babies that belong to God is sufficient rebuke of anybody arrayed against the Lord. They are all the defense he needs and he requires. Could Jesus have had this psalm in the back of his mind that day? And then there is Luke 1:44, an amazing text. John the Baptist stirring in the womb. When Mary told Elizabeth, his mother, about him, the child that she would bear. We simply know so little about the results of the Holy Spirit's power that like the wind Blows where and apparently when it wants. Anyway, here's our text. We read, Jesus has gone from Galilee southwards into Judea and across the Jordan River. Great multitudes came to him there, also some Pharisees. Who, after their kind, tried to trip him up with a tricky question regarding divorce. Jesus talks about the marriage covenant, what God has joined together, let no one separate. That's what he says. And now our text. And we've read it twice. Here, Jesus blesses children of believers brought to him, accepting them as proper objects of God's grace. Pointing to them also as examples of those receiving God's kingdom, like older ones. And claiming them in the meantime, while infants, as participants. in himself. And that's what the rest of this sermon is going to seek to expose. Under three heads. First, Jesus accepts these children as proper objects of God's grace. Parents of the crowd were bringing children to Jesus that he might touch them. But notice the surprising reaction that this brought forth. A rebuke by Jesus' disciples of all things. They considered it inappropriate. that these children were being brought to Jesus. Apparently they thought that mere age, being very young, in this case, Presented a barrier to their receiving God's grace. They were wrong. And Jesus rebuked them. Did they think that some older people can't prepare themselves for God's grace? Are they absolutely certain that little ones cannot receive God's gracious attention because they cannot tell us that they know Him? and what he is doing for them. Parents, know this, please You can no more prepare your children for God's grace than you can prepare yourselves for it. That was the whole point of the Protestant Reformation. By the time of the 16th century, the church had erroneously taught that folks could put themselves in line for grace. By their own efforts. And we can be thankful that Martin Luther gave the lie to that teaching. God will have to do the preparing by his spirit if grace is to flow to anybody. Yes, you need to view this question of babies and belief covenantally. God has covenant children and he intends through you covenant parents of those covenant children To prepare them to ratify his gracious covenant of grace for them. And I must say to you, pre-teens and teenagers, especially Ratify it, you must. Christianity is not an inherited trait. It is a faith commitment to Jesus Christ. You are heirs of his salvation, but you have a responsibility To declare that Jesus is your Savior and say it out loud. Don't wait too long to say that. Your Lord deserves to have your public commitment to him well known. So then, do you parents still want to do something to prepare them for that? Okay. Pray. Pray God to send His Holy Spirit into their hearts to enable them to make this profession. And meanwhile, nurture them in the faith. Yes, God puts his children into the arms of his people And Jesus pays attention to that fact. That's why he takes them into his arms and blesses them. But notice the surprising reaction that this brought forth from Jesus himself. Verse 14. When Jesus saw it, the reaction of the disciples, he was, I was going to say, ticked off. Well he was indignant, that's for sure. Now maybe you think that Jesus ought never to be angry. He's so nice, isn't he? never be angry. But the text tells us that he was very angry. Very angry. That's the word. And his righteous indignation was both right and called for. Why? Because there is equality When it comes to those receiving God's grace, that does not submit to questions of age or psychological competency. And it is the denial of this equality that provokes Jesus' wrath. Compare Mark 9. 42, where he says of those who would prevent the little children from being close to them. Remember that? It would be better for that denier to be thrown into the sea with a large millstone tied around his neck, the first century equivalent of the concrete boot. Note that this is the only place in the Gospels where this very strong verb, to grow indignant, is said of Jesus Christ. In other places we sense his anger when people would uh deny children their rightful place as recipients of God's grace, such as when he speaks about the money changers or the Pharisees in general. He gets mad then too. But note force the force of both the positive and negative forms of the command. Jesus takes an opposing view to that even of his own disciples. Saying, let them come to me and don't hinder them. Why? Because there is something particularly galling About the suggestion that these little children don't belong near him, the world's savior. But notice further this reaction and response, the grace of God, in verse 14b. For to such belongs the kingdom of God. Now, why is that a great response and a gracious one? Because God has willed to give it to them. That's why. God's grace is received by Jesus' followers, and the children also follow Jesus, albeit passively. They are particularly adept at doing that. They do best when they follow. Later that when they grow into activity appropriate to each stage of their development, we will see them acting a little bit more. From their own hearts and minds. But for now, it is appropriate for them to be brought to Him, and it is appropriate for Him to hug them and bless them. Yes, the youngest children as well as adults receive God's grace. Now please don't misunderstand me. I am not saying that all of them continue throughout their lives automatically receptive of the blessings of grace, even if they should rebel later. Sad to say. But that is the subject of another whole sermon, and you're not going to get that this morning. For now we ask only this which of the Israelites received God's grace bringing them out of Egypt? Remembering that the children of thousands of Israelite families could have been not much more than a year or two old. Did you ever think about that? Which Israelites received the grace of God at the Red Sea? Huh? The ones who walked on their feet Or the ones who were carried in their parents' arms on dry ground across that corridor between the walls of water. And that brings us to the second main point. That Jesus points to those children as examples of those who receive the kingdom of God. Look at verse 15. Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. Now apparently expositors on this text have gotten confused and they forgot to notice that Jesus says two things. Yes, he does say that it's important that adults who receive God's grace do so humbly, like a child. But that's not what he says in the previous verse when he says, to such is the kingdom of God. When he says that, he means to them, not to people like them. Do you want to receive the kingdom of God? True. Look at those babies. Because they do, not because they do it as A parable or an example for you, but because they do get the kingdom of God. Now don't miss the point. The ground for that is not found in any subjective quality of merit possessed by those little ones, even that they are so humble, which they often aren't. You'll find that out in a year or two after they're born. Rather, God gives them his kingdom and they receive it even though they have no claim upon it. Who does Covenant children, that is, children of believing parents, don't have an hereditary right and interest. in the kingdom of God. Sort of like the natural and legal right that we might predicate of them to the property of their parents later when they die. Rather, children themselves are the heritage or the inheritance of the Lord. That's what Psalm 127 says They are a heritage from the Lord, mind you, not from their parents, because they belong to Him It's not littleness that prevents reception of the kingdom of God, but deadness. As sinners, we belong to another kingdom, the kingdom of Satan. And Jesus wants the disciples to understand that it is not the big, the competent ones, that receive the kingdom. But those who are objects of God's grace, the ones upon whom He places His love. He places his love upon human beings of all sorts, different races, genders, and, thank you very much, ages. In fact, and this is the point of Jesus pointing to the little children as examples, those babies demonstrate powerfully this truth. No one thinks of them as having done anything to merit entering God's kingdom. Exactly so. No one does. So anybody who does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. If you think that you deserve it You won't get it. Only those gathered by God's grace receive it. Getting back to that Psalm for a moment, Psalm 127, we notice that a faithful rendering will have covenant children described as the Lord's reward. Not the reward that the Lord gives somebody else. The Lord's reward. His reward. You get it? He gets them for himself. Otherwise, they will belong to that other kingdom to which the whole human race belongs by virtue of its fall in Adam. But God determined to have a people for himself, snatched out of that other kingdom and brought into his. All this by the Redeemer, Jesus Christ, whose coming into this world was for that exact purpose. to bring God's kingdom to people who would, by God's grace, receive it. He would die in their place and pay the penalty for their sin And who make up that church? Believers and the children whom God gives them. We read that in the Old Testament passage. God had the Old Testament children circumcised. That is, the males bore the sign, but the females were undoubtedly included. Who would say them nay? That is why now, in the days of the covenant of fulfillment, when baptism has replaced circumcision as the covenant sign, we baptize our covenant children Male and female alike. Isn't that okay? Well, they all, as the Bible says, are holy Not sinless, but holy, that is separated unto God. And we see the outworking of this precious truth in the many household baptisms. By the way, a household baptism was not a baptism of only the adults in the household. This was a household baptism. That means that all the human beings in that household were baptized. And I ask you, In these households recorded for us in the New Testament account, the Philippian jailer, his household. Cornelius, his household, and Lydia, her household. They're named as examples, and I suspect that there were quite a few more. Now where there were no babies in any of those households? What do you think? True it is that apart from Jesus, God and his justice would condemn every last human being. Now I know that sometimes people who think themselves more merciful than God reject that statement, but such is the clear teaching of the Bible. Doomed. Yes, big and small alike, lost forever, apart from Jesus. But Jesus has come And he has told you how you come to be saved in him and by God's sheer grace alone. Now notice what it is to receive the kingdom of God. Here verse 15 again. Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God Like a child shall not enter it. You see, this grace of God, when it is experienced, yields something Those so blessed receive his rule. As Jesus commanded, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent. And believe. Thus, the reception of God's kingdom, though totally of God's grace, is not totally a passive matter on the part of Jesus' followers. And covenant nurture of infants is their appropriate reception of the kingdom of God. They get it from mom and dad. They're there. They're there, and mom and dad are there. They do follow their parents who are following Jesus Thus, they follow Jesus. You get it? The title of this sermon is Babies and Belief. Is it proper to say that? Well, we won't go beyond what Jesus said, but we won't stop short either. That's neither safe nor sane. Is infant nursing purely a natural physiological matter? Ask the mother. She'll tell you. Remembering prenatal John the Baptist, we ask, are even infants in the womb? Beyond the reach of God's grace? Is child discipline in the home necessary purely for peace? And when that two-year-old sings, Jesus loves me, this I know, is that purely rote environmental response? Are those little ones only practicing for later on when the real thing will happen? I don't think so. All these questions must be answered decisively in the negative. If we are to think God's thoughts after him and pay attention to Jesus. On that day with the babies. Here is a warning for the self-righteous. You see, the question that is posed us as we watch the Savior carefully. is not so much whether little children will get into God's kingdom, but whether adults will. Faith and obedience are the warranted, appropriate, and required responses to God's grace on the part of all of Jesus' followers by which they received the kingdom. The covenant nurture of believing adults is kingdom rule. That's when they listen to sermons later on when they're big. From day one of their conversion to, all must trust and all must obey. It's simply not the case that the adult ones do the trusting and the little ones do the obeying. Finally, our third point is that Jesus claims the children as participants in himself. Their identification with Jesus. Is that biblical? Yes. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 7, 14 That covenant children are holy. Not WH HO. Holy in Christ. Here is Jesus touching them, taking them in his arms, and laying his hands on them, blessing them. Now, those aren't mothers parading before Jesus, their cute little sweethearts. Though you can be sure that they were that. They were that, I say, and you can be sure that those mothers and fathers like to hold and cuddle them, look at them and talk to them. Just as we do today with our babies. I'm sure that they commented on the color of their hair. And just where did they get their long fingers from? Those little darlings cried. You bet. Yes, and some of them might have needed a bit of special attention. For these were real children, not dolls. And it won't do for us to so idealize the situation as to lose sight of its down-to-earthness. Yes, Jesus touched them, and he noticed them. Oh, how he noticed them. But he noticed so much more than did their parents. And especially the disciples. A good thing, too, don't you think? For he was the bringer of the kingdom to them By the way, it was probably the fathers who were bringing those babies to Jesus, not the mothers. You probably thought it was just mothers, but it probably was fathers. At least that would conform more to Jewish custom. But what was an Israelite father? He was a covenant head, yet a sinner. He couldn't bless his own children, and he knew that, so he brought them to Jesus who could bless them. Yes, Jesus held the babies. But others would take hold of him and put him on a cross. He would be delivered into the hands of sinful men, this one who took the children into his arms. But those were not the only hands into which he would be delivered. There would be other hands, for as Paul writes to the Romans, he was delivered up. By the predetermined plan of God. Here was the real laying on of hands. And all those who belong to Jesus are united to him in his sacrificial death. They are participants with him in the judgment on the cross. And by that they escape eternal damnation. By that they enter the kingdom of his grace. And the point of this account this morning of Jesus and the babies is to make clear that this gracious kingdom does not embrace adults only, but little children as well. That's why Jesus says in verse 14b, to such belongs the kingdom of God. And as I've already said, you must carefully distinguish verse fourteen B from verse 15 That which is exactly the point of verse 15 may not be allowed to become the meaning of 14b. In 14B, Jesus is clearly referring to the little children and not to adults who happen to evidence a childlike trust. If his words to such referred to adults with childlike faith. How in the world would that be a reason for the disciples to allow little children to come to Jesus? No, Jesus is talking about the children when he says to such belongs the kingdom of God. Unmistakably. But if there remains any doubt still in your minds of that statement, the clincher comes with Mark's choice of the word such. That word tuitus in the Greek means this sort. This sort. Now, of what sort of people had Jesus been speaking Of little children, those very little ones in his arms. And by saying that the kingdom of God belongs to these children, Jesus made reference Through the Old Testament covenant context, the people of God. He's not just saying, I like babies. They're very nice. And I hope that everything goes well for them. This is not some quaint human interest interlude in the Gospels. Jesus is getting back to his real and main task. This is it. And we know who belonged to the kingdom of God in the Old Testament age. It was Abraham and his children and heirs and theirs after them. Now Jesus is saying nothing has changed. They're still in. Could that covenant connection have ever been more forcibly taught? Than it was on the day when Jesus hugged the babies. He lays claim on them. And who will say him nay? Nobody, my friends, just nicely gets into the kingdom and then can relax because everything's all fixed up. It just doesn't work that way. Not even in eternity. Heaven will be made for glorifying God and enjoying Him forever. And so is earth. Union with Jesus means following him into his death unto sin and resurrection unto life. Children of Christians are by baptism identified as covenant children, holy, that is, separated in Christ from the kingdom of darkness. Then, as they mature, they need to trust in Him and obey His commandments In conclusion, for adults seeking the sign and seal of membership in that kingdom and entrance into the visible church, there is required conversion. And confession of faith in Christ. But not every adult does so, and consequently, not every adult is to be baptized Likewise, not every infant in the world is to be baptized. Jesus does not say that all infants belong to the kingdom of God, or that all infants, because they are infants, somehow gain status thereby in the kingdom of God. Status in the kingdom of God is by the grace of God always and everywhere. And only. No wonder then that Christian parents who cause their children to stumble by failing to lead them to Jesus or by leading them elsewhere than to Jesus. We'll have to answer for that someday. For God says, they're mine. I want them. And that's why I put them into your arms. And now I command you to disciple them for me. Yes, Jesus did bless the babies. Was there any greater sign that those children were his than that he enfolded them into his arms, put his hands on them, and blessed them? By those acts, Jesus said, Bear in me. The covenant made to the fathers of old is still in force And it still embraces the ongoing generations of God's people. And it embraces every member of that blessed community, no matter how young or frail. This we know, because God still declares it by his preached word, as he has today in your hearing. That is precisely why we will soon witness the sacrament of baptism administered to yet one more. Covenant baby, who will be thus identified as taken by Jesus into his blessed arms. Ours is to be very quiet and watch and be very thankful. Sola Dei Grazia