Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the fourth chapter of Joshua. Joshua chapter 4, verses 1 through 24, which is the whole chapter. So we'll be reading all of Joshua chapter 4. When all the nation had finished passing over the Jordan, the Lord said to Joshua, Take twelve men from the people. From each tribe a man, and command them, saying, Take twelve stones from here out of the midst of the Jordan. from the very place where the priest's feet stood firmly, and bring them over with you and lay them down in the place where you lodge tonight. Then Joshua called the twelve men from the people of Israel, whom he had appointed, a man from each tribe. And Joshua said to them, Pass on before the ark of the Lord your God into the midst of the Jordan, and take up each of you a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the people of the Israel, that this may be a sign among you. When your children ask in time to come, what do those stones mean? Mean to you, then you shall tell them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord. When it passed over the Jordan The waters of the Jordan were cut off. So these stones shall be to the people of Israel a memorial forever And the people of Israel did just as Joshua commanded, and took up twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel, just as the Lord had told Joshua. And they carried them over with the pe with them to the place where they lodged, and laid them down there. And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of the Jordan, in the place where the feet of the The priests bearing the ark of the covenant had stood, and they are there to this day. For the priests bearing the ark stood in the midst of the Jordan until everything was finished. that the Lord commanded Joshua to tell the people, according to all that Moses had commanded Joshua. The people passed over in haste. And when all the people had finished passing over the ark of the Lord, and the priest passed over before the people The sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh passed over, armed before the people of Israel, as Moses had told them. About forty thousand ready for war passed over before the Lord for battle to the plains of Jericho. On that day the Lord exalted Joshua in the sight of all Israel, and they stood in awe of him just And the Lord said to Joshua, Command the priests bearing the ark of the testimony to come up out of the Jordan So Joshua commanded the priests, come out out of the Jordan. And when the priests bearing the ark of the covenant of the Lord came up from the midst of the Jordan, and the souls of the priests' feet Were lifted up on dry ground, the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and overflowed all its banks as before. The people came up out of the Jordan on the tenth day of the month, and they encamped at Gilgal on the east border of Jericho. And those twelve stones which they took out of the Jordan Joshua set up at Gilgal. And he said to the people of Israel, When your children ask their fathers in times to come, what do these stones mean? Then you shall let your children know Israel passed over this Jordan on dry ground For the Lord your God dried up the waters of the Jordan for you until you passed over, as the Lord your God did to the Red Sea. Which he dried up for us until we passed over, so that all the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of the Lord is mighty, that you may fear the Lord your God forever. Now let's read from the New Testament, Matthew chapter 3, 1 through 17. Matthew 3, 1 through 17, someone else here in the Jordan, in Matthew 3, beginning at verse 1. In those days, John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. Now John wore a garment of camel's hair, and a leather belt around his waist. And his food was locust and wild honey. Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him And they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism He said to them, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance And do not presume to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father. For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor, and gather his wheat into the barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. Then Jesus came from Galilee to Jordan, to John, to be baptized by him. John would have prevented him, saying, I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me? But Jesus answered him, Let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he consented. And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were open to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him. And behold, a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that you now will speak to us through these portions of your word, especially Joshua chapter 4. Help us to think about these things as you have intended them in history Help us to understand them deeply and spiritually and apply them by the Holy Spirit to our own lives and situations. For we pray in Jesus' name Amen. The thesis that I present to you this morning in preaching is this. So here it is, you can Evaluated as we go through, but the thesis is that the crossing of the Jordan by the Israelites here in chapter 4 is a foreshadowing and type of baptism. Your baptism. A foreshadowing and type of baptism, your baptism. But before we get there, let's think about floods for a few moments As we read last week, the Jordan River was in the time of flood. North of Israel, up in southern Syria, there's a mountain range called Mount Hermon and a bunch of others. And they're about 9,000 feet high, and through the winter they collect a lot of snow. And then when spring comes, that snow begins to melt, and that's what causes the Jordan to flood. The Jordan is in flood tide, and the people of Israel are being commanded to cross the Jordan River at flood tide. It's very dangerous. It's just not possible, frankly. But God says, I want you to do it anyway. But let's think about floods for a few minutes. We've had some real bad floods this summer, haven't we? Yeah. Hurricane Harvey hit Houston, Texas, and Southeast Texas generally, with 30 to 60 inches of rain. New data from the National Weather Service shows that the weather station near Naderland, Texas, about 10 miles north of Port Arthur, received 60. 58 inches of rain from Hurricane Arthur. Harvey. That's a lot of rain. Another weather station about five miles to the southeast registered sixty point five four during the storm. And then we had Hurricane Irma that hit Florida. The storm's massive surge caused when its strong winds sucked the tide out from the coast on one side and then sucked. slam that water back toward the coast on the other side of the storm was its most dangerous feature, since it resulted in life-threatening surge flooding. And then we had Maria that hit Puerto Rico. In one day, parts of Puerto Rico received 24 to 36 inches of rain. Now compare that to Houston, which received 32 inches in three days. One day 24 to 36 versus Three days, 32 inches during Harvey. In the town of Caguas, I guess that's the way you pronounce it. A city in the mountains of eastern Puerto Rico, rain gauges measured more than fourteen inches in one hour. You can imagine the flooding that resulted. Apparently, that was a candidate for a new world record. Caguas got more rain in a single day, nearly 40 inches, than Seattle does in an average year. So there are floods. Now I'm not going to make some sort of theological connection between these floods and God's judgment on these places. I'm not capable of doing that. I don't even know that that's the case. Don't know. But that we're going to look at the biblical theology of floods for a few minutes and see how the flood That we're talking about here today, and coming through the flood, preaches Jesus Christ in biblical history. Now, first let's think about the flood at creation. Flood was possibly the first stage of creation, where after having brought something out of nothing, God had not yet brought order to the universe And so we read in Genesis 1, 1 and 2, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Now the earth was formless and empty. That's a state of chaos. Darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. So that was a flood condition. before God shaped it into an orderly creation. But once God brought order out of his creation, in Genesis 1. 31, he said it Is very good. So the chaos is gone, the flood is over, the land has emerged, there's order in God's world. By the way, let me just say this: God is a lover of order. That's his basic characteristic is order. His law brings order, brings peace, brings justice, brings righteousness, brings Sensibility to the world. His law is orderly, because God is a God of order. God is a God of cleanliness and neatness and appropriateness and respect for authority. All those things Our characteristics of God. In James chapter three, James talks about When people are out of order, when things are wrong. He says, For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder in every vile practice. God is a God of order. He brought order out of that first chaos. But the primeval chaos that existed before God brought the the shape and order of the creation is often symbolized in the Old Testament by the surging waters of a flood. The f the flood threatens to disrupt God's order at any time. And when Adam and Eve sinned, a flood of chaos ensued, judgment upon the whole twenty. Creation. Remember, God brought order out of chaos and he promises even after the fall to bring order, to restore order from the chaos. But even as we look in the Old Testament, God's people who have been redeemed still talk about the flood of chaos. In Psalm 69, the psalmist says, I sink in the miry depths where there is no foothold. I have come into the deep waters, the floods engulf me. So that flood theology of chaos and disruption is depicted there. And Jonah, you know the story of Jonah? Now he was told to go to Nineveh, and he went the other way and got on a ship. And you know what happened to old Jonah. For his disobedience to God's command, he ended up in the sea. And he describes it in verse 3 of chapter 2. You hurled me into the depths, into the very heart of the seas, and the currents swirled about me, all your waves and breakers swept over me. So he finds himself in the flood of God's judgment in his case. And we see in Psalm 46 When Israel is trusting in God, Israel can have a confident posture even in the midst of surrounding disturbances. Psalm 46 says, Therefore we will not fear though the earth give way, and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, and the mountains quake with their surging. So we see that the raging sea is a frequent symbol of the chaos from which the world was created and to which it could return. And yet those whose confidence is in God who brought order out of chaos have nothing to fear. And we see that sense of calm and confidence in Psalm 104 verse 7 and following, where the psalmist says, At your rebuke the waters fled. I think he's thinking back to the Exodus here. At your rebuke the waters fled. At the sound of your thunder, they took to flight. They flowed over the mountains. They went down into the valleys to the place you assigned for them. Order. You set a boundary they cannot cross, never again will they cover the earth. That's after the flood of Noah. And in Exodus 15, the song that was sung after the crossing of the Red Sea, the The song of Moses says this, verse 8, by the blast of your nostrils the waters piled up. in the crossing. The surging waters stood up like a wall, the deep waters congealed in the heart of the sea. And so we see again That the flood was a chaotic situation. God brought order out of it. And yet floods ensue, and God still promises to bring order out of them. And then we see Jesus come. Jesus, the Lord of the universe. And in Matthew chapter 8, not the baptism that we read about, but in Matthew chapter 8, he's out with his disciples in a boat. On the Sea of Galilee. You remember that? Followed him, and suddenly a furious storm came up on the lake, so that the waves swept over the boat. But Jesus was sleeping The disciples went and woke him, saying, Lord, save us, we're going to drown. He replied, You have little faith, why are you so afraid? Then he got up and rebuked the wind and the waves, and it was Completely calm. The men were amazed and asked, what kind of man is this? Even the winds and the waves obey him. So we see again that Jesus is the Lord of the flood, over the flood. He stills the flood. After Israel gets established in the Promised Land, they still have enemies round about them, nations that threatened them. And those are also likened to Raging seas. In Isaiah 17. Isaiah says, Woe to the many nations that rage, they rage like the raging sea. Woe to the peoples who roar, they roar like the roaring of great waters. Although the peoples roar like the roaring of surging waters, when he rebukes them, they flee far away, driven before the wind, like chaff on the hills, like tumbleweed before a gale. So we see the biblical theology of flood shaping together here. Floods are chaotic, floods are judgment. And God's people are now being called to go right into a flood, the flood of the Jordan, to go over and take possession of the land that God has promised to give them. Let me just say one more thing about the flood before we get to the text. In the book of Revelation, so you see the whole beginning to end here. In the book of Revelation, at the end of the Bible. What do we see in the new heavens and new earth? Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. Now I know that bothers you who are in the Navy, right? Or been in the Navy. But the sea was no more. There's no more possibility of a flood. There's no more chaotic place where evil comes up out of it anymore. There was no more sea. So now let's turn to our text and look at that for a few minutes to see how God shows us our baptism, even in this flood. Joshua 1. When all the nation had finished passing over the Jordan, the Lord said to Joshua, take twelve men from the people from each tribe a man, and command them, saying, Take twelve stones from here, out of the midst of the Jordan, from the very place where the priest's foot stern stood firmly, and bring them over with you, and lay them down in the place where you lodge tonight. So go down into the Jordan where the Ark of the Covenant was, where the waters were kept from sweeping over, go down there and pick up big stones. You've got to get some big men. and put a big stone on his shoulder from that place where the Ark of the Covenant. And then carry those up out of that depth. Carry them to the place where you're going to spend the night. Joshua called the twelve men from the people of Israel, whom he had appointed, a man from each tribe, and Joshua said to them, Pass on before the ark of the Lord your God in the midst of the Jordan. and take up each of you a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel. So these stones, these men, represent the whole body of God. God's people, the whole nation of Israel that have crossed the river in the flood. And when your children ask in time to come, what do these stones mean to you? So it's a catechetical method here. Then you shall tell them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off from before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord. Why? Because the ark is the footstool of God on earth. It's the presence of God on earth. God comes down into the place where you would have drowned in the flood. And he stands there. He puts his feet there, and he calls the waters to flee. And you get to come across on dry ground. The judgment is quelled. The judgment is stopped. The judgment is stanched. And God's people come through on dry ground. Verse 7, then you shall tell them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord when it passed over the Jordan. The waters of the Jordan were cut off, so that you wouldn't be cut off. So these stones shall be to the people of Israel a memorial forever. So, what does all this mean? It means deliverance from the flood. And in the Bible, Baptism is often compared to the flood of God's judgment. When we baptize someone, even whether it's immersion or whether it's pouring or sprinkling, We're not saying, oh, isn't this a great person? This is a terrific, wonderful person. We're saying this person deserves judgment. They deserve to drown. They deserve to be have blood poured on them. They deserve death. But God, through Christ, sent Christ into the world to save sinners. to staunch the flood of judgment, to save those who would have suffered and drowned in the flood of God's judgment. We see that, bits and pieces, glimpses here and there, where the apostles teach us kind of almost on the side about the meaning of baptism Little bits and pieces, not full doctrinal statements, but little bits and pieces. Here's one of them in 1 Peter 3, 20 through 21. Listen to this. Talking about judgments and so forth and salvation in verse chapter 1 Peter 3, 20 through 20. 21, when God's patience, he's doing a reference here, when God's patience waited in the days of Noah while the ark was being prepared, what was going to happen? The flood, wasn't it? In which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Now they weren't in the water, they were above the water, but they were through the water in the ark. And then he says in verse twenty one, this very curious thing. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you. So there it is. Flood, baptism are coordinated. They're brought together. And we need to see those connections here. You've got to be careful what we make out of that, but we need to see the connection, right? And that's not the only one. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Paul again on the side is throwing an illustration in it. He brings this connection again. First Corinthians 10, 1 through 2. He says about Israel, for I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that our fathers, Israel We're all under the cloud, that cloud that followed them through, you know, and all passed through the sea And were baptized into Moses, in the cloud, and in the sea. Now again, there was a flood, wasn't there? After they passed through the Red Sea, there was a flood and it drowned the Egyptians. The judgment came upon the Egyptians. God's people came through on dry ground. But he says it was a baptism of sorts. Into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. So there's this connection, you see. Now let's go on in our text. Verse 8. And the people of Israel did just as Joshua commanded, and took up twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan, according to the number of the tribes of people of Israel, just as the Lord had told Joshua And they carried them over to the place where they lodged and laid them down there. But then here's something you might have missed if you weren't listening really carefully. Verse 9. So these stones, twelve of them, have been taken out of the Jordan, placed over here on the land in Canaan. But then verse 9, and Joshua set up 12 stones in the midst of the Jordan. To more stones in the midst of the Jordan, down in the bottom, in the place where the feet of the priest bearing the Ark of the Covenant had stood. And there they are to this day, under water. For the priest bearing the ark stood in the midst of the Jordan until everything was finished, so that the Lord commanded Joshua to tell the people according to all that Moses had commanded. Joshua. What is this all telling us symbolically, telling Israel and telling us even now? It's telling us that God's presence in Christ, who is the very essence of the presence of God, isn't he? He is Emmanuel, God with us in human flesh. God went into the waters of judgment. In the Jordan. Christ went into the waters of judgment that we deserved, so that we would escape the destruction. And the old life, represented by the twelve stones at the bottom of the Jordan, was drowned in baptismal judgment when the waters came back. The new life emerges, the twelve stones in Canaan, as a memorial. The covenant promised land. So we have the picture there. There's more. The people passed over in haste. They ran on through the Jordan. And when all the people had finished passing over, the ark of the Lord The priests passed over before the people, and then it tells about these armies that went out there to prepare for battle. Verse 15, Joshua, the Lord said to Joshua, command the priests bearing the ark of the testimony to come up out of the Jordan now. So Joshua commanded the priests to come up out of the Jordan. And when the priests bearing the ark of the covenant of the Lord came up out of the midst of the Jordan, and the soles of the priests' feet were lifted up on dry ground, the waters of Jordan returned to their place. And overflowed all its banks, springtime flood, as before. The people came up out of the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month. This is history. And they encamped at Gilgal on the east border of Jericho. And those twelve stones, which they took out of the Jordan, Joshua set up at Gilgal. And he said to the people of Israel, When your children ask their fathers in times to come, what do these stones mean, you shall let your children know. Israel passed over on dry ground. Israel came through the judgment. God stood in the place of judgment. And Israel came through without being drowned For the Lord your God dried up the waters of Jordan for you until you passed over, as the Lord your God did to the Red Sea in the past when he dried up for us when we passed over. so that all the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of the Lord is mighty, that you may fear the Lord your God forever. Friends, today, the Ark of God isn't just a little box or a big box. The Ark of God, the place where God dwells, as we learn in the New Testament, is With his people. God is in the midst of his people. God dwells with us. We are the ark of God. God dwells with us in Emmanuel by the power of the Holy Spirit. The people baptized into Moses, baptized into Joshua, baptized into Christ by the Holy Spirit inwardly, and yes, by baptismal waters marked outwardly. The ark of God today doesn't need to be found. The ark of God is the church. It is the body of Christ. It is the believer who has the Holy Spirit. And we gather in what is often called architecturally a nave from the word navy or nawas, from the ship. We gather in a nave To worship our God. Like a ship coming through the water, we are rescued through the judgment in Jesus Christ. So, what's the conclusion of this? I know it may be hard to piece some of these things together, the puzzle of how God has demonstrated his saving work in history, but let us see it. In yourself, in and of yourself, in your father Adam, you're condemned. The stones stacked in the river represent your condemnation. But God in his mercy and his love, in his presence in Christ, came into the judgment. And that's where you are in Christ. You are on the other side. You're out of the judgment. You're free. You're in the promised land. Without the presence of God standing in the midst of the judgment that you and me because of our sins, we would be destroyed. But God, in his love and mercy, sent Christ, in presence in the world, in human flesh, to stand in our place, to endure the flood of God's wrath, so that we Would come out on dry ground in the promised land with Christ. We are cleansed and delivered in Christ Like the twelve stones at Gilgal, we are at home with God in the promised land. Now, thus someone draw the conclusion that I'm teaching baptismal salvation. You know, you do get those words in Peter. Sounds kind of like that, doesn't it? Let me just say to this to you theologically. Baptism alone does not accomplish this. Water baptism alone does not accomplish this Sacraments, you see, require living faith in order to be effectual to salvation. They are effectual to salvation, but only when combined with living faith If you are baptized, if you have received holy baptism, and I think you have, This does not alone accomplish your salvation. If you are baptized but do not trust in Christ, someday you will be met with a flood of the righteous judgment. At the final day to whom much is given, from them shall much be required. If you have been marked in baptism You have been made a part of the visible body of Christ. You've been given the blessings of this fellowship, of this Word of God, of these sacraments. You've been given all these opportunities, and you refuse it. You'll be met with a great judgment in the future, to whom much is given. From them shall much be required. So what I say to you today is And Israel needed to have this lesson too. You came through, great. Now improve your baptism. Improve your baptism. Build upon your baptism. By baptism, you are joined to the people of God, where God's presence dwells. You live in Him and with His people. By faith, you cross from death to life. Your baptism is made a true baptism of deliverance by faith. Faith and sacraments together These outward things are sacramental signs, but they point to the reality which is Christ. Faith in Christ The final Joshua. His name is almost exactly like the word Joshua, Yeshua, by faith in Christ. who was exalted by the Father at his baptism. The Father said, This is my beloved Son. In him I am well pleased. If you're in him, he's well pleased with you too, you see. You've already gone through the baptism with Christ image. That you might be accepted, that you might enter promised land, that you might have all that God has for you. So let us see these things and let us rejoice in what God is doing in our own lives, in our own situations. And let us have the faith that activates the sacrament. And improves our baptism. Let us have it. In Jesus' name. Lord, we thank you for this story of how you rescued your people through the flood. We pray that as we think about our own baptism, whether we remember it or not, whether it was done to us when we were little, or whether we chose to be baptized later. No matter what the form of our baptism help us to remember that you were acting. You were delivering us. You were showing us that we belong to your people. And may we not be like some who disdain these things and who don't make improvement and who do not add faith to the sacramental word. And act. May we, by faith, embrace all that is offered to us and shown to us in baptism and in the Lord's Supper. In Jesus' name. Amen.