The reading this morning will be from 1 Kings chapter 18, verses 41 through 46. And Elijah said to Ahab, Go up, eat and drink. There is a sound of the rushing of rain. So Ahab went up to eat and to drink, and Elijah went up to the top of Mount Carmel. And he bowed himself down on the earth and put his face between his knees. And he said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea. And he went up and looked and said, There is nothing. And he said, Go again, seven times. And at the seventh time he said, Behold, a little cloud like a man's hand is rising from the sea. And he said, Said, Go up, say to Ahab, Prepare your chariot, and go down lest the rain stop you. And in a little while the heavens grew black with clouds. And Ahab rode and went to Jezreel, and the other thing was a very good thing. Jezreel. The word of the Lord. From James chapter 5, 13 through 20, as we end the series in James, which was started at the beginning of Advent. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed any sins, he will be forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working Elijah was a man with nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain. And for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. My brothers, if anyone among you wonders from the truth, and someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. This is the word of the Lord. So as we've gone through James these several weeks, this is the sixth in that series. We have seen various encouragements and warnings. And the basic picture that we get from James is Is James arguing that true faith in Jesus, his brother, true faith will result in good works He's not teaching that works are part of our salvation. I think I've dispelled that error in other preaching. But true faith That's alive in a person will result in good works. It can't be otherwise. And if it doesn't result in good works, then it's not true faith. Now, sometimes we fail and our works aren't good, but then we repent and we find grace to help in time of need. And God recovers us and puts us back in good state. So that's the basic picture, and I want to just recover for you what was uh preached before. James tells us first of all. How to handle life's troubles with faith and hope in Jesus. And he gives encouragement in that one. As James tells you that God is just and that you are to be just Not prejudiced, not racist, not any way unjust in your treatment of other human beings, ever. And that's a warning. Severe warning. And then James says that you who profess faith must test and prove the genuineness of your faith by putting that faith to work And there's encouragements and warnings there. And then he says that Christ, who claims you, also claims control of your tongue. Because the tongue is a very powerful instrument in the body, even though it's very small. It can do a great deal of good or a great deal of harm. So there's encouragements to use your tongue for blessing and not for cursing. And then the next one was that we're created for peace. We're not created for strife and anger and trouble. We were created to be peaceful. We were peaceful in the garden that we fell away from that and have come into strife and turmoil. But in Christ we are to be recreated and we are to be people of peace. And then last Sunday, that we are always to be generous, fair, and honest and generous in light of our identity in Christ. Christ. That is to be the outworking of faith in us. Generosity, fairness, rightness. Now, today we come to the end of it all. And James, being very practical, is giving us a bit of basic pastoral care. So this isn't going to be a sermon where you say, ah, I didn't know that before. This is all strange and new to me, no. This is basic pastoral care. And it's about prayer. And the first thing he says in verse 13 is, anyone among you suffering And he said it in chapter one that there will be times of suffering. That if there's anyone among you suffering, what is he to do? Let him pray. The suffering here being addressed is probably the kind of suffering experienced by the prophets who spoke the truth, and so they were suffering for a cause, for truth. Christians were called to speak for God, proclaim the good news, proclaim the reign of God, which was begun in the coming of Jesus, and this would often get them into trouble. And so when they got into that trouble and they were suffering because of that, they were to pray. Not fret, not go crazy, but to pray. And Elijah will be cited very shortly. We were just hearing about Elijah. He was a prophet. He was persecuted. By Ahab and Jezebel. He was worn out and he was discouraged. He was in fear for his life. And he was taught to pray. The way to the throne room of God has been opened up for us, you see, brothers and sisters. In Luke chapter 23, when Jesus was hanging on the cross, Luke records, it was now about the sixth hour And there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour, three hours of darkness in the middle of the day, while the sun's light failed. And then it says, and the curtain of the temple was torn in two. Put all those things together. The curtain of the temple, not just the light curtain. a heavy tapestry hanging between the priest who represented God's people and the Holy of Holies, the place where the priest could only go once a year. That heavy curtain was torn in two from top to bottom, and the way symbolically was open. opened up for us to pray at any time. There's no nothing between us and God. No one to has to come between us and God to get us to God. Jesus has stood in that place. Jesus has opened a way. And so the writer of Hebrews says this: Since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens. Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. But one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. And then this. Let us then with confidence draw near the throne of God. Who could do that in the Old Testament temple? Who could draw near the throne of God? Only that priest, only once a year, only with the sacrifice of atonement. And only with fear and trembling. But the writer says, let us draw near the throne of God, the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help when in time of need. Any time of need, any time of suffering, trouble, or need, draw near to the throne of grace. So there it is. If you have a situation that you're troubled about, draw near the throne of grace. Come to God in prayer. It's there for you. It's basic. And then there's another phrase, the next bit. And this calls us to prayers of thanksgiving. We're not just to pray when we're in trouble. We're to pray all the time. We're to be thankful people. It says, is anyone cheerful? There are times, thankfully. Are there not? When the sun shines, not so much today, but the sun shines in other ways into our life, good news, happiness, encouraging words, joy. Enjoying a great meal, whatever it is, there are times to be cheerful, and we are cheerful. What are we to do? It says, let him sing praise Wait a minute, Pastor. You're talking about prayer. That's not prayer. Yes, it is. Yes, it is. It is a duty to sing praise to God, and that is a form. It's a different form. It's not this kind of form, or bowed heads and closed eyes and clamped fists, no. It's a different kind it's a it's this kind of a form of prayer. It's looking up and praising and smiling and singing praise to God. That's prayer Psalm 57 says, My heart is steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast. I will sing and make melody. Awake, my glory, awake, O harp and lyre, I will awake the dawn. I'm up early. I'm going to wake everybody else up with praise because of the cheerfulness that God has poured into my life. And that cheerfulness is there for us at all times, even when we're sad or troubled. It underlies any other thing because we have of Jesus because he has opened that way for us. Psalm 147, sing to the Lord with thanksgiving, make melody to our God on the lyre We're always to praise God this way. And then Ephesians chapter 5. Do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery. Now, when you get drunk, see, you kind of lose control. You're you're kind of disoriented, you're out of sorts, and you lose control. But you kind of feel cheerful sometimes, I mean, if you've ever been drunk. But we're not to get cheerful that way. We don't carry a bottle of cheer around, do we? We shouldn't. But be filled. With the Spirit, let the Spirit take over. And how are you? What are you supposed to do? Addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart. So we're supposed to praise God, and that's part of prayer. You see, psalms are prayers put to melody. They're written in the book of Psalms, they're written in hymns that we sing, but they're prayers put to melody. They're calling on God and thanking God and praising God. They are prayers put to melody. They contain praise and sometimes they contain petition and supplication too, but they are prayers. And I want to add just one more thing to that. In Acts chapter 2, verse 42, this is right after Pentecost. I mentioned this the other night at a congregational meeting. This is the basic pattern for Christian worship together, Christian life together. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching That's the apostles' understanding of the Old Testament and how Christ's fulfillment of it. And to the fellowship, that is, that we all belong to one another. We're brothers and sisters. We are united to Christ and to one another. That's fellowship. It's also shaking hands and smiling and asking how you are. That's fine. But it's that basic underlying we belong to each other. We're united. We're a family in Christ. And then it says the breaking of bread. I said that's the code word for communion. That's what it was called, the bread breaking time. That's everybody knew. We're going to break bread now. That meant we're going to have the Lord's Supper. And then the prayers. The prayers. It's got a definite article. It's not prayer in general. It's the prayers. That was the gathered congregational reciting of God's truth. Praising God in Psalms and hymns, that was the creeds that were developed, that was all these kinds of things, the prayers. The prayers meant regular worship, including fellowship, apostolic teaching, communion at the Lord's table, and the set form of prayers, including singing. All that together. Such singing is to be done by Christians at other times too. You can sing in your car, you can sing in your shower if you want to. But especially as the most important expression of our cheerfulness because of Christ, we are to sing Praise. So that's the second phrase. And then there's this part that we come to next. A little more explanation is required. It is prayer for a sick person by elders. So it's a special kind of prayer, special situation of prayer. Verse 14, is anyone among you sick? And the the presupposition here is that someone is sick And so they're not able to come to gathered worship. They're home. Now that doesn't always turn out that way, but this is the underlying presupposition here. Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And then it says, And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. Now, first you might want to ask why elders and why anointing with oil? Well, elders are those people who have been elected and ordained. And set forth in the congregation to govern the congregation. The qualifications for elders were that they were supposed to be men who understand the deep things of the faith, who walk in exemplary fashion. who pray deeply, who live for Jesus, who know Jesus very well, so they're in tune with Jesus. They're in tune. They're praying people. They're prayer warriors So they're especially uh qualified to be asked to do this praying ministry. And what about oil? Well, it's simply this. It's not some kind of special oil consecrated by priests sent from Rome or something, no. This is just oil and is simply a symbol of the Holy Spirit. It's simply one of God's ways to say, I'm so real that I'm going to anoint you with something real. So that you know that I'm really present with you. The Holy Spirit is present with God's people when they need His help. So elders who are the representatives of God Of Christ in this congregation come in his name. They don't come in their own name. Oh, I'm so good, I'm so right, I'm so holy. No. They come praying in the name of the Lord, it says. They pray in the name of the Lord. In Acts chapter 3, there was this beggar at the temple gate. And he had been there for many years, and he was asking for alms. He wanted something. And Peter and John said, hey, look at us. And then they said to him, I have no silver or gold, but what I do have I give to you in the name That's not just a formula or something. In the name of Jesus, Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. So it's not in our person or our name, but it is in Jesus' name that we are to expect God to do great things. And so what happened? The man did rise up and walk. And then Peter and John had to explain to the to the gathered listeners, they couldn't believe this had happened. This man who had been there so long rose up and walked And he preaches to them. It's a preaching text now. He says, Men of Israel, why do you wonder at this? Or why do you stare at us as though by our own power or piety we have made him walk? No. And then he says, it is in the name, by the name of Jesus, by faith in his name, that God has made this man strong, whom you see and know. It is the faith that is through Jesus God has given this man his perfect health in the presence of you all. So that's why the elders Come when they're bidden, and in the name of Jesus they anoint with the symbol of the powerful Holy Spirit, and they come in Jesus' name to pray for whoever it is that's sick. And this should not be construed, by the way, this statement here, which is a very positive statement, admittedly, should not be construed as an absolute statement Does it say, and the prayer of faith will in every case save the one who is sick, and the Lord will in every case raise him up. No. It's put in a positive statement here on purpose, but we know from other places in Scripture that it is not always God's will. It is not. You remember the Apostle Paul had some kind of ailment. He called it a thorn in the flesh. And he says he prayed three times. He begged God three times to deliver him from this ailment. And finally God said, no, not going to do it. My grace is sufficient for you. My grace is sufficient for you. And in your weakness, my strength is made perfect. So, no, the answer was no, and sometimes it is no. But when God is pleased to heal and to raise, this is the way someone who is sick may approach him to request it. They come expecting God to act. And so that's what we will do later. There's someone in our congregation who's asked for this, and we will do it. We will anoint and pray, not in the service, but afterward. So that God may choose in His sovereign, wonderful grace to heal. Okay, next is the prayer for forgiveness. It comes right after the other verses. It doesn't say that sickness is always caused by sin, but what it does say is this: if, and if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. And what this is teaching, obliquely, But in other places we can put it together, sin may be a part of the cause of sickness. Not always. But we know that our bodies are badly affected by our soul sickness. Our bodies are badly affected by unreconciled relationships. When there's a loss of integrity in us between what we know God wants us to do and what we're actually doing. It causes a rift between us. And it makes us sick sometimes. So we're to confess our sins to one another. We're to ask God to to lead us into getting things right with him and therefore right with each other and therefore right in our bodies This will clear such things away that would prevent God from healing us and blessing us and bringing us peace. See, we're made for peace. And we do have examples of spiritually related sickness in 1 Corinthians 11 verses 27 and following where The Apostle Paul is talking about the people gathered for the Lord's Supper. He says, this is a warning, he says there's a sickness component or connection. Whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself and so to eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. And he says, That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some of you have died. But if we judged ourselves truly, if we got it out of the way, got it cleared away with God, if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged. But when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined so that we may not be condemned along with the world. And then he says, so then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. Be patient. If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, so that when you come together it will not be for judgment. What's this about? Some of those people who were gathered for corporate worship, it was a kind of an all-day affair, by the way. were despising some of the others. The rich were despising the poor who also came to gathered worship And so the rich, when they came back from the, there's a hiatus between the morning part of the worship and the afternoon part of the worship. When the rich would come back, they would come back early and they would go into the best part of the house and they would have their own private little love feast, they called it, right? They would have communion and they would be basically saying, you poor people, you can stay out there. We're going to have our own private thing in here. They were denying that Jesus Christ loves everybody, that Jesus Christ died for everybody, that we're all brothers and sisters. that there's no such thing as rich or poor or white or black or Jew or Gentile or anything like that in Christ. And we can't do that. It's an anti-gospel. It's basically saying Jesus died for nothing if we act like that. And he's saying, this is so serious. If you do this kind of stupid stuff, you'll get sick. Jesus will judge you. You might even die. So, sickness or injury sometimes happens as a result of God's judgment, but not always, and I want to emphasize that. Not all sickness is because of some judgment, some particular act of God on a judgment, like this one here in 1 Corinthians 11. Sickness or injury may simply be a part of the normal human condition. We inherit genes from our parents, you know. And we have illnesses that come to us from viruses or external causes. God is sovereign over it all, yes. But it's not always a direct cause and effect related. Romans chapter 8 gives us a list of things that may happen to us, even Christians. Christians are not exempt from troubles or sicknesses or difficulties. These are not a result of sin, these things that may happen to us. Tribulation, troubles, various things, persecutions. That he says that none of them will separate us from the love of God. This is part of the all things, that God works together for those who love him, who are the ones called according to his purpose. So, that is the the sickness part of this whole thing. Sometimes we're to call the elders of the church and pray in the name of the Lord and anoint, and God may be pleased to raise up the sick. And then he brings an illustration in here. And this is really important to help us grasp this importance of prayer. He says the prayer of the righteous. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working Elijah, and then I'll stop there. Elijah. He's going to cite Elijah. Elijah, in the minds of some Jewish people at that time, Elijah had become almost semi-divine. Elijah was their big hero. I know Abraham was and Moses was, but at this particular time, scholars tell us Elijah, everybody was always talking about Elijah and how great Elijah was. He lived in perilous times, Elijah did, back in 1 Kings 18. And he did great things, you know, the the contests with the with the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel and how he called down fire from heaven and it consumed the sacrifice and all that. But it was actually God who did great things through him. It wasn't about Elijah's great power, it was about God working through him. And we also know that later on he was taken up in a chariot. Elijah didn't die, according to the scriptures. Instead of dying, he was carried off in a chariot into heaven. And so the Jews were like, wow, Elijah, he's the man, you know. He's got the stuff, right? And they were expecting Elijah to return And bring the Messiah with him and inaugurate the kingdom of God. This is in Malachi chapter 4. This is the last book of the Old Testament as we have it. It says, Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes, and he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. So there's a Elijah went up to heaven, Elijah's coming back when the Messiah comes. Oh boy, he's somebody Well, here's what James says about Elijah. He cites him, but he says that he is an ordinary man with ordinary weaknesses, fears and ups and downs and depression. And he prayed fervently and God did great things. It's not about Elijah. It's about God. Here it is, verse 17. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours. Quit putting him on a pedestal. He prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. And then he prayed again, and that's what uh was being read from 1 Kings 18. Elijah's got his head between his knees. He's praying. He's asking God to bring that rain. And he sends a servant up to look to see if there's anything coming and the servant went up six times and saw nothing but blue skies. And then the seventh time The servant came down and said, See a little tiny cloud way off in the distance, coming off of the sea, little, about as big as a man's hand. Elijah said, That's it. That's it. Go tell Ahab he better get out of the where he's at because the rain is coming. He's going to get stuck in the mud. So he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. So he's saying that Elijah is a great man, yes, but he's not great because of himself. He's great because God chose to work through him. Him and we can pray too. And God's elders can pray too. And God may indeed do great things, because the fervent prayer of the righteous avails much. Much as the King James says. So let's pray. Let's not be shy about praying. Let's ask God for what we need. Let's pray. Let's praise. Let's get more involved in communion with God. And then there's one more thing here that comes up in this whole context of prayer. It's the righteous praying for rescue and recovery. This is a much neglected pastoral care thing, but here it is. Verse 19, my brothers, if anyone among you wonders from the truth And someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. So we're to pray for those who stray. Some of you have children who strayed. Some of you have relatives who've strayed. Some of people that we know who have professed faith in Christ at times in the past have strayed and wandered from the truth. We are to pray for their recovery. It's important. In Galatians chapter 6, Paul says, Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself lest you too be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. What is the law of Christ? It is love. It is care. It is concern. The law of brothers and sisters belonging to each other. And here's another place where Jesus Himself teaches about recovery of the loss and how it should be done. I know you've heard this Matthew 18 thing before, but let me show you something here that maybe you don't see. so easily. Matthew 18, beginning at verse 15. If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. Let's keep it kind of private. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. The prayers have been answered. You prayed, you went, and it's all been for good. God has done it for you. But if he doesn't listen, take one or two others along with you so that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. So there's a hope that bringing some others along will kind of waken the person who has strayed into sin in this way. And that they'll be recovered. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And the word here church is ecclesia, it's the gathering. So it's not the whole church. It's the it's the gathering of those who are called to care for the church. I think it's the elders. If he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a gentile and a tax collector. And then there's this. Listen. Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything, they they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am among them. Jesus is there with those who seek reconciliation. There I am among them. To cause reconciliation or to bring judgment when reconciliation is not forthcoming But it is a part of that recovery picture. It's sometimes severe. That attempt to recover a brother who's strayed is sometimes goes through this kind of a process. In Greek mythology, there's the beings called the sirens. Do you know about Greek mythology and the sirens? They were dangerous creatures. They lured nearby sailors with their enchanting music and their voices. And when the sailors would sail over to hear the sirens' beautiful sounds, they would always crack up on the rocky coast and be sunk. And ruined, and then the myth goes that the sirens would eat them. In Homer's Odyssey, Odysseus was curious as to what the sirens would sing like. And so, on the advice of Circe, he had all his sailors plug their ears with beeswax and tie him to the mast. He ordered his men to leave him tied tightly to the mast, no matter how much he would beg. When they heard that beautiful song, he ordered the sailors to untie him, but they bound him tighter. When they had passed out of earshot, Odysseus demonstrated this with his frowns and asked to be released What is that? Sometimes people who said, I I trust Jesus, I love Jesus, I'm part of the crowd of Jesus, I'm part of the family of Jesus, wander away and they stray, and we are to bind them. Them and we are to bring them back. We are to, even against their own will at that time, try our very best and our hardest to recover them, not for our sake, but for their sake. Pastoral care sometimes involves binding believers to their baptismal and membership vows with spiritual cords. Believers who are under the spell of sin, you see. Refuse these ministrations. Sometimes they have to be cut loose. We have to say, well, go ahead then. Do what you have to do. I can't help you anymore. But when they are cut loose, they are in great peril. And if they really do belong to Jesus, they may be treated by Jesus with temporal sufferings. Even death. The goal in these kind of ministrations, this basic pastoral care, which is not very popular, the goal is not the raw exercise of ecclesiastical power. The goal is love. So fulfill the law of Christ, the text says. The goal is to save his soul from death and recover and cover a multitude of sins, you see. So these are things that are recommended by way of basic pastoral care, part of the prayer ministry that we all need to be a part of in some sense Too little, brothers and sisters, too little is made of prayer. God does great things through prayer. You don't pray enough, probably, and I don't pray enough. We need to pray more. We need to take walks just for prayer. I love to listen to sermons. I love to listen to music. But sometimes I ought to shut it off and pray. Sometimes I need to get alone and pray. Stop being distracted by the myriad things that will distract me. Pray. Sometimes when we're in an extreme situation, we hear these words. Well, all we can do now is pray. No. No. When we have a lack of money, it's a call for prayer. Because I know a rich person who is very generous. do too. We are in trouble legally or something like that. I know a great lawyer, Jesus Christ the righteous, an advocate who is willing to represent you. When I'm in temptations, I know someone who has been tempted beyond all measure, yet without sin, and he's able to come to my defense. Help. When I'm ill, I know a great surgeon, a medical expert, and he's able to heal I know a great Lord and creator who's able to do anything that we ask. So let us ask him. John Newton, that famous man who had been a slave runner, run a captain of a slave ship for many years, who became a Christian, a believer. And became an Anglican minister, wrote this hymn, which we will sing, I think. Thou art coming to a king. Large petitions with thee bring. For his grace and power are such, none can ever ask too much. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this very basic teaching of James, the little brother of Jesus, who Who came to know that Jesus is Lord and Savior and King, who came to understand the power of Jesus' life and ministry and work, his resurrection. And who was not ashamed, but willing to submit to his own brother Help us, Lord, to pray. Lead us into prayer. Help us not to be a people who fret and moan and groan and complain, but a people Help us to pray at all times, in troubles and in cheerfulness. Help us to pray for those who have wandered away from the truth Help us to do all that you've ordained for us to do, especially by prayer. Amen