Psalm fifty-seven. Listen, this is the Word of God. Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me. For in you my soul takes refuge, in the shadow of your wings I will take refuge, till the storms of destruction pass by. I cry out to God most high, to God who fulfills his purpose for me. He will send from heaven and save me. He will put to shame him who tramples on me. God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness. My soul is in the midst of lions I lie down amid fiery beasts, the children of man, whose teeth are spears and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth. They set a net for my steps, my soul was bowed down, they dug a pit in my way, but they have fallen into it themselves. Selah. My heart is steadfast, O God. My heart is steadfast. I will sing and make melody. Awake, my glory. Awake, O harp and lyre. I will awake the dawn. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations. For your steadfast love is great to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth. The word of God. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, have you experienced some dark times in your life? You would certainly be a rare exception if you answered, no, never. But perhaps a more significant question would be What did you do when you found yourself in those unhappy and stressful situations? Sometimes folks resort to medication. That actually might mask the true source of the trouble, whatever that might be. But such a route actually makes the matter worse and certainly doesn't provide a way Others, on the other hand, might grin and bear it, hoping that by pure exertion and sticking to their duties they might see sunnier days. ahead. Toughing it out is certainly a superior way to deal with the darkness than that of drug taking. But for the Christian, the one who believes that Almighty God has one's whole life experience with its ups and downs under his sovereign control And all of his grace, neither one of them is the right answer to the trouble. So, dear congregation, what is it? You've been following up on the prayers and praises of one Old Testament believer Who hasn't held back in the least from revealing in clear and powerful tones exactly how he dealt with the darkness that enveloped him regularly. Or maybe I should say how God dealt with him to bring him safely. Yes, you've seen week after roaming darkness. and distress. Every time it was this Yahweh upholds my life I may confidently cast my burden on him, knowing that his steadfast love endures forever. Thus, all the vitriol and downright murderous intent of King Saul and all those aligned with him to oppose David were altogether insufficient to bring about their wickedness. Those were surely dark days for David. But God got his servant through it all. And David holds back nothing from giving God all the glory for it. So tonight we come to Psalm 57, and you heard me read it. Where it comes from is no secret, because the heading tells us once more that it is a mikum, perhaps a remembrance. But certainly a powerful poetic revelation of David's deepest thoughts. Deepest thoughts? When? Again, the heading tells us when he hid from Saul in the cave. Now, 1 Samuel 24. Tells us all about what happened in that cave. And I'm going to read 1 Samuel 24, 1 to 15, right now. When Saul returned from following the Philistines, he was told, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel and went to seek David and his men in the front of the wild gnat's rock. And he came to the sheepfolds by the way where there was a cave. And Saul went in to relieve himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the innermost parts of the cave, and the men of David said to him, Here is the day of which the Lord said to you, Behold, I will give your enemy into your hand. And you shall do to him as it shall seem good to you. Then David arose and stealthily cut off a corner of Saul's robe. And afterward David's heart struck him, because he had cut off a corner of Saul's robe. He said to his men, The Lord forbid that I should do this thing to my Lord, the Lord's anointed, to put out my hand against him, seeing he is the Lord's anointed. So David persuaded his men with these words and did not permit them to attack Saul. And Saul rose up and left the cave and went on his way. Afterward David also arose and went out of the cave and called after Saul, My Lord and the King. And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth. And paid homage. David said to Saul, Why do you listen to the words of men who say, Behold, David seeks your harm? Behold, this day your eyes have seen how the Lord gave you today into my hand in the cave, and some told me to kill you, but I spared you. I said, I will not put out my hand against my Lord, for he is the Lord See my Father, see the corner of your robe in my hand. For by the fact that I cut off the corner of your robe and did not kill you, you may know and see that there is no wrong or reason. Treason in my hands. I have not sinned against you, though you hunt my life to take it. May the Lord judge between me and you. May the Lord avenge me against you But my hand shall not be against you. As the proverb of the ancients says, out of the wicked comes wickedness. But my hand shall not be against you. After whom has the king of Israel come out? After whom do you pursue? After a dead dog? After a flea? May the Lord therefore be judge and give sentence between me and you and see to it and plead my cause and deliver me from your hand So, Psalm 57, our text tonight, is what David was thinking and how he prayed while he was in that darkness, the physical darkness of the cave. But even more, the social darkness of King Saul and his 3,000 cohorts lurking about and hoping for a chance to kill him. So David began composing Psalm 57 right there and then in that cave, perhaps. I don't know for sure. Maybe he completed it later when he had access to writing material. For posterity, in any case And by divine inspiration, we have his thoughts written down for us tonight. But this I can say, for sure, the thoughts, prayers, and praises that bubble forth from this psalm in beautiful and God-glorifying power. Tell us very clearly how it was that David dealt with his darkness. And they tell us how to deal with ours. Here's the proposition that Psalm fifty-seven lays out. God is both exalted above the heavens, and his glory is over all the earth, so that the one who trusts him may be assured even in the midst of darkness. That his light has broken through in the person and work of the Messiah, Jesus Christ, so that his worldwide church for his Faithful covenant love. Our psalm tonight is set forth in two strokes. The first, verses one through four. And the second, verses six through ten, each followed by the identical doxology of verses five and then eleven. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth. Consequently, we will deal with the psalm by paying attention to the two strophs in turn, and then by concluding with their common doxology. Strophe 1, verses 1 through 4. Hear them again. Be merciful to me, O God. Be merciful to me, for in you my soul takes refuge. In the shadow of your wings I will take refuge till the storms of destruction pass by. I cry out to God most high, to God who fulfills his purpose for me. He will send from heaven and save me. He will put to shame him who tramples on me, Selah. God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness David begins in verse 1 with a prayer for God's mercy. He says it twice because in his heart he knows that he doesn't deserve such. And as such it bears repeating. His soul, his life, takes refuge not in any supposed judicial acquittal that he might receive. But refuge solely in the gracious mercy of God. God, who, like a mother dove, Providing refuge for her chicks under her wings provides a shadow for David. There David is in the darkness of the cave, and surrounded by the dark storms of destruction right outside the cave, and he rests safely under the shadow of Yahweh's wing. His heart is steadfast, and he gladly chooses the darkness of that comforting shadow. He cries out to God Most High, to the God, who fulfills his purpose for him. Saul may have a purpose shared by his men, but that purpose will come to naught because he faces the purpose Of the God who will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness and save David. The confidence that David has in the Lord is put in these words. I will put to shame him who tramples on me. It looks for all the world like David is toast before Saul's 3,000 fiery beasts. But in truth they are but children of men who can only boast verbally of their numerical outnumbering superiority over poor David and his little band. They are three thousand, and he has only six hundred. That's five to one. They cry with their tongues and through their teeth. That's their only weapon, the premise of military might, and they are sure that the odds are clearly in their favor. But David says that they are merely children of men, and they are coming against God most high, who's got David under the shadow of his wings. And who has and will fulfill his purpose for his beloved. I think that's why David Penns a seelaw After saying that God will put Saul to shame. Apparently Sea Law, though we're not for sure known knowing it is a word of instruction to anyone singing this psalm to pause for a moment and reflect upon the gravity that has just been affirmed. It's very similar to that entire measure of musical rest that Mendelssohn puts in his Oratorio, Elijah. Are you familiar with that? It's at the point where the prophets of Baal cry out to their pagan deity to hear their cry. Hear us fail, hear us fail, hoping that he will answer them. But what happens? Nothing Because Baal isn't. Only Yahweh, who is the meaning of his name, will hear the cry of his prophet Elijah. I think that's the Selaw in our Psalm is very much the same. Stop for a moment and reflect upon what I just prophesied, says David, Yahweh will put Saul to shame. So in stroke number one, David praises Yahweh even while he is in the cave. for the sunlight that is to come. I believe that this is important for you to realize, dear congregation. David doesn't wait until he gets out of the cave before he expresses his confidence that God will save him and get him through the trouble. Even when he has the opportunity to do something to save himself while standing above the sleeping Saul and refusing to kill him. And even by cutting off a portion of Saul's garment. That's how close he was. Thus securing proof that later forced Saul. to cough it up. David is more righteous than I am. David doesn't trust in himself He trusts in God and he awaits God's reckoning in God's time. For he will send from heaven and save me. He will do that. Because he is, after all, exalted above the heavens. They set a net for my steps, my soul was bowed down, they dug a pit in my way, but they have fallen into it themselves, Sila. My heart is steadfast, O God. My heart is steadfast. I will sing and make melody Awake, my glory. Awake, O harp and lyre. I will awake the dawn. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations. For your steadfast love is great to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds. Note first the fate awaiting David's enemies, their ultimate downfall, even though they try through stealth and deception to capture him. Verse 6 describes the ends to which they go, by which to ensure David's ensnarment, which cause him great consternation. David says his that my soul was bowed down. Yes, through it all, David sees still, in the midst of the trouble, the end of his his enemies, saying they have fallen into it themselves. It hasn't happened actually yet, but David speaks of it in the past tense. Isn't that neat? So sure is he that he pens another sea law. I'm as good as delivered. Stop and think, people Him in what any neutralscaster would describe as a deadly situation for me, and I tell you That this overwhelming opposition by my enemies will result in their complete failure. And why? Because I am sure that I have God on my side. And with that one, I am a majority. The Selaw means do the math. Consequently, and here I come to what I would call the principal application. of our text tonight. The one who trusts God may be assured, even in the midst of darkness, that his light has broken through. My heart is steadfast, O God. My heart is steadfast, cries out the psalmist in verse 7. I will sing and make melody Can you imagine the incongruity of that? Here David is in deep, deep trouble, and what he wants to do is sing for joy. In fact, he even wishes that he had brought his musical instruments with him so that he could awake the dawn with their sound. Instead of spending his remaining energy making plans for his physical defense in the face of mighty foes, David wants to hold an impromptu worship service. And instead of cursing the night, David blesses the morning and says, I can't await it. So I ask you, dear brothers and sisters in Christ, do you two know that the time to thank God for his saving deliverance of you from every trouble that might threaten to deprive you of physical or even spiritual life. The time to worship God thankfully for his grace. Is not later after you are out of the trouble, but exactly when you are in it. David did. He records it here by in Psalm 57. And the Holy Spirit backs up David's behavior by including it. In sacred scripture. In fact, he not only backs it up, he causes it just as he did later when directing the Apostle Paul's pen to write. The Ephesian Church, in these words, to be giving thanks always and for everything to God Praise God for the sunlight even when you're in the cave. Ephesians 5. 20 provides a powerful seconding of David's determination to praise God in the midst of trouble. And you who live in the closing hours of world history, that's of course everything Ever since the ascension of Jesus began the closing hours of world history. When attacks of Satan are sure to increase in his attempt Though doomed to separate you from the love of God in Christ Jesus the Lord, you have this double assurance Both Old and New Testament chapters of the covenant of grace ring out this battle cry. David sings, for his part. Awake, my whole being. I will awake the dawn. And Paul, for his part, writes to the church in Corinth: We are afflicted in every way. But not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted, but not forsaken, struck down, but not destroyed, so that the life of Jesus. May be shown in our mortal bodies. Then we come to the content of David's worship, verses 9 and 10. Let me read them again Again I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations. For your steadfast love is great to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds. Even though his giving of thanks to Yahweh began in the cave It doesn't end there. He thanks God for delivering him from the trouble before the trouble is removed, and he gives thanks to God after it is removed The first was in the cave, and it was very personal. It was in the secret confines of his inmost heart. Was in the worship services of the covenant people of God. And it was very public. Believe it, believer in Jesus Won't you thank God privately for his deliverance of you in the midst of Friday's trouble? And then thank God publicly for that deliverance in Sunday's church service. David did that, and he set an example for you. Ah, but even more so than the greater David, Jesus. who came to earth to save you, who put your trust in him, taking your place, he went through the very same situation as did David. Only infinitely more so. On his Friday's trouble He cried out to his father in heaven, If you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours. Be done. He too, Jesus, thanked God alone while still in his cave. And after he came out of the tomb, he testified publicly to his disciples. That everything written about me in the Psalms must be fulfilled. And I would nominate Psalm 57. David said that when he emerged from his troublesome cave, he would sing praises to the Lord, not only among the people of Israel, but also among the nations. When did David do that? You know, don't you? When the same greater David commissioned the twelve, go and make disciples Of the nations. Thus we come finally to the doxology. Verses five and eleven. I'm going to read them though they are the same thing twice. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, let your glory be over all the earth. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, let your glory be over. all the earth. Here David sings for you that God's covenant purpose to save him personally was part of an infinitely larger plan. For even though he does not understand fully And exactly how it is so, Yahweh is not exalted above the heavens only. But also that his glory will be over all the earth. Also Now that surely wasn't fulfilled in David's lifetime, but it is being fulfilled in the lifetime of the church. Of God since the coming and work of David's greater son, Jesus Christ, until today. And on until Jesus returned. And in our psalm, David says that it will be fulfilled. Indeed, every last one of the elect of God will have been redeemed. before the end comes. Indeed, the purposes of God for David, and indeed the whole Old Testament people of God, do not exhaust the Lord's magnificence. and gracious plan to deliver a whole lot of people from the estate of sin and misery. That's trouble and darkness for sure. And bring them to salvation through the work of the Redeemer Jesus. To use the language Language of our shorter catechism, question and answer number twenty. Probably my favorite Yes, God is exalted above the heavens, and his glory is over all the earth. But I believe that there is more intended by David's doxology than the mere statement. of its factuality. It is true. But David wants to see more take place in his life. And indeed in the lives of all God's people, and indeed in your life, than the mere statement of that truth. For he sings, Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, and let your glory be over all the earth There's a subtle but important difference, folks, because it's one thing to say that something is so, and saying that you want it to be so David knows that God is exalted. Period. But at the same time, he wants to exalt him. And so should you today, my dear brothers and sisters. You too need to exalt God in your lives. You should pray that you will, by His grace, do exactly that. that you will obey his command given through the Apostle Paul in Colossians 3. 17. Whatsoever you do in word or deed. Through everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Whenever you overcome temptation, endure trial. Make it through trouble of whatever sort. Give God the glory. He delivered you. And when you acknowledge and confess that, you exalt God. And whenever you are asked, hi, how are you, you could very well see that as a very good opportunity to exalt God. I've been trying to do that with this ever since I looked at this psalm. Why not say something like this? By God's grace, I'm well. Instead of, I'm good. Yes, God is exalted. Above the heavens, to be sure, but you need to exalt him as well. For he is exalted in the earth too. He is exalted in your life, honor, and you need to express to others. Your thanks to him that he is so exalted. Amen Let's pray. Oh God, we're just like David. We're sinners saved by grace. And our sin brings us into trouble. And sometimes we experience trouble that's not even related to our sin. But in your sovereign providence, it's good somehow because it's an opportunity. Then for us to exalt you, to exalt you by confessing and repenting of our sins and by stating without any Hesitancy that you are good and right and are to be blessed. For whatever tribulation we might have to experience, following our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Who experienced hell in our place? In his name we pray. Amen.