Please turn in your Bibles to Exodus 19. We'll read the first six verses. On the third new moon, after the people of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, On that day they came into the wilderness of Sinai. They set out from Rephedim and came into the wilderness of Sinai, and they encamped in the wilderness. There Israel encamped before the mountain, while Moses went up to God. The Lord called to him out of the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the people of Israel, You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians. And how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant You shall be my treasure possession among all peoples, for all the earth is mine. And you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel. This is the Word of God. Romans 12, 1 and 2. This is the text for preaching today. Romans 12, 1 and 2. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. Holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind. that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for the word that we read from Exodus, that you called your people to be a treasured possession and a kingdom of priests. You called your people to represent you in beauty and honor and glory. And we thank you that you promised to be with us as we just sang in the 23rd Psalm. And now we pray that you'll bless the preaching of this portion of your word from Romans 12. In Jesus' name. Amen. So in Romans, if we were to go back through all the chapters leading up to chapter 12, I will just recount briefly the things that Paul has discussed, that he's developed in discussion. He has discussed the sinfulness of humanity. And said that it's exceedingly sinful. That there's none righteous, not even one. No one can claim that they are right with God by their efforts, not at all And then he discussed the free gift of righteousness. And he went back to Abraham and talked about how Abraham was justified, in other words, declared righteous by faith. And that's the way of salvation. It always has been, it always will be the way of salvation. And then he points out that Adam was the first human being who represented the whole race in plus sin and illness. Defection to represent us and make us right before God. And then he has talked about the need to be set free from sin and to live a holy life in chapter 6 He's talked about the ultimate victory over sin that we will enjoy and share in the glory of God, and that this is all grounded in the absolute sovereignty and security of God's purposes, which go back to And he says this is all going to explode with glory when the world is redeemed, when all God's children have been gathered together and made glorified and perfect before God. The world will be healed of all of its maladies, all of its stresses and strains, which he describes as groanings with Pains of childbirth. And then he gives just a little bit of application in chapter 6 where he talks about holy living, and a little bit of application in chapter 7 when he talks about the struggle against sin. But the real application, all that nice doctrine, all that excellent teaching, all that comes to chapter 12, where the application begins. And from chapter 12 on, it's all application. It might be reminders of the doctrine. Yes, it is, but it's application. So let's look at these first two verses today. Next Sunday I'll Expand three and four and five. But this is just the first two verses today where Paul calls us to something very radical as a result of all of that wonderful teaching that God has said. We're going to do it this way. We're going to do what he says and what it means in kind of one point, and then what it means to you and me in the third point. Or a second point. Therefore. Or I appeal to you, the way it begins in the ESV, I appeal to you, therefore. When he says I appeal to you, what it means is not, may I make a few suggestions For you. This might improve your life a little bit if you'll just take my good advice. No, I appeal to you, he says In view of God's mercies. Therefore, he says, since all this stuff that I've taught you before is so, I appeal to you. And then he says, he's addressing who? Brothers. Because of all this grace, all this wonderful stuff that God has done for us, we are now brothers. So he says brothers, and by the way, sisters are comprehended in that phrase, brothers. They're addressed in this way, both in the home and in the church, through their heads. That's the way God does it. And it is the generic name for believers. There are actually churches that are named the Brethren, right? Because they get the picture of this name, brothers, is including women. And so it means all who are in Christ, all who are accepted, all who are believers, they're addressed here. Then he says, I'm addressing you and I'm appealing to you. By the mercies of God, by thinking about all that God has done, if you ponder all that God has done This is the basis for Paul's strong appeal to the believers. And what does he say you should do? What is he appealing for believers to do in response to all that God has done? To present. God is interested in your body. Young person, old person, whoever you are, God is interested in your body. We are not going to be disembodied souls. God is going to raise our flesh someday and make it glorious and reunite it with our souls. God is always interested in our bodies, both in the future and in the present moment. Our bodies, you see, are the seat of sinful operations or of righteous deeds. We do things with our bodies, and it matters what we do. Our bodies are contaminated by sin. That's what Paul was saying in Romans chapter 1 and 2. And they act out sinfully in thought, word, and deed. We just confess that in the prayer of confession by acts of commission and acts of omission. Our bodies do this. Our minds too, but our minds and bodies are united. And God wants control of our bodies for righteous service. That's what Paul is saying. In view of all that God has done, it's not okay. It's not okay for a saved person to say, I'm going to heaven. I have my ticket stamped I am secure. I can do whatever I want with my body. I can live any way I please. I can do this or that or whatever simple things I feel like doing because I have my ticket stamped to go to heaven. I'm secure. That's not okay He says we should instead offer our bodies as sacrifices. Call up on the altar. You're about to be offered to God in sacrifice And that that sacrifice is to be holy and acceptable. What does holy mean? I asked that to one of the choir camp kids. We're using the word consecration because it was in a hymn, and the answer was given and it was right, to be set apart. for special service. Not for common use, but for special service. To be holy, set apart. And I thought of this example. What if um What if I were to say, you know, after service, I think I'll just take the the stack of communion trays there home and and um I'll I'll just fill them with little cordials and little hors d'oeuvres. And I'll have some people over and I'll use the communion trays to serve my cordials and my hors d'oeuvres before dinner. It's not for that purpose, is it? It's set apart for special purpose. It's for communion. I can't take it home and use it for cordials and hors d'oeuvres. That would be wrong And in the same way, God has made us for himself. He has set us apart in Christ. He wants us to be used for his purposes, for holy and separate purposes, which are acceptable to God. Jesus said, be perfect, even as your father in heaven is perfect. And he was just echoing the law which said, be perfect, as your father in heaven is perfect. So these are the characteristics of an acceptable sacrifice. In the Old Testament, an animal had to be a certain age, it had to be perfect, it had to be spotless, it had to be full of sacrifice on God's altar in the temple. And in Paul's special use that he has for us. And what that is, is holy in character. Our character needs to be good and straight and honest and right. And holy in body. God cares about our bodies. What we do with them matters. And that affects our souls. Clean before God. That's what pleases God. That's what makes us an acceptable sacrifice that we can offer up to God. And he says, when we do this, this is your spiritual worship. Your spiritual worship. This is the way you worship God all the time, not just on Sunday. We come to church and we We go through our form of worship, or you go through in your church, the form of worship that you use, that's fine. But we need to worship God every day. And the way that we do it is to offer ourselves up For his service at all times. Body, mind, what we think, what we listen to, what we watch on television. Spirit need to be acceptable before God, holy, set apart for his service. So that's the general things that Paul has said. Now he's going to get more specific in the next bit. It's going from the abstract to the more concrete, from the general to the more specific. He says this: Do not be conformed. To what? Do not be conformed anymore to the pattern of this world, to this world Do not be conformed anymore. These people had they had been completely conformed to the way things that are out there And some people, even though they had become Christians, and he's teaching them about these things, they were still conforming to the world in many ways. And he says, stop it. Don't be conformed anymore to the pattern of this world. The pattern of this world is the is the age, the aeon that we live in. It's all the things that are going on all around us. television, internet, magazines, texting, whatever we do. It is the mass of thoughts and opinions and speculations and maxims and hopes and impulses and aims and aspirations that are current in the world Don't be conformed to that. It's all around us. It comes at us in every way, but we're not to let it shape us. We're to be shaped by Christ. So let me give you some examples of that. The fashions of this world shape us, don't they? You see it on TV, you see it in the magazine, I want to wear that too. And oh, that's the latest, that looks good, or whatever. The fashions, and sometimes the fashions, the newer fashions, are fine. Nothing wrong with newer fashions. Just because they're new doesn't make them wrong. But some of the newer fashions are not good. Because they are sensual. They're not modest. So we have to say, I'm not going to be conformed to the new fashion if it's wrong before God, if it's immodest, if it's Displeasing to God. The opinions that people have. Well, I just think of God this way. Or I just, this is my view of this issue. Oh this is my view of of the way the the this issue over here should go. No. We're not to Be conformed to what everybody else thinks. If twenty people say it and it's wrong, it's still wrong, you need to be the only one who says no, that's not right. You don't need to be conformed, squeezed by social pressure to say, oh yeah, I guess so too. Yeah, I can go along with that. No. Don't be squeezed. Don't be conformed to the ideas, the opinions that are contrary to God's word around us. And the speculations that people have, the speculations that are always around us, especially if you go out to college, young people. And if it's not a Christian college, if it's not a Christian college that's consistent with the Word of God. There will be ideas that contradict God's word, such as the unproven, unsubstantiated theory of evolution that's taught almost everywhere as a fact. And you're crazy if you don't believe it because everybody knows it's a fact, right? Not so. Don't be conformed. To the speculations that that are current and widespread and have overtaken the thoughts of people around us. Or the hopes. Oh political. If we can just get this party in office and we can just do that, everything will turn out just fine if we could only get well The hopes of this world are not our hope, folks. We don't need to be squeezed into the mold of thinking that any politician can ever solve the problems of this world. We pray for them, but we don't need to put our hope in them. The impulses of this world, the impulse, it's a very impulsive world that we lived in these days. Do what you feel like. Do it now. Get what you want. Don't wait. Impulse, impulse, impulse. Do whatever feels good today. For tomorrow, well, who knows what tomorrow is. Maybe we'll die tomorrow. So they uh The impulses were not to be conformed to the aims and aspirations. The aims and aspirations of our present culture are to live free of moral restraint To shake our fists at God and His law and His Word and say, I want to do what I want to do, and I don't care about that. We're not to be conformed to that. But, here's the comparative but in the text. Be transformed. Don't be conformed, but be transformed. The Greek word here behind the word is metamorphosis, the same word that we use for metamorphosis. What is metamorphosis? Well that's when a caterpillar, which is a worm, right, uh goes through the process. And it becomes a butterfly. Changes form, doesn't it? It's amazing. It's a wonderful thing to see. We're to be metamorphosized. We're to be changed, transformed into something quite different Jesus was transfigured on the mountain of transfiguration. And the disciples were excited by it and they wanted to stay there. They wanted to build little booths and just stay there forever. Jesus was transformed. We're supposed to be transformed. The glory of God is supposed to shine through our lives as well. Be transformed. How are you going to be transformed? He tells us. How are you going to be transformed? By the renewal of your mind. Your mind has been shaped by all the ideas and thoughts and aspirations and fashions of the world all around. It's coming at you all the time. You need to be have your mind renewed so that you think differently And how do you get that? You get that by submitting to the Word of God. The Word of God is the Bible. Is the Bible a closed book to you? Do you read the Bible? Do you have any idea what it's about? Do you have any idea what Nahum is about? Or Habakkuk or Leviticus? What are these books? What is this? Well, if you don't know, then you are a deficit. With regard to the renewal of your mind, you need to have a grip on the whole scripture in order to understand what God's will is. And you need God's Spirit within you. Of course, you have to be born again to have God's Spirit. But you need to, even if you are born again, you need to be in the Word and understanding the Word. And so when you open up and you see Habakkuk and you say, I don't know what that guy was about, you better find out. It's part of the big picture. Would you put a puzzle together and and right in the middle of it there's 20 pieces that are missing? You say, well, it's a nice puzzle. I guess I can just do without the the middle section there The 20 pieces? No, you say, I've got to find those pieces. Where are they? Are they in a drawer somewhere or a box? Then I want to fill them in and put them in their place so I can see the whole thing, right? We need to have a grasp of the Bible. We need to understand the whole Bible, book by book, all parts of it. That's the renewal of your mind. God's truth, when we have it all together. will challenge the poison, sinful ideas that are all around us, the pattern of this world as as the the text calls it. These things that have been inherited from others and have been put into our hearts from all around us. That have been ingrained into us in habits. We get bad habits and they stick with us over and over and over again. We need to develop new habits based on God's word. And as we submit to God's Word day by day and week by week in worship, then we will be conformed by the renewal of our mind. And what is the goal that is in view? Paul says, when this happens, when you get these things right, then you'll be able, he says. You will have an understanding, an insight, the wisdom, the godly knowledge, which leads to ability. You'll have an ability. You get a new skill set And what is that skill set? It's testing and discerning. The implication here is that without a renewed mind, true believers, even though they're saved forever, may yet be unable to know God's will and lacking in discernment. But if they submit to God's word and understand God's word and God's will, then they'll be able to test and discern what God's will is. God's will here isn't some mysterious thing that you just kind of intuit or have a vague spiritual awareness of. No. God's will is all the things that are known from the principles and precepts of His Word, the Bible. When you get the Bible down, then you'll have a good grasp of God's will. You'll be able to test and approve. Somebody says, let's do this thing here. And you say, hmm, I'm going to put that through my test right quick. And they think it through, what's the Bible say about that behavior or that activity? And you say, no, it doesn't make, it doesn't pass the test. It's out. It will not fly Because God says so. And I know because God's word tells me so. So I reject it. I'm out of here on that. When your mind is renewed by God's word, you will be able to filter and sift. And judge all things. You'll be able to say, hmm, that's an interesting idea. It's wrong. Oh, that's judgmental of you. Well, I know, but God gave me some material and data and a grid in order to be able to judge things. You can't you can't agree with the idea that we're not to judge. We are to judge We're not to judge people and as if we're better than everybody else, but we're to judge ideas and opinions and thoughts all the time. We're supposed to be sifting and judging and approving what's right and rejecting what's wrong And when your mind is renewed by God's word, you'll be able to filter and sift and judge all things that make up the pattern of this world which wants to squeeze you into its mold. You'll be able to test and discern what God's will is, His perfect and pleasing will. So, how are you doing today? Are you in the dark about some of these things? You just don't know what to think about certain ideas? You haven't been able to figure them out. They're just, I don't know how to think about that. Are you lacking discernment? Well, if that's the case, it's because your mind isn't renewed yet, because you haven't come to this place. You haven't been transformed by the word. You haven't developed the habits of discipleship. By being in the word and being in worship regularly, eating at the Lord's table. Remembering the gospel constantly, that will shape you, that will renew you, that will transform you. And then you'll be able to not be conformed to this world. So those are the things of what it says and what it means. What does it mean to you now? That's the final point. What does it mean for you? This is the difficult part, because as many individuals as we have here, there are individual applications, different applications for you So it's difficult for me to stand here and tell you exactly how this applies in your case. Millions of people, though, who attend worship in Bible-believing churches. And we always are. And they're glad to hear that they are saved eternally, and that's wonderful good news. They're glad to exalt in most of the doctrines that you find in Romans 1 through 11. But they're a little bit wary, anxious, about hearing about being a living sacrifice. That image is of someone being put on an altar and being offered to God I don't like that idea. I like my life for me. I want my stuff. I want to do my thing. I want to think my thoughts. I don't want to offer myself to God. You know, it's nice that he gives me all these things, but I want to keep myself here And they're not too anxious about not being conform to this world. That's, uh, I like to be conformed to this world. The world m you know gives me certain satisfactions and I and I feel like I'm happy in it. And I can go along with a lot of it, and I don't want to be too different. And they're a little bit anxious about being transformed through the renewal of their mind. Because they like to think the way the world thinks. If that's their case, if that's your case, then you're unable to test and discern what God's will is in everything What do you need to do? You need to commit yourself to regular attendance at worship. Because pastors have been prepared to show you how to take the Bible apart by example every Sunday Here's how you do it. Take it apart this way. Study it this way. Apply it this way. And then you can do this at home instead of saying, oh, I'm the only one who can do this. No. You can do this at home too. You can do this regularly. You need to do this regularly Study, prayer, worship, habits. New habits. Are you in the habit of reading the Bible? Are you in the habit of praying? Are you in the habit of going to church regularly? Week by week, with few exceptions, you need these habits in order to shape your life to be acceptable as a sacrifice. So in some cases, people just don't want to do it. I like the part about going to heaven. I like the part about being saved, but ah, you know, it's just hard work to get all that other stuff figured out. I'd rather just go with the flow Yeah. The writer of Hebrews says in Hebrews chapter 5, he says, lamenting about that attitude, he says, We have much to say about this, but it is hard to explain because you are slow to learn. In fact, though this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you the elementary truths of God's word all over again. You need milk, not solid food Anyone who lives on milk, being still an infant, is not acquainted with the teaching about righteousness. But solid food is for the mature. who by constant use, regular, week by week by week by week, day by day, constant use, have trained themselves Listen to this. To distinguish good from evil. Isn't that what Paul was talking about in Romans 12? Being able to sift out and filter out, have your mind shaped by God's word. He says, train themselves to distinguish good from evil. That's what we must do. Here's a little story that might illustrate this. A school When her investment disappeared and her dream was shattered, she went to the Better Business Bureau. And they said to her, Why on earth didn't you come to us first? Didn't you know about the Better Business Bureau? She says, oh yes. I've always known about the Better Business Bureau, but I didn't come because I was afraid you would tell me not to do it. That's the folly, you see, of our human nature. That even though we know where the answers are, God's word, we turn somewhere else for fear of what God's word will say to us. We must not do that. God's word speaks to all the issues of the day, folks. It speaks to the issue of what is manhood. That's a big issue right now, isn't it? Am I male? Am I female? Can I change my gender? Blah, blah, blah. God's word speaks to the issue of manhood. It speaks about male and female in the image of God, created by God, and it teaches us That men are to be responsible, they are to be leaders, they are to be sacrificial in their servanthood. It teaches us about womanhood That women are to be quiet and gentle and submissive to leadership in the home and in the church, and they're to serve the older woman or to serve the younger and teach the younger women. women. It teaches us about marriage, what it is before God, not the ideas that are current out there, but it teaches us that the head is the head of the wife just as Christ is the head of the church church. It's either even using the rod, and we're not to exasperate them, but we're to nurture and admonish them It teaches us about relationships in Christ and relationships with outsiders, how we're to conduct ourselves in the body and outside the body. It teaches us about citizenship. What is the role of the government? What is the role of the government? Is it to manage the economy? Is it to provide education? Is it to provide welfare? I'll give you the answers that I understand from the Bible right now. No. What is the government supposed to do? Provide defense and justice Defense and justice, not those other things. What does the Bible say about biblical charity? It says that we're to tithe, and that tithe is to be used with wise stewardship. And that we're to develop an inheritance, if we can, to pass on to future generations, because God is the God of the future. And He has a great plan for the future. It tells us what to think about ethics. In regard to sexual ethics, abortion, euthanasia, which is becoming a big deal now, let's just off everybody once they get to a certain place in their life It teaches us what to think about living together apart from marriage. It teaches us all these things. It teaches us what the will of God is. We need to have this and put it into our own particular individual situation. These things are not left to our own private opinions and the pressures of the world and the miserable failures that we see all around us. But instead, we're to offer our whole being to God as an act of worship. I give myself to you every day, Lord And we're supposed to stop allowing the world to conform us to its pattern. And we're to be Transformed. Let the glory shine through, the glory of the gospel in us shine through by the renewing of our mind Through the Spirit and the Word of God. Then you'll be able to have this godly discernment. You'll be able to apply it yourself, since I can't do it for you today. You'll be able to apply it to yourself. And your motivation, as Paul said at the beginning, has to be the mercies of God. In light of what God has done, do this. Wonderful salvation that Christ has provided for us. Let us be transformed by the renewal of our mind. Let us all commit to that today. And let us trust in the gracious saving work of Christ. Amen. Let us pray together. Forgive us, God of mercy, for not offering our whole being as a living sacrifice. And for being too conformed to the pattern of this age through the grace of true repentance. Rescue us from our wandering lost in the wilderness of what seems transform us by renewing our impoverished minds. And by the power of the Holy Spirit, give us contrite resolve, commitment to consult your perfect word, that we may know your will and do it. Amen