Turn to Acts chapter 26 in your Bible, and we'll read the entire chapter. I do just plan to preach on two verses, verses 28 and 29. We read from the Gospel of Matthew because the kingdom of God is that great pearl, right? You want nothing else when you have it. And here is Paul in this chapter in Acts 26. Giving a defense, right? An apologia for his manner of life. He is brought on trial, it is facing death, and he is explaining to them. Why I have lived like I have lived for these twenty or thirty years. And it's because he has found this great pearl of price. Because he has something and he doesn't want to become something else. But in fact he wants everybody else to become what he is Yes. So we're going to hear Paul's defense from Acts twenty six. We're going to read the whole thing, but we'll just be uh looking at twenty-eight and twenty-nine in detail. So Acts twenty-six, beginning at verse one, hear the word of the Lord. So Agrippa said to Paul, You have permission to speak for yourself. And then Paul stretched out his hand and made his defense. I consider myself fortunate that it is before you, King Agrippa, I am going to make my defense today Against all the accusations of the Jews, especially because you are familiar with all the customs and controversies of the Jews. Therefore, I beg you to listen to me patiently. My manner of life from my youth, spent from the beginning among my own nation and in Jerusalem, is known by all the Jews. They have known for a long time, if they are willing to testify, that according to the strictest party of our religion, I have lived as a Pharisee. And now I stand there on trial because of my hope and the promise made by God to our fathers. To which our twelve tribes hope to attain, as they earnestly worship night and day. And for this hope I am accused by Jews, O King Why is it thought incredible by any of you that God raises the dead? I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things in opposing the name of Jesus of Nazareth. And I did so in Jerusalem. I not only locked up many of the saints in prison after receiving authority from the chief priest, but when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them. And I punished them often in all the synagogues and tried to make them blaspheme. And in raging fury against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. In this connection, I journeyed to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priest. At midday, O King, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, that shone around me and those who journeyed with me And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goats. And I said, Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But rise and stand upon your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose. To appoint you as a servant and witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you. Delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles, to whom I am sending you to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan. to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision. But declared first to those in Damascus, then in Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea, and also to the Gentiles But they should repent and turn to God, performing deeds in keeping with their repentance. For this reason the Jews seized me in the temple and tried to kill me. To this day I have had the help that comes from God. And so I stand here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass. That the Christ must suffer, and that by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light, both to our people and to the Gentiles. And as he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, you are out of your mind. Your great learning is driving you out of your mind. But Paul said, I am not out of my mind, most excellent testus, but I am speaking true and rational words. For the king knows about these things, and to him I speak boldly. For I am persuaded that none of these things has escaped his notice For this has not been done in a corner. King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe. And Agrippa said to Paul, In a short time would you persuade me to be a Christian? And Paul said, Whether short or long. I would to God that not only you, but also all who hear me this day might become such as I am and accept for these chains. And then the king rose, and the governor and Bernice, and those who were sitting with them. And when they had withdrawn, they said to one another, This man is doing nothing to deserve death or imprisonment. And Agrippa said to Festus, this man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar, the word of the Lord. Before we uh hear this word proclaimed, let's let's call upon the Lord and pray and ask this out. Let us pray. Our Holy Father, we thank you for reconciling us to your Son, Jesus Christ, and giving us that good news. And now we ask, Holy Father, that you would help your servant to proclaim the wonderful truth contained here in this chapter of your Bible And help your people to hear this word with profit, to be comforted and encouraged and built up in their holy faith by it, to increase the fruits of love, of faith, and in hope. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen As I mentioned, uh this chapter, and as you just heard, this was Paul standing before King Agrippa And his wife Bernice, uh, King Agrippa was the grandson of Herod the Great and was one of the current rulers in Jerusalem And we might say King of the Jews, yet we know who the real King of the Jews is, risen and reigning these past thirty or so years Anyways, Paul is asked to defend his life before them because every Jew in Jerusalem and every Jew in Caesarea where he is at wants him dead. And Festus, the Roman governor, is confused because he doesn't understand how somebody should warrant death who just disagrees on a few religious points. and kind of madly holds to an ideal that some dead man, namely by the name of Jesus, uh is actually alive. And Festus is confused. How am I going to send a person who just has some quirks in the Jewish religion, right? Just, you know, is a little bit different than the rest of the Jews. How am I going to send him to the emperor on charges? Because he hasn't done anything worthy of death. And so uh when Agrippa came and visited him He asked for this opportunity to be interviewed, which as you can see, Paul was very glad to take. So we're just going to briefly jog through this defense just so we can see it and have it clear in our mind. And then we're going to look at verse 28, pull out one grand teaching from it, and have two points of identification, and hopefully a lot of comfort for you Christians. Today. Okay? So let's jog through this defense. Paul begins with saying, I'm very glad to be making this to you. Meaning I consider myself fortunate or happy because finally I'm going to have an audience that understands me. I'm not going to be preaching or speaking to an ignorant person, an ignorant party, a Roman governor, but to someone who has knowledge of Jews Knowledge of their ways, and eventually knowledge of what's been taking place in Jerusalem these past twenty or thirty years, and knows of you know this name Jesus and this significance. Paul begins his defense by reminding everybody that they wanted to take the time, you wouldn't have to take much time. I'm a Jew. Very obviously a Jew. A Jew according to the strictest sect, you can ever bring a charge against me that I'm not a Jew. Why is that important? Because Paul's gonna say, I'm here today for one reason. I actually hope in what every Jew hopes in. This is nothing strange and weird and outlandish or absurd or new that's happened in these last twenty years. But I'm a Jew who does what every Jew does, believes God's promise made to our fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and I hope in that Now as soon as he states that, then he sort of rebukes everybody there, right? He says, Well, why do any of you find it so difficult or incredible or unbelievable to believe that God raises the dead? He starts to focus in on this hope, right? Because he knows the Jewish hope, the Gentile hope, is tied up with one thing: the resurrection of Jesus Christ. There is no hope. If he did not come out of the grave, because there's no life after death. There's no hope for sinners to be forgiven and brought out of the grave. And Paul knows that, but he first rebukes them and then he launches in himself. And he preaches from a humble heart, aware that at one time in his life he was convinced and did everything in his power to oppose the name of Jesus Christ. He stood at trials of Christians and gave his voice against them and watched husbands killed, wives killed, sons killed, tore families apart. In his mad fury, he chased people out of their hometown and had to flee and separate families so he could persecute them in the distant towns. That was his manner of life and living. Ignorantly unbelief that he says. And then he gets to his conversion. Here is really the rationale, you might say, for the manner of life he has been defending to this court. God's grace. I was once a man under the authority of the high priest, commissioned by them to go persecute Christians. And then God in his grace appeared to me in heaven through Jesus Christ and gave me a new commission to serve him. A new task to witness to what I've seen to the nations, to bring them salvation. Put me under a new authority, that of the high priest. And then he goes on to say, I have done nothing else then, but lived obedient to this commission, and have spent myself preaching wherever I've been to Jew and Gentile. The resurrection of Jesus Christ and calling the nations to repent, calling Jews to repent. And see, that's that's the rub with Jesus Because if you tell a Jew to repent, it's as much to say you're not really living like a Jew, and you can't claim Abraham as your father and hope to live. You need to repent. You need to change a heart as much as that Gentile who hasn't lived under special revelation needs to repent. They hated that because Paul treated Jews and Gentiles alike. Because you are alike if you don't believe in Jesus Christ and have a new heart. Everybody's in the same boat. And so he preached that message of repentance. And they wanted to kill him. But Paul reminds them that my preaching is nothing but Telling the world what all the prophets said would happen and all the Moses said that he's talking to Jews, so it's important to bring in the scriptures, right? To say it You have them every day, you hear them every week, you study them, you know them. What I'm saying is nothing but what the prophets said would happen. And that's then when he turns. And I think Paul, of course, was trying to make converts here, right? He's trying to make a convert out of King Agrippa. That's why he says, King Agrippa, do you bring the prophets? What's he going to say? No? Well, he can hardly go back to Jerusalem, self-professed not believing in the prophets. He's going to lose all his public uh uh respect. He can't go back and reign over people when he says you're a holy book. I don't believe it. It's like someone getting in the office today and saying that Constitution. Yeah, puts that aside. Yeah, we'd have a referendum, wouldn't we? There'd be a referendum He can't say no, but what if he says yes? Then Paul says, Why don't you believe in Jesus then? What does Agrippa do He deflects. See, Paul has brought this to a point, and Agrippa tries to steal that thunder and deflect it and say, Paul, you're going to make me a Christian in a moment? But Paul seizes it right back. What does he say to him? King Agrippa, not just you, but every single person that has just heard me give a defense of my life. And since it's a defense of God's grace, I necessarily have to preach Jesus Christ to you because I can't explain my life apart from Jesus Christ. So everybody who's heard me just now speak and preach. I want them to become such. as I am. And that's the verse that I really want to look at here is verse twenty-nine. In Paul's statement To become such as I am. That statement is Paul's earnest desire. That's Paul's statement as it's translated here, I would to God. That's Paul's prayer to God. For every single person that heard him that day, that they would become as he is. Now what is he, right? That's where you just have to go right back up to verse 28. When King Agrippa said, Paul, you'd make me a Christian? And I remind you, to be called a Christian in the first century was not an honorable title. There was nothing but shame associated with that name. There was no, you might say, cultural Christianity in this day where you could wear that name and have some credibility depending on where you were born. None of that. Paul knew what he was calling these people to, but this is so wonderful about the grace that God knows, that Paul knows in his grace, because consider the people he was preaching to. King Agrippa and Bernice, King and Queen, they were an incestuous couple. He didn't have much public respect, anyways, with the Jews because of that incestuous relationship. And yet Paul says, you can become a Christian. He's speaking to a Roman governor as an open idolatry. Or at least if he didn't really believe in Zeus's gods and was really an atheist and believed in philosophers, he at least covered it with public displays of idolatrous worship. And he says, you too can become a Christian. And all you high socialites who've gathered with them and are in their train and are the important people in the land and the nation, you too. But consider what he's calling them to, right? He's saying, no, I don't want you to wear the chains. Because the chains aren't necessary to being a Christian. Paul's not calling them to it it often happens, professional name of Christ, but he's calling them to the goodness of the name of Christian. And we're going to look at that in a minute, the blessings that he's calling them to to adopt. But he also knows because imagine this too King Agrippa, if he becomes a Christian, guess what? He's got to go back to Jerusalem and tell the Jews, I'm a Christian now. Well every Jew in Jerusalem wants Christians dead. What a pickle, right? In becoming a Christian, you have to make a real choice, don't you? But Paul's condensed it's the best choice you can ever make. So verse 20 of this statement, Become such as I am, is Paul's earnest desire for every person who heard him that day, that they would become what he is, and what he is as a Christian. Christian. What I want to focus on here is looking at how Paul owned this name. He used that to deflect it, and Paul took that name and he owned it. And it is important for Christians to own the name of Christian. Because Paul's a strong brother here, right? Who knows if any of these people did become Christians? And it's going to stick in their mind forever. That I saw a Christian stand up for being a Christian. Because someday the weak brother will be the strong brother. And he'll stand for the name of Christ, and that will give somebody strength. We're talking nothing this morning but the shame that comes with the name of Christ. And to own that name when you're put in that position, because you're convinced of one thing that Paul's convinced of. I first want for myself what I want for others. I first want to be a Christian. I first am convinced in my heart that I want Christ and nothing more. And then I tell people to become what I am. But I'm not telling them to become something that I'm not or that I don't want for myself. Now Paul had a fairly radical conversion, and we know it took Paul twenty or thirty years, he had to learn to get rid of a lot of things. But he is a strong Christian in this place, giving a strong testimony. Because someday you don't know if you'll be that strong Christian called to give that testimony. So to apply this point, and this is the only point I wish to raise. Well, those two points. One, the necessity of owning that name. Because you never know who might believe, and you never know who will be strengthened in their face for that. But secondly, Wanting first for ourselves what we want others to have. How do we then apply that? I think the best way to apply that, there's two ways to apply that, is to live as Christianly as possible. And what do I mean by living as Christianly as possible? Paul gives at least four good things here on what it means to be a Christian. First, forgiven. Paul says, I went to preach the gospel, I was commissioned to preach the gospel to Jew and Gentiles that they might be forgiven. Now I'm going to try to do this in tandem, give you the exhortation and the comfort. Because what's also implied here in become such as I am is Paul doesn't want to be what they are. Even though he's in chains, he doesn't want the freedom to go home that night and sleep in his own bed, to go out for a nice dinner and around the town with his buddies. to go next month on that vacation. Whatever it may be. He's not in charge of his life at this moment. But is wrongly brought up on charging and is facing a slave galley and prisoner galley across the Mediterranean to go stand before the emperor. I mentioned before. You, we don't like coming before the tribunal of our parents. To go before the emperor is what he's facing. To try to explain to people who have no idea what the name of Christ is. And that's what he's going to go face. But yet Paul doesn't want their freedom. He wants what he is. That's the comfort then through all of this. And we'll make it explicit as I give you the exhortation and the comfort. No matter what life may bring to you as a Christian, it's always better than not being a Christian. Whatever life may bring you in situation you find yourself in for the name of Jesus Christ, it is always better than not being A Christian. That's the comfort. What does that look like? Christians are forgiven. Their sins are gone. What does Jesus say that forgiven people do? Particularly ones that are forgiven much? Well they do they love much, right? They love him much. They love him so much they fall on his feet and weep tears of repentant joy and wipe it with their hair. So that brought low and humble in their forgiveness before God and love for Jesus Christ. So to live as Christianly as possible means to live your life in love for Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. All that you say, think, and do, you do it for him because he forgave you And you burn in your heart to see him. And you say, Oh God, when will you come back so I can see him? And you live wanting to see him because you love him? Because would you really want to change places, right, and be unforgiven? Then you have to go back living in fear, right? Because someday there'll be a day of reckoning. Someday you'll have to have all of your sins brought to the bar of God's justice And every single one of them will be accounted to you and will deal out to you the measure of your eternal woe and punishment. So you would never want that, right? So don't live like you want to be an unforgiven person. But live rejoicing that you're forgiven in Jesus Christ and loving him. Two, what else does it mean? Paul says it means to have an inheritance or a part with the saints by faith in Christ. And that statement by faith in Christ, so I don't forget to say it, that's how you become a Christian. Right, to be forgiven, how are we forgiven? By the death of Jesus Christ on the cross. By his atoning word. His going there and the handwriting, that whole bill of all your sins nailed to it, and he gladly taking it away. I love the visual imagery of the Old Testament. It's laying your hands on that sheep. It's taking Christ and putting your hands on him. as the one who will bear your sins away. It's faith that He is the sin bearer. That's how your sins are forgiven. How do you have a for to be a Christian is to have an inheritance A lasting one. One reserved in heaven that can never fade, go away, can't be diminished, mosque can't eat it, nothing can be done to it. So what does that mean to live as Christianly as possible in the knowledge that we have an inheritance? Well, we don't have to grumble and complain if things are taken away from us. We don't have to live and seek and and and and and put all of our energies in basically to live like Jesus said. We don't have to live like Gentiles who put all their energy towards food and drink and clothing, trying to procure those three things, because we know that life is more than that. Because we know because we have the hope of the resurrection, I'm not coming back to my yacht, my private jet, my retirement home, my ATV. Whatever it is, the form of this world is going away. I know we find much pleasure in those. Those are good things from God. Don't hear me say that you can't enjoy and use those things. If you're living for those things, that sin you need to repent. Because your hope needs to be in the resurrection, so if God takes any of that away from him, you won't grumble. Because you know you have something he'll never take away. Because do we really want to change positions? Sure, gain the whole world now, your soul's lost at the end. That's the other side, right? There's no lasting inheritance. Third, what does it mean to be a Christian here? Paul says, I preach repentance. To live as Christianly as possible means to live repentantly. Paul describes that in Romans 6, I think, in the best place I find in the Bible. It means no longer doing those things we are once ashamed of. See, sin's always going to find us out many times in this life, and it's going to bring shame to us for the things that we have done Shame before people, shame before friends, shame before church, shame before the community, shame wherever as our sins are exposed. Shame also not just because of the earthly, but shame before God that we ever did that When we begin to see how evil it is, how against God it is, and his glory, his holiness, his majesty. So deliver as penitently as possible, deliver is delivered as wholly as possible. Seeking to do as much good works as we can on earth and I Luther, I think, is a he wrote a wonderful sermon on what good works are. He notices that God notice that God doesn't enumerate those. So you can do some and leave others out. He says, What is good works? Doing good to others, doing things that are beneficial and useful to others. He's saying faith receives all of Christ and his blessings so that you have everything. You d if you are a Christian and you think you lack something, you should check your faith. Because you don't lack anything. You have God's ears who will give you whatever you need, ask for him. You have the fullness of the Lord Jesus Christ and life eternal in him and all wisdom and knowledge and power. You don't lack anything. And what is Lu So what does he say then? Therefore, with all that you are in your possessions, do good to others. That's good works. Because you've received everything from Christ So to live as repentantly as possible is what it means to be a Christian. Because do we want to really switch sides, right? Sure. You can join the woke of uh agenda today and not live in shame in universities in the public square. Absolutely. But you know that might be out of vogue in another decade, so then you might be shamed because it's so flip-floppy But sure, if you want to cast your lot in with them now, then live that way. But we are assured because the Word of God says it. The wicked and unrepentant, they will be ashamed in that day. They will be everlastingly ashamed because they were not courageous. Jesus said. Those who have courage and come to me and overcome because they did it, because they were afraid and scared, wouldn't it count the gods, whatever it may be, and many other things. As they're exposed, we have to put ourselves in that day. You'll be before how many billions of people and brought up in all your deeds there. That's a lot of shame. If you don't like now talking to your own spouse about the wrong things you've done, or church brothers and sisters, or family and friends, think of that day Do we really want to change positions, right? No, become what we are. You don't have to live in shame anymore. Become what we are. You can have fruit unto holiness in this life, under everlasting life to come. Become what we are. You can have all your sins forgiven. Given. Finally, what does it mean to be a Christian here in this text? Paul's accused of being mad. Uh to talk about an educated person in their day was a person of letters. Maybe you've heard that term. I don't know how we don't really say that anymore. Meaning a person 'cause not everybody knew how to read. So if you knew your letters you could read and then you could study and you were a learned person. Paul, all your learning has made you mad. And what does Paul say? No, I just speak to you the words of truth. truth. Uh translated here as rational words or or the words of sobriety, the words of sound mind, saying I'm not out of my mind. I'm sound in my mind and I'm speaking you the truth. What does it mean then to live as Christianly as possible? To always be talking about the truth. We just Ninth Commandment. We can do nothing else. We have no right, no liberty or freedom not to do otherwise, but isn't it the speaking of the truth that gets us in so So much trouble. Because what's it talk about there? Brother, I have to rebuke you for what you did. Who wants to really go do that right? We have to. Speaking of truth to our neighbors and unbelievers, telling them of the gospel. Isn't that owning that name of Christ what brings the shame and don't we don't really want it? I encourage you if you do struggle me with uh the shame of the name of Christ, turn to the Psalms because David is constantly saying, Lord, Let me not be ashamed, because I've owned you and put my trust in you and have taken this name. So I encourage you, you're not alone. But it's that speaking of truth, right? People talk about doctrine divides, truth divides, no, sin divides. Truth's truth. The truth brought us together, right? Don't we get up and confess to faith together and then come to the table as an expression of our unity that we're together and what? No, truth does not divide Sin divides. And would we really want to change positions, right? See, because the truth Paul's talking about here is what our um Confession and catechisms talk about whether you're learned or unlearned, every Christian knows by a due use of these ordinary means, just reading his Bible, hearing it preached, going to Bible studies. All things necessary for a saving faith. Given to us freely by the Spirit of God. What does that mean? It means you don't have to go into debt for four years of a bachelor's degree. And more debt for a master's degree, hoping to find the truth at the end so you can begin to build your life. Or chase some Oxford professor and latest tutor and get the knowledge and what to do, but because what do you what do you need truth for? You need it to live. You can't even begin to build your life if you don't how do I interact with my wife, my children, my church families, with God. If you don't have the truth, you can't even do anything. It just crumbles at the end when you find out that wasn't the truth. So would we really want to change positions? Were we got to go on a vain pursuit to find truth, an in debt to find truth, or gladly receive the things freely given to us by God? Become a Christian. You don't have to hunt for the truth anymore. But can build your whole life on the strong foundation of God's Word. So that's the exhortation. Live as Christianly as possible. That's the comfort. No matter what that may bring in this life, it's always better. Because you would never want to change positions. So let us be a people then that want for ourselves first. the gospel of Jesus Christ, to be Christians, and to be encouraged and comforted that though the world doesn't think so, you really are the envy of the world Because come the last day they will wish that they owned the name of Christ. So let us thank God now then. And let me be clear. You get all this by faith in Jesus Christ. You get all this by believing what God has testified in His Word. Concerning his son, that he is all these things, and many more we didn't talk about today, and simply receiving that as the truth. And acting in accordance with that truth. If it means forgiveness, lay your hands upon Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. If it means repentance, call upon him, give me your spirit, that my heart may turn from these sins and bring forth good works. If it means the truth, oh Lord, my mind is so dark, and help me to come to understand and teach me by the anointing you've given me as a Christian. If it means inherent that, O Lord, help me to believe there really is a heaven and things stored up for me there, and to be content with my lot here, knowing that it has fallen in a goodly place for what you've given me. All that is faith in Christ. Let us thank God for being Christians. Let us lament before Him and ask confession or confess our sins where we've not lived like that wanting for ourselves. Let me give you an example. I recently found out at when I last Sunday evening I often walk before I preach in the evenings to meditate on the word before I'm going to preach and I was returning and ran into two of my neighbors that I just knew to the neighborhood and met them for the first time. Then I was studying for this this week. And I thought, you know what I didn't do that I should have done, that this text taught me I should have done? I just said I love being a Christian. I think it's the best thing in the world. I'm about to go worship God in the evening. Would you like to join me? That's what it looks like. That was the oh that was my second point about the Christian Live as Christianly as possible. Secondly, when you talk to people about being a Christian, talk to them like it's the best thing in the world to be a Christian. Talk like you actually love the benefits of Christ and to be a Christian and all that it means for you. I know it's hard. I struggle with it because the world wants you to be on the defense. The world brings you to its bar that you're in the wrong. You need to always remember, no, you're in the wrong. No, my eyes aren't closed and I'm blind. Your eyes are closed and you don't see the truth. You need to have that flipped in your psyche And not live as the one who has to give the defense. We gladly do it and are ready to do it. They need to give a defense for why they reject God. Why they don't believe the things so clearly revealed from heaven, so plainly expounded 2,000 years now in every pulpit in the land. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for the name of Jesus Christ and to be called by it. We thank you for your grace which has shown in our hearts the light and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for his grace, and that we can say that we have not been disobedient thus far in our life towards that call to live as Christians. Heavenly Father, we admit before you at time we are overcome with sin and temptation and shame in that name. We do live fearful and do not live like we want for ourselves or we want for others. Help us by your Holy Spirit, in time to come, to live as Christianly as possible, rejoicing in our forgiveness and loving the Lord Jesus Christ. To live like people, like there is such a thing as heaven and inheritance, that we might share freely of our goods in this life to relieve the needs of others, to help others. Help us, O Lord, to bring forth much good fruit and to live as holy as possible, rejoicing that we shall not be ashamed in the last day that we are often now. And help us, O Lord, to speak the words of truth in love to our Christian brothers and sisters, to our family and friends, and to our neighbors Help us by your Holy Spirit to be Christians. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen.