Read the scripture, 1 John chapter 2, beginning at verse 18. I printed a portion of the scripture in the folder so that you can refer to that as As I bring the word, chapter two, verse eighteen. Children, it is the last hour, and as you have heard, the Antichrist is coming, so now many Antichrists have come. Therefore we know that this is the last hour. They went out from us, but they were not of us, for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out, that it might become plain that they are not of us. But you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all have knowledge. I write to you not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it. and because no lie is of the truth. Who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the Antichrist, he who denies the Father and the Son. No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son has the Father also. Let what you heard from the beginning abide in you. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, Then you too will abide in the Son and in the Father. And this is the promise that He made to us, eternal life. I write these things to you about those who are trying to deceive you. But the anointing that you have received from him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone should teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about everything, and is true, and is no lie, just as it has taught you, abide in him. And now, little children, abide in him, so that when he appears we may have confidence and not shrink from him in shame at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, you may be sure that everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him. See what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God. And so we are. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Beloved, we are God's children now. And what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning. for God's seed abides in him. And he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. By this it is evident who are the children of God and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Well, I want to focus in on that first part of chapter three, where It's in the ESV it just says see, see what kind of love the Father has given to us. And in other translations that some of us grew up with, it is, behold, what manner of love. I think the behold is more poignant. It catches more the spirit. It's not just see. It's see. Behold. Look at this. This is amazing. How amazing, John is saying, that we should be called the children of God. People are drawn to royalty these days. Yes, even Americans. People have great interest in the royal family in Great Britain, which is very high We dream of what it would be like to be born to such high position and wealth. Well, there was someone long ago who dreamed of high position. Someone that you may or may not have ever heard of, someone named Anna Anderson. Anna Anderson claimed to be the lost daughter of the Tsar of Russia. Anna claimed to be the Grand Duchess Anastasia. Anastasia, the youngest daughter of the last Tsar and Tsarina of Russia, Nicholas II and Alexandra. She was thought to be killed along with her parents and siblings on July 17, 1918, by communist revolutionaries. The location of Anastasia's body was unknown until the year 2007. Anna Anderson was institutionalized in a mental hospital after a suicide attempt in Berlin in 1920. At first she went by the name Fraulein Unbekant, which is in German Miss Unknown as she refused to reveal her identity. Later, she used the name Tchaikovsky. And then Anderson In March of 1922, she claimed that she was a Russian Grand Duchess. The first And this received public attention at that time. Most members of the Grand Duchess Anastasia's family and those who had known her, including her court tutor, said that Anderson was an imposter. But others were convinced that she was, indeed, Anastasia, the daughter of the Tsar. In 1927, a private investigation funded by Zarina's brother, Ernest Lewis, the Grand Duke of Hesse identified Anderson as someone named Franziska Szenskowska, a Polish factory worker with a jerk a history of mental illness. After a lawsuit lasting many years, the German courts ruled that Anderson had failed to prove that she was Anastasia. But through media coverage, her claim gained notoriety. And she eventually immigrated to the United States and married a professor at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. She died in 1984, and her body was cremated Her ashes were buried in the churchyard in the Castle Sion in Germany. After the collapse of communism in the Soviet Union, the locations of the bodies of the Tsar and Tsarina and all five of their children were revealed And multiple laboratories in different countries confirmed their identity through DNA testing DNA tests were done on a lock of Anderson's hair and other surviving samples of her tissue, and it showed that Anderson's DNA did not match that of Romanoff. remains or that of the living relatives of the Roman Offs. Instead, Andersen's DNA matched that of Carl Mocker the great nephew of Franziska Shanskowska. I can't say that very well. Shanskowska, yes. And most scientists and historians and journalists who have discussed the case now accept that Anderson and Sanskowska were the same person. She wanted to be the czarina, she wanted to be the daughter of the czar, she wanted to be royal, and she was mentally ill. So, all that to say this, we we all have some sort of deep longing to be Royalty, to have some great family connection. But that's what John is saying to us here. The old. You are the children of God. You are the royal family. You have this heritage. He's saying, it's an amazing thing that you have this. Now, is everyone a child of God? Not according to John None of us are children of God by nature. If we are children of God, it is only by adoption. And in the background of John's writing, false teachers had come along and raised questions about who is entitled to be called children of God, who is in the royal family. There was a kind of a point of view that was being taught by these false teachers called antinomianism. Which favored special knowledge. These pre-Gnostic antinomians believe that if you were of the enlightened group specially favored enlightened people, that you had this special knowledge, then you might eventually arise to this position of being called the children of God. But not just everybody could claim to be children of God, only these special people who achieve this special knowledge. John gives us a DNA test. He says, this is who can be called the children of God. Those who confess that Christ has come in the flesh. Whatever religion it is, if it denies the incarnation, if it denies that God has come in human flesh, not as a phantom But as a real human being, that's the first part of the DNA test. There were those who were teaching at that time that the Christ is just a spirit thing The Shakers, a sect in the United States, there hardly any of them left, probably none at this point. I met one once, but uh hardly any of these Shakers left. They taught this thing that there's a Christ spirit But the idea that God became human, no, not at all. So they wouldn't pass the DNA test and many, many other false ideas about Christ. Another DNA test, part of that test, is those who confess sin, those who confess their sinfulness. Who understand that there's a real violation of the law and character of the holy God. He says, if you won't confess that you're sinful, then you're calling God a liar. You don't get it. So those who believe that Christ has come in the flesh, those who confess sin. And then he says a third test is those who are not lawless. Again, these Gnostic, pre-Gnostic teachers were saying it doesn't matter what you do with your body because the body doesn't matter. That's where we get that phrase, doesn't matter. It's immaterial, you see. And so they were saying, you can do anything you want. You can sin any way you want. In fact, if you do, you're just proving your own point that the body doesn't matter, you can do anything with it, and God doesn't care Well, that's antinomianism. That's anti-law. Gnomos is law. Anti is against. So it's these who are against the law. And he says, if you are lawless, then you're not a child of God. And the final thing was in that long section, those who love the brothers. If you love those who love Jesus Christ, if you love them, then that's one of the tests. If you don't love them, there's something wrong. And if you don't love them, and that's your permanent stance, you can't stand the people of God, then Then maybe you're not one of the children of God. But if those tests are there for you If you confess that Christ has come in human flesh, not as a phantom, but really did, he really was born of the Virgin Mary. And he really did suffer under Pontius Power. And he really was crucified, died, and was buried and rose again. If you believe that, that's you've met the test on that level And if you confess your sinfulness, your need for salvation, you believe in the character of a holy God, and you're not lawless, and you love other believers, you've now passed the test You can say that you are an adopted child of God. And John says about you and me, behold, what manner of love. Look, see. These people are the children of God. Beloved, we are God's children now, he says. And what will be has not yet appeared. He says, we're not done. It's not over. We're not perfect. We haven't arrived, but just a little bit of it shows who we really are. Just a little bit of the DNA has shown that we are now the children of God. And so what we will be hasn't yet fully been seen, hasn't yet appeared, but we know that when he appears, we will be like him, because we shall see him as he is. A transformation, a completion of everything will be done then. We are not perfect, are we? But we believe that God has come in the flesh And we confess our sins, not just in liturgy, but regularly. We do not claim to be without sin And we try to live in the light of God's word, his law. And he has poured out his spirit into our hearts that makes us love those whom God loves. And so it is said of us, beloved, we are God's children now. And that is amazing. Amazing. Amen.