We read the Word of God in the Old Testament prophet Daniel. Daniel is During the period of the exile, that means that God's people Israel had been thrown out of their land, the Israel, land of Israel. uh and sent to Babylon uh to work for the pagans. They had become slaves. And um while they're there, Daniel gets these visions about the future. And this is part of one of them in Daniel chapter 11, verses 21 through 35. We'll read Daniel 11, 21. through 35. Listen to God's word. In his place, the place of a ruler that he's described earlier, in his place shall arise a contemptible person. to whom Royal Majesty has not been given. He shall come in without warning and obtain the kingdom by flatteries Armies shall be utterly swept away before him and broken, even the Prince of the Covenant. And from the time that an alliance is made with him He shall act deceitfully. And he shall become strong with a small people. Without warning, he shall come into the richest parts of the province and he shall do what neither his fathers nor his fathers' fathers have done, scattering among them plunder, spoils, and goods He shall devise plans against strongholds, but only for a time. And he shall stir up his power and his heart against the king of the South, with a great army. And the king of the South shall wage war with an exceedingly great and mighty army, but he shall not stand, for plots shall be devised against him. Even those who eat his food shall break him, his army shall be swept away, and many shall fall down slain. As for the two kings, their hearts shall be Bent on doing evil. They shall speak lies at the same table, but to no avail. For the end is yet to be at the appointed time. And he shall return to his land with great wealth, but his heart shall be set against the holy covenant, and he shall work his will and return to his own land. At the appointed time he shall return and come into the south, that it shall not be this time as it was before. For ships of Kittim shall come against him And he shall be afraid and withdraw, and shall turn back and be enraged and take action against the Holy Covenant. He shall turn back and pay attention to those who forsake the covenant. Forces from him shall appear and profane the temple and fortress, and shall take away the regular burnt offering. And they shall set up the abomination that makes desolate. He shall seduce with flattery those who violate the covenant But the people who know their God shall stand firm and take action. And the wise among the people shall make many understand Though for some days they shall stumble by sword and flame, by captivity and plunder. When they stumble, they shall receive a little help. And many shall join themselves to them with flattery, and some of the wise shall stumble, so that they may be refined, purified, and made white until the time of the end for it still awaits the appointed time. This is the word of the Lord. And now the reading of John chapter 10, which is the preaching text, John chapter 10, 22 through 42, as we continue our journey through John. Jesus actually quotes a portion from Psalm 82, which we just sang. So you'll see that here as we read it. John 10, beginning at verse 22. At that time, the feast of dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter. And Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them I told you and you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me. But you do not believe, because you are not part of my flock. My sheep hear my voice And I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. The Jews picked up stones again to stone him. Jesus answered them, Have I shown you many good works from the Father? For which of them are you going to stone me? The Jews answered him. It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you, but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God. Jesus answered them Is it not written in your law? I said, You are gods? If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came, and scripture cannot be broken Do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, you are blaspheming? Because I said, I am the Son of God? If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me. But if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works. That you may know and understand that the Father is in me, and I am in the Father. Again they sought to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands. He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained And many came to him, and they said, John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man was true. And many believed in him there. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you for these conversations that Jesus was having with these people And now we pray that you'll help us to understand them aright and make good use of them so that we may be shaped into the image of Christ. We pray in his name. Amen. Well, I will just summarize what I read just a few moments ago from Daniel. A few of the verses say this: Forces shall appear and profane the temple and fortress. And shall take away the regular burnt offering, and they shall set up the abomination that makes desolate. He Shall seduce with flattery those who violate the covenant, but the people who know their God shall stand firm and take action. That is a prophecy written in the 6th century B. C. , about something that would happen much later. The something that would happen much later is recorded in the apocryphal book of 1 Maccabees And there we read about King Antiochus. That's the person who's being described here in Daniel. King Antiochus, also called Antiochus Epiphanes, because he believed himself to be the manifestation of Zeus. Antiochus was a Greek fellow, and he was really in favor of Hellenizing or making Greek culture spread everywhere. And so Antiochus could not tolerate Jews who were worshiping God and sacrificing in the the temple and claiming that they had the exclusive right of truth, that God Himself had revealed Himself to them and that their scriptures were the true scriptures. He couldn't stand that idea. He wanted to to uh make a very pluralistic society. He wanted to uh stop anyone from exercising a private or a a national or ethnic religion, so he wanted to clamp down on all that stuff. So when he came into Israel, he did that. In the book of 1 Maccabees, which records events in about one s in the one sixties BC. Um he says, um It's recorded there that Antiochus wrote to his whole kingdom, I'm reading now from Maccabees, that all should be one people And everyone should leave his laws. Whatever laws you had before, in your nationality, leave them aside. So that all the heathen agreed according to the commandment of Antiochus. Even many of the Israelites consented to his religion and sacrificed unto idols and profaned the Sabbath For the king had sent letters by messengers unto Jerusalem and the cities of Judah that they should follow the strange laws of the land, forbid burnt offerings, that's the Jewish offerings. and sacrifice and drink offerings in the temple, forbid them. And that they should profane the Sabbaths and the festival days and pollute the sanctuary. and the holy people, and set up altars and groves and chapels of idols, and sacrifice swine's flesh. Uh that's a terrible thing for Jewish people to do. Sacrifice swine's flesh. And uncle and unclean beasts, and that they should also leave their children uncircumcised. That's a terrible thing for Jewish people Jewish people to do. And make their souls abominable with all manner of uncleanness and profanation to the end that they might forget the law, the law of God. And change all the ordinances. And whosoever would not do according to the commandment of the king should die. So that's being recorded as to what happened. And I'm not going to read it all, but skipping down a bit, now on the 5th and 20th day of the month, they did sacrifice. Antiochus' forces. They did sacrifice upon the altar, the altar of God. which at that time uh was according to the commandment of the king, they sacrificed pigs on the altar of God in Jerusalem. They profaned the temple. They made it an abomination that makes desolate. It ruined the temple for Jewish people. It made it a rotten, filthy, terrible place for Jewish people because they they did this thing. And they and he goes on to describe what else they did. They put to death certain women who had who had caused their children to be circumcised, and they hang the infants around their necks, and then they destroyed their houses and slew those who circumcised. So this is terrible things that happened in the 160s B. C. , prophesied by Daniel. And then after that, the book of Maccabees tells about this great hero. This great hero named Judas Maccabeus. Judas the Maccabees from the Maccabees family, right? And he came in and he caused a revolt against these intruders, these pagans. He caused a Jewish revolt to rise up and throw out these people. And then he caused the temple to be cleansed of all of its idolatry that Antiochus had brought in. And he caused it to be rededicated and made holy again, and that the sacrifices of Israel could continue. So that's the that's a long way of saying this is the immediate setting of what we have here. We have Jesus at the feast of dedication, the feast of the rededication of the holy temple of God after Antiochus Epiphanes, who thought himself to be Zeus, came in and desecrated it and made it an abomination. The festival of dedication. And this festival of dedication was a wintertime festival. And by the way, we now call it Hanukkah. It's if you the Jews celebrate Hanukkah in December, that's what this was. Jesus was there celebrating Hanukkah. or the feast of dedication with uh with the people there. And uh he was walking, it says in verse 23, in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon. Now, that was believed to be the only part of the original temple that Solomon built that had survived previous destruction. Just this little bit called the Colonnade of Solomon. So Jesus is there at the feast of rededication of the temple. He's walking in this covered area called the Colonnade of Solomon. And he is probably trying to stay dry and get out of the chill. At that time, it's the rainy season there. So while he's walking there, we're getting the picture now. It's an important event. He's there at the dedication or rededication of the temple. The Jews gathered around him and said to him, How long would you keep us in suspense if you are the Christ or the Messiah in Hebrew? Tell us plainly. We want to know. They say they want a straight-up answer, but what is the question? Now, on the face of it, it seems simple. The question is, are you the Christ? Are you the Messiah? But Jesus doesn't want to answer it quickly. Because they were expecting a Christ like Judas Maccabeus. who came in the 160s and who threw out the pagans and who rededicated the temple. They want that kind of Messiah. And so they're saying, tell us plainly, are you a Messiah like Judas Maccabeas, who rededicated the temple? Are you one of, are you him? He's not willing to say yes to that version of Christ, you see. He was knowing himself to be a much more spiritual Christ. A heart-changing Christ, who would throw the idols out of people's hearts. You see, we all by nature are born Idolaters. And our biggest and most prominent idol is ourselves. It's all about me. And Jesus wasn't willing to say that he's another Judas Maccabees, but he's a different kind of Christ. So Jesus answered them in verse 25. He says, I told you, and you do not believe. Now he had told them things before. He had said, I am who I am. I am before Abraham. And when he said those words, the Jews got really angry and picked up stones, as they're going to do here, to throw at him, to kill him, because he claims to be the I am. That's the name of God. That's the name of the God who revealed himself to Moses. And then he says The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me. What works are these? Well, there are the works of miracles that he had performed. He had said, I am the good shepherd, I know my own, and my own know me. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. So he maintains that he had told them who he is, and then he adds the works that he had done to further bolster his claim That were the works of a the healing of the crippled man beside the pool called Bethesda. You remember that from a few chapters back? And then most recently in chapter 9, the healing of the man born blind. Those works testify that Jesus is the promised one, the Christ. So I want to stop here. I've gone quite a bit through the introduction, but I want to say this: as we take these things into account, We need to recognize that faith, faith, our faith, is reasonable. Our faith is reasonable. It's not irrational Our faith is reasonable. Jesus said, I am who I am. I am the God who was revealed to Moses And I've done works that prove it. It's reasonable to say who I am and for you to believe who I am. It's reasonable. Take the evidence and make a decision about it. It's reasonable. Our faith is reasonable. We're not supposed to check our brains at the door and just yield to some irrational experience. We're not to do that. But faith is also what we would call supra rational. Supra, above rational. That means faith transcends what can be known by mere deduction and reasoning. And Jesus is saying that here There's an old saying that says, a man or woman convinced against his will is of the same opinion still. That means that you can give people all the evidence in the world. You can show them the miracles. You can Make the claims and stand behind those claims, but if people don't want to believe it, they won't. So faith is reasonable, but it's also suprational. Because faith is created and sustained by the sovereign Holy Spirit. It has to be. It has to be sustained by the Holy Spirit because of our natural condition. What is our natural condition? We call it total depravity. Total depravity. By the way, total depravity sounds so negative. We're totally depraved. Is is as if we're all the worst criminals that ever walked the earth? No. That's not what total depravity means. What it means is that Depravity, our natural enmity toward God, our natural rejection of what's evident is pervasive. It comes into all the parts of our being It pollutes our mind, it pollutes our thoughts, it pollutes our emotions, it affects everything. It's total. Our depravity, our messed upness is total. So Jesus says that. He says something like that, I think, in verse 26. If you look at it with me, he says to those who were asking this question, He says, but you do not believe because you're not smart enough. No, no, wait a minute. He didn't say that. You do not believe because you are not among my sheep. You're not among my sheep. You're not my flock. You do not believe. He gives the cause of unbelief being, because you're not my sheep. Christ says that his sheep Are not in their natural state of depravity anymore. They're not in their state of unbelief, but have had a heart transformation Transplant, a change of will and of mind. And this is absolutely necessary. I want to take a few moments To establish this truth is so important of total depravity. Here's what the scriptures, various ones I'll quote here, say about the natural condition of humans. Jeremiah 17, verse 9 says, the heart is deceitful. Your heart, your affections, down deep. Your heart is deceitful. It says, above all things, more than anything. And it says, and am desperately sick. And then he says in commentary, who can understand it? That means that we do things, think things, feel things that don't make sense. Some of the things that we love are awful things. And some of the things that we hate, we shouldn't hate. We're desperate, according to Jeremiah 17:9. First uh Titus chapter one says this to the defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure. In other words, it pervades their whole life. Nothing is any good. But both their minds and their conscience. Are defiled. Ecclesiastes 9, verse 3. The hearts of the children of man are full of evil, and madness is in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to the dead. So he's making a blanket statement here. Theological statement from Romans chapter 1 says: since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind. To do what not ought to be done, they were foolish in their hearts. Ephesians chapter 4, 17 and 18. He says to those who are believers, you must no longer walk as the Gentiles or pagans do in the futility of their minds. Futility. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardness of their heart. See, that's depravity, pervasive depravity. Jeremiah chapter 10. Among all the wise ones of the nations, and in all their kingdoms, there is none like you. They are both stupid and foolish. Every man is stupid and without knowledge. Not a very nice thing to say, but you know. Matthew chapter 15. For out of the heart, Jesus says, for out of the heart come evil thoughts. Murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, and slander. That's what comes out of our heart. Just trust your heart, people say. Please don't trust your heart Your heart is bad. Genesis chapter 6, the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was was great and the earth and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually from his youth. Little kids, little babies, are vipers in diapers. I didn't make that up. And there's others. I won't go on and on, but uh so that's our natural condition. You don't believe in me, Jesus says, because you're not my sheep. You got a not being problem. You're not my sheep. That's why you don't believe in me. My sheep Have been changed. That's the kind of Messiah I am. I change hearts. I don't throw out revolutionaries, not now anyway. Maybe he will in the future, right, but So then we go on, and we see here a teaching which is hard to teach, and I know some people don't like it and all that, but It is called the sovereign grace of election as clearly taught here by Jesus in verses 26 through 30. And it tells us about God's choosing, God's electing love, which explains why some believe and others do not. He says in verse 26, but you do not believe, you those who were he was talking to, you do not believe because you are not among my sheep. We've already read that. And then he says, My sheep hear my voice. And I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. This is describing the sovereign grace of election, that those who are enmity with God, whose minds are darkened, whose hearts are polluted, somehow Come to a place by the work of God that they hear the voice of the shepherd and they follow him and he gives them eternal life and they will never perish and they will not be snatched out of his hand. Because he and the Father will make sure it happens that way. Chosen and elect sheep believe, while others remain in unbelief. Chosen and elect sheep hear the shepherd's voice. Others remain deaf. Chosen sheep were given to Jesus by the Father before creation. Chosen sheep will never be lost, will never perish, will never get snatched away Now, in response to this, what Jesus has just said, they don't like it. They prove by their next words and deeds that they are evidently not his What do they do? Verse 31. They picked up stones again to stone him. We've seen this before. They say, you're going to get the death penalty, Jesus But Jesus sees them starting to pick up stones and he starts talking to them. Verse 32, Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father. For which of them are you going to stone me? What did I do wrong? He says. The Jews answered him, It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you, but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God. Well, they got that right. Jesus answered them, and but Jesus answers them in a in a clever way here, really, to put them into the Try to figure this out mode. He says to them, Is it not written in your law, I said you were gods? And if he called them gods to whom the word of God came and the scripture cannot be broken, Do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, you are blasphemy because I said, I am the Son of God? What this really means, he's quoting from Psalm 82, which we sang. What he's really saying here is making a little bit of an argument with them to throw them off. He says, if God can call mere men gods in Psalm 82, who are entrusted with his word, how much more can Jesus, who was sent from the Father, be called the Son of God? Sent by the Father, attested by John, and miracles. So Jesus is making a conundrum in a sense, but he's also making a case for his being Well, there were two responses following the dialogue so far. Two responses. They are rejection on the one hand and faith on the other. There. Rejection first. Verse 39. Again they sought to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands. I don't know how Jesus does this. He does it frequently. Maybe they get confused, they start rushing around, and Jesus just kind of slips out. They sought to arrest him, but he is escape from their hands. This seeking to arrest him proves that they are without faith. They are not believing in him as Messiah. And then the next response is faith. In verse 40, He crosses the Jordan River into the land what's called Perea in the New Testament. And there people evidently prove themselves to be sheep. Verse 40. He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained. And many came to him, and they said, John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man was true, and many believed in him there. That's the response. Now look, Jesus has done miracles, he's evidently the Messiah. But these people, where Jesus goes next, hadn't seen any miracles. John didn't do any miracles, and yet they believe. They believe. No signs by John, but God opened their hearts and their minds to believe nonetheless. This calls for a decision among those who are hearing the gospel or reading the gospel. Will the hearers and readers of the gospel prove to be Jesus' sheep? Will you prove to be Jesus' sheep? Or will you prove to be the victims of thieves and Wolves, false teachers. In one sense, it's up to you. Responsibility is yours That's part of the sense of the way John puts this. It's up to you, listener, reader, will you be a sheep or will you be A victim of false shepherds. Because again, you were not born neutral, but an enemy of God, oppositional to God And no amount of rational proof will convince you unless you're willing to be convinced. That's the characteristic of God's chosen sheep. If you humble yourself and give up your autonomy, your self-rule, autonomy, by the way, is what Satan sold Adam and Eve in the Garden of Paradise. Martin Luther described autonomy as, in Latin he called it homo incurvatus in sé, which means man curved in on himself. It's a cul-de-sac. It's a dead end when you're curved in on yourself. Will you humble yourself and give up your autonomy, your curved in on yourselfness? When you give this up, you will literally be able to thank God that you did, because it's not in you to do it. In the greater sense, your turning away from yourself is up to God. That's also being taught here God who in sovereign mercy adopts his chosen sheep into his flock and keeps them forever So it's true that you have to decide, but it's also true that you don't have it in you to decide, and that when you do decide, it's because God was working in you to cause You to decide. That's the backstory of faith. Which of these responses here best represents you? Turned in on yourself like the Jews who pressed upon Jesus and couldn't believe, even with all the evidence? Or turned away from self-reliance to have confidence in God. Jesus says again, my sheep, my chosen ones, hear my voice. And I know them. To be known by Jesus, to have a personal relationship with Jesus, I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life. And they will never perish. Again, John's gospel is written so that uh the reader, the hearer, might believe that Jesus is the Christ and have So how does all this fit together? Well, I think that uh I can use an old doctrinal standard Called the 39 Articles. Before our Westminster Confession of Faith was drafted in 16 1644 to 47, English Parliament called a gathering of ministers together called the Westminster Assembly And he said, we want you to revise the 39 articles of the Church of England and expand them. And so that's what they did. But some of the articles were pretty well written as they were, and I just want to share one of those with you. Article 17 says this: predestination. That's what we're talking about here. here. Free will versus predestination. It says predestination to life is the everlasting purpose of God whereby before the foundations of the world were laid, he hath constantly decreed by his counsel secret to us To deliver from curse and damnation those whom He hath chosen in Christ out of mankind, out of the fallen mass of mankind, and to bring them by Christ to everlasting salvation as vessels made to honor. Therefore, they become endued with these excellent benefits of God. And here they are. They are called according to God's purpose by his Spirit working. At the right time. They through grace obey the calling. My sheep hear my voice and they follow me, right? They be justified freely. They become acquitted of all their sins. They be made sons of God by adoption. They be made like the image of his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. They walk religiously in good works. And at length, by God's mercy, they attain to everlasting blessedness. It's a beautiful statement. And he says, the 39 article, Article 17 says, as the godly consideration of predestination and our election in Christ is full of sweet Pleasant and unspeakable comfort to godly persons. So for the curious and carnal persons lacking the Spirit of Christ to have constantly before their eyes the sentence of predestination is the most dangerous downfall, whereby the devil doth thrust them either into De desperation or into wretchedness of most unclean living, no less perilous than desperation. What he's saying is If you hear these truths about predestination and election, about my sheep hear my voice and they follow me, and you're not believing in me because you're not my sheep On the other hand, if you hear these truths, to those who believe, it's sweet, it's glorious We know that we have been saved by a sovereign God who loved us before the foundation of the world, who chose us, who's not going to lose us. It's wonderful, it's sweet. But to someone who's just looking at this with an analytical eye, and um I don't like that idea. It doesn't seem fair I don't believe it. I don't believe in this God who does such things. I don't believe in Jesus. I don't believe this stuff. And so they They contemplate it and they say, if that's true, then I must not be one of them, and I'll just live like crazy. I'll do all the stupidest, worthless things. I'll live this way because I guess I'm not elected I've actually had people tell me that. Well, I guess I'm not elect, so I I won't even try. So this doctrine, as important as it is, can be That's what Article 17 is saying. It is the backstory of our believing in Christ. But having said that, it is not the message that we proclaim to the lost all around us. We don't go around saying to our friends and our children Good news, God may have chosen you before the world began, but maybe not. Good news, Christ may have died to save you, but maybe not. That's not what we say. That's not what the Gospel of John is trying to, he's saying, believe, believe, believe, repent, trust, follow. Not maybe And when we do believe, sheep believers, we do not say, on the other hand, look at me. I was smart enough to turn to Jesus Jesus, boy, I must be something. I was so smart that when I heard the message, I was smart. And I turned to Jesus and I kind of saved myself by turning to Jesus. We don't say that. No. To those around us, we say, repent. Turn in faith to Christ. And when they do, and when we do, we say what the Apostle Paul said to the once pagan Ephesians, for by grace Not works. By grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. You couldn't do it. So you didn't do it. It is the gift of God. Ephesians 2. Not a result of works. Why? So that no one can boast. No one can say, look at me, I was smart. Enough to do this, figure this out, make the right choice. This is the backstory of our believing in Christ. We are his sheep, we're humble. Sheep. We don't boast in ourselves. And we offer to everybody that if they turn to Christ, they repent of their sins. sins and believe in him and follow him that he receives sinners Jesus will receive. Amen. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that we have a savior, not a mere political, military savior, like Judas Maccabeus, who restored the temple and rededicated it. But we have a Messiah who changes our wicked hearts and who calls us to Himself and who says, tell everybody else too. Invite them to come as well. And when they come, and when you come, give glory to God because it's all His doing, working in you. We praise you and thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen.