Please open your Bibles to Jeremiah chapter 33. Chapter 33, we'll read verses 14 through 22. Behold, the days are coming. declares the Lord, when I will fulfil the promise I made to the house of Israel and the house of Judah. In those days and at that time I will cause a righteous branch to spring up for David And he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. In those days Judah will be saved, and Jerusalem will dwell securely And this is the name by which it will be called. The Lord is our righteousness. For thus says the Lord, David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne of the house of Israel, and the Levitical priest shall never lack a man in my presence to offer burnt offerings. to burn grain offerings, and to make sacrifices forever. The word of the Lord came to Jeremiah. Thus says the Lord, if you can break my covenant with the day and my covenant with the night, so that day and night will not come at their appointed time. Then also my covenant with David, my servant, may be broken, so that he shall not have a son to reign on his throne, and my covenant with the Levitical priests, my ministers. As the host of heaven cannot be numbered, and the sands of the sea cannot be measured, so I will multiply the offspring of David, my servant. And the Levitical priests who minister to me. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. John chapter 20, 11 through 31. So we're continuing on where we uh were last week, uh where Peter and John had come to the tomb. And Mary Magdalene had come early, and seeing that the stone had been rolled away, and she had gone and told the disciples. that this had happened. She thought that Jesus' body had been stolen. So here we come to verse 11 now. John 20 verse 11. But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb, and as she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb And she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet. They said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary, She turned and said to him in Aramaic, Rabboni, which means teacher. Jesus said to her Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, I have seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her. On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold the sin, hold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. Now, Thomas, one of the twelve, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. So the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see his hands, in his hands, the mark of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe Eight days later, his disciples were again inside, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, Put your finger here and see my hands, and put out your hand and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe. Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Indeed, thanks be to you, our God, for Causing these records, these narratives, these true stories to be written down by the pen of the Apostle John and by the other writers. Thank you for giving us a record of these things, an exact record. We pray now that the same Spirit who inspired them will help us to apply them as we understand them better in the preaching of your word. Amen. So the first thing we have is that Mary appears, Jesus appears to Mary Magdalene. In verse 11, but Mary stood weeping outside the tomb, and as she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb. She didn't go in, she just looked in. It's probably dark in there. But she's curious enough to do that. This Mary Magdalene, Magdala is where she's from. It's a city on the coast of the Galilean Sea And so she's known by her her hometown name. I remember when I was uh in a men's choir at Moody Bible Institute. The different guys would introduce themselves during the presentations that we would do. And there was one guy who would always say, from Escondido, California, and we just called him Escondido after that. You know. Hey, escondido. Well this is the same sort of thing, Mary Magdalene, and she just called Magdalene sometime. Where did we learn about her? We learn about her for one place in Luke chapter 8, where it says that Jesus, when he was going through preaching the good news of God's kingdom, It says in verse 1 of chapter 8, Soon afterward he went on through the cities and villages proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him, and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene. From whom seven demons had gone out. So we see that Jesus had done a wonderful thing for this woman The Bible doesn't say that she was a prostitute. That's something that the Catholic Church has kind of come up with over the years, but doesn't say that anywhere. She was probably a woman with money Because she ends up being a great supporter of Jesus and the disciples in their preaching missions. But she was also a woman with great suffering. And it says that Jesus healed her. This great suffering is described as having seven demons, seven number of perfections. She was greatly possessed by demons. She was greatly oppressed and ill because of demons. And she was so grateful that she dedicated the rest of her life. To following Jesus. That's what it means to be a disciple. It doesn't mean just, oh, I like him. It means I go with him everywhere he goes. And so she's one of these in Luke 8, who's going with Jesus wherever he goes, and she's paying the bills too. Now, not everybody who's benefited by Jesus' miracle working is grateful like this You might remember that there were ten lepers that were healed, but only one came back to thank him for his grace and power. But here we have a woman who is thankful in a way that matters and that changes her walk in life. Thankful for her release from demonic control with illness, she gave out of her own money to support Jesus and the preaching of God's kingdom. And this is the woman that we find outside the tomb on this Easter morning. Verse 12: She saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain. One at the head and one at the feet. And they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, but she did not know that it was Jesus. Despite her love for Jesus, She did not expect to see Jesus alive. She knew that he really died. She was there at the cross. She saw the spear plunged into his side, and the water and the blood come out. She knew that he really was dead, and she could not fathom that he would now be alive. And maybe it was also hard to recognize him as he now spoke to her Maybe the tears had blurred her vision. I don't know. But the living Jesus was the last thing she expected to see and she did not see at first. The believing Jews, by the way, and she's certainly one of them, expected resurrection. But when did they expect it? Just any old time? Resurrection just happened every other day? No way. They expected the resurrection at the last day, at the end of history. That's what it says in Daniel. That in the last day there will be a great resurrection. But they didn't expect a resurrection in the middle of history. And here she was, not expecting Jesus. Verse 15, Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? And then, supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. We see here that Mary, Magdalene, is truly devoted and willing to take heroic measures to see that Jesus' body is treated respectfully. The body was very important to the Jews. Why? Why was she so concerned to treat his body respectfully? Well, I know it was because of the personal relationship that she loved him, cared for him But generally the Jews had great respect for the human body. And why is that? Because The body has a future. The body will be raised up. The body will be glorified and become incorruptible. And this is true no matter what has happened to it. But care and reverence toward the body is a natural response to faith in the future resurrection. And so the Jews cared for the bodies of those who had died. By the way, the planet Earth, not just our bodies, but the planet Earth also has a future. It will be renewed and restored. We, as believers in God, have the only logical reason to care for this earth. Adam was told to care for it. God created it and set Adam to caring for the earth. We have the right motive to be environmentally interested because paradise will be restored and we are the lords of this kingdom. It's interesting that unbelieving environmentalists are absolutely irrational in their reverence for the earth They claim that the earth is not created by God because there is no God, but it just happened. It's just a lucky planet in all the planets and all the solar systems that there are that we can know about. Yet they worship the earth and make saving the planet into a secular religion. Or maybe it's just a way to manipulate people for political goals. In any case, we go back. The body is important, the earth is important, there's a future because God is sovereign, he created, and he is redeeming all things. We need to know that. We go to verse 16 now. Jesus said to her, Mary. Now, I don't know how he said that, but somehow the pronunciation of her name, the way he said it. She turned and said to him in Aramaic, Rabbonai, which means teacher. Somehow, the way that was said, the way her name was said by Jesus. brought knowledge to her. Mary recognizes Jesus as he calls her by name She probably thought at first when she first heard, how can this gardener know my name? But probably there was something very familiar in the way he said her name. How great would it be to have the risen Lord call you by name? Not in rebuke or condemnation, not rebuking her for not knowing or not listening or not getting it right away, but calling you by name in a revelation of love and life. I want that. I want to have my name called someday by the risen Lord Jesus Christ. I want him to say, Ed. Don't you want the same thing? I hope you do. I know that I fail in many ways, and I know that he knows all about it, but he is still loving me. His sovereign covenant love is not put off by my past or my present. Because his whole purpose in coming in the first place, in coming in human flesh, was to deliver me. And he knows me, and he will call me by name. He will call you by name if you have personal faith in him. So here we have this first witness, this woman, and he calls her by name. But that's important to note as well. The very first witness, the very first eyewitness to the resin Jesus Christ is a woman That is very important. John and the Holy Spirit's Spirit wants you to know that the eyewitnesses Of the resurrection, we're not credulous. That is, they're not easy people to believe, easy myths. In fact, if John was trying to concoct a story to deceive people, he could make the narrative more believable to people of his day by choosing a man, and probably a really important man. As the first eyewitness. But he records the facts. And the fact is, Mary Magdalene was the first to see Jesus alive. And so here we go on to verse 17. Jesus said to her, and this baffles us, do not cling to me. For I have not yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God What did she do? She obeyed. Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, I have seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her. Now, what is going on here with that, do not cling to me? The Greek text shows that this phrase that he says is in the middle voice. And so some of the early translations Got it wrong. They said, do not touch me, as if Jesus has some kind of immaterial body that you couldn't touch. Soon after this, he invites people to touch him, doesn't he? He invites inspection. So it's not that The Greek expression is best rendered, do not go on clinging to me. John doesn't tell us all the details of what happened, but it appears that this is what's going on Mary has probably fallen down at Jesus' feet after she recognized him. She was probably clinging and hanging on to him, not wanting to let him go, because she doesn't want to lose him again. We do things like this when a child has gotten lost, and somewhere we find him We've been terrified that he's been kidnapped or something like that. Now the child has returned to us and we cling. We don't let him go again. Don't let him out of our sight again. But try to imagine not clinging to someone that you love deeply who has died and you suddenly find them alive again. You can see how she was clinging to Jesus, the risen Lord. After a bit of Mary's clinging, Jesus probably was saying, and I paraphrase, I am not immediately ascending, so no need to keep clinging to me. Go tell my brothers, the disciples, that I will ascend soon to my Father and God, and your Father and God. That's probably what's going on here. So that's what happened so far. Now we go into verse 19, where Jesus now appears and commissions his followers, his disciples. Sunday evening, on the 19th, verse 19, not the 19th, on the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews. Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side, and the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Now, think about this, but think also about the fact that in John 14, Jesus had promised that the Holy Spirit was going to come. And he used that phrase about peace. And he's using it here again. John 14, verse 15, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper to be with you forever, even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. And then he says in verse eighteen, I will not leave you as orphans, I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. And then verse 25, these things I have spoken to you while I am still with you, but the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name. He will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. And then verse uh 27, chapter 14, peace I leave with you. Remember that? My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. And so Jesus now brings back that promise of the Holy Spirit and that word of peace to these gathered disciples who were in the closed locked doors. He showed himself to them alive. How did he get in? The doors were locked. How did he get in? We are not told. But we learn elsewhere that the resurrection body is different from our present perishable bodies. The Apostle Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 15, Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. A change in body, a change in the form of the human nature. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trumpet for the trumpet will sound and the dead will be raised imperishable. That new body is imperishable. And we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. So the new body is different. It's not subject to the limitations and conditions of the mortal body. In Philippians 3, The apostle says, but our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. The Apostle Paul had met the risen Christ. He knew he had a body, but it's a new body, it's a better body. So here we are in verse 21. Jesus said to them, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. He had promised the Holy Spirit, so now he says, and when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. And you're wait you're saying to me, wait a minute, Pentecost is later, isn't it? This is Easter evening. Isn't Pentecost 50 days? Yes. The big outpouring of Pentecost that we're remembering today in worship. It was 50 days later. But Jesus gave the Holy Spirit to his own disciples on Easter evening. He breathed on them and said, receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, this follows interestingly here. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld Wow, what is that about? Receive the Holy Spirit and then this If you forgive the sins of any, they're forgiven. If you don't forgive the sins of any, they're not forgiven. What is this? How does this fit together? Well, it's really a picture of how the gospel works. Who can do this? Is it only for some priests or something? Priests, you go in and see the priests, and the priest forgives you your sins. Is that how this works? No. You as an individual believer. may do this indirectly in conjunction with your personal witness. Let me show you how that works When you really identify with Jesus, you're not saying, I like Jesus, and Christianity is a nice religion, but yours is okay too That's pluralism. We don't want to be that. It's not a witness. That's not a witness. But what you're saying is When you really witness and identify with Jesus, you're saying to anybody who's listening to you, anybody who's observing your life, you're saying Jesus is Lord and God. There is no other. You're saying every knee must bow. You're saying there is salvation in no one else, no other name under heaven You're saying Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through him. When you declare those kinds of things, when you stand in that place as one of his. You're announcing a verdict. People know that you're announcing a verdict. Sometimes we don't like it You're announcing a verdict. The verdict is this. Sins forgiven for those who believe. Sins not forgiven for those who do not believe. That's what it means as individual believers out there. But there's another level where this also works. These are the disciples. They're going to be the leaders of the church. And so elders and pastors, as the official representatives of the church, also have this office. They proclaim a verdict Here's how it works. When someone comes before the elders and we hear the profession of their faith As to their faith in Jesus, their trust in his person and work, the elders then say to them, in effect, your faith is true faith. And your sins are forgiven. And you were delivered from God's wrath. And you're welcome to come and share in the feast of God's mercy in this congregation. That's a verdict, you see. And elders, when we as a church session hear a confession of unbelief, or observe a lack of evidence of faith and its wholesome fruit. We sadly must pronounce the verdict of non-forgiveness and of abiding under the wrath of God until there's a change to true faith and the fruit of faith. And when we gladly later hear the confession of faith by someone who has previously cast off their profession, we must again declare God's grace to them. Because grace is not ours to give, it is God's to give, and we just speak for God. And so we say what God says. When anyone professes repentance and faith, we declare God's forgiveness to them. Oh brothers and sisters, I hope you all have this deep Abiding desire to hear your name called like Mary did, but also to hear the voice from heaven that says, Your sins are forgiven you. You were clothed in the perfect obedience of Jesus Christ. But until you arrive in heaven, in the presence of God, you can hear it You can hear it. You can hear it from the Word of God, but you can also hear it from the office-bearers of the church. And then you can have it renewed to you week by week in the declaration of pardon. And of welcome to the Lord's table, and also of the benediction, the good word spoken over you, the word of grace spoken over you at the end of the service. These you see, these words, these actions of the leadership of the church, these are the real actions and words of King Jesus They're not Ed's actions or the elder's actions. They're the actions of King Jesus, who is ruling from his ascended throne in heaven. So it means something when Jesus said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit, that's the power to proclaim the gospel, whosoever sins you forgive, they are forgiven. Isn't that wonderful? Assurance of what God says. And now we have finally the special case of Thomas. Now Thomas, one of the twelve called the twin, was not with them when the Lord when Jesus came. And so the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Nah. Unless I see his hands, the mark of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe. Okay, Thomas. We'll see what happens next. Verse 26. Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them, although the doors were locked. Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. There it is again. Then he said to Thomas, You crazy nut, why didn't you believe what you heard? You unbelieving fool No. He said, peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, put your finger here and see my hands. Put out your hand and place it in my side. Do not just believe, but believe. And it doesn't say Thomas did any of that. Doesn't say, and I know some of the art and the pictures, and Thomas is doing this and this. Doesn't say that. It just tells us that Thomas said, My Lord and my God. And Jesus said to him, You have believed because you have seen me. Blessed are those who have not seen and have yet believed. Thomas gets a bad reputation. But he was simply normally kind of skeptical. He was not easily led. He needed more data And he got what he needed. Jesus didn't rebuke him. He gave him what he needed. Jesus then pronounced a blessing on Thomas's faith. He doesn't rebuke him, he blesses him. And here's what I want to bring by way of application here. If anyone, anyone wants to believe the gospel. Jesus will make sure they have what they need to believe. The witness of the Word and the Spirit will be made available to anyone who really wants to believe. And so, at the final judgment, no one will be able to argue before the throne of God that they did not have the information they needed. No one will be able to blame God for their unbelief. We see in Psalm 19 that the whole creation preaches the existence of God and the righteousness of God. Psalm 19:1. The heavens declare the glory of God. And the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day after day pours forth speech. Night after night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out throughout all the earth and their words to the end of the world, so no one has an excuse And this God that the psalmist is proclaiming here as the glory of God is the creator God of the Bible. And the covenant-making God of the Bible, and the redeeming God of the Bible, the three-personed God of the Bible. And the Apostle Paul goes on to tell us in Romans that the law of God is written in every human heart. There will be no valid excuses. If anyone wants to believe the gospel, Jesus We'll give them the data they need to believe. And Jesus pronounced a blessing on those who have also not seen. Have you seen Jesus No, you haven't. Not with your eyes. Have you seen the nail prints and the spear side? No, you haven't. The blessing is upon you. Blessing on those who have not seen and have yet believed. This blessing is on you and me. We have been given by the power of the Holy Spirit the understanding, the ability to believe. Jesus has supplied abundantly and richly to us the data that we needed and the change of our heart to believe these things. And then John summarizing here says, now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name Let's go back a bit now. Peter and John saw the grave close. We did that last week. And they believed. Mary Magdalene heard Jesus call her name, and she saw him, and she believed. The disciples behind closed doors saw Jesus, saw the nail prince and the spirit opening in his side, and heard him pronounce, peace be with you, and they believed. Thomas saw Jesus, saw the nail prince, the spear wound, he believed and said, My Lord and my God. Dear Reformed thinking friends, signs and divine working and gospel narratives about God saving actions done through Christ. These cannot alone create and impart faith. But faith is created by the Holy Spirit with reference to signs and narratives like the gospel narrative. Faith is not just faith in the idea that everything will work out. That's when many people talk about, oh, I have faith. You have faith in what? I just have faith that everything will work out. That's not faith. Or faith in a benevolent, ill-defined being that they call God. We're talking about the God of the Bible And faith in him and his son Jesus Christ, not just faith in some sort of God, some deity out there. Nine out of ten Americans believe in a God That's 92% these days, down from 98% 40 years ago. But only a fraction of these people have the kind of faith that is being set forth in the Bible here. Being set forth in John's gospel. And people like that, who believe in some sort of God or that all things will just kind of work out well, they are not saved by such belief. They're not saved. They are condemned, in fact, for rejecting the public record of what God has done The gospel message is the message about what God has done. God the Creator, God the covenant maker, God the Redeemer, the three-personed God. So gospel faith is confidence and reliance upon Jesus Christ, his deity, his perfect life, his atoning death to pay for our sins and forgive sinners. And as I said a few weeks ago, to clothe us with his perfect righteousness. This together with his resurrection and his future coming constitute all that we need to believe to be saved. saved. This is the faith that we proclaim, even as we come to the Lord's Supper. We proclaim in this supper, Christ has died, Christ is risen, Christ will come again. Again. Let us believe what the gospel says. Let us believe. Amen. Lord, we thank you that we have these wonderful records of what Jesus did and said. And we also have the gift of the Holy Spirit who takes the data and creates faith. Created in us, Lord. And then help us to be witnesses. Help us to proclaim the forgiveness of sins and the withholding of such forgiveness. Help us, Lord, in our witness, in our work, as the Church of Jesus Christ. Amen