Read the first thirty-five verses, that's page one thirty of your Pew version of the Bible, if you're using that. And then also put your finger in Deuteronomy twenty three We'll read verses three through six, just after Numbers twenty two. Numbers twenty-two verse one. Then the people of Israel set out and camped in the plains of Moab beyond the Jordan at Jericho. And Balak, the son of Zippor, saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites. And Moab was in great dread of the people, because they were many Moab was overcome with fear of the people of Israel. And Moab said to the elders of Midian, This horde will now lick up all that is around us. As the ox licks up the grass of the field. So Balak, the son of Zipor, who was king of Moab at that time sent messengers to Balaam, the son of Beor at Pithor, which is near the river in the land of the people of Amon. to call him, saying, Behold, a people has come out of Egypt. They cover the face of the earth, and they are dwelling opposite me. Come now, curse this people for me, since they are too mighty for me. Perhaps I shall be able to defeat them and drive them from the land, for I know that he whom you bless is blessed And he whom you curse is cursed. So the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the fees for divination in their hand. And they came to Balaam and gave him Balak's message. And he said to them, Lodge here tonight, and I will bring back word to you as the Lord speaks to me. So the princes of Moab stayed with Balaam, and God came to Balaam and said, Who are these men with you? And Balaam said to God, Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent to me, saying, Behold, a people has come out of Egypt, and it covers the face of the earth. Now come, curse them for me. Perhaps I shall be able to fight against them and drive them out. God said to Balaam, You shall not go with them. You shall not curse the people, for they are blessed. So Balaam rose in the morning and said to the princes of Balak, Go to your own land, for the Lord has refused to let me go with you. So the princes of Moab rose and went to Balak and said, Balaam refuses to come with us. Once again Balak sent princes, more in number and more honorable than these. And they came to Balaam and said to him, Thus says Balak the son of Zippor, let nothing hinder you from coming to me, for I will surely do you great honor, and whatever you say to me I will do Come curse this people for me. But Balaam answered and said to the servants of Balak Though Balak were to give me his house full of silver and gold, I could not go beyond the command of the Lord my God to do less or more. So you too, please stay here tonight, that I may know what more the Lord will say to me. And God came to Balaam at night and said to him If the men have come to call you, rise, go with them, but only do what I tell you. So Balaam rose in the morning and saddled his donkey and went with the princes of Moab. But God's anger was kindled against him. But God's anger was kindled because he went. And the angel of the Lord took his stand in the day in the way of his adversary. Now he was riding on the donkey, and his two servants were with him, and the donkey saw the angel of the Lord standing in the road with a drawn sword in his hand. And the donkey turned aside out of the road and went into the field. And Balaam struck the donkey to turn her into the road. Then the angel of the Lord stood in a narrow path between the vineyards, with a wall on either side. And when the donkey saw the angel of the Lord, she pushed against the wall and pressed Balaam's foot against the wall. So he struck her again. Then the angel of the Lord went ahead and stood in a narrow place, where there was no way to turn either to the right or to the left. And when the donkey saw the angel of the Lord, she lay down under Balaam. And Balaam's anger was kindled, and he struck the donkey with a staff. Then the Lord opened the mouth of the donkey, and she said to Balaam, What have I done to you that you have struck me these three times? And Balaam said to the donkey, Because you have made a fool of me, I wish I had a sword in my hand, for then I would kill you. And the donkey said to Balaam, Am I not your donkey on which you have ridden all your life long to this day? Is it my habit to treat you this way? And he said, No. Then the Lord opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the Lord standing in the way with his drawn sword in his hand. And he bowed down and fell on his face. And the angel of the Lord said to him, Why have you struck your donkey these three times? Behold, I have come out to oppose you, because your way is perverse before me. The donkey saw me and turned aside before me these three times. If she had not turned aside from me, surely just now I would have killed you and let her live. Then Balaam said to the angel of the Lord, I have sinned, for I did not know that you stood in the road against me. Now, therefore, if it is evil in your sight, I will turn back. And the angel of the Lord said to Balaam, Go with the men, but speak only the word that I tell you. So Balaam went on with the princes of Balak. Now Deuteronomy 23, verses three through six. No Ammonite or Moabite may enter the assembly of the Lord. Even to the tenth generation, none of them may enter the assembly of the Lord forever. because they did not meet you with bread and with water on the way when you came out of Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam, the son of Beor, from Pithor of Mesopotamia, to curse you But the Lord your God would not listen to Balaam. Instead, the Lord your God turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the Lord your God loved you. You shall not seek their peace or their prosperity all your days forever. This is the word of the Lord. This time we're going to turn to 2 Peter 2. And we'll read verses 1 through 22 of 2 Peter. So our New Testament reading this morning. Lots of Bible drills this morning. Lots of reading, but it's all important background. Alright, 2 Peter chapter 2, beginning at verse 1. Hear now the word of God. But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies. even denying the master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction. And many will follow their sensuality, and because of them the way of truth will be blasphemed And in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Their condemnation from long ago is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep. For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment. If he did not spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah, a herald of righteousness, with seven others, when he bought a flood upon the world of the ungodly. If by turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes, he condemned them to extinction, making them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly. And if he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked, for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over the lawless deeds that he saw and heard. Then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment, and especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passion and despise authority. Bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blaspheme the glorious ones. Whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord. But these, like irrational animals, creatures of instinct, born to be caught and destroyed, blaspheming about matters of which they are ignorant Will also be destroyed in their destruction. Suffering wrong is the wage for their wrongdoing. They count it pleasure to revel in the daytime. They are blots and blemishes, reveling in their deceptions while they feast with you. They have eyes full of adultery, insatiable for sin. They entice unsteady souls. They have hearts trained in greed. Accursed children Forsaking the right way they have gone astray. They have followed the way of Balaam, the son of Eor, who loved gain from wrongdoing. But was rebuked for his own transgression. A speechless donkey spoke with human voice and restrained the prophet's madness. These are waterless springs and mists driven by a storm. For them the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved. For speaking loud boasts of folly They entice by sensual passions of the flesh those who are barely escaping from those who live in error. They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves of corruption For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved. For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world, though the knowledge of our Lord Jesus and Savior Jesus Christ They are again entangled in them and overcome. The last state has become worse for them than the first. For it would have been better for them never to have known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to turn back from the holy commandment delivered to them. What the true proverb says has happened to them. The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord God, you've given us so much to think about, so much to contend with, so much to uh read and to uh just mull upon. There these are hard words to hear and yet very challenging words and good words. So we pray, Father, that you would open the eye our eyes and our hearts to the truth of your word this morning. And that the meditations of my heart and the words from my mouth would be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, our rock and our Redeemer. In Jesus' name. Amen. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we look toward calling another pastor For the future of grace and peace, God has laid on my heart that He has provided us with distinct warnings against those who preach another or a false gospel narrative. In my research for this exhortation, my eyes have been opened at the number of instances in the New Testament alone where God warns his people of false prophets. Jesus warned his apostles directly in Matthew chapter 7, verse 15, Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. And again in Matthew 24, verses 23 and 24, then if anyone says to you, look, here is the Christ, or there he is, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. There are two major forms of false teaching warned against in the New Testament. And you'll find these written out in your sermon notes. The first one is ascetic, which is characterized by or suggesting the practice of severe self-discipline and abstention from all forms of indulgence, typically for religious reasons. The opposite in the second one is an abuse of Christian liberty, which is characterized by an over-emphasis on sensuality, pleasures of the flesh, and greed. As an example of an asseatic false gospel message, Pastor Ed has been preaching to us from Paul's letter to the Galatians, which begins with Paul's exclamation. I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. The epistles to the early churches are full of warnings about false teachers. Now we're not going to read them all now, but in addition to this text from Galatians, I've listed five more references at the bottom, at the back page of the worship folder, which right down here. For suggested Bible readings for the week. So you have those. Take your worship folder home with you. Don't put it in the trash. Go through and read those extra ones. We're not going to read them now. However, the epistle that I want to draw your attention to that we will read is the text of this exhortation, is the book of Jude. Jude is the second to the last book of the Bible, so pick up your swords, also known as Bibles, go to Revelation, back up one book. Jude is a short letter, it's just one chapter. Consisting of 25 verses, and as a letter, it has a standard opening, body, and a conclusion. So turn now with me to the book of Jude as we read. Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are called beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. Beloved, although I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation, I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. For certain people have crept in unnoticed. Who long ago were designated for this condemnation, ungodly people who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. Now I want to remind you, although you were once fully knew it, that Jesus, who saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day. just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desires serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire Yet, in a like manner, these people also, relying on their dreams, defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the glorious ones. But when the archangel Michael, contending with the devil, was disputing about the body of Moses, he did not presume to pronounce a blasphemous judgment, but said, The Lord rebuke you. But these people blaspheme all they do not understand, and they are destroyed by all that they, like unreasoning animals, understand instinctively. Woe to them, for they walked in the way of Cain, and abandoned themselves for the sake of gain to Balaam's error, and perished in Korah's rebellion These are hidden reefs, at your love feasts, as they feast with you without fear, shepherds feeding themselves, waterless clouds, swept along by winds. fruitless trees in late autumn, twice dead, uprooted, wild waves of the sea casting up the foam of their own shame. wandering stars for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever. It was also about these that Enoch The seventh from Adam prophesied saying, Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of his holy ones. to execute judgment on all, and to convict all the ungodly of their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him. These are grumblers, malcontents, following their own sinful desires. They are loud-mouthed boasters, showing favoritism to gain advantage. But you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. They said to you, In the last time there will be scoffers following their own ungodly passions. It is these who cause divisions, worldly people, devoid of the spirit. But you, beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. And have mercy on those who doubt. Save others by snatching them out of the fire to show mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained by the flesh. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy. To the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority for all time, and now and forever. Amen. You may want to keep your Bibles open to Jude and have it as an immediate reference. So as we go through this letter, we're going to take it apart verse by verse, and it will be helpful, because I'm not going to read it again if you have it in front of you So first, we have the introduction. The author of the letter introduces himself as Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James. Jude is a variant of a very common first century Jewish name, Judah and Judas. It's kind of like the difference between Bill, Will, and William. Judas being the given name, Jude and Judah being secondary names or nicknames, if you will. The first century Jews did not have surnames as we do today. Instead, they used the term Bar or Son of and then the Father's name. For example, Simon Bar Jonah is Simon's son of Jonah. Or the town or region from where they were from. For example, Joseph of Arimathea. They use these as a means of distinguishing between their first names. In Luke 6, verse 16, Jesus anointed two apostles named Judas. Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, also named Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, in John 13. Iscariot is a conjunction of from Karyoth. Karyoth is a town located south of Hebron. Each of the ten times that Judas Iscariot is named in the Gospels, he is also specifically identified as the betrayer of Jesus So it is clear that the author of Jude is not either one of these two apostles, as the first is specifically identified as the son of, not the brother of, James. And Judas Iscariot had hung himself long before this epistle was written. So it's neither one of those two Judases. The addition of Brother of James gives us the best clue to Jude's identity. Note that James is not identified with son of or with a place name. This indicates that this was not the Apostle James, the son of Zebedee and brother of John, whom Herod killed with his sword in Acts twelve. Nor the Apostle James of Alphais. It is widely regarded that this is James, the church elder, who presided at the first church council in Jerusalem in Acts 15. And as the author of the Epistle James, titled with his name. This James is the half-brother of Jesus of Nazareth Matthew chapter 13, verse 55, and Mark 6. 3 both record and identify James and Judah. Judas, that is Jude, as Jesus' brothers, along with their two other brothers, Joseph and Simon. It would have been very clear to the first century church as to who Jude was from this very simple introduction as brother of James. Also noteworthy in the introduction is to whom this letter is addressed. To those who are called. Beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ. This letter is not written to a specific church, but to all of the elect. Beloved or set apart in God the Father. Kept for Jesus Christ alludes to the perseverance of the saints As Jesus said in John chapter 6, and this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. Kept for Jesus Christ Christian, you are among the elect, those who are called, beloved, and set apart in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ. This letter is written to you, and to all of the saints, in all of the churches of Jesus Christ It has widesweeping application throughout the ages. It transcends time right up to this very day. After introducing himself with a traditional Jewish greeting, Jude immediately addresses the urgent nature of this letter. Judid wanted to write a letter of encouragement of our common salvation, but felt compelled to write instead of the problem of false teachers, whom he refers to as ungodly people designated for condemnation. That crept in unnoticed. The language he uses here elevates the degree of importance of the topic To contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. This is no small matter. It's a serious attack from Satan on the church to undermine their faith. by perverting the grace of our God into sensuality, and to deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. As will become very apparent, this tactic from the adversary is tried and true. He is used it in the past and continues to use it to this day in both of its forms. Jud then proceeds to remind his readers of six examples from ancient Ancient history of God's punishment towards those who abuse the privileges that He bestows on His people. He very briefly cites each of these six as reminders without going into detail. As reminders, Jude presumes that his audience is already very familiar with these events. Verse 5 is the first of the six examples. And here Jude states, as a matter of fact, that it was Jesus who led Israel out of Egypt. This is perfectly consistent with Paul's letter to the Corinthians in chapter 10, where Paul states unambiguously that they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. And both Jude and Paul document the destruction that came upon the people of Israel. God's response was directed to Israel's sin of idolatry in the wilderness, worshipping the golden calf according to their own ideas, as recorded in Exodus 32. Note, according to their own ideas. I put on the front of your worship folder a copy of the Westminster Confession of Faith in chapter twenty-one. It's a partial copy. You might want to look at section one as we go here. The message is clear. As the Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 21, section one states. But the acceptable way of worshiping the true God is instituted by Himself and so limited by His own revealed will that He may not be worshipped, according to the imagination and devices of men, or the suggestions of Satan, under any visible representation, or in any other way not prescribed in the Holy Scripture. That is why God had such an angry response towards Israel in the desert. In verse 6, back in Jude again, Jude speaks of the judgment against angels who did not stay within their own position of authority but left their proper dwelling As we read a few moments ago, this is echoed in 2 Peter 2, verse 4. In Matthew 25, Jesus teaches that the Son of Man will come again in glory with all the angels with him And seated on his throne will separate the sheep from the goats, placing the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. Jesus says, then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels Jude's statement is a strong reference to Jesus' teaching. Although written as a prophetic vision well after Jude's letter, Revelation chapter 20 also describes the binding of Satan in chains. being thrown into a pit until Judgment Day. So all of these verses tie together with the same theme. Verse 6 leads directly into verse 7 with a dash as a continuation of thought. Now this grammatical technique puts the same punishment visited on fallen angels onto the citizens of Sodom and Gomorrah for their well-known sensual sin described in Genesis 19. Verse 8 uses the pronoun the These people. Who are these people? This refers back to the certain people in verse 4 that are the subject of this letter of warning. Just like the angels rejected God's authority and the vile citizens of Sodom and Gomorrah, these wolves in sheep's clothing also defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the glorious ones. In verse 9, Jude introduces an extra-biblical reference to a dispute between the archangel Michael and Satan over the body of Moses. Well, this is a little problematic in that it's not recorded in Deuteronomy, and in fact, Jude's letter is the only place in the canon of Scripture that provides this account. John's prophecy in Revelation chapter 12 of a war in heaven between Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon just does not correlate with this account in Jude's letter. According to the Reformation Study Bible notes, the passage described in Revelation 12 does not speak of the fall of Satan at the time of creation, but of the defeat of Satan in heaven at the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ. Some of the ancient writers attribute this passage to a book in the Jewish Apocrypha in the Torah called The Assumption of Moses. That's also called the Testament of Moses. And of this, only some fragments have survived into the modern era. About two-thirds of the portion of the chapter and the Assumption of Moses that is believed to have included this passage remains. So the precise origin of this account that Jude is using remains largely unresolved. We don't have a copy of it today in its original form. Calvin's commentary here is very helpful. So I quote from Calvin. But as this history is thought to have been taken from an apocryphal book, it has hence happened that less weight has been attached to this epistle. But since the Jews at that time had many things from the tradition of the fathers, I see nothing unreasonable in saying that Jude referred to what had already been handed down for many ages. It's beyond controversy that Moses was buried by the Lord. That is, that his grave was concealed according to the known purpose of God. And the reason for concealing his grave is evident to all. That is, that the Jews might not bring forth his body to promote superstition. What wonder then is it when the body of the prophet was hidden by God, Satan should attempt to make it known, and that angels who are ever ready to serve God should, on the other hand, resist him. And doubtless we see that Satan, almost in all ages, has been endeavoring to make the bodies of God's saints idols to foolish men. Therefore, this epistle ought not to be suspected on account of this testimony, though it is not found in Scripture. That Michael is introduced alone as disputing against Satan is not new. We know that myriads of angels are ever ready to render service to God. But he chooses this or that to do his business as he pleases. What Jude relates here as having been said by Michael is also found in the book of Zechariah, chapter 3. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. In verse 10, these people are compared as opposite of the angel Michael. Again, referring back to the certain people in verse 4 that are the subject of this letter. Michael did not presume to pronounce a blasphemous judgment, but rebuked Satan instead Jude writes that false teachers blaspheme all that they do not understand, and are destroyed by all that they do understand. In verse 11, Jude pronounces, woe to them. This is strong language, evoking the language that Jesus used against the scribes and the Pharisees. He describes false teachers as case examples of unrepentant, condemned sinners. By making direct reference to Genesis 4, where Cain is referenced as the model sinner. Numbers 22, which we read earlier, where Balaam is referenced as one who uses his prophetic gift as a means of selfish financial gain. And finally, in number 16, using Korah's rebellion as an example of the false teacher's defiance against church authority and their dangerous ability to lead others astray. In verses 12 and 13, Jude further describes these false teachers in an alliterative series of metaphorical devices. This first one, hidden reefs, goes right back to Jesus' warning of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing but are inwardly ravenous wolves. Ships' captains absolutely depend upon skilled, experienced pilots to navigate their ship through narrow channels and rivers. The pilot knows the depth of the river and the location of all the shallows and the reefs. The hidden reef, hidden, is unseen from the surface. You literally don't know that it's there until it's too late and the ship has hit the reef, sometimes severely damaging the hull and causing the ship to sink. In the very least, the ship has run aground until the tide rises or a tug can pull it back. This is how false teachers creep in unnoticed. Everything appears to be normal and peaceful from the surface, and their hidden agendas aren't revealed until it's too late and the damage is done. They have crept into the assembly. eating with us, feeding themselves without fear. The next two, waterless clouds and fruitless trees, describe a teacher whose lessons have no bearing on the Christian life. Their exhortations and sermons are meaningless, as their messages are not the gospel of Jesus Christ. The last two, wild waves of the sea and wandering stars, describe their lack of direction. Like a shooting star or Where moving heavenly bodies are untrustworthy and useless for navigation. A false teacher's message counters the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ and will lead you astray. In verses 14 and 15, Jesus uses a second reference to the Jewish Apocrypha in the Torah, citing 1 Enoch. Until an Ethiopian version was found in eighteen twenty-one. Eighteen twenty-one. The books of Enoch were thought to have been lost. However, the three books of Enoch have been largely preserved to the modern era, with various fragments found in Aramaic in the Dead Sea scrolls. as well as in Koine Greek and Latin fragments. The Ethiopian version is the most complete. The older section of these books are estimated to date from around 300 to 200 BC. 300 to 200 BC preserved until we found another version in 1821. It's a long time. The latest part of these books is probably dated to 100 B. C. This gives credence that these books would have been known by Jews and early Christians and therefore familiar to Jude's audience. The verses that Jude cites from 1 Enoch are in exegesis on Deuteronomy 33, verse 2. The Lord came from Sinai and dawned from Seir upon us. He shone forth from Mount Peran. He came from the ten thousands of holy ones with flaming fire at his right hand. Again, Calvin's commentary is very helpful here. A quote from Calvin. I rather think that this prophecy was unwritten than than that it was taken from an apocryphal book, for it may have been delivered down by memory to posperity by the ancients. Were anyone to ask that since similar sentences occur in many parts of Scripture, why did he not quote a testimony written by one of the prophets? The answer is obvious that he wished to repeat from the oldest antiquity what the Spirit had pronounced respecting them And this is what the words intimate, for he says expressly that he was the seventh from Adam in order to commend the antiquity of the prophecy, because it existed in the world before the flood. Now, having completed his lesson in Jewish history, Jude then shifts to a call to remembrance of what the apostles had said about false teachers A warning that would have still been relatively fresh in the recent memory of his readers. Picking up in verse 18, they said to you, In the last time there will be scoffers. Following their own ungodly passions. It is these who cause divisions. Worldly people devoid of the Spirit. The emphasis on ungodly passions throws right back to the use of sensual desires at the beginning of this letter. These scoffers cause divisions in the church. They are worldly people. They're more concerned about the politics and events of their day than they are on things of God. since they are devoid without the Holy Spirit's influence. Jesus said in John chapter 6, verse 63, It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. In order to teach the true gospel of Jesus Christ, A man seeking to be a pastor must be drawn to his calling by God, full of the Holy Spirit. Only such a man can preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. The warning is against those who preach the world. By their fruit, you will know them. Jude concludes with a beautiful, passionate Trinitarian call to build yourselves up in your most holy faith. Praying in the Holy Spirit. Keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. To those who doubt, we are to show mercy by snatching them out of the fire. This would refer to different pastoral strategies, including humble compassion. and confrontation of some sort of action while recognizing the sinful state of all men. To others we are to show mercy with fear. hating even the garment stained by the flesh. This vivid metaphor of the contaminating influence of false teaching emphasizes the careful approach with which we must use when dealing with false teachers and those who are under their influence. Now, let's pause for a moment and reflect on how we can apply Jude's letter to our present condition here at Grace and Peace. 2 Timothy 4, verses 3 and 4 says, For the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching. But having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions, and will turn away from listening to the truth and wander off into myths Some teachers are immediately, some false teachers are immediately identifiable. For example, those who preach a prosperity gospel message Or those who unabashedly promote homosexual marriage in the church. However, Jude warns that false teachers will blend into the assembly. They can be difficult to spot. They will look and sound like what we would expect of a minister of the gospel at first. They are fluent in using Christian language, terms, and phrases. They have all the right academic tickets punched. But their sermons will be peppered with cultural terms and phrases, keying off of the current worldly issues of the day, wandering off into myths. pandering to those itching ears in the congregation. False teachers preach messages that first present novel, innovative interpretations of Scripture. Quite frankly, brothers and sisters, if anyone proclaims that he has a new understanding of Scripture that has been missed by the church fathers over the last two millennia, he probably has a wrong understanding of Scripture. An early example of this was the Arian heresy denying the eternal sonship of Jesus. Arius famously stated that, quote, If the Father begot the Son, he that was begotten had a beginning of existence, and from this it is evident that there was a time when the Son was not. Close quote. This statement from Arius led to the first ecumenical council of Nicaea in A. D. 325. From which we have the Nicene Christian confession of faith. And the development of the Gloria Patri that we sung this morning as a battle cry for the Trinity. You can still see remnants of Aryan thinking today in Jehovah's Witnesses and Unitarian Universalist churches. It persists. Fast forward to the 1600s. Jacobus Arminius was a Dutch theologian during the Reformation period. That is another example of novel theological understanding of the scriptures that led to a movement using his name, Arminianism. His views of universal salvation joined with human free will led to the development of the canons of Dort that is in the back of the Trinity Psalter Hymnal, from which we get the five points of Calvinism. Arminianism is very much alive and well today, growing in blind acceptance as gospel truth in evangelical churches across America. without even recognizing the Armenian title as a statement of belief. It's just accepted. That's the way that it is More recent examples of novel innovative interpretations of Scripture espoused within traditionally reformed theological circles include the Auburn Affirmation, also known as Federal Vision. And new perspectives on Paul. Those are just two. There's a list. It goes. False teachers, secondly, preach messages that require you to do things to be saved. Salvific works versus faith alone. One of the most popular misstatements of curt cultural Christianity in America today rests in the concept that if you are a good person, you treat people well with respect, live a moral life, give to the poor and donate to charity, then of course you will go to heaven when you die Another is that all people go to heaven when they die. You hear this all the time. So-and-so is in a better place. They're smiling down on us. Any message that says you can do anything to earn your way into heaven is a lie straight from the mouth of the devil and is not to be believed. Thirdly, false teachers preach messages that appeal to the flesh. Human sensuality. This is what Jude was warning us against. Examples include a prosperity gospel, focused on greed, acceptance of sensual desires that God has defined as sin, another movement called Revoice Perversion of God's created order, gender identity, and same-sex unions. All of these are rather obvious applications of an appeal to the flesh and human senses. But there is one that's not quite so obvious, and therefore all the more heinous. Self-centeredness. The concept that we need to love ourselves first above all else. Messages of positive self-images and self-esteem The power of positive thinking, self-love. For 50 years, Dr. Robert Schuler pandered this drivel to millions of Americans through his books and the Hour of Power television program. hosted in the Crystal Cathedral in Garden Grove, California. And millions of Americans bought into it Hook, line, and sinker. They completely missed and traded the gospel of Jesus Christ for the gospel of me. John MacArthur has an article in March 2012's Table Talk entitled The Heresy of Self-Centeredness. In it, he writes, in our fleshly fallen state, we are all beset with a tendency toward selfishness. It is no minor infraction, no petty character flaw, and no small threat to the soundness of our faith. Diatrophes illustrates the truth that self-love is the mother of all heresies. Every false teaching and every rebellion against God's authority Is ultimately rooted in a fleshly desire to have preeminence. In effect, to claim for oneself the glory that properly belongs to Christ. Every heretic the church has ever seen has tried to supplant God's truth and God's authority with his own overblown ego. Indeed, self-centeredness itself is heretical, because it is the very antithesis of everything that Jesus taught or exemplified. And it produces seeds that give rise to every other heresy imaginable. Therefore, there is no room for selfishness in the church. Everything about the gospel, everything the church is designed to be, and everything that we learn from Christ's example. strikes a blow at the root of human pride and self centeredness. He continues, Throughout the New Testament, every believer's relationship with Christ is portrayed as a master slave arrangement. That entails absolute submission to his lordship, of course. It also rules out every hint of pride, egoism, independence, or self-centeredness This is simply one more reason, no brand of selfishness has any legitimate place in the life of the church. Jesus himself taught this principle very clearly. His imitation to prospective disciples was a call to total self-denial. If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. MacArthur closes with pointing out that this principle has a particular application for those in positions of church leadership. It is an especially vital reminder in this era of superstar religious leaders and young pastors who act like rock stars. If God has called you to be an elder or a teacher in the church, it is not for your own celebrity and self-aggrandizement. It is for his glory. Our commission is to proclaim not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your slaves for Jesus' sake. In closing, brothers and sisters, hear this warning against false prophets from the prophet Jeremiah in chapter twenty-three. In the prophets of Samaria I saw an unsavory thing. They prophesied by Baal and led my people Israel astray But in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen a horrible thing. They commit adultery and walk in lies. They strengthen the hands of evildoers, so that no one turns from his evil. All of them have become like Sodom to me, and its inhabitants like Gomorrah. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, concerning the prophets Behold, I will feed them with bitter food and give them poisoned water to drink. For from the prophets of Jerusalem ungodliness has gone out unto all the land Thus says the Lord of hosts, do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you, filling you with vain hopes. They speak visions of their own minds. Not from the mouth of the Lord. May God protect grace and peace from false teachers, teaching heresy. And bring to us a shepherd who will feed and protect this flock with the gospel of Jesus Christ through the power of the Holy Spirit. May God lead this session and members of our pastoral search subcommittee through this process of finding the man that God has chosen to be the next pastor of grace and peace. Finally now, hear the doxology from Jude 24 and 25. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling. And to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy. To the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ, our Lord, be glory. Majesty, dominion, and authority before all time, and now and forever. Amen.