Deuteronomy eleven, verses eighteen through twenty-five. You shall therefore lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul, and you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall teach them to your children, talking of them when you are sitting in your house, and when you are walking by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, that your days and the days of your children may be multiplied in the land that the Lord swore to your fathers to give them, as long as the heavens are above the earth. For if you will be careful to do all this commandment that I command you to do, loving the Lord your God, walking in all his ways, and holding fast to him. Then the Lord will drive out all these nations before you, and you will dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourselves. Every place on which the sole of your foot treads shall be yours. Your territory shall be from the wilderness to the Lebanon and from the river The river Euphrates, to the western sea. No one shall be able to stand against you. The Lord your God will lay the fear of you and the dread of you On all the land that you shall tread, as he promised you. This is the word of the Lord. For the reading of the New Testament. From Hebrews chapter 5, verses 11 through chapter 6, verse 2. The apostle continues with this warning from the Lord against apostasy in these words. About this we have much to say, and it is hard to explain. Since you have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you ought to be teachers You need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food. For everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since he is a child. But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained. By constant practice to distinguish good from evil. Therefore, let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ And go on to maturity. Not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God, and of instruction about washings, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment And this we will do if God permits. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ Sometimes preachers hear the complaint, your sermons are too simple, but not so often as the other. Your sermons are too complicated. Well, we preachers ought to listen to people and seek to profit by what they say Even when that's not easy to do. Well, what exactly is the remedy for homiletical starvation Or homilytical indigestion, for that matter, should we substitute for sermons, sermonettes Little snacks of very simple things that everyone can easily imbibe Or maybe we should scrap the sermon altogether. Perhaps it has outlived its usefulness. Maybe we ought to schedule videos or even amateur dramatic plays. No. Let's make right what's wrong. The problem, admittedly, lies partly with us preachers. Usually, when the sermon is too complex, it's because enough time hasn't been spent in its preparation. Not the opposite, as you might have thought. It's the sermon that the preacher has worked on, thought about, that can be understood. For it's pretty easy, let me tell you, to multiply words that nobody can fathom. But preparing and delivering understandable sermons is admittedly hard work. Having said this Let's look at the other side of the coin. Fault may also lie with listeners' discernments. The author of Hebrews indicates that he was going to develop further some teaching regarding Christ, our high priest, after the order of Melchizedek Zadek. But if he is going to do that, his hearers will need to do something also. But he wonders whether they can do that. And the rest of this text this morning explains the ground of his wonderment. And our proposition is just this. In one sentence, if you catch this, follow me and grasp it It's this the cause and solution for sermon starvation andor sermon indigestion must be understood and acted upon. The cause and solution. Understood and acted upon. If ever, our preaching is going to be both glorifying to God and beneficial to your sanctification. We have three points, and the first one is this. What is the problem? Or what the problem is. As far as the matter of Christ our high priest, after the order of Melchi Zadek, King of righteousness it means, is concerned. The reader is not going to be able to get it. So the apostle is not going to give it. Rather, he has a strong rebuke for them. They are, in part, responsible for the situation preventing him from doing what he wanted to do. And it's this sermon hearers ought to press on to maturity Both in knowledge of and application of that knowledge to their lives. The author of Hebrews is everywhere careful to keep life situations before the minds of his readers. My friends, the book of Hebrews is not a technical discourse. It is not a manual of systematic theology. It is itself a sermon, and I think our pastor has indicated, at least to me, maybe probably to the session, that he intends to preach a series of sermons now on the book of Hebrews. So this is sort of an introduction to you as we begin that series. This is what you ought to expect to have brought before your attention. Not the doctrines of systematic theology, full stop, but the doctrines of systematic theology and what that means for you to do something about them. And in this text, of this introduction, you might say, to the book of Hebrews, even though it's in chapter five, is itself a sermon. He's preaching. But the problem is that his hearers are unable to receive his message. Listen to verse 11 again. About this, that's Melchizedek. We have much to say, and it is hard to explain. Since you have become dull of hearing, you're hard of hearing, and you've progressed in that debilitation You've grown more dead. Then comes verse 12. For though by this time you ought to be teachers, You need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food. You're babies. You're spiritually immature, spiritually unweaned. Thus, you need baby food. rather than meat and potatoes. Because you can neither chew nor digest grown-up diet Furthermore, he says, you are responsible for this situation. Don't say, that's just the way I am. It's the way it is, because you haven't done something right, says the author of this book, and things ought to be otherwise. So he urges them in chapter 6, verse 1: therefore let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and go on to maturity. Now, whenever you read a let us to work, let us in the Bible, it means you have better do it. It's not a suggestion. It's a command. You don't blame a baby for wanting milk. Who would? A baby is not guilty of being a baby, but these folks are guilty of being spiritual babies. Now, please don't confuse a love for the foundational things of the gospel, for the immaturity spoken of here. If someone comes up to me after the worship service and says, Pastor, I was blessed by hearing who God is. He or she won't hear me say, shame on you, you baby, to need that kind of milk. No. Don't confuse the love of hearing the gospel over and again with the babyhood of our text. Rather, what we've got here are people who quickly become tired and bored with a careful presentation of Bible truth. They find it too tedious and complain, I want to listen carefully to the sermon, I want to grow in knowledge, but I just can't. There's something holding me back. Now you might think that I would say, no, the problem is that you won't. I agree with the apostle. He says that there is an inability, true. There is a won't, of course, but there is also a can't. There is something holding them back, something making it impossible for them to sink their teeth into some truth stakes. Meat steaks, such as the high priestly order of Melchizedek, with Christ as its fulfillment. That's the problem. Now Secondly, what's the cause of that problem? They can't take on the stakes of the truth. Well, let's see what it's not, first of all. It's not caused by the fact that these are new Christians You might understand that a person who was saved just yesterday is not ready to learn about Melchizedek. He or she will probably have trouble pronouncing him, let alone explaining who he was and what he did. But these people to whom the book of Hebrews are written weren't saved yesterday. Listen to verse 12. By this time you ought to be teachers. Yes, they have been Christians for quite some time already. So immaturity is not the problem. Neither is the cause of their inability to receive these things a lack of awareness of the foundational truths. It's not a lack of awareness of the ABCs of the gospel that was causing them trouble. They know full well what the elements of the faith are. And yet at the same time, knowing them, they don't know them. Now, that sounds like a paradox, but it's what we have to conclude as we observe what the Apostle says in verses 1 and 2 of chapter 6. About the breadth of teachings that his hearers know very well. These are the things that they know already: repentance from dead works. They know about their total depravity and their need to repent. Faith in God. They know that it takes saving faith. To receive Christ. Instruction about washings and the laying on of hands They know something even about church arrangements, about ecclesiology, and the ordinances of God. They know even about the resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment. Yes. They know the doctrine of the last things. They're full of systematic theology. So there's nothing narrow or truncated about their theology. And they know a lot of things. Furthermore, the cause of the problem is not that they are just simple folks. The apostle does not say, wouldn't think that he would, do we? We really ought not to go on to something deeper. It's just too much for you people. You'll never be able to grasp it. For there is a mystery of plenty in the things they already know, and they apparently do know them. Well then, our point here is what is the problem then? See what it's not. What is it? Just this. It's a failure on their part to use what they know. They think that theology is art. But it is not. Theology is craft. You see, the question is not, how nice does your system of theology look? And how able are you to display it in all its wondrous complexity and beauty? The question is rather, what did you do with that theology? What effect did it have, any and all of it, on your life? That's why the author compares their situation to that of a baby. And its need for milk. Milk is good for babies. But there comes a time when babies need to grow out of that dependency and move on to solid food. Thus, when you turn to 1 Corinthians 3, verse 1, you find Paul complaining, but I, brothers, could not address you as spiritual people. But as people of the flesh, as infants in Christ, I fed you with milk, not solid food, for you were not ready for it. And even now you are not yet ready, for you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly? Don't you see they have the same problem there in Corinth. The ethical situation in their case. made Paul say, you haven't yet grown in grace to the point where the things that you have learned Have had an impact on your life. The purpose of the preaching of the Bible, the Word of God Is not that you might stuff your heads with doctrine, but that you might be holy people. Not W-H-O-L-L-Wall, the other one. Now in this text, Hebrews 6. 1, we read about elementary doctrine. I wonder what in the world that means. That word translated elementary is one that is difficult to understand, and I'm not sure that I know exactly what it means. But apparently it has something to do with the basic building blocks of the universe that are to be burned up when God closes out this present earth age. Here, the word is used to describe the basic building blocks of the truth of God. We call them the ABCs of the gospel. And what the author wants to stress is just this. You need to learn how to use your alphabet. Verse 14, solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good. From evil. Mature Christians practice their lessons. They drill on the ABCs of the gospel. And in our text, the inspider writer is saying, You Hebrew Christians, Jewish believers in Christ, haven't benefited by what you have learned No wonder you're beginning to mess around with the theologies that says it would be best for you to return to Judaism. When you don't properly use the foundation that you have, you begin to look for another one. Now imagine this. A couple decide to build a new home, and they have a contractor come along who excavates and builds the foundation. But then the people say, you know, that really looks like a great swimming pool. So they fill the foundation with water and jump in for a swim. But then a guy comes along with a truckload of lumber for the house and noticing the strange situation thinks I must have come to the wrong address and drives away. Our text says, that's the trouble with you people. You're not ready to start building the house of Melchizedek because you've misused the foundation. And so I dare not go on to the construction stage. To put it another way, knowledge is unto life. Listen to verse 13. For everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness. That's a critical phrase. The word of righteousness. What does it mean? Well, it does not refer to the doctrine of righteousness. The doctrine that says the righteousness of Christ is imputed to believers. That's not the word of righteousness that he's talking about. He's not talking about any other single point of doctrine. He's talking about all doctrine. When he speaks of the word of righteousness, he's referring to all doctrine, all of which is meant to lead. To righteousness, the word of righteousness. He means that the word of God, the teaching of the Bible, the preaching of the Bible of it Is a teaching, a corpus of doctrine. It is a logos, a word, a body of teaching that, if properly followed, will result in righteousness. in your life. Yes. Can I put it any simpler than just to say this? You have to use your theology or it will rust. You need to use it by living in the light of it, otherwise you will abuse it by sluggishness. You will be unskillful in this word of or unto righteousness. You haven't been using it, so you can't use it. It's like learning to speak Italian I love opera and I wish I knew Italian. Learning to play a Chopin doctrine, like Ezra has learned. Or smash a wicked tennis backhand. It takes practice in every case. You haven't been practicing your theology, your doctrine. You ought to have learned how to act Because you have learned what to believe. Yes, training doesn't come easily. Nobody likes to be trained. If a tree is growing in the wrong direction, you can't straighten it out all in one day. You have to bend it up gradually, working at it over time, patiently. To direct your behavior by your theology, you've got to use it. If you just let it lie there collecting dust. You're not going to be trained to discern good and bad. And then you're going to be bored when you hear a careful presentation of Bible truth. What? More ABCs this morning? Go home. Or if the preacher gets into something deep, I don't have the faintest idea what he's talking about. Why? In either case, because you haven't been provoked into changing your behavior by what you have already learned. Let me give you some examples. Take the doctrine of Christ, who he is and what he did. Here particularly the Christians in our text were badly out of practice. Has the doctrine of Christ resulted in their trusting in Him alone and not in their works? If they had learned to put that doctrine into practice, they never would have considered returning to Judaism. You haven't been provoked, for instance, he's saying to them, to stop worrying, maybe saying this to you. Because you believe the doctrine of God. Now you have heard sermons on the sovereignty of God. Bloody on them. Especially in the reformed community. But what have you done with those sermons and with that doctrine? Do you still worry? Well then you're not using the doctrine of the sovereignty of God correctly. Then again, you've heard sermons on the authority of the Bible. But what effect has that had on your reading of it? How much of the Bible have you read in the last year? How has your knowledge of what this Bible says made you Father, mother, a teacher, an example in your home, and how much your family needs it. You know that the Bible has a lot to say about marriage. The scriptural teaching on marriage is not just ethical suggestion. Now, how has that theology made you the mate that you should be? Or finally, take the sacraments, one of which we will observe again this morning as we do every week. You've heard instruction and preparation. for the observance of the sacraments over and over again. But has there been an appropriate result when you participate and when you will participate today? And come to the Lord's table? Are you going to use the doctrine of the Lord's Supper to change your thinking and your acting? So that's the problem. That brings us thirdly and lastly, to of course you knew it was coming. What's the solution to the problem? There it is in chapter 6, verse 1. Therefore, let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and go on to maturity. There it is. Nothing wrong with the elementary doctrine of Christ. For that is foundation. But don't look at it. Do something with it. You know, there's an interesting thing about this verb, go on to maturity. Go on to maturity? That's almost a mistranslation because it is actually a verb in the passive mood, not active. It should be translated, let us allow ourselves to be moved on to maturity. That would be more accurate. Now you might ask. Oh, does that mean that after all, we're not responsible for it? God is? No, not at all. It means don't think that this is something that you can just nicely do yourself. Learn stuff from sermons and then just go ahead and do that stuff. This whole thing is something that God alone can bring about by His Word and His Holy Spirit. And thus, he alone deserves the praise when you're obedient to that word. But still, he commands you to want it. And to work at it. That's why he writes, therefore let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and go on to maturity. Remembering that in the wanting and the working, it is God who is moving you along all the way. Thus, God gets the credit for it Never say, well, I've got my ABCs down pat now, because as anyone can plainly see, I'm using them quite well You're going to have to get down on your knees and say, in spite of my ignorance and my ongoing sin, God has come to me with his ABCs again and again. And he has gotten me going more and more the right way. Now to help believers in Jesus actually go the right way, We preachers, there's a word here for us, may not just simply throw in a few odd ethical sermons now and again. We may not let the following scenario characterize our preaching. Most of the time we're teaching doctrine But every once in a while, after feeling guilty, that the sermons have been a bit too doctrinal recently, throwing in a good, rousing, ethical sermon. For balance, you know. It won't work that way, let me assure you We preachers need to lay the doctrinal foundation in every sermon, namely the gospel and all that comes with it. And we need to press upon God's people the ethical structure in every sermon also. The what, by all means, that's the doctrine. But also the so what? That's the application. Let preaching be preaching, not just theological seminar. The mere fact that we are engaging in oral exercise from this pulpit is no guarantee that preaching. is taking place. So I remind you, brothers and sisters, in love and in truth, the biblical preacher is first and foremost a herald. A herald is not a guy that stands up and says, here's some interesting things to think about the future. A herald says, the enemy is coming, run. The herald has a message, but that message is not a bundle of interesting data. It is the blaring of wonderful, blessed, good news that might include a warning. Good news that must be both believed upon and acted upon. So when you're listening to a sermon Please don't just look for the what and can say, I get it. I see what the text is saying, the what. And then turn off. You're not done yet. Look also for the so what Now, hopefully you will hear that as the preacher takes you into the text context or to parallel passages elsewhere and maybe even helps you to think deeper. about the text what and how that what applies to your life here and now. And if you are unable to identify any so what I guarantee that you might just doze off during such a sermon, so-called. For it won't be a sermon, not really. Just a verbal exercise, a speech. But not a sermon. But if you do hear both the what and the so what You may confidently expect the Holy Spirit of God to bless you with both a desire And the ability to live out the word of righteousness, you have been privileged to hear. You get it? In conclusion, hearing the word of the ABCs Without practicing them is vain repetition that dishonors God and bores people. But hearing the ABCs with practice is real growth that honors Christ and excites folks. Now, maybe the preacher won't perfectly nail you every week, if I may put it that way. But God the Holy Spirit will, if you ask him You should pray for that because you need it. Discipline without instruction makes for tyranny and discouragement. That would be an ethical sermon without any doctrinal reform and biblical foundation. That makes for discouragement and tyranny. But on the other hand, instruction without discipline nets bored immaturity. That's the reform faith never applied to your life. Bored immaturity. You need both You need knowledge, and you need knowledge that is unto life. You need to hear sermons from preachers with fire in their bones Who preach. Mere oral exercise won't cut it. Take the writers of the Hebrews word for it. Amen.