Please turn to Exodus five. Afterward Moses and Aaron went and said to Pharaoh Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, let my people go, that they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness. But Pharaoh said, Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice and let Israel go? I do not know the Lord, and moreover, I will not let Israel go Then they said, The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness. That we may sacrifice to the Lord our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword But the king of Egypt said to them, Moses and Aaron, why do you take the people away from their work? Get back to your burdens. And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land are many, are now many, and you make them rest from their burdens. The same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people and their foremen, you shall no longer give the people straw to make bricks. as in the past. Let them go and gather straw for themselves. But the number of bricks that they made in the past you shall impose on them You shall not by no means reduce it, for they are idle. Therefore, offer sacrifice to our God Let heavier work be laid on the men, that they may labor at it, and pay no regard to lying words. So the taskmasters and the foremen of the people went out and said to the people, Thus says Pharaoh I will not give you straw. Go and get your straw yourselves, wherever you can find it. But your work will not be reduced in the least. So the people was were scattered throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw. The taskmasters were urgent, saying, Complete your work, your daily task each day as when there was straw. And the foremen of the people of Israel, whom Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and were asked, Why have you not done all your task of making bricks today and yesterday, as in the past? Then the foremen of the people of Israel came and cried to Pharaoh, Why do you treat your servants like this? No straw is given to your servants, yet they say to us, Make bricks. And behold, your servants are beaten. But the fault is in your own people. But he said, You are idle. You are idle. This is why you say, Let us go and sacrifice to the Lord. Go now and work. No straw will be given you, but you must still deliver the same number of bricks The foremen of the people of Israel saw that they were in trouble when they said, You shall by no means reduce your number of bricks, your daily task each day. They met Moses and Aaron, who were waiting for them, as they came out from Pharaoh. And they said to them, The Lord look on you and judge, because you have made us stink in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants and have put a sword in their hand to kill us. Then Moses turned to the Lord and said, O Lord, why have you done evil to this people? Why did you ever send me? For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has done evil to this people, and you have not delivered your people at all. The next reading is from Acts chapter 4, 1 through 13. A bit of civil disobedience. Acts 4, beginning at verse 1. As they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them. greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection of the dead. And they arrested them and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening. But many of those who had heard the word believed And the number of men came to about five thousand. On the next day their rulers and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem with Annas the high priest and Caiaphas and John and Alexander and all who were of the high priestly family And when they had set them in the midst, they inquired, By what power or what name did you do this? Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders, if we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, By what means this man has been healed, let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified. Whom God raised from the dead. By him this man is standing before you well. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated men, common men, they were astonished And they recognized that they had been with Jesus. The word of the Lord, thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, you have inspired this narrative in Exodus and this narrative in Acts. You have inspired these words to be recorded. They are flawless, and yet we are flawed. So illumine our hearts and minds by your Spirit, that we may understand your word in all its depth. And apprehending your glory, lay it up in our hearts, and practicing it in our lives, put our lives at your very feet. Amen. Well, friends in Christ, what shall we say when things that should not happen happen? And when things that should not happen happen, when things that we wish would never happen ever happen anyway And when things that we hope and wish would happen simply don't happen, what do we do with that? You can think of examples. I can think of examples, some of them very personal. Here's one. A young married couple is full of anticipation for the gift of children. They have arranged their finances. They have arranged their career plans. The systems are go. Finally, they discover that they are pregnant and are overjoyed to share the news with their family and friends. But very soon after that happy announcement, a problem is evident. The child is lost. And they are heartbroken. And how about this? This week, on Monday, men and women went to work at the Navy Yard. And you know the rest. And then there were the shootings in Chicago. And the shootings in Kenya. Some tragedies are known by all people everywhere because the news is so so good at getting the word out and discussing tragedies. Some tragedies are known everywhere. And some are known in a very small circle, very private grief and trouble and anguish. And others, other tragedies and other troubles are known only perhaps to you. Very privately. Your personal struggle. When you're struggling with your thoughts Or your temptations, you're enduring a dark night of the soul, as they call it When you have failed against temptation and are wishing and praying for strength and deliverance and wondering when it's going to come and why it hasn't come. Here we are in Exodus, and at the end of chapter 4, we didn't read it, but I'll refresh it for you. At the end of chapter 4, we have a very hopeful situation having developed. At the end of chapter 4, the Lord said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness. This is after the burning bush has all happened and all that. Go into the wilderness to meet Moses. So he went and met him at the mountain of God and kissed him. His brother he hadn't seen for forty years. And Moses told Aaron all the words of the Lord with which he had sent him to speak. And all the signs, remember those wonderful signs that he had commanded him to do, that is the staff that becomes a snake. the leprous hand that becomes clean, and the blood that's poured out, or the water that's poured out that becomes blood. All the signs that he had commanded him to do. Then Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders. Of the people of Israel. So now they've got this great big convocation. And Aaron spoke all the words that the Lord had spoken to Moses. You remember he's the spokesman now, Aaron is. Aaron spoke all the words that the Lord had spoken to Moses and did the signs in the sight of the people to prove it to them. And then it says, and the people believed. Wow, good news. It's working out, isn't it? And when they heard that the Lord Yahweh had visited the people of Israel and that he had seen their affliction, What happened? End of chapter four. They bowed their heads and worshiped. This is going well. You know, we had some real troubles earlier. We had some real struggles. Even after the burning bush, there was that thing in the wilderness where God met Moses and almost killed him. But that's turned out okay too. And everything's going swimmingly. At last, things will go along. Great promises, powerful signs, Brother Aaron And the elders of the people all bowing their heads and worshiping. Finally, everybody is in their place doing the right thing, and this will go well, won't it? We expect, if we're just reading this for the first time, we expect, okay, here it is, swift to a happy ending. Positive experience after positive experience, miracle after miracle, and God's people will soon be in the glorious land of Canaan, drinking milk and eating honey. Until they're sick. But our stories here in this world don't turn out that way, do they? And this one didn't either. So let's look at it, just to refresh chapter five, and I'll comment as I go. Seth read it very well, but I'm going to reiterate some of it. Verse five, after uh chapter five, verse one. After Moses and Aaron went And said to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, let my people go, that they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness. Pharaoh said, Who is Yahweh? Who is Yahweh that I should obey his voice and let Israel go? I don't know him, and moreover, I will not let Israel go. You can just see old Pharaoh saying, What? You're crazy. Verse 3. Then they said, they're making their plea, the God of the Hebrews has met with us, please, and they're being respectful here. Please let us go three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence or with sword. But the king of Egypt said to them, Moses and Aaron, why do you take the people away from their work? And this is going to be a repeated theme over and over here. Just keep listening, children. Think about this. How many times they're told to get back to work. Get back to work. Keep making bricks. Get back to work. Don't stop. No no no time wasted. The king of Egypt said to them, get back to your burdens. And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land are now many, and you make them rest from their burdens. The same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters. Oh, that's a beautiful word, task masters. slave drivers don't give them straw to make bricks anymore Let them go get their own straw. Verse 8, but the number of bricks that they made in the past they shall You shall impose upon them, and you shall by no means reduce it, for they are idle. They are lazy. That's what he's saying. That's the problem here. We have lazy Hebrews need to make their work harder so they'll stop thinking about going on vacation. Therefore they cry, let us go and offer sacrifice to our God. Verse 9, let heavier, there's another adjective, let heavier work be laid on the men. That they may labor at it and pay no regard to lying words. We'll get to that in a minute. And then you've read the rest. I'm not going to go over the whole section. This request to go and worship Yahweh, this respectful request that That Moses and Aaron made before the Pharaoh, this respectful request has upset everybody and made everything worse Just think about it. Pharaoh is upset because the Hebrews are not owning his lordship. And that's what's really going on here. He's not just worried about a labor issue. He's worried about his lordship. He is the king of the world, and these are his slaves, and he is not very happy about this request because this is really at the bottom two worlds in conflict. This is what was prophesied back in Genesis 3, 15 and 16, when When God said, I will put enmity between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent I will put strife. I will create a war, a struggle between the seed of the woman, that is the promised savior, and the seed of the serpent. I will make a struggle, a fight between them And that's what we have here. We have Pharaoh representing the seed of the serpent. And we have Moses and Aaron representing the word of The covenant, the seed of the Savior. A cosmic battle is going on here. The God of this world versus the God who is the creator and covenant-making Redeemer, who loves his chosen people And here we see the enmity coming right out in the same way it came out in Genesis. In verse 9 of chapter 5, look at that. Look what it says. Let heavier work be laid on the men that they may labor at it and pay no regard to lying words. Pharaoh is calling God a liar. That's what the devil did in the garden. Has God really said This shall not sure you shall not surely die. God is a liar. And Pharaoh is playing the part very well. God is a liar. Let them pay no attention to lying words. So Pharaoh is upset, and we understand the cosmic conflict there, but also the Egyptian taskmasters are upset because now they have to enforce the law Or they will be beaten. And it was normal, by the way, for people in a government to be beaten. If you're above somebody, you beat the ones below you, and then they in turn beat the ones below them, and they in turn beat the ones below them. And they this is physical, literal beating. It wasn't a terrible shame to get a beating back then. It was fairly normal. You get your beating, you get your caning, and then you say, well, okay. Uh had to have my beating, I had it, so and I'll beat the ones below me and but it's no fun, is it So the Egyptian taskmasters are upset because they now have to enforce this law or they will get a beating, so they have to do it. And the foremen of Israel who are below them are upset because now they are being beaten by the taskmasters. in order to force them to make the people comply. And then the Hebrew workers, God's chosen people. The people that God has promised to redeem, they are upset at this thing that's happened, this word that Moses and Aaron have given by in faith. They are upset because they are going to have to work harder. They're going to have to produce bricks without straw supplies Now, what's that all about? We need to get a little understanding of of brick making. Have you made bricks before? If we were making bricks, and you know, some of our houses here are made of bricks, those bricks are clay, high-quality clay. And then it gets put in a kiln and it's baked and it's hard as a rock and lasts for a long, long time. This is not the kind of bricks that were being made here. They didn't bake these bricks. They would dig out the clay from the banks of the of the Nile River. And they would mix it with water and and and then they would mix it with straw so that the straw would help hold the the clay together. And then they they probably had some kind of forms that they would put it in. pat it together and squash it down and the water would start to come out of it and then after it had dried a bit they would put out in the sun. And the sun would dry it up and make it hard. And you could then use it as a building material. Now it wouldn't work here in Southern Maryland because it rains a lot here. And because it's humid. And because before long you'd have bricks that are kind of melting like butter on a hot day. But there, it's arid and dry and hot and bricks never get rained on. And so they stay together really well. That's the kind of bricks that are being made here. These people are In the past, the straw was brought to the brickmaking place, and they got their clay and they got their straw and And they put it into form and they're singing their Hebrew songs and they're having a nice day and I've almost got my coda done. What are you going to do tonight? Well, we're going to have A party, or we're gonna do this, or we're gonna do that. Okay, nice, yeah. Hey, suddenly it's you gotta get your own straw And you can't reduce the number of bricks, and this is going to be harder and harder and harder. There's a lot of pressure on. So these people are unhappy. And the elders of Israel are upset With Moses and Aaron. Oh man, to be a leader can really be hard The elders of Israel are upset because Moses and Aaron have not quickly delivered on the promised outcome. Moses and Aaron met with them and said, God has met with us, and here are the signs, and this is all going to work out. Let's all get together and do it all. And they said, yes. And they bowed their heads and said, Praise the Lord. Right? And then it didn't happen that way. The elders of Israel are upset because Moses and Aaron have not quickly delivered on the promised outcome. Freedom. Freedom now And Moses is even upset, isn't he? At the last part there, Moses is even upset. We'll get to that in a minute, but let me just pause to say there are two ways of dealing with you. Two ways. Two ways. The world and its gods, even today, will still seek your allegiance. States seek your allegiance. Whether they're emperors or kings or presidents or whatever, they seek your allegiance And there's a certain time and place for a certain level of allegiance. We pledge allegiance to our nation, don't we? That's right and good. Because they have limited authority under God. But as we read in Acts chapter 4, there are limits. There are limits And when the king says, don't preach in this name anymore, we have to say, you know what, we have to obey God rather than you. There are limits. To authority. The world and its gods will seek your allegiance, but it won't be a limited allegiance. It will be absolute allegiance. Pharaoh and the Egyptians for 400 years had custodial care of God's people. God sent them there in a time of famine. And Joseph was an important part of the government, and it was legitimate. So there's limited authority and custodial care. But Pharaoh has here finally and ultimately failed to recognize Yahweh. He has failed to recognize that there is a God above the king. And that the king must obey God. Every Sunday, well, unless I happen to mix. Mix the words up. We pray for those in authority over us. Why? That they will recognize that they are under authority and they will do what is right. And we pray that God will throw down those who won't do what is right and will raise up those who will do what is right because God is ultimate, not Presidents, Congress, Kings, Queens, Emperors, or anybody else And so because Pharaoh thinks he's ultimate, because the Egyptians considered him a god and he considered himself a god. His response to this was work, work, work, work, work, no rest, no straw, no reduction in quota, work, work, work. And in similar fashion The devil claims to have your best interests at heart. Pharaoh is saying, if you'll just go back to the way it was, if you'll just keep doing what I tell you, if you'll just stay in your place And disregard this lie from God. If you'll just do what I say, I'll take care of you, and you can have it the way it was before, and it'll be okay. Get back to work. The devil does the same thing. He tells us, don't try to get free Don't think that you're gonna be liberated. Don't believe that you're gonna be changed. Don't believe this word of God. Just get back to serving me. I'm your boss. Doesn't he? He does. Well even Moses is upset as I said a few minutes ago. Moses turned to the Lord in verse 22 and said, Oh Lord, why have you done evil to this people? Why did you ever send me? For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has done evil to this people. And then he points the finger at God and says, And you have not delivered your people at all. Wow. And we have to pause and see if we're thinking the same thing sometimes. God does not always, and rarely in fact. Tell us why he ordains hard things. God didn't say, well let me tell you, Moses, that the reason I'm doing this is for this reason and that reason and the other reason and then you'll understand it better If you just be patient. No. God doesn't tell us why a very much wanted child is suddenly lost. He doesn't tell us why a shooting in his decree, his sovereign plan is there and happens that way. He does not tell us But what can we discern as we look ahead and see what God is doing? Here are a couple of things we can discern. We can discern that the Hebrews Would not be ready to leave the life in Egypt without this hardship. Hardship makes us long for something better. Hardship removes us from our comfortable place where we're self-satisfied and satisfied to serve the gods of this world and satisfied with the status quo. Satisfied with the limited obedience that we have, God removes our satisfaction by bringing hardship into our lives. He delivers us from our ease so that we might find in him our comfort and our strength. God uses troubles ordained by him to show us that this world will never satisfy. No person, no relationship. Some of you young people think, well if I can just find or if I can just get that other young person to love me, or if I can just find a perfect mate, then oh, it'll all be Perfect from there on. Forget it. I'm not saying you don't find somebody. I'm saying you'll never find what God promises in another person Or in another job, or in a different place, or in a nicer car. You'll never find these things because they are not what God has promised. God has promised Himself to us and only Himself will satisfy us. And we can discern another thing here as we look ahead. We can discern that God That God wanted to do this in order to violently overthrow the gods of Egypt and bring his beloved people to cherish only him. At the burning bush, we know now that it was Christ who was there. Christ was at the burning bush. He was the angel of Yahweh, preincarnate. And we read in Colossians that God's purpose in Christ was to disarm the rulers and authorities and put them to an open shame, triumphing over them in the cross. God wants to disgrace the gods of this world. God wants to throw them down and make them a laughing stock and bring our allegiance only to Him. That's what God wants. And that's what He does. He does it through hardship. One of my old friends, he's with the Lord now, waiting for the general resurrection at the last day when he'll be raised up in glory. My old friend Bill Fowler. Bill Fowler lived in a neighborhood in North Wilmington, not too far from the church where I was pastoring at the time. And he was at the bottom of his life Bill was. Had a couple of broken marriages, had uh had estranged relationships with his children. uh had run out of money, had lost his good job as a lab assistant at Japant. He was living in a rented house full of furniture that he was hoping to sell and make a little profit. And his neighbor across the street invited him to church. And he came to church. And then because I was the pastor whose job it was to follow up on people who visit the church, I um I went to visit him. But I didn't go on the normal day that I would normally go to visit. I went on a different day, and he had carefully decided to avoid my visit. Because his neighbor told him that, you know, our pastor always visits people when they visit our church and he he said, What what day does he visit? And they said this one and I didn't come that day and I came another day So he answers the door, there I am. All right, come on in. And um meander my way through all this furniture everywhere. The whole place is packed full of furniture. And uh I said, well let me uh let me ask you a few questions and And tell you why I'm here. I basically went through and explained the gospel message to Bill. No visible change. No response. He sat there with his glass of whiskey and continued on and said, well, thanks for stopping by. Good night. All right. No promise to return to church. But then next Sunday he showed up at church. And next Sunday he showed up at church. And next Sunday he showed up at church. I thought, what's going on And then we were announcing a new training session for people to learn how to do evangelism, and he signed up to learn how to do evangelism. That's amazing. And Bill was quietly stricken by God in his trouble. In his being at the bottom of his life. And so when Bill would go out with me sometimes talking to people I remember one time he said to somebody, Well if you're being beaten about the head with a big stick, maybe God is trying to get your attention. Yeah. He was very blunt. These people, these is these uh Israelites Vacillated. Yes, Lord, we want to be delivered. Yes, praise the Lord. Let's bow our heads. Wow, how soon can we get out of here? And then it's Oh no, what are we going to do now? More bricks, no straw. We're being beaten. This is terrible. They went from crying out to God in Exodus chapter 2 to crying out to Pharaoh. In Exodus chapter 5, verse 15, we need to cry to God and keep crying to God. What does God want from us? He wants our loyalty, even when it seems like he's not delivering us. He wants our worship. He wants to break our love for the world system. He wants us to live by faith in his promises, even when we are disappointed with what he has ordained for our circumstances. And I am learning that lesson myself very personally. Earlier this week I thought some things were going to go a certain way and and things were going to Turn out in a way that would be very, very happy and comfortable for me, and they did not God wants us to live by His promises and His word by faith and not necessarily by sight and experience And most of all, I think for application for us, is that God wants us to come away from the world on his day, the Sabbath. In a weekly festival assembly before him, a sacred assembly Which is an intersection between heaven and earth, where his voice is heard in the reading and preaching of his word, he wants us to faithfully attend the sacred assembly. That's what he wants. It's work to get out of bed. It's work to lay aside other things. This work is a gracious summons that we call discipleship. And when we answer by attending, we are declaring our allegiance. Our allegiance isn't to this or that or the other thing. Our allegiance is to God. When we submit to his word, believe his promises, bow our knees to him. When we are led to say, on the mountain of the Lord, it will be provided. I don't know how, but you'll provide When we are led to say, like Job, Though he slay me, yet will I trust him, when we are led to say, The Lord gives and the Lord takes away, blessed be the name of the Lord. When we eat at his table in the presence of our enemies, the world, our own sin nature, and the devil. And yet we are fed with the bread of heaven and the drink of heaven, the body and blood of Christ, gospel food. That's how we declare our allegiance in the midst of our troubles, in the midst of our disappointments, in the midst of our saying, like Moses, you haven't yet begun to deliver me. The devil will say to you, get back to your work. But Jesus says Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke Upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy. And my burden is light. Let us pray. Lord, as we believe your promises and wait for the ultimate deliverance, help us not to grow weary in faith In faithfulness, in discipleship. Help us not to cave into the pressures of doubts and fears and temptations The world, the flesh, and the devil, which say, get back to work. Help us rather to trust you. Amen.