We'll read Isaiah thirty-five, the first ten verses. Isaiah thirty-five. The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad. The desert shall rejoice and blossom like the crocus. It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice with joy in singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given to it, the majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the Lord, the majesty of our God. Strengthen the weak hands, and make firm the feeble knees. Say to those who have an anxious heart, be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the recompense of God. He will come and save you. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped. Then shall the lame man leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute sing for joy For waters break forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert, the burning sand shall become a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of water In the haunts of jackals, where they lie down, the grass shall become reeds and rushes. And a highway shall be there, and it shall be called the way of holiness. The unclean shall not pass over it. It shall belong to those who walk on the way. Even if they are fools, they shall not go astray. No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beasts come up on it. They shall not be found there. But the redeemed shall walk there. And the ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing, everlasting joy. Shall be upon their heads. They shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. This is the word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning is Galatians chapter 4, verses 1 through 7. And here Paul gives an illustration of an heir coming of age to show the incompatibility of the law and Mount Sinai, capital L and Christ So that we would know for certain that the impossibility for Christians who live free in this age, they cannot live under the law. So hear the word of the Lord, Galatians 4, 1 through 7. I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything. But he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. In the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. So, you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. Our gospel reading comes from the gospel according to Matthew, chapter one, verses eighteen through twenty-five. And here Matthew is uh showing us the manner of Christ's birth, and he's showing us that Jesus was born in such a way That he is the promised Savior and King. So here are the word of the Lord, Matthew 1, beginning at verse 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but he knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. This is the word of the Lord. The text that I wish to speak to you from this morning is in Galatians chapter 4. If you want, you can open your Bibles there to Galatians chapter 4. In verse 7, I'll read it again to you. Galatians 4, verse 7. So you and the U here is singular. Paul was in plural. Now he's singular, meaning I've been talking about us all collectively, but I wanted to get at home. Each one of you are no longer a slave but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God, or as other uh manuscripts say than an heir of God through Christ. So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ Christ. That will be our text this morning and our passage to look at together. Don't answer this question. How many of you put away your Christmas stuff already? If I walked in your house, it would just look like it looks. The other 330-something days of the year Our passage is kind of like that here in Galatians 4, right? Christmas, you know, our our neighborhoods look one way for most of the year. Then all of a sudden Christ comes. Christ Mass comes, Christmas comes, right? And then all of a sudden the lights come up and the decorations and the stockings and the tree, right? There's something of a difference That's what Paul's talking about here. Truly, in the coming of Christ and the redemption through him, this world does not look like what it was before. There's been a coming. of age. God has matured his church. He's also right enlarged that church, no longer confined by the borders of Palestine, of Israel, but to the end of the earth. So not only have he enlarged the church, but he's matured the church in Jesus Christ, so that we are no longer slaves, children, minors, but sons and heirs. I found a very interesting Googling yesterday. Rites of passage And finding a website that listed ten or fifteen different rites of passages throughout the world and ways man has devised and come up with When is an appropriate age as somebody's left childhood and reached adulthood? And what are appropriate ways of recognizing that and showing that Yes, here's a real man. Many of them dealt with men, but some were also for women who've reached adulthood and can take on responsibilities. Some of them were fairly normal. We You must have your well the sweet sixteen apparently in America at sixteen well not apparently in America. You can drive at sixteen That's supposedly a great symbol of freedom, and that's one of the things that mark adulthood from childhood is that greater freedom. Paul will talk about that here in this letter, of course, too. Christ has set us freedom. We have to stand in that freedom Some of these are linked to just age, some of these are about can they endure pain and show their men they're kind of different. Well, what we're going to look at this morning is what was God's rite of passage, if you will. What was the act that God did to grow up his church and mature us? And then what does that mean for us as mature members in Christ's church today? I'm going to start addressing a word to our children and parents too, but children, how many of you want to just grow up and be an adult right now? Because right, you you want the big toys you see your parents have and you want the things that they They do. Jess William, I see your hand, I know. Yeah, you want to be an adult. Well, has your parents ever told you that as a new covenant member baptized into Christ? You're already an adult in God's eyes? In one way you've already been matured? Parents have you explained to your children the difference of the service and worship of God under Moses Versus the blessed privilege that your children have in the service and worship of God in the new covenant. And you can encourage them also, God in his infinite wisdom thought it good that his people Be minors for a while until Christ should come. It's appropriate to be a child. It's good to want to grow up, but you can also encourage them in one way, in a redemptive historical way You're already of age in the way that you can draw near to God, how you can call upon Him as Father in Jesus Christ The way you don't have to have a restricted diet by different foods, go through many and laborous washings, have to take pilgrimages three times a year into a place You have privileged already as adults, so parents make sure you encourage your children in that about their blessings of being in the new covenant. All of us, let's be encouraged and remember about the blessings of being in the new covenant Here's what I want to do this morning. I want to first look at this rite of coming to passage, which is kind of um Pitomized or put in contained in those words through Christ, so we're going to talk about through Christ what took place through Christ And then what was the result that has taken place through Christ? We have come of age as a church, and also we are heading home as a people. So through the redeeming work of Jesus Christ, we have come of age and we are headed old. That's what we're going to talk about this morning. Let's look at the redeeming work of Christ. I said, what is God's rite of passage? Again, I'm building on Paul's illustration. Here, what did God do? Look there at verse 4, right? There's kind of four parts to this. Write a passage that God and Paul lays out for us. Uh the first thing is there in the fullness of time, that's relating to the time set by the father that he takes away the guardians, and here child, you are now mature and an adult In the fullness of time, God sent forth his sons. The first part of this is ascending by God. God sent his own eternal son Jesus. That's the first part of this. It's God orniciated. It's God ordained. And that's really the driving force behind Paul's argument. You have to grow up, church. There was a period, right, where in this change from the old covenant to the new covenant, there was leniency exercised towards the weaker brethren. who had been grown up and formed under the Mosaic Institution and there was a place where it was okay to still participate in that As long as you didn't seek to impose it necessarily upon the Gentiles, right? So it's God ordained we must grow up because God says church, it's now time. It's time for you to live and serve and worship in this mature way. So begins this right with God sending his son. Secondly, the second part right is the incarnation, the the words they're born of a woman And also further explaining, born under the law. So God sends his son And what is a result by the incarnation, Jesus becomes and takes on flesh and born in our helpless situation under the law. Now it was very encouraging to me this week. Made me love and appreciate the Savior more to be reminded something of how redemption worked in the Old Testament If you're familiar with Leviticus 25, 25 or the story of Ruth, right? The kinsman redeemer. God made a provision. God made it a right for a near relative to come into the place of a helpless relative and help him out of his need. If you had becoming on fallen on hard times, had to sell your property, even selling yourself. Praise be to the Lord, your near kinsmen could come in your place, act on your behalf, pay your ransom, pay your price. And redeem you so you can enjoy your inheritance, eat the fruit of it, and not be a slave of another. That's what the incarnation is about. Jesus becoming our kinsman, redeemer. He became like one of us, born of a woman. Is there anybody here not born of woman? This is how the Lord became one of us, the eternal Son of God, right? We have fallen into our helpless estate in sin, and as Paul's been driving home, the law wasn't the way out of it. The laws that keep you in and make your sin known to you, so when the way out of it comes, you'll run to it. You'll run to Christ. So Jesus becomes our kinsman, Redeemer in the incarnation. What's our helpless estate? Under the law. As the Apostle Peter testifies in Acts, this thing is too burdensome even for our fathers to keep. No man can do it. No man can fulfill it, therefore, no man can attain through it the blessings of the covenant, the gift of eternal life. And then here comes the Lord Jesus in his infinite grace. Loving good heart to do us and his people good. Says, I'll be your kinsman, Redeemer. I'll come and take on your flesh. I'll come and take on this yoke. And I'll fulfill it for you and redeem you. And that's the third part Born of a woman, born of God, to redeem those who are under the law. Now, in that one word redeem, right, we have to think of the cross. And we have to think of the resurrection. You can never separate them. If there was just the cross and no resurrection, how do we know a price has been paid and sins have been forgiven? The cross and the resurrection, there was a look, but the great statement of being under God's curse is dying, right? That's the curse. You shall die. When Jesus died, he was under the curse. The resurrection is proved. No more under that curse. In the very presence of God, and just to remind you about it in the Bible, that's the highest of blessings. To be called into the presence of God. If curse is death, blessing is life with God in his presence, and that's where Jesus is at, and the fullness of blessing as we Hear the resurrection, see it, but we know for certain then the curse is no more in Christ, and it's nothing but blessing in God's presence. So the cross and then the resurrection, and let's just stop there again for a minute because it's so edifying always to think upon Jesus and his sufferings. Like we're called every week, we remember it in the sacrament It's not that he just came downright and said, I'll do all the positive things of the law that God asked, which he wonderfully did. He also showed his obedience right on the cross that he would even suffer unto death for our sins. It's not right that he just took the place because we needed somebody to do what the law said to do. We also needed somebody to suffer what the law says sinners and lawbreakers must be punished with. Did you know that the Son of God did that and wanted to do that? And was glad to do that? And even in some Holy wonderful way, look forward to doing that because of the fruit of it. You and I redeemed with an inheritance. Enjoying God and knowing God, that the works of Satan would be destroyed, and his creation would be a place of blessing and beauty again, right? Jesus wanted to become the kinsman, redeemer of his people, wanted to stand in that place of sin and punishment. And let's think just a minute again about the sin. What is our sinful state, says our shorter catechism? Adam's sin imputed to you a long time ago. And there's no way of getting out of that one. It's yours. The loss of original righteousness, the total depravity of your nature and its corruption. And then all your actual rebellions and saying no to God for whatever proud, cowardly, arrogant reasons that we give why we don't obey God. He said, I'll come for those. That's a lot of sin, isn't it? To get yourself out of. And Jesus says, and God made the way out, and Jesus says, I'll come and bring them out. I'll be their kinsman redeemer, and I'll go to the cross. And there I'll show the glory of God as we were reminded this morning. In our law reading, there I'll show my obedience, doing everything the Father will. There I'll redeem my people. They could be brought out of that lowest state. And as Charles Wesley wonderfully wrote in his hymn, The Herald Angels Sing, born to raise the sons of earth. And Jesus did that. And the Church of Jesus Christ is the living proof of that. That the redemption has happened. The resurrection has taken place, and there are men and women born again and raised up to the status of sons. And heirs. And then the fourth part here is: Jesus did this that we might receive the adoption of sons. And just real quick a word on that in context. It doesn't mean that Israel wasn't God's children before. That's not what Paul's saying here. God declares and his law to them, his status to them as their father, and he as their children. Romans nine, I think it's verse three, Apostle Paul also says It also belonged to Israel, the adoption of the sonship. Sonship here in context means no longer minors. Some of you might know the movie Batman, the story of Bruce Wayne, right? What does Alfred call him, right? Young master. That's what you call an heir who is young. He's heir of everything, his father's estate. But he's the young master. He's still under butlers and other guardians and managers until he comes of age and he's called master. So you might read sonship as saying, right, masters, you're now full heirs, you're not under the guardianship and the managers of the law anymore, but your son. So it's not saying God's children in the old covenant weren't his children. It's dealing with a status, a coming of age, no longer being under guardians. Jesus died, so we're all very clear that we might have this status as sons. Jesus came in the fullness of time to redeem us to have this status. And because you are sons, God sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts. Here this is dealing with Pentecost and the gift of the Holy Spirit. That's the token that you are a sun. That's a token that you are redeemed and sealed for the day of redemption. You have God's Holy Spirit in you, and what that Holy Spirit is doing in you is crying out to God as Abba. Father. You now know God in that intimate and personal and close union way. That's what the sonship is. So that's the rite of passage. And let's be clear. Did you and I perform this No. The rite of passage was performed by Jesus Christ alone He came, took on flesh. He came under the law. He redeemed us under the cross, offered up the life of obedience to the Father He rose three days later, raised by his father in acceptance of that sacrifice. He ascended to his throne in heaven, which he received as a reward for his sufferings. He poured out the Holy Spirit and matured you and God called you into this grace So Jesus performed this rite of passage, and Jesus in God's timing matured God's church, that we might enjoy the blessed privilege of serving and worshiping God on earth now in this way. So that is all that's contained in that little prepositional phrase through Christ As Paul and Pax are there for us. So that's what we mean when we say through Christ. We mean that gospel. We mean that redeeming event That started from the Father sinning to his incarnation, to his sufferings and death, resurrection, ascension, and Pentecost. Through Christ, all of that gospel As we look forward to his coming again, he has matured and grown up his church. What does that mean for the church? What has happened through Christ? The first thing is, right, we've come of age I remind you this morning, beloved, that the gospel speaks to you as sons. The gospel says to you, you are no longer slaves. That means a couple things. You're no longer the servants of sin. We all deal with the flesh. We're all battling against sin. And if you've fallen into it and struggled against it and failed and fell again, let me remind you what the gospel says to you in Christ, right? You're not sin's servant. The sun, you're over that. In the sense of he who is in you is greater than the one in the world. That Jesus in Revelation 21 says, and all who overcome I will give to be heirs of all things. The status of sonship, Loved, the call to Christ and the call to God's eternal glory is a call to overcome the world. John 5, everyone who is born of God overcomes the world. Let me remind you, as Christians, as sons, you have a world to overcome. And praise God for the cross. Because Paul, that's why Paul boasts in the cross. Paul's not looking at himself and saying, How? He looks at Jesus and says, I've been crucified to the world. And the world's been crucified to me. What can the world say to us? I love thinking on the cross. Why do I love thinking on the cross? I think I've said it before. I'll say it again. Because we often feel like we're the victims, right, where we're not taking the fight to the enemy. But we are Jesus willfully chose to lay down his life. When you say when you wake up every morning and say no to the world, the flesh and devil and say, today I'm going to get on the cross and die, the world's not taking your life, you're laying it down as God's children. Who are choosing to do the right thing. Guess as we finish 2023 and go into 2024, remember who you are in Christ, the Son, in air. Of everything. But it's a serious call. It's a serious privilege that I know many of you have stood in. And contended in for many years. So my word this morning is just to encourage you in it, to remind you again who you are in Christ the Son. Truly, right, we have been raised from a servant to a son. Truly, Jesus has been born to raise the sons of earth from servants That meant bondage to sin, bondage to darkness, to lies, to bad thoughts about God, to hatred towards our brothers and sisters All of that, the service and worship of demons and devils, all of that, we have been redeemed from and not enslaved to those, but are sons of God and serve Him. And then Paul also means in context, no longer servants. He's speaking redemptive historically about life under the old covenant and being under the law, capital L as an institution. Let me be very clear to you this morning. Uh though we're not under the Mosaic Institution, Capital L, it doesn't mean we're without law as Christians or as sons. We've not been matured to sons to be lawless. Paul makes that very clear in chapter six when he says, bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ, which I read to you this morning. What does Jesus say? A new commandment I give to you. Love one another as I've loved you. That's not a new commandment. That comes from Leviticus 19. What's new about it? You've seen how Jesus has loved you. You've seen the kinsman redeemer. You've seen his long suffering and patience and goodness, his grace and his mercy. Now I've given you a new one. You've heard it before, right? But I say to you, here's how I want my mature church to live and love and serve. Here's what it means to be sons. And so there and and in the context here in Paul, there's that you know slight admonition to the Jewish church. So I'll give a mild one, not directing at anybody or any known thing, but just remember the gospel addresses you as sons, and then Paul says logically, right, so act as sons, right? If the gospel addresses you as sons as the redeemed in Christ, then obviously it's act that. I don't think we've all said that to our children at some point, haven't we? All said that to a colleague and a friend. Don't you you're the commander. Act like it, right? You're the leader of this. Act like it. Hey, you're the heir of the world, church Act like it. That's the gospel admonition, right? To remind us. That's the wonderful call and privilege. So if you're following the sin and deal with it, speak to your sins, say, sin, I I'm above that. That's not me anymore. Praise be to God, to Christ, my kinsman redeemer. I'm a son. I've been redeemed from that. I'm not your servant anymore. Resist the devil with the truth. Speak the truth to yourself. But also don't fall back into religion that Paul says is don't eat this and don't touch that and don't drink this. And you observe this and you observe that and it's carnal commandments and all exteriority. And it hasn't nothing to do again, it's a contrast between the law in Christ. So our sonship again, we we look to Christ for our redemption through Christ. We still look to Christ to what it means to be sons, right? Because as God's chosen people, we've been predestined to be conformed to the image of His Son. So Christ is still our model as what it means to live as sons in the world. So I would say One of the things that it means to live as sons is is childlikeness. One of the things that I find interesting in this passage is Paul's talking about coming of age, and then he says you get the spirit and you call daddy like You call God daddy like you're three years old again. Isn't that a wonderful thing? You know, it often happens as we grow up, we don't use the same terms of endearment with our parents We don't call them. I think be wonderful right if we did that in in the gospel age, that's what he's saying though yeah we've been matured But the very interesting thing is we've been matured to become more childlike, right? More simple in our faith and devotion to the Lord, more near and dear to God and calling him daddy, more intimate with them. I find it interesting because many coming of age, right, says that you're no longer children, right? I read about one in the South Pacific. You know what they do when you come of age? You climb a ninety-eight foot high tower, they tie a jungle rope bind to you, not a bungee, and you have to dive off of it And the children start doing that at like seven or eight younger ages, shorter towers, and their mother holds out to them one of their childhood relics, and after they make the jump, she throws it away. So you get this idea you're leaving that childness. behind and coming to manhood almost made me cry. I was trying to think of my children and took their childhood tokens away. How how sad and how wonderful that yeah we've come of age, but we haven't lost our childlikeness We're still childlike with God. We're still able to go in and just say daddy to him And pour our heart out to 'em. I think I'd expressed it to you before when I talked to people through their sins And my question is, have you talked to your father about this? How many of you talked to your parents about your struggles? I hope you do as children. Do you not think we can talk to our Heavenly Father about our struggles? Our sins? So let's not lose the childlikeness privilege that we have with our Father. Christ-likeness is also what we need to think about as sons. Paul talks about in in chapter 5 here, verse 13, reminding us that, yeah, we're called to freedom. But don't use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love, serve one another. Again, right? We look at Christ. We look at the cross. We look at his life of service and through love, serving everybody. He didn't just serve people because they were God's children. He probably served them more. But anybody who came to him and asked a favor, anybody who asked for his help, right, he would go and help them that came to him in faith. He loved and served, and that's what we're called as a church To love and serve each other. So yeah, let's be free. You always got to love Paul's uh paradoxes, right? We're free. But go be a servant again. You're free, but go serve that brother and sister in the Lord in love. You're free, but through love serve each other, because that's what Jesus did, right? You can give Paul's picture as someone who was born under the law and thought, this is the way of salvation, and this is what it means to be righteous before God, and then all of a sudden you see the cross You come to know who Christ is, and I'm sure he looked back on the mosaic economy like if you walk into a nursery room And you see children building with little building blocks, you know, those little wooden blocks that are outlined in colors and have an ABC letter on them? Because that's what Paul says it was. We were under the elementary principles, the ABCs of our religion. Paul's saying this is like nursery. Compared to the cross and the call of being sons of God in the world right today. Now, this isn't a comment on what Christians attained to in that age. David and all of them. It's it's a redemptive historical moment. There are great saints that are far more saintly than us, right, even in the Old Testament. But we're talking about our privilege redempted historically and not being under that, but being in Christ and having his spirit and even being under the law of Christ and loving in the way he's called us to love So I remind you, beloved, that the gospel addresses you as sons, it addresses you as heirs of everything, heirs of God. You will inherit God's eternal inheritance You will rule over it. And that's where I'm going to end in the final point. So through Christ, we've come of age. Through Christ, you're heading home. We saw that in our Old Testament passage this morning in Isaiah 35. Um as I was studying it this week, there's like at least half a dozen or more interpretations given to it on on when will this be fulfilled and what moment and stuff Uh I think the safest bet to say is this passage talks about uh good days for the church after a time of suffering But I also think in the clues in Himself, we're talking about the second Exodus, right? The one that's come in Christ, the blind receiving their sight. These are the things that uh the gospel writers tell us to place uh in jesus's ministry. So I think what we can apply it to ourselves today as the redeemed of the Lord. We're heading home. God wants his children home. I think as parents we we we raise our children to leave and cleave, but it's nice when they come home and see us. But God wants his children home. Why? Because he's got an inheritance to give us. It's not right now. Peter tells us it's reserved for us in heaven. It's going to come down from heaven. We have the spirit, that's the first fruits of your eternal inheritance. But you don't have it all yet. And the way to get there is the highway of holiness. You've got to travel the highway of Holiness, you've got to stop being unclean to the means of grace, the preaching of the word, the administration of the sacraments through prayer And you've got to come into the highway of holiness through faith and repentance in the Lord Jesus Christ. You have to receive Christ as Savior, kinsman, redeemer, who stood in your place. And you have to receive Christ as King and give Him your allegiance and obey Him and serve Him when you receive Christ in that way as Savior And King, you come into this highway of holiness. You join the rest of the throng on the highway to holiness. As you head to your eternal home and to your eternal inheritance. So it reminds you again this morning. The gospel calls you sons. But the gospel is also calling you home, and we're not there yet. So keep going, keep traveling the highway of holiness. Holiness isn't also, by the way, some abstract mystical thing, and what is it? Holiness is just obedience to God's will. Holiness is love. Holiness is God's law. Holiness is righteousness. So maybe as a goal for year 2024, I would encourage you, if you have never read through our larger catechism's treatment on the law, Read through it because remember you're sons. That means you're supposed to know the divine will. You're supposed to know and be able to tell the rest of the world. No, this is what God wants. This is how God says we're to live. This is what's pleasing to the Lord. And call people in this highway of holiness. But as sons. You think about it. The son becomes the heir, takes over the company. You expect him to know how the company runs. As sons, we're expected to know what is God's will. I think it's Ezekiel Hopkins, Puritan, who wrote an exposition on the Ten Commandments. I think he's so right. He says, what's needed to make a perfect Christian? A knowledge of his duty. It's not enough just to receive Christ as Savior and King, you need to know the way of salvation. But you need to know your duty as Christians. I'm not saying you don't, I'm just reminding you that what it means to be something to encourage you if it's been a while since you've read through the Pentatube. Read through God's law? Been a while since you read through the gospel and sat and stopped and meditated on Jesus' commandments, Jesus' teachings, imbibed that? Because as sons, that's how we're called to live, Lord. That's traveling that highway of holiness in loving service, obedience to Lord. So you're not there yet? You're also not alone. Christ pioneered this way. He's gone ahead of us as the forerunner. He knows exactly the pitfalls, the dangers, the struggles, and he traveling it himself has become the perfect high priest able to show you mercy and grace as you go along this highway. You know, it's wonderful God tells us there's no dangers of wild beasts here, but it doesn't mean you might not trip up. My wife likes to remind me Sanctification, right, is a struggle. But if you fall down facing towards Zion instead of falling down facing away from it like you did last time, even falling on your face again towards Zion. Is advancement. Sanctification. Even falling down in the right direction means at least you're turned that way. So even just turn to the Lord And turn towards him. You're not alone, also, because you have the company of saints who are together, head and home. Let's remember each other in prayer, let's remember each other in encouragement, let's remind each other. Hey. I know life's hard right now. I know these things are going through. Even if someone comes in dressing like this with smiles, don't be deceived. We all have things in our hearts. We're all dealing with stuff Remind and encourage each other, we're going to see the king. We're going to the eternal city We're going to be faithful over a little now, and then God's going to make us faithful over so much and our eternal inheritance. Keep at it, brother Keep going in the Lord. Keep going at it, sister. Don't grow weary and throw in the towel now. Keep going. Let's never think Showing up to church, setting up communion, being in the places we say we'll be when we serve, being good colleagues at work, all these things as if they're not unimportant. As if they're not showing our faithfulness. You know, it I find it kind of amazing that Jesus could say this age is like being faithful to little things, because if you've had children, right, you know that's a huge responsibility. If you serve in a company and it's like really this is faith over little because it seems like so lot. But That must give us an idea of truly what's in the store when we reign with Christ as Kings, sorry, the new heavens and new earth. So help one another. All right, I'll close there. Beloved Christ has been born to raise the sons of earth. Your kinsman redeemer has taken your place. Remind yourself that you're no longer a servant of sin. You're no longer a child underage, but a son, an heir. You'll be the heir of all things. And in Christ you are, and continue down this highway of holiness as God calls you home to Himself. Bring as many with you Cast as much seed as you go, do as much good to the travelers on the way, and you will be praised and rewarded and received gladly by the king when you get there May Christ keep us all on the way. Amen.