This morning's passage begins in the first six verses as the servant addressed the nation. As he has been exalted to God's right hand, having suffered and been humiliated, but now given this greater work and task, bring all the nations The saving knowledge of himself, bring all the nations home to God. And so he is speaking to all, as we heard there uh in the gospel, as God wants us to listen Isaiah forty-nine and as you know next is fifty and then Isaiah fifty-three. But this song begins to introduce us to the theme of the Two states of the Lord's ministry. There's a state of humiliation. You know, when the Son of God, mild he laid his glory by when he took on flesh. was born a man and born under the law and and suffered here and died here and then his state of exaltation one ministry given to him in two estates but now from heaven in glory continuing to work out uh his ministry to bring the nations under the reconciliation that he accomplished at the cross to reconcile all things in heaven and in earth. So we begin to see that here the uh this morning. We only touch on it here too, the theme later in the passage in verses, I think it's 9 and 10, the liberty and the freedom. Uh the uh the the themes of a jubilee. If if you remember what the Jubilee is from the Bible, after seven series of Sabbaths So forty-nine years on that fiftieth year the trumpet would be sounded. And do you remember on what day the trumpet was sounded? Day of Atonement I think it's a wonderful thought how God puts that together for us. After Christ suffers and dies on the cross, he accomplishes our atonement, atoning for our sins and reconciling us to God Then in his risen glory, when he sends the apostles to go preach repentance to the nations and forgiveness of sins to the nations, well those are the two chief things of the Jubilee. Repentance is returned. Come back to your inheritance. Come back to God. And Jubilee is about the forgiveness of debts. The remission of our sins. So Christ, after suffering and atonement and his risen glory in his kingdom, is making that Jubilee proclamation to the nations. And the salvation that he's accomplished, to return home, come back to God, all debts are paid. It's free. It's full. And it's to the ends of the earth. We use that language to the ends of the earth when we want to testify to the intensity of our love, don't we? We say, I will go to the ends of the earth for you, right? It's God's intensity of his love for this earth. He loves it. He loves the duty. He loves everybody on it, as we read this morning. He has a saving, sovereign, lacting love for his people. He has love for every creature he's made. To the ends of the earth He's declared himself. He's declared the intensity of which he loves this world, which he loves sinners in darkness. He loves idolatrous, blinded, dark, miserable people. And he has raised up Christ, saved. And with Christ, as we're going to see this morning, his body, his people, as he sends us to the ends of the earth, spread abroad this salvation. Because another thing that stands out as we go through these servants' songs is though we distinguish, we can't separate. We can distinguish between the servant and servants. We can distinguish here between Israel, the head. In Israel, the body, the members. We can distinguish between Christ the head and Christians, but we can never separate them, can we? You're not members of Adam, members of Christ. Christ just isn't a floating head, the body. We distinguish between Christians. In Christ, but you can never separate. And so here's how I want to preach this passage to you this morning. I want to look with you at verses one through seven first. And talk about us as the missionaries of Christ sharing his salvation to the ends of the earth. We are both missionaries of Christ. And then in the second part, verses 8 down to 13 Get into the part that we are members in Christ sharing in his salvation. So we're missionaries of Christ, sharing it, making that salvation known, but we're also members of Christ sharing in that salvation as being the saved ourselves So we're missionaries and we're members. Missionaries and members. So the first part, missionaries of Christ, sharing his salvation to the ends of the earth. The first three verses here tell us a bit about who Christ is first, but then also tell us about who we are as Christians, right? The reason I had us read Acts 13 and Paul's missionary journey there is I wanted you to hear verse 47. Where Paul quotes from verse six here, I have made you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth. Paul applies this very text to his missionary life. And I think it's something we can apply to the church because think about it this way. The earth's a globe, right? We're here on the globe. If you go all the way across on the other side of that diameter, that's the ends of the earth to us, right? If you start here in St. Mary's and you go all the way around the ends of the earth, well you know what? If you start over here, we're the ends of the earth to somebody too The ends of the earth is right here in St. Mary's as well. We're missionaries right here where God has planted us as a church here. We pray and we want to pray to the ends of the earth. We faithfully give our offerings and tithes and through the regional home missionary work, through our overseas for missionaries, through the missionaries you support. That work goes over and then goes the ends of the earth, but also right here. This is the ends of the earth too that God loves. This is the ends of the earth too that God has brought his salvation and he's called us as a church to be missions on missionary here. Because right, we are not, we've all heard this, we're not of the earth, but we're in the world. Or not of the world, but we're in it. We've been called out of it Hey members of Christ, but you know as soon as you're called out and you meet Christ, you know what he does? Says hi. Now go back into the world and serve me here I'm sending you, says Jesus, into the world. Because you know me now. You know the true God. You know who I am. And you can preach me. And you can preach me through this word, as I've as I've written So we are missionaries together in Christ. This whole church, together we live as missionaries. How many of you ever spent time on a missionary compound? Yeah. Or ever gone overseas on a missions trip. Or not even overseas on a on a local one here in the United States. Isn't there just fervent activity? Unity of purpose, intentionality to living, that doesn't have to just be on mission compound. It doesn't have to just be on a missions trip. That is just the life of Jesus' church. I spent a lot, uh, you know, as you know, eight years in the Marine Corps When I got out, I was asked by a a a foreign missionary who had a ministry in Africa, what does the military do better than the church? Discipline. And I meant a disciplined life is what I meant If you've ever spent time in the military, you know purpose, purpose, and it's kind of disorienting getting out because you're like, I don't have anybody to report to? I don't have something to plan for. I uh you're going, I just make it up as I go. Now you know it's not necessarily like that, but it's there's so much purpose. But we have a king, Jesus, addressing the whole world to listen to him, who said, disciple it, and we have a mission to be unified under the church, to keep us bound together to work, to make this salvation known to the ends of the Let this missionary existence be what unifies us in Christ. That we are a body together, pulled out of all the parts and places. Working, serving, living together in our homes that God's given us, raising our children, bringing them up, caring for our aging parents, all that takes part of it is still to be under the umbrella Of bringing salvation to the ends of the earth. Because you can do it through prayer, you can do it through giving, you can do it through going. But what I'm trying to say is you go to your workplace as missionaries for Christ. You go to the supermarket as missionaries for Christ. You step out of the door as missionaries of Christ. You get up, step, get out of your bed as missionaries of Christ because you you obviously labor your first build your own family We're missionaries for Christ. There's no some of us are missionaries. I get some of us are really sent overseas. I'm not detracting from any of that I just want to say that I don't think America is the center that we send out missionaries from. Historically, that was Jerusalem. Bit anachronistic to think we're the center now of missionary activity. I think the true center is heavenly Zion, where the king sends us out. Into the whole world. So to be in this world and to be in Christ is to be on mission. Educate. Have vacations. See the wonders of God's creation. Do it to make salvation known to the enzyme. That's our purpose. That's why we're here. To labor for the salvation of souls. In verses 1 through 3, we see who Christ is. He first commands the whole attention of the whole world. Listen to me. He must be somebody pretty important. But demand a hearing of every creature on this planet. And of course he is. He's God's own son. The rest of that verse in verse 2, he sort of gives us his credentials. Lord's called me from the womb. I've been under a divine calling ever since I came into this world. Speaks of purpose. You didn't come into this world without a purpose. You have not come into this world without a purpose. What's the chief end of man? Glorify God. Join forever. What does verse 3 say? In Israel, whom I will be glorified. What's your purpose as you come again into this world? That's called the new birth. Glorify God. Enjoy it. You've been called from the wood. You've been called Christ born again. From the body of my mother, he's named me. You know, names reveal something of somebody. Jesus, Savior, Yeshua Emmanuel. God made those names known. He made Emmanuel known thousands, hundreds of years. And at Jesus' birth, the angel came and God made it known. Here's his name. He didn't come into this world nameless. He didn't come into this world purposeless. Had a name. You've taken that name on as Christians, right? And the world has decided to call us Christians. We first called ourselves brothers. The world said rightly Christian. Taking a name on. Very name of Christ. You were called by us Christian. Let's let that name mean something. Fill our lives with purpose. I'm a Christian. Verse 2, he made my mouth like a sharp sword. The shadow of his hand, he hid me, he made me a polished arrow in his quiver, he hid me away. Know what that's saying? It's deadly to oppose him. And nothing will stand against him. A sharp sword is a sword that cuts. Sharp sword is a sword that's been held. Paired. A polished arrow is an arrow you've polished it. You've taken away anything that's going to hinder its flight. So it can't fly accurately to its target. A sword hidden under God, the shadow of God's hand, as you put it in a scabbard, ready to be pulled out to be used. An arrow hidden in your quiver, ready to be pulled out of the right time. Christ has been raised up at the right moment. You've been raised up at the right moment. This is the moment. You know, Paul says, right, we are a saver of life, the life. being saved. But you are also the saver of death on the death. Those who have perished why? You preach Christ to them. You either receive it Or you oppose it, and it's a deadly to oppose Christ. Jesus here quotes in verse 3, and he said to me, God said to me, the Lord said to me, You are my servant Israel. So he takes on the name Israel in whom I will be glorified. I've already spoken to you about what that means. God intends, and we know how this works out in the gospel because we know that the Father and the Son are one. Jesus is in the Father Father is in the Son. Everything Jesus does is revelatory of God and brings glory to you. As Christians in Christ, you know, uh John 15, 8, right? Why have we been implanted into Christ? How is God glorified when we bear much fruit? What does Jesus say to go and make your deeds, good deeds known to men, that your Father may be glorified? Peter encourages the church in 1 Peter, live honorably amongst the Gentiles. Even if they speak against you as evildoers, in the day of visitation, they will give glory to God because they saw your good deal. They heard your good words. They were recipients of the goodwill you showed them, even though you reviled. They didn't revile that. They pray and preach and they wept and they share and they care. God has glorified Nisrael Paul applies that to the church in Galatians 6. Arguing about people that want to give a lot on circumcision, a lot of people, and he says, look, whether you're circumcised or uncircumcised, here's what's matter. You're a new creation. Let everybody who walks that way, mercy and peace be upon him, the Israel of God. Church of Jesus Christ is the Israel. Well, that's why I said we can distinguish here between Israel, Christ ahead. In Israel, Christians, the members of Christ, we can never separate. We are missionaries in Christ Now, verses four through seven take on a different turn. In verses four through seven, we see both the servant's confidence in God. And we also see God's confidence in the servant. Look at verse 4. Verse 4 is kind of a response right to verse 3. Think about this. Jesus is called, he's named, he's prepared, he's God's servant. Have you ever trained for something? Got yourself ready? You've got all your schooling done, you've got your gear on, your equipment right, it's shined up, you're gonna go hit the field, and it's a flop Frustration. What you would what you trained for, what you went out for, what you wanted to achieve, you weren't met with any success. God says, you're my servant, and Jesus says, but I've labored in vain. That word means to weary yourself out and toil. Physically, mentally, spiritually exhausted. I have spent my strength for nothing. I've exhausted it. I have no reserves left And what I hope for? Nothing. Now you might think, right, that might cause you to doubt your calling, right? Called, I've entrenched, I've labored, I've not made any success. Maybe I'm not called. But that's not what Jesus said. He finishes verse 4 with, Yet surely my right is with the Lord. I recompense is with my God. I'm gonna leave it in his hands. What is owed to me and belongs to me for these labors will be given to me, will be given to me in his time The servant here does not lose confidence in God. You know, Paul tells us in his own ministry, as he has faced all kinds of opposition, right? The Corinthians. All kinds of people wanting to bad mouth him and slander him and backtop him and paint him as this evil guy working for evil motives and all kinds of Imagine spending all your labor and just have somebody there trying to undo everything you've done. Undermine all your efforts But Paul doesn't lose confidence. He says, such is the confidence that we have through Christ towards God. Not that we are sufficient in ourselves. They claim anything is coming from us, but our sufficiency is from God. He has made us sufficient to be members of the new covenant. He will he'll even go on to say in in 1 Thessalonians, that's another church. Remember, he was driven from Thessalonica by persecuting Jews Who wanted to stay in there and undermine his gospel labor, so he's got a right to say, remember the kind of people we were. We are not the kind of people they're saying we are. You know what we were really like But just as we have been approved by God, God's approved them. God has confidence in them. Just as we've been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak not to please men. But to please God. I think all of you, I know you've been laboring for years. Young and old. You've probably all felt this. This is why Paul writes in in chapter 6 of Galatians, and let us not grow wary of doing good, for in due season, you will be. Missionary service. Laboring for your children is exhausting. You know what? Sometimes we don't see the fruit we want to see, do we? We know what we're praying for, their salvation. We know what we're laboring for, their salvation. We want them to grow up in Christ and profess him and confess him. We're not always met with that success of God. God doesn't judge us by our success. Our um our regional missionary Charles Biggs gave his report at Presbytery yesterday, and he kept saying this line all the way throughout it, and it was so encouraging. There is no failure in faithfulness. There is no failure in faithfulness Jesus did not fail when the Jews were not converted. He gets a promotion. He was faithful. He did exactly what God told him to do. He did exactly in the way God told him to do. He preached the word in season, out of season. He reproved, he rebuked, he corrected, he admonished, he instructed, he taught tenderly, patiently, kindly, he wept for them The failure, he did not fail. There is no failure. It is gonna hurt. He wept over there, lost estate. But he didn't say. Don't be discouraged. What you're laboring for doesn't meet with the success you're hoping for. Your right and your recompense is with the Lord. Lead it to him. Just preach Christ. And the way Christ is to be do it humbly. Do it prayerfully because who can do it adequately? But do it. Pray, do it. God reaffirms his confidence in his servant Verse 5 begins a new phase. Again, where we're seeing, we know the big picture that after his seemingly failure, not a failure. After his rejection by Israel, we know he is raised from the dead and exalted to God's right hand. And that's really where verse 5 picks up. And now the Lord says Reminding us who had formed him from the womb to be a servant, to bring Jacob back to him, God sent Israel, Jesus, to bring Jacob back to himself, that Israel might be gathered to him For I am honored now in the eyes of the Lord. I was despised before the nation. But I am honored in the eyes of the Lord. Paul was reviled. But he is honored. Christians are reviled, for they are honored in the eyes of God. And my God has become my strength. We sow this body in weakness. It is raised in power. How many of you have been through a time of serious trial? And weakness, only to find out later. God is my strength. He has become my strength. I've never been more strong in my life because I've never also been so weak. That's what God does when He brings us through this the humiliation of the cross. Beloved, you are going to be brought through humiliation. It is a part of the Christian life. And it is for such wonderful purposes. And you will endure it and you'll think nothing of it because you love the people and the small. You love them with God's love, and it doesn't matter to you if they spit upon you because you love them. And we will endure anything from the people we love. This is what has filled this world for 2,000 years This is what has brought the gospel to the nation. This missionary service. And this is what's still bringing. This is what's here with us. This is the light to be seen in this camp. All glory to Jesus. It comes from Him. He is the absolute source of it all. God says, it is too light a thing. That is too little for my servant to bring back one nation. He's gonna bring all of them. You're going to be a light for the nations. My salvation is going to go in of the earth. We saw how he does that from his exalted place. He does it through his missionary. Does it to the preaching of the gospel? Christ goes with us. Christ is with us. Christ is the one we preach, and Christ is the one we receive as he's here in the Spirit. And his salvation is brought to the end of the earth. Verse 7 speaks of a word of encouragement to his servant. Thus says the Lord to assure him of this salvation. The Redeemer of Israel, the Holy One, to one deeply despised. It's Jesus. To want to abhor the nation. Saw that, right? What did they do to Paul as well? They revile. It happens. That's what happens to Christians. But you may have already experienced it. You may experience that. Deeply despised. Abhorred. I think it's not too much of an extress to say that some people in this world they view Christianity as abhorrent. We view what we preach as abhorrent. And they think those who preach it are abhorrent. Their stum of the earth Otherwise, why would you persecute? The Lord knows what it is to be deeply despised, the Lord Jesus. Lord Jesus knows what it is to be an object of abhorrence. So we only came in love, mercy, grace. As I said, God's people know it too, and in some sense they don't care. Because we are constrained by Christ's love. So what if they despise us? So what if they abhor us? God doesn't We love them. We just want them to be to know God and to love him too. God promises kings are going to see and arise, princes are going to prostrate, there's going to be an entire change in the Lord's state as an exalted in glory that all the nations bow before. Pay homage to Because the Holy One of Israel has chosen. God has made his choice of his servant Jesus. God has made his choice of his church and servant Christian. He has not changed his choice. They will not fail in their purpose. Because God is behind Christ. He is the one who stinks Christ. God is behind his church. They have sent the church in the world. I preached a lot longer on that than I thought, I don't even know if I'm gonna get to the second one That's fine. My heart has really been in the first part. The second part's great too. There's a lot of good stuff there for us. I might say a few things, but I think I just really want to inculcate inculcate this idea of Missions, right? The goal of missions are is this first word here. Listen to him. We are wanting to go make Christ known to people and say, listen to him because of who he is. We are not responsible for whether they do it or not. Our goal is to get them to listen to him. Listen to his message of salvation as he preaches himself to them as the Savior that they might believe in it, right? Preaching them that he is Lord, and then I put their trust in him and obey him. They might believe in his promises and trust in his grace They might hear his word, his law, and his instruction and live by it. They might receive his prophetic teaching and understand the things that are going to take place now and the things to come and be made wise by it. We want them to listen to Christ. That's the goal A great word of repent be thee. Yeah, I'm not gonna have uh time, but let me just finish uh with the words um Down there at the bottom, sing for joy, O heavens, and exalt, O earth. Break forth, O mountains, into singing. For the Lord has comforted his people, will have compassion on his afflicted. I'll just say this. In these verses, Christ is presented to us as the covenant He is the one who binds us to God and provides all the blessings of salvation to us. He's presented there as a shepherd. Or excuse me, he's presented there first as an inheritance. The land is established in him The desolate places. That's fulfilled in the new heavens and earth, but we have the Spirit now, the deposit of our inheritance, the pledge of it. Christ is presented to us as the one who sets us free and liberates us I found this out recently in a wonderful way as Christ makes himself known to us in his spirit, right? How many of you suffer with the debilitating effect of the fear of man? How many of you are more worried about looking silly before people than sinning against God? Come back tonight, we're going to talk about that big time. Fearless faith. Who can set you free? How many of you live in the fear but people think of you and are anxious? You're controlled by it You are controlled by what they think of you as a person, your success, who you married, how many kids you got, what kind of job you got, where you got educated from, and everything about you is controlled by what others think. I just let me urge you to pray to the Lord. Come to me in the Spirit and set me free because it's before the Lord that you're set free. When his face shines upon you, that melts away. You don't care what people think of you, because you are whole and healed before the Lord. Because dancing is a tricky thing to do. If we're more concerned about looking foolish before people than sinning against God, isn't it? Christ sets us. He's presented here as our good shepherd and his compassion and pity you will always be provided for. He loves you tenderly. care and full of mercy. He's presented here as the Lord. Nothing can stop your return from home. Mountains, immovable objects, guess what? They're a road now. Highways that fall in the disrepute, can't go there, no crossing, guess what? They're raised up. Nothing can hinder return to God So we are told to sing for joy because God has comforted us as his people with his covenant, and God has promised to have compassion upon you and your affliction. And I want to say one word about that, because this one really encourages me. How many of you know what the name Ephraim means? It's the name Joseph gave to his second son. Was Ephraim was Manasseh? No, Manasseh was Ephraim II. How many gave you a second son? How many of you have been in a how many in a time of season right now you think nothing could ever make me smile again I've been sold into slavery. I'll never see my home again. I'm a slave, a man. I'm in a prison. I'm in darkness. I'm in misery. My whole life turned out nothing like I had hoped and thought and planned and dreamed for. I don't even know what happened. Ephi means the God who made me fruitful in the land of my affliction. I don't know where you may be, but God can comfort you. You might think it's impossible to. God can comfort you. He's promised to do it. I will comfort my people there Affliction. Don't forget the name of Ephraim. That is the salvation that we are members of Christ and enjoy. We are missionaries of Christ, sharing his salvation to the ends of the earth, but we are also members in Christ. Sharing in that salvation, that comfort, that compassion. So I urge you to sing for joy Of God's great salvage. He's accomplished it. We enjoy it. Let's take it together to the ends of the earth. Let's keep taking it together as a church. The ends of the earth. Amen.