Habakkuk two will read the first four verses. I will take my stand at my watchpost. and station myself on the tower, and look out to see what he will say to me, and what I will answer concerning my complaint. And the Lord answered me, write the vision, make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it. For still the vision awaits its appointed time. It hastens to the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay. Behold, his soul is puffed up. It is not upright within him But the righteous shall live by his faith. This is the word of the Lord. Romans chapter 9, beginning at verse 30 and reading through 1013. What shall we say then? That Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it. That is, a righteousness that is by faith. But that Israel, who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness, did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone. As it is written, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved, for I bear witness That they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. For being ignorant of the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own They did not submit to God's righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. But the righteousness based on faith says Do not say in your heart who will ascend into heaven, that is to bring Christ down, or who will descend into the abyss, that is to bring Christ up from the dead. But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith that we proclaim. Because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified. And with the mouth one confesses and is saved. But the scripture says, for the scripture says, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for the continuing portion that we have before us of Paul's great letter to the church at Rome. And we pray that we will understand this portion and the whole and understand it spiritually and be able to make real-time application in Jesus' name. Amen. As I just mentioned in prayer, this is a letter from Paul to the church at Rome. And being such, it was meant to be read in one hearing. One hearing. You might imagine that you arrive in Rome. It's someplace where the church meets, you gather with the believers, and the elders come out and say, hey, we have a letter today. A letter from Paul, who's an apostle. And then everyone would sit still and listen while the elders would read Paul's letter, the whole thing, because they would keep it all together in context. There's a good reason why we're not doing that today, and you might guess it, but we take bits and pieces of it. And that's helpful to us because we're 2,000 years separated from the original writing and reading of the letter. And there are cultural differences and things that we don't quite understand. So we take it apart bit by bit. But we need to keep in mind the whole thing as we're studying the bits and pieces. The thing I've just described is what Justin Martyr says was the way the Christians would do when they gathered. He says They would gather together in one place, and the memoirs of the apostles or writings of the prophets would be read as long as time permits. So that's what they would do, and that's what we do. And then goes on to describe how they would celebrate the Lord's Supper, the Eucharist, as well. So we must always have the whole letter in mind as we study its part. And the main thing that's been propounded by the Apostle Paul so far is this one theme. That right standing with God, which he calls justification, is not on the basis of human efforts. Either human efforts by Gentiles obeying the light of their own conscience or the law of nature revealing that there is a God Or by the Jews who had the law and were keeping the precepts and principles and teachings and practices of the law that Salvation is not on the basis of either one of those groups of people doing their best to do what they could with what they had. It's not that. That's what he's been teaching, that it has always been by faith. Faith. Before the Christ came, faith in the promise that he would come, and after he came, faith in who he was and what he did for us. So the thesis in the first verse today is that the Gentiles who believe have been saved by Faith. The Gentiles have been saved by faith. That came as quite a shock sometimes to the Jews But he begins with the phrase in verse 30, what shall we say then? And we need to take a moment to think about his use of that phrase. This is a repeated characteristic of the apostle. He may have picked it up from his own teacher, the famous Rabbi Gamaliel. Or it might have simply become his own pattern. Preachers get patterns. I'm sure you could tell me what my patterns are if you've been listening much. But it's his way of saying, now, let's pause and think about where we have arrived in our argument. What shall we make of the facts that we have been considering? He puts it in the phrase, what shall we say then? And he's done this before. Back in Romans chapter 8, when he was summing a lot of things up. He says in verse 26, likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. And then he goes on to verse 28 And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose and so forth And in verse 30, and those whom he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. And then in verse 31, here is his characteristic phrase. And what shall we say to these things? And his answer is, one that you should remember, if God is for us, who can be against us? So here when he says, What shall we say then? The next thing is that the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have attained it. That is a righteousness that is by faith. Think about this. The Gentiles were not even trying to keep God's prescriptions for righteousness and life. They didn't care about the Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments recorded in Exodus chapter 20 God spoke all these words saying, I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. The Gentiles had plenty of other gods, a God for every need, a God for every concern. The Gentiles spent a lot of time and energy trying to serve the gods of rain and crops and fertility, and they even sacrificed their children to the gods that they served. Serve sometimes. The second commandment, you should not make for yourself a carved image, and so forth. Well, the Gentiles had plenty of carved images. They had poles, they had trees, they had statues of animals that served as their gods. The third commandment, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. The names, titles, and words and works of their false gods were used to swear, to swear by Foolish names of foolish gods for evil purposes. And they had no particular regard for Yahweh. the God of the Israelites. The Sabbath. The Sabbath is the fourth commandment. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy and so forth The Gentile pagans observed no weekly Sabbath. They often despised the Jews for doing so. Now, the pagans might have a calendar full of festivals and observances, but the weekly day of rest and worship of the true God was not one of them. And we go on to the sixth commandment. In the Gentile world, murder was often justified and tolerated. Especially when perpetrated by slave owners and husbands against one of their subordinates. Murder was normal for them. How about the commandment against adultery? Well, Gentile men could engage in adultery with impunity. Their wives, however, could not. How about stealing? The commandment against stealing. There was no absolute respect for personal property amongst the pagans. The pagan rule was often, might makes right. If I can get it from you, I will. How about not lying? You shall not bear false witness. Well, deceit was often acceptable, especially towards someone of another race or class. How about covetousness? Covetousness. You shall not covet your neighbor's house and so forth and so on. This tenth commandment drills down into the heart where sins cannot be seen. And so the pagans had nothing like this. Nothing like this was codified in their pagan world. Now, on the other hand, contrast to that, observant Jews were very, very busy with obedience to the law of God. Besides the Ten Commandments, there were also laws of the Holiness Code regulating daily life. There were laws of sacrifice and ceremony which regulated worship. The Jews were busy, busy, busy, busy. The Gentiles were not busy with these things. The Gentiles did not keep the holiness laws about what not to eat. They would eat anything. They did not observe rules about contamination and hand washing and sexual practices, etc. They did not observe circumcision for newborn boys that did not keep the Sabbath. And yet, now, all of a sudden, this apostle Paul guy, according to the gospel he's preaching, is saying that A Gentile could simply turn to Jesus in faith, believing that he died for him or her, and be Declared a hundred percent righteous. Get off scot free Scandalous, absolutely scandalous. But that is Paul's thesis, and he says it here. And now we move to antithesis. Antithesis in verses 31 and following. The Israelites who tried hard to attain righteousness apart from Christ. stumbled over Christ. You have to kind of picture that mentally. Somebody stumbling over something right in front of them. Verse 31, but that Israel, who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness, did not succeed in reaching that law Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were by works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone, as it is written, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. Here's the bottom line of that. If the Jews had observed the commandments and rules given to Israel, and some did. If they had observed the commandments and rules given to Israel with, listen, this is the key, with humble reliance upon God. Knowing that they could never be good enough. And if they had trusted the promises of God to send a Messiah who would quote fulfill all righteousness Whose name would be, quote, the Lord our righteousness, end quote, they would have been saved before the coming of Christ. And they would have embraced Christ when He came. But what did they do instead? They stumbled over the stumbling stone right in front of them. That brings us to the third point. We're moving quickly. The stumbling Jews and other stumblers. Romans 10, 1 through 13. Paul here is again expressing his anguish for his kinsmen, his family, his friends. Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. You see, they put their zeal to work in pursuit of achievement, personal achievement. They had a zeal for God without knowing that no one can be saved by mere zeal. It's a lot like the Hasidic Jews that we find in Brooklyn today, who keep thousands of rules, even in modern Brooklyn, New York. But they rely on their race and their possession of the rules as their righteousness. I found these Sabbath rules on Brooklyn Unplugged. Sabbath rules say that activities that are prohibited include driving, using any electric device, cooking, shopping, or handling money. A Jewish person is not even allowed to carry any object outside of their home. All Hasidic, ultra-orthodox rules apply to Jewish people only. This is the reason that occasionally Hasidic Jewish people will ask a non-Jewish person to perform a basic task for them, such as turning on a light. turning on an air conditioner, etc. When enlisting a non-Jewish person to assist them, they will try to avoid making a direct request because that might be work. They will hint at it and hope that the non-Jew will understand and help them. For example, they'll say, it's very dark in here. It would be brighter if a light switch was turned on. And hope you get it. Modesty. Hasidic Jews practice modesty. Hasidic Jewish women would follow strict rules of modesty They do follow strict rules in monastery. Skirts hang below the knees and sleeves extend past the elbows. When a woman gets married, the rule is that she must always keep her hair covered Some Hasidic women shave their heads, which they are covered with something else out in public. And the reason for this is they are taking the rules of modesty to the most extreme. saying if she has no hair then it won't be possible for a man to see it. Wow. Really trying hard, huh? Yeah. So Jews try hard even today. And we know of other religious groups, Islamic terrorists, right? They try hard They will blow you up and blow themselves up in their zeal. But such zeal is not based on the truth about Jesus, whom they name as a prophet. These persons stumble just as the Jews of Paul's time did. Have you ever stumbled over something? A piece of furniture got moved and you didn't notice it. It was your constant habit to walk right through where that thing now was and you ran right into it and you stumbled over it. I'm going to date myself a little bit here, but years ago there was a comedy called The Dick Van Dyke Show. And at the beginning, when the credits rolled Nearly every program Rob Petrie, played by Dick Van Dyke, would stumble and fall. As he entered the living room, he stumbled over the ottoman that his dear wife Laura Petri had put there That was funny. It was a comedy. But it is not funny that members of historic Christian churches or of religious sects which of which your neighbors may be members, who self-identify as Christians, seek a righteousness by works. In place of the gift of righteousness given apart from works by faith alone Take, for instance, a big instance, our Roman Catholic neighbors. They repeat the same Apostles' Creed and Nicene Creed at their churches as we do here in ours. They believe in the Trinity as we do. They believe in the virgin birth and full deity and humanity of Jesus as we do. They believe he died for our sins and rose again from death as we do. But listen to the official teaching of their church as it was developed. from 1544 to 1563 and stated in the councils of the the canons of the council of Trent. I'll give you three of them. Canon 9 says, listen listen If anyone saith that by faith alone the impious is justified, in such wise as to mean that nothing else is required to cooperate in order to obtain the grace of justification And that it is not in any way necessary that he be prepared or disposed by the movement of his own will, let him be anathema. Or canon 12. If anyone shall say that justifying faith is nothing else than confidence in the divine mercy, pardoning sins for Christ's sake. Or that it is that confidence alone by which we are justified, let him be accursed. Canon 30. If anyone saith that after the grace of justification has been received, to every penitent sinner the guilt is remitted, and the debt of eternal punishment is blotted out. Let him be anathema. Wow. So here's what I will do with this. If our Roman Catholic friends trust in Jesus as the only sacrifice to atone for all their sins, And to give them the gift of God's righteousness, as the Apostle Paul is teaching here, then they are justified by faith alone, even though their church teaches something different. If they, on the other hand, accept the councils, the canons of the Council of Trent, and reject what Paul is teaching, but instead trust in their obedience to the dictates of church tradition. They are stumbling. That's what he's talking about here. They are stumbling. They're stumbling over Jesus, even though he's right in front of them. Even though he's named over and over and over. In this case, they will be as lost as the Jews who rejected Christ. Why? Because they are trusting themselves instead of Jesus and besides Jesus. They're stumbling, just as the Jews did. And by the way, lest you think I'm into Catholic bashing, let me take a swipe at Protestant. Many Protestant churches have degenerated into nothing more than religious social service organizations And they do not teach the scriptures. They may have the right doctrine in their official documents, but they have cast those things aside to teach: do good, be good. Well, the definition of good keeps changing year by year, since they are now untethered from Scripture and sound confessions. So in the case of all these, Paul was saying that Jesus was right there in plain sight. And for the Jews, he was right there in plain sight in all the prophecies and promises, types and sacrifices of Israel. He was right there, hard to miss, unless They were preoccupied with another agenda establishing their own righteousness. That was their other agenda. And he says in verse 3 of chapter 10, For being ignorant of the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own, that's the key, they did not submit to God's righteousness. For Christ, verse 4 is the, this is important. Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. The end word there is the word telos. It means goal or object or final cause. He is the goal of the whole revelation of the law. It was pointing to him. Adam Clark sums up that on that verse. He says this, where the law ends, Christ begins. The law ends with representative sacrifices. Christ begins with a real offering. The law, our schoolmaster, leads us to Christ, but it cannot save. It leaves us at the door where alone salvation is to be found. Christ is an atoning sacrifice for sin. He was the grand object of the whole sacrificial code of Moses. His passion and death were the fulfillment of its great object and design. That's what it means to be the end of the law. Not the abolishment of the law, but the goal of the law. Then he goes on in verse 5, for Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them. If it was possible to keep all of God's commandments whole and entire outwardly and inwardly with sincerity, then you would have righteousness. It would be yours. You could present your record to God. And he would accept you in your own right. You would live forever on the basis of the records that you had to present. But You have not done so. The goal cannot be met by you. But it was met by Christ. who is the goal, the end, the purpose of all of it. Now listen to Paul's description of simple faith. It's kind of a complex thing, but it boils down to simple faith. Listen in verse 6. He says, but the righteousness based on faith says Do not say in your heart, who will ascend to heaven, that is to bring Christ down, or who will descend into the abyss, that is to bring Christ up from the dead. And what Matthew Henry says about this, he says, the sinner need not perplex himself how this righteousness may be found. When we speak of looking upon Christ and receiving and feeding upon him, it is not Christ in heaven or Christ in the deep that we mean, but Christ in the promise, Christ in the offered word. And then he says, justification by faith in Christ is a plain doctrine. It is brought before the mind and heart of everyone who hears it, thus leaving him without excuse. Then he goes on, Paul goes on in verse 8. What does it say? This simple message of faith? What does it say? The word is near you. In your mouth, in your heart, that is the word of faith that we proclaim. Verse 9: Because if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. You will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified. And with the mouth, this is a parallelism, one confesses and is saved. For the scripture says, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call upon him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Go back to the beginning, verse 30 of chapter 9. What shall we say then? Don't stumble over Jesus. That's what we shall say. Don't stumble over Jesus. He's right in front of you. But if any person sincerely confesses faith in Jesus as Lord and Savior of lost sinners, and really believes in his heart that God has raised him from the dead. Thus showing that the Father has accepted the atonement made by him, he will be saved by the righteousness of Christ imputed to him through. Faith alone. That's the what shall we say to these things Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved by faith alone. Call upon the name of the Lord in this way, and be confident that you are saved. Amen. Lord, we thank you that Paul makes it plain and clear. He shows us how striving and trying hard and giving our human efforts, whether they were Gentile efforts or Jewish efforts or Islamic efforts or Catholic efforts or do good Protestant efforts will never save us. Never. We must trust in the one who is perfect. Who can give us his righteousness, his perfect record, and gives it to us when we cling to him by faith alone. We thank you. Amen.