So we look at this portion called Lamed tonight. And the first point, there will be two. The first point is a faithful God. And his fixed word. A faithful God and his fixed word. Do you know what postmodernism is? Postmodernism says that texts like the Bible are merely power plays. They are what they call meta-narratives to gain control by one group over another. So that the Bible's meta-narrative is a, they would say, a patriarchal meta-narrative, so that men keep their control over women, for instance Or that Jews keep their control over the world of Gentiles. It's just their story, it's just their version of reality. Just their meta-narrative. It's not true or false. It may be true for them, but the others will say, no, I don't like it. It's not my meta-narrative. It's not my truth. So, postmodernism says there is no truth, no fixed meaning. Your truth is your truth, my truth is my truth. Now, I thought about that, and I can think of a couple of silly examples. I don't think that a postmodern engineer Who built a plane, you would not want to fly in that plane. I think it might not get off the ground And I'll give you another example to show you why. Let's just say that we had a postmodern carpenter who was building a house. This postmodern carpenter, he has uh his measurements according to his self-made rule and his measuring tape that he made for himself. And then there's another carpenter also who maybe be working with him, supplementing his work, who has not the same measuring tool or instrument, but he has a subjective sense of length and breadth and height. He just kind of eyeballs things. His truth is his truth and the other guy's truth is his. One day the guy with the ruler says, the foot is about like this, you know, 10. 6 inches. Another day he feels a little different about a foot. This next day it's 13. 1. one inches. Just whatever he feels like. And you know that such a building would be pretty lopsided and ugly and would not stand The corners would not be square, it would fall down the first time a little wind came along. Postmodernism is foolish. Isn't it? The idea that there's no standard, there's no rule, there's no right, there's no wrong, there's no truth, no absolute truth, only Only your narrative or my narrative. Contrary to that, we have this statement: that the word of God is settled Fixed in heaven. Not merely in the heart or mind of a psalmist, it is objectively settled in heaven Whether the psalmist or anyone else believes it to be or not. If someone were to say to the psalmist, hey, that's your opinion. That's good for you, The psalmist would object with the utmost vehemence that God's word is settled in heaven, quite apart from anyone's opinion. Genesis 1:1 tells us that the Word of God itself is what established the earth and causes it to abide. The earth and all of creation began with the Word of God, Genesis 1, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. And God said, and there was, and God said, and there was over and over again And it is therefore no surprise that they are also sustained and endure according to the Word of God. David Guzick says, this gives new understanding to some wonderful statements of Scripture. Statements like this from Isaiah 40, verse 8. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever. For this from Jesus In Matthew 24, verse 35, heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. These passages and others like them put the Word of God outside the created world and indicate that the Word of God is more permanent and enduring than creation itself. Since the created world came into being by God's word and is sustained by God's word, this makes perfect sense. So verse 91 says, By your appointment they stand this day, for all things are your servants. One commentator says, it is not settled at Tubigen. That's a university in Germany. Germany, where there are scripture scholars, as they call themselves. It is not settled at Harvard. It is not settled at Heidelberg. It is not settled at Oxford. It is not settled at Paris. There is quite a debate at the seminaries these days, says this commentator. We care not for any of that when we know what God says. Forever, O Lord, your word. Is settled in heaven. In heaven. Bridges says: if I can prove a word to have been spoken by God, I must no more question it than his own being. It may seem to fail on earth, but it is forever settled in heaven. Spurgeon, who was beginning to feel the pressures from the liberals of his day the quote scripture scholars of his day says this. He says, after tossing about on a sea of trouble, the psalmist here leaps to the shore and stands upon a rock. Jehovah's word is not fickle nor uncertain. It is not settled. It is settled, I mean. Determined, fixed, sure, immovable. Man's teachings change so often that there is never time for them to be settled. But the Lord's word is from old, the same, and will remain unchangeable. Settled. The phrase firmly fixed in the heavens. In this phrase, the psalmist declares his belief that the word of God. Was exactly that, not the words of men, but the very words of God. He believed that the scriptures come from heaven and not earth, from the Lord and not man. He believes what we also know from 2 Timothy 3. 16, a verse that is worthy of mention. memory. If you're ever going to memorize any verses, if you memorize John 3. 16, also memorize 2 Timothy 3. 16. Because it says this, all scripture is breathed out by God and is profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in right. Righteousness. This means something more than saying that God inspired the men who wrote it, though we believe that He did. God also inspired the very words they wrote. We notice that it doesn't say all scripture writers are inspired by God, even though that is true. Yet the statement doesn't go far enough. The words they wrote were breathed by God. Your word is firmly fixed to the heavens. It isn't that God breathes into the human authors merely But what Paul wrote in 2 Timothy 3. 16 is that God breathed out of them his holy word. And remember what Jesus says in Matthew 5. 18. You have to have a mental picture of this, otherwise it might not rest. register with you, think about it. Jesus said in Matthew 5. 18 that not one jot or tittle will pass from the law till all is fulfilled. Now the jot refers to a yod. It's a very small little jag in the Hebrew. It's the smallest letter, it's just a little jag. Tiny little thing. And a tittle is just a little a little bitty extension. If you if you have a cough in In Hebrew, it's just kind of a C backwards. A C. But if it has a little bitty thing going back the other way after the C has been completed little bitty stick out that way, that is a tittle, that little bit that sticks out the other side. It makes it into a different letter. It makes it into a bait. Or the difference between a Daleth and a Resh. A Resh looks kind of like an R, which works really well for Resh. An R. But if the R has a little extension out this way and then comes down, that little bit that sticks out, that makes it a dollar. It changes it. And the difference between a wow and a Zion, a wow is just a straight line down. But a Zion is a straight line with a little cross on top. little tittle on top. And it changes it into a different letter. These are tiny, small, almost insignificant differences, yet Jesus said that Even these smallest differences would not pass away from God's word. He said that the heaven and earth would sooner pass away than a yod or a tittle from the word of God. Truly, God's word is firmly fixed in the heavens. So every preacher Should be able to say, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens, and believe it. Otherwise, he has no authority to preach. The minister that you get here following me needs to be firmly convinced that God's word is true from beginning. Beginning to end, and that it exists outside of mere human invention. Spurgeon again comments about those who were toying with trying to figure out the Bible and and doubting its its authorship and so forth and then trying to concoct their doctrines based on their doubts and their their science, so-called scientific reasoning. He says this, they say they are thinking out their doctrines I would be greatly sorry to have to think out the road to heaven without the guiding star of heaven's grace or the map of the word. Not gospel preachers, but gospel makers, these men aspire to be. And their message comes forth not as the gospel of the grace of God, but as the gospel of the imagination of men A gospel concocted in their own kitchen, not taught them by the Holy Spirit. It is the reverse of being. settled in heaven. It is not even settled in the mind of the inventor. Well, 50 or 60 years after Spurgeon, In this country, we have the great J. Gresham Machin, who wrote a classic that is still as relevant today as it ever was Called Christianity and Liberalism. And the basis for his thesis in this book, Christianity Christianity versus liberalism. Liberal Christianity, as so-called, is not Christianity at all. It's a different religion entirely. But the basis for his making that thesis statement is the fact that these Liberals forgot the Word of God, threw away the Word of God, dismissed the Word of God, doubted the Word of God. Stand over the Word of God. And so these are a number of statements from that book that I think are worth hearing. Here. He says, first statement, the chief modern rival of Christianity is liberalism. An examination of the The teachings of liberalism in comparison with those of Christianity will show that at every point the two movements are in direct opposition. Second, the many varieties of modern liberal religion are rooted in naturalism, that is, in the denial of any entrance of the creative power of God, as distinguished in the From the ordinary course of nature in connection with the origin of Christianity. So the Word of God, the power of God. is what's the problem here. Third, here it is found the most fundamental difference between liberalism and Christianity. Liberalism is altogether in the imperative mood. Do this While Christianity begins with a triumphant indicative, liberalism appeals to man's will while Christianity announces first a gracious act of God. Then he says, it is no wonder then that liberalism is totally different from Christianity, for the foundation is different. Christianity is founded upon the Bible. It bases upon the Bible both its thinking and its life. Liberalism, on the other hand, is founded upon the shifting emotions of sinful men Another statement. The movement designated as liberalism is regarded as liberal only by its friends. To its opponents, it's It seems to involve a narrow ignoring of many relevant facts, the facts of the Word of God. There are doctrines of modern liberalism just as tenaciously and intolerantly upheld as any doctrine of modern liberalism. That find a place in the historic creeds. And then he says: vastly more important than all questions with regard to methods of preaching is the root question as to what it is that shall be. Another statement. The greatest menace to the Christian Church today comes not from the enemies outside, but from the enemies within. Anti-Christian to the core. Then he says, but if any one fact is clear, on the basis of this evidence, it is that the Christian movement at its inception was not just a way of life in the modern sense. But a way of life founded upon a message. It was based not upon mere feeling, not upon mere program of work, but upon an account of facts. In other words, it was based upon doctrine. And that doctrine is from the Word of God. So there are many statements here That Machin makes pointing to the strength and truth of the Bible. And we need to stand in those verses that we just read on the fact that the Bible is settled in heaven, the word of God is settled in heaven, it is reliable. It cannot be convoluted or turned over in any way. It is settled in heaven. That leads us to a little bit further, the faithful God at the end His people. The next phrase: your faithfulness endures to all generations. The psalmists believed that the word of God was a demonstration of the faithfulness of God. And that faithfulness extends to all generations. We recognize the truth of this when we look at generations past. We trace the line of the amazing faithfulness of God to each generation, despite the worst impulses of the works of men. We also recognize the truth that when we consider generations present and future, the present and future can often look gloomy. We wonder where are the great men and women of God seen in previous generations. But when I attend our General Assembly, as I did a few years ago, And meet young men who are filling up the ranks of those who are retired or gone to glory. I realize that I should not fear Because, as the psalmist says, your faithfulness endures to all generations. God will supply. God saves and keeps everything And endows future ministers of the gospel, future missionaries, future faithful Christians God has preserved his word through the generations. There are many great works of ancient literature that are lost. One author or another makes mention of them, but we have no text that has survived to our day but the Bible. The Bible not only survives, it thrives. The Bible has been an object of extreme hatred by many in authority. Boyce says they tried to stamp it out, but the text survived. In the early days of the church, Celsus, Prophy, and Lucian tried to destroy it by their arguments. Later the emperors, Diocletian and Julian, tried to destroy it by force. In some periods of history it was a capital to offense to possess a copy of the Bible, and in some places in the world today it is a capital offense. offense to possess a copy of the Bible. I'm sure it is in North Korea, for instance. Yet the text survives everywhere. You have established the earth, the psalmist says, and it stands fast. The word of God is what established that earth that stands fast. The earth and all creation began with the Word of God, and it is no surprise that they are sustained and endure according to the Word of God. And here's the text I was going to read from Hebrews. Hebrews 1, 1 through 3. Listen to this text, which is a beautiful parallel to this psalm Hebrews 1, 1 through 3. Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom he also created the world. Now we read in Genesis that God created the world by the Word of God, but we know that he created the world by the Word of God through The word, his son, Christ. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. There it is again. He created the universe by the word. He upholds the universe by the word of his power. And then the Hebrews writer says, after making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. So this psalm again gives us wonderful statements to think about. Statements such as we've already heard. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands. Forever. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. Matthew 24, 35. indicate that the word of God is more permanent and enduring than creation itself. That reminds me also of another passage very similar, which underlines this teaching. Jeremiah thirty-one. Jeremiah thirty-one, verses thirty-five through thirty-seven. And the days of Jeremiah, Jeremiah is the the weeping prophet. He is the the crying prophet because he had to say about God's judgment coming. about the Babylonians carrying away the Jews. He had to pro he had to talk about that all the time. And it wasn't popular. But he also, through God, God's word assures, he assures, God assures his people. that his promises will not fail, even though this judgment has to come, even though they have to be exiled. And here's where it is. Verse 35. Thus says the Lord, who gives the Son for light By day, and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night. What does that recall in your mind? Genesis 1. Who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar? The Lord of hosts is his name. And then he says, If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the Lord, then shall the offspring of Israel cease from being a nation before me forever. Thus says the Lord, if the heavens above can be measured and the foundations of the earth below can be explored, then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done, declares the Lord. So Jeremiah assures them, God assures them, that God will keep his word. He will not cast them off forever. He will restore them. And he ties it to the creation which is tied to the Word of God. So Spurgeon says this: Let us be confident then. Whenever God means to break his word and change his ordinances, We may expect to find this earth go st go steaming into the sun, or else it will rush far off into space. Nobody knows where. But while it keeps its place, what you and I have to worry about is nothing. Is it not the sign that the Lord will keep us also? He said So that leads us to verse 92. If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction. The psalmist looked at the created order. Understand that all creation ultimately serves God and his purpose, the earth which he established and which abides, obeys his word. Derek Kittner says: the striking feature of these verses is the coupling of God's created world-sustaining word with his law for man. Both are the product of the same ordering mind. And not only men, but all things are his servants. So, from that If your law had not been my delight, if I hadn't had a fixed understanding, a confidence That you are true and what you say is true, and that I can rely upon it and believe everything that you say. If I had not had that testimony, I would not have been able to survive. I would have perished. Which leads us to wonder, how can people around us who have not the Word of God, who have no fixed point of anything. Their feet are firmly planted in mid-air. How can they survive? How can they live their lives? Without a foundation. And the remainder of this psalm is a testimony to the stability that issues from the foundation of the world. Which is settled in heaven, tied to the fixed order of the universe that God sustains by the word of his power I'm not going to expound on it any further since the rest of the Psalm, as you look at it, verses 93 through 96 are a familiar refrain through this psalm and many others like it. But listen To it one more time. Listen to the testimony of your brother David about what the Word of God does to him. If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my Affliction. Are you afflicted? Do you need the law of God to be your delight? I will never forget your precepts, for by them you have given me life. How do you get life? How do you have real, real life, not just existence, but real life by God's precepts I am yours, save me, for I have sought your precepts. The wicked lie in wait to destroy me. Do we not have enemies without and within the world, world system, which Leads us astray. Our own flesh, which leads us astray, and the devil The wicked lie and wait to destroy him, but I consider your testimonies. And then he says, In this beautiful last verse, I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your commandment is exceedingly broad. No limit there. All of the things that might be perfected, might be made good in this world have a limit. But your commandment is exceedingly Broad. Wonderful testimony to the power of the Word of God to order life. We are saved and preserved by the fixed word of God from heaven. Amen. Lord, as we consider this portion of your word tonight, we pray that you'll strengthen us. To believe, to know that your word is indeed settled, that it is reliable, that it is true. When we are prone to doubt, wondering whether things that we have believed from the Bible are really true. When we are prone to doubt the promises that have been made to us by our God in Jesus Christ, The promises of raised bodies and life everlasting, of forgiveness of sins, when our own flesh leads us astray and the world squeezes us into its mold, helping us Help us to find help by relying upon your fixed word from heaven. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.