Well, I knew this day was coming, Congregation, but I would have to deliver a sermon on these words to you. So I began preparing months ago for it. And I uh with great joy look forward to delivering it because it has led me to love the Redeemer even more. So I hope to get that across this morning. That we together would have another reason, a greater reason to appreciate Christ. And his work of redemption for us, and the benefits of that already given to us in this life, and of course, all that we have to look forward to. Now to begin, so we confess this every week, right, when we use the Apostles' Creed. The Nicene doesn't have it in words, it has it in thought. We say something about that. But every week we say he descended into hell, or used to say that, now we say Hades, and we'll talk about Why that is. But Christians throughout the world and to the history of the church has confessed this. So this morning, what we want to aim at as a congregation is to understand what we mean by that When we confess our faith that Christ ascended into hell. What does that mean? To get our toes wet and to begin to understand it, let's start with the obvious fact to us this morning, as we just saw. The Reformed Church has given different creedal statements about it. In the Heidelberg Catechism, it's treated as something that took place on the cross. And not as an actual place that our Lord went. And in the larger catechism, it's treated as a place, the abode of the dead, where the Lord went, as we remained under the power of death there So what do we do about that? Who is right? Are they both right? Is one saying something we can just add to it? You know, what's going on I'm going to use the words of uh Johannes Vas, the son of your hardest Voss. Some of you may know that name. Um His commentary on the larger catechism as a good statement, I think, that summarizes the differences, and I'll use it so I can succinctly hopefully aid you in understanding it He says, and I quote, some Protestants hold that the words, He descended into hell, refer to Christ's sufferings on the cross. That is, that he descended into hell not as a place, but as an experience of suffering And he says, while this idea is doctrinally sound, it is historically unwarranted. That word means not authorized or justifiable. Because the word translated hell in the Apostles' Creed is not Gehenna. the place of punishment, but Hades, the realm of the of the dead or death. Our catechism teaches that the words, he descended into hell, refer to Christ being buried And continuing under the power of death for a time, the word hell being understood as the realm of the power of death. So the difference uh and I read um one of the writers of the Heidelberg, Your Signus, he has a commentary, you can buy it. And he tells you why he goes with this. You you should all know that uh the way that the Heidelberg Catechism understands this has never been understood in the Christian church that way until the Reformation. And Calvin was the innovator of that. Nobody's exactly sure what motivated Calvin that. Obviously he loved God's word and loved the Bible and wanted to be faithful to it. But they were also dealing with changes in science, how we view the world The Copernican Revolution kind of impacts the Bible's three-tiered view and for some of a heaven and earth. And an under the earth you find in Revelation 5 and Philippians 2 and assumed everywhere in Scripture. So some ages thought we can't actually believe in this place, so what's it saying? Some may want to completely react right against purgatory. And I want to say to you clearly this morning, as clearly as I can Because I believe I go to the larger catechism here. Hades is not purgatory. Purgatory does not exist. It never has existed. It never will exist. There is no place you go after this life to get better Amen. That work of b hell uh purgatory is invented because we don't it's not we don't love we don't depart loving God perfectly yet. You can only go to heaven if you love God perfectly, so we invent the place there, right? That work has already been started in you here. You have the perfect seed that regenerated in you already. It's just God's bringing it to fruition and he will complete it at that day. But there is no place after this life. You must repent now and believe in Jesus. if you would spend forever with them in his kingdom. So I just want to say that clear so we don't cloud that when the church professes that are fathers they had in their mind purgatory, because they never did. That came out hundreds of years ever before the Christian church. taught this and believed this and was in the creed. So Hades has nothing to do with purgatory. Now the reason they take this view is because uh well let me start with this. Hell Hell could be the right word to use here if our English translators decided not to use it to translate two Greek words. That's really the problem is it it introduces confusion because they will translate the word Hades, which is a Greek translation of the Hebrew word shool, abode of the dead. The underworld, the subterranean place, for sea, where Old Testament saints went before Christ. Also the unrighteous too. We'll talk all about that. But they also use hell to translate Gehenna, the lake of fire That is not yet actually inhabited by anybody. Satan's not there. In Revelation 20, 14, death and hell get dumped into it. So Gehenna is a future abode that the impenitent go forever and never come out of as they are cast off from God's presence. So the unfortunate thing is hell in our Bible, English versions of the Bible, translate both of these words. So we all wince and squeamish when we say he descended into hell because Jesus didn't go burn in the fire when he died. His sufferings are done on the cross. One of the wonderful things I learned in studying this is actually the descent is that turning point of his humiliation to his victory. And it actually begins. his victory. And we'll talk more about that. But the the descent has nothing to do with him further suffering. Many understand it too and the way John puts his gospel together That is actually on the Saturday, the old Sabbath, he is a day of rest actually. So he's not suffering there in Hades, which we'll we'll talk about that That's probably the biggest reason I understand why Protestants want to excise this, and some have argued for it and get rid of it because hell's just not a really good English translation for it. If hell meant to us Hades it would be fine, but hell generally means to us the lake of fire, and that's not true. And so we really have a hard time confessing that. If you're here this morning and you want to confess he sent it into hell, please don't mean by that lake of fire, because he didn't, but please mean by that the abode of dead. That's why we switched it to confessing Hades, because it clearly draws out what's being said. As I'll show you from scripture in a minute, Jesus told us he was going there, and he went there. Hell is also, if you use Hades is used in Scripture to refer to metaphorically the pains of hell. And so that's what really motivated your sinus was, well it says, and we'll talk about this, when Jesus died on the cross, he was going to be with the thief in paradise. Well, that's obviously not the lake of fire And scripture uses in several places, particularly in the Psalms, to talk about the pains of hell or Hades have taken hold upon me and the anguish of it. So he thought Well, we need to then interpret this metaphorically and treat the descent as something that took place on the cross rather than as a local place. So that's how he got himself into this. It's just confusion about the Latin word being used to translate the Greek word for Hades as it was used in the church. So confusion is what's caused The I would say the though they were trying to be faithful to the Bible and I as Voss says here, what the height of word catechism says is trying to be sound. Jesus did suffer the wrath of God on the cross that we might not go there and redeemed us from those hellish torments. So we can say yes and amen to that But I'm convinced from scripture, and hopefully convince you if you're not, that we also need to confess he did locally descend to the place of the dead as part of his redeeming work. So my message to you this morning from God's Word Congregation is this. You and I, when we die, Will not descend to Hades like Christ and like the fathers, but we will go to heaven We're Christ and the Fathers are, because of Jesus' redeeming work, and by our bond of union with him. That's the good news. Now, uh like you I don't know, I I just always I didn't really know what to do, I guess, with Hades up until this point. I just thought when you die you go to heaven Well, that hasn't always been true. That's true now because of Christ's redeeming work. So this should bring us to greatly appreciate living in the Messiah's reign and kingdom and the already and not yet. But that wasn't always true, and so we'll talk about that. Now here as we talk about it this morning, congregation, as we talk about it, three things. Why you should believe that Jesus descended to Hades. why he descended there and what it means for us today. So why Jesus, or why you should believe it Why he did this sin, and what that means for us today. So let's start with why you should believe it. Well, if you want to turn with me in your Bible to our gospel reading, Matthew 12, the first reason, congregation, that you and I should believe that Jesus descended to Hades is because he said it. When he was asked by the scribes and Pharisees for a sign, because they didn't want to believe all the ones he'd been giving them and their hardness of heart, he said, You won't, except for this one, the sign of Jonah. For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart. of the earth. There you tell us Jesus is going to give them a sign that they might believe He is God's anointed one and sent to them and stop denying it and confess it And it's the sign of Jonah, where he tells you, I'm going to spend three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Now the heart of the earth is not used anywhere else in the New Testament. You might say it's coined by Jesus here But since Jesus is clearly referring to Jonah, let's go to Jonah chapter 2 and understand what Jesus means by heart of the earth. So Jesus predicted, I'll spend three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. He said it. Go back to Jonah. We read there in verse 17 as we read that the great fish, God sent a great fish to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days, three nights, same length of time, right? But look what Jonah says there in chapter 2, beginning there in verse 2, I called out the Lord on my stress, he answered me Out of the belly of Sheal, I cried. No, it's up there real quick. Because you might think, out of the belly of the great fish, I cried. Because that's where Jonah is, as it says there in verse 17. I was in the belly of the great fish for three days. So why is Jonah saying, Out of the belly of Sheal, I'm crying to you, instead of as he really is? In the belly of a great fish. And he goes on, he says, You've cast me into the deep. And verse 3, the heart of the seas. All your ways and builds have passed over me. The waters closed on my head, verse five, the deep surrounded me, weeds are wrapped up on my head at the roots of the mountains. Now I don't have time this morning to take you from the prophets and psalms, but everything Jonah is saying here, I'm crying from out of the belly of Shol, and all these languages of heart of the seas, roots of the mountains, deep places. If you just want to go home and pull a concordance out and look up the word shool, you're going to find all these phrases associated with it throughout Scripture. Roots of mountains, deep places, in the seas. Jonah is describing here that by his disobedience, remember he's running from the Lord's command to preach, that cost him his life. Disobedience pleads to death. So he is crying out of that to God and People guess is he really penitent here? That's not the point. He is describing his experience in the fish as if he had died and gone to Hades shoal himself. And anybody who had known the Old Testament know would say, yeah, that's what Jonah's describing here, a death scene. But God in his mercy, right, vomits him back out to new life And then he goes and preaches to the Ninevehit as a sign, saying, And if you disobey this word of repent too, guess what's going to happen to you? Death. Like me Same with Jesus today. If you disobey this sign and don't believe my message of repentance, you too will die. Because Jesus came and suffered death and went to Sheal voluntarily to redeem us from our sin. So, first reason why you should believe it is Jesus said it I'm going to be here. Sign of Jonah, and he was there. Here's the second reason you should believe it. Peter and Paul preach it. The apostles preach it. Jesus said it. And the apostles preach it. Turn to Acts chapter 2. Acts chapter 2, and we'll read verse 27 and verse 31. Verse 27 is actually a quote. Verse 27 in Acts 2 is in the middle of a quote from Psalm 16. I'm sure you're familiar with it. As Peter is preaching the resurrection, the good news, how we know Jesus is the Messiah, because he rose from the dead As God said he would. And he says in verse 27, quoting Psalm 16, For you will not abandon my soul to Hades. Sheol in Hebrew, Hades in Greek, or let your holy one see corruption. And then down in verse 31, preaching this to the people, that David can't be talking about himself. Because David is still dead, and his body has seen corruption. So he says, David foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of Christ That he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. Now, brothers and sisters, you can't be abandoned to Hades if you've never been there. Right? If you've never actually gone to Hades, you can't be left there. That's what abandoning means. It means to be left. So the apostles preach, according to God's word in Psalm 16, Jesus went to Hades. Good news, he didn't stay in Hades, and that means he is the Christ, because when David wrote those words, he was talking about the resurrection of Christ. So Peter preaches it. Turn to Romans chapter 10. And Romans chapter 10. Paul preaches it. So the apostle to the Jews preaches it. Paul is the apostle to the Gentiles, also preaches it, and that should tell us this is what the church preaches. Jesus said it Peter preached it. Here Paul says it. In chapters 10 here, Paul is trying to tell us how easy it is to be saved. How easy it is to be justified. You just have to believe this word of faith. And he tells you, here's the word of faith, beginning in verse 6 Do not say in your hearts, who will ascend into heaven, that is right, to bring Christ down. Or what? Who will descend into the abyss, that is, to bring Christ up from the dead. Now, abyss is like the really bottom part of Hades. It's used here and every other place in Scripture. It's just used in the book of Revelation, and it's where all the bad things come out of. We'll talk about a little bit, but God has not given us a definite map. We like to draw maps and diagrams. It'd be great if God gave us an authorized diagram of the universe. Settle all that, right? Well he did it. We pieced together. Um many people who put their Bibles together, it actually comes from Isaiah 26. if it should be interpreted this way, God talks to his people, talking about go into your chambers and the question is, are he talking about people are dead here or alive? And so the rabbis thought, there's chambers, there's compartments in Hades. There's different places. There's a place for the righteous. There's a place for the unrighteous. Well Paul's saying here, the word that we preach is the one where Jesus went into the abyss. That just is really just a synonym for Hades, the deep place. But again, good news. He's not there. He's ascended into heaven. He went there, so you and I won't have to Now we might also ascend with him to heaven. So Jesus said, here's where I'm going, sign of Jonah. Peter preached it on in Acts again You might say God said it as well, because the Spirit of God said it in Psalm 16, pen through David about the resurrection of Christ. You won't abandon my soul to Hades And Paul preached it in his gospel, we don't need to descend down to the abyss to go find Jesus, because he has been raised, which means we're not in our sins if we believe in him, and you can be justified by that good news. Also, and I'll just give you two quotes here real quick. This is what the church has always confessed. Here's one quote from St. Augustine. He says, Who but an unbeliever would deny that Christ was among the dead And let me also say a word about this. It is very modern for us to think state of the dead. The Bible doesn't talk about a state of the dead, it talks about a place of the dead. Death, of course, is a state, but dead people go somewhere. Your bodies go to the grave, and your soul went to Hades before Christ. Now if you die in God's favor as a believer in Christ, you go to heaven. But the place of the dead is what we mean by it When Jesus, when we confess, he rose from the dead, that word is always plural in Greek. Necroi means dead ones. He rose from the place where the dead ones go. That's what we mean when we confess the resurrection. Calvin, so Calvin takes the interpretation of the Heidelberg Catechism, but listen what Calvin says. This is why he treats it. This much is uncontroverted, that it was in accordance with the general sentiment of all believers. Since there is none of the fathers who does not mention Christ's descent into hell, though they have various modes of explaining it. End quote. Nobody in the church has ever denied this. Heretics have denied it and said very wrong things about it, so we should be careful. Like he went there to give people a second chance. No. Or other things like that, so just stop there. No, that's not what he did. I'll tell you why he went, that's the next section, but Augustine and what a thousand years later Calvin both saying, who denies this? Nobody denies. And I hope you can see why, because Jesus said it God said it in Psalm 16. The Apostle Peter said it. The Apostle Paul said it. We should say it today. We should say it rightly. And that's what we're aiming at in the sermon. What do we mean? Well, the first thing we mean is that Jesus went to the place of the dead ones. Now, you may be thinking, and rightly thinking, what about that incident on the cross? Didn't Jesus say to the penitent thief there, who turned to Jesus and said, Remember me when you come into your kingdom? That means when you come back. He thought he was going to rise at the end of the age and the general resurrection. He thought the kingdom was a long ways away. He didn't realize it was going to be in a couple nights. When you come into your kingdom, remember me. And Jesus says, Today You'll be with me in paradise. Well, where's that? You know, that's an awesome question. And if you pulled out a concordance and looked that up in the New Testament, that word's used three times. It's used in uh the thief or Jesus' mouth in Luke 16 It's used by the Apostle Paul, 2 Corinthians chapter 12, when he says, I knew a man, he's being humble, who went up to the third heaven. I knew a man who went up to paradise. Heard in speakable words. And then in Roman not Roman Revelation usually chapter two verse seven. God promises the church who overcomes. Christ promises the church who overcomes. He will let them eat of the tree of life. In the garden of God in paradise. In every place, as you looked up the word paradise in the New Testament, one thing is true about all the places changed. I'm going to show you here in a minute. One thing is consistent Paradise is where Jesus is. Now I I I you might have read ahead. If you read ahead, you read Luke 16. The parable of the rich man and Lazarus. Probably familiar to you if not. The rich man dies, he goes to Hades. Lazarus dies, and angels take him to Abraham's bosom. And I agree with those who interpret it, all that's in the underworld. But Abraham's bosom is where the righteous go again. I can't make Abraham's bosom heaven because Jesus said I'm going to Hades So how do we make sense of I'm going to Hades, Psalm 16, and I'm going and I'm going to paradise? Jesus' words. Well, if we understand Hades as a place And we compartmentalize it. Here's another place where the righteous are. And as soon as the incarnate Son of God and his human soul descended there in his victory on the cross, turned it into paradise by his presence. All those saints looking for the Savior, and now he's there. And they're never out of his presence ever again. I'll tell you in a minute. Because he rises from the dead, he takes them with him to his heavenly city Now where is paradise? Where Paul says it is the third heaven. Where Christ is out. We're in Hebrews in the evening. Jesus has ascended into heaven itself. Where will paradise be? The new heavens, new earth, where Jesus is at. Past, it wasn't Hades for that short time Jesus was there in his presence. It's now currently in heaven where Jesus is at it will be the new heavens and earth where Jesus is at. So we can truly say he went to paradise when he died, and we can truly say he went to Hades when he died If we understand it rightly, that in Hades, the abode of the dead, the underworld, there's a place for the righteous who died in God's favor, believing in his promise, and the impenitent. They do not come out except at the judgment to be then judged and cast into hell, and it is still a place of torment for them now, as Jesus' parable makes clear. Hades for the impenitent is a place of torment Hades for the penitent is was, because we don't go there anymore, was a place of rest. Obviously, I don't got to tell you heaven's an awesome place. And that's where we go as believers in Christ One thing that really got me thinking about this too, and convinced me about this, is the way two godly men speak to us in Scripture. When Jacob received that awful lie from his children that Joseph died, look what he said. Now Jacob was a godly man. Promise. He said, All his sons and daughters rose up to comfort him, just as Genesis 37, 35, but refused to be comforted and said, No, I shall go down to Sheol to my son morning. He thought his son was in Sol, and he was going to go to him when he died to Sheol. He knew where is he going after death? Sheol. Here's another godly man, the Apostle Paul. Near his death, as he writes about it to Timothy and 2 Timothy, look what he says, as where he knows he's going The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. Two godly men, heirs of the promises. One, when I die, I'm going to show. One, when I die, I'm going to be with Jesus in his heavenly kingdom. What's the difference? Christ in his redeeming work in time as he has come and done that work for us. That's what makes the difference. So we should believe it because Jesus said it, apostles preached it, church confesses it. Why did he go there, though? The first answer I'm gonna re to you Hebrews chapter 2 verse 9. Hebrews 2 verse 9 But we see him for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death So that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. And the everyone being his church who believes in him. But notice what it says: that he might taste death. That's a way of experiencing death. The first reason Jesus went to Hades is so that as our Redeemer who died not for his sins but ours, he might suffer the full retributive effects of sin. As the first reason he died and went to Hades, because that's what happened to you before Christ when you died. Still happens to you if you die an unbeliever and impenitent. But as I said, and this is the reason why I read to you these passages in Hebrews chapter 11. But before I read that to you, I want to read a verse from John 17. Here is the most, from what I'm told, because I've not read them all, but in the research I did, this next reason is the most ancient reason as the church has confessed it, and that is to bring out the Old Testament saints The Catholic Church will call this a harrowing of hell, and if they mean by that taking out people with a second chance and those who were in the flames condemned, no. But you can confess the harrowing and emptying of the abode of the righteous dead, because he did take them out and bring them with him to his heavenly kingdom. Jesus says in John 17, 24 Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. And I do not think that we could say by that he means only saints after his time. He wants all his people to be with him. Where is that? Those who hoped in him and believed in him before his coming, and those who believed him in his day, and those who believe the preaching of the gospel today. It is Jesus' expressed prayer, which he has never denied a prayer, that all his people will be with him. where he's at. That's why we go to heaven. Our union with Christ, our bond of union that we have with him by faith and in the Spirit, as He's our Redeemer. Now I read you these wonderful passages from Hebrews eleven. Because they show us clearly, tell us even that they all died in faith, not having received the things promised. That's Hebrews 11, verse 13. We're also told that the things that they were looking for weren't earthly but heavenly. They were looking for a better country, that is, a heavenly one, a city that God built For he has prepared a city for them. So here we're told Abraham was not content just with the land of his inheritance, which didn't have anything but a great plot. Abraham could see far beyond that, as Jesus said. Abraham looked forward to my day. And now, as a believer looking forward to Abraham's day, he gets to enjoy that day. Because as Paul writes in there in verses 39 and 40 of Hebrews 11, this was God's will. God was thinking of us today, too. All these, though commended through their faith, did not receive what was promised, since God had provided something better for us. He had something, he had us in mind. That apart from us, they should not be made perfect. Now we've been going through Hebrews, and that's a loaded theological word in Hebrews. That has as its ultimate meaning uh exaltation to glory to be with Christ. It's more we we usually think of it as a state to get to a perfect state, and there may be some of that. It's used to mean goal, reaching the goal They would not reach that without us. But then I read to you from chapter 12 because we're clearly told where we are as new covenant believers in Christ, where we've come, and we have come to Mount Zion. Not over there in the Near East. To the city of the living God. We've come to the heavenly Jerusalem. To the innumerable angels festived in the assembly, notice who are also there. The spirits of the righteous made perfect. And there's no way to interpret that to mean just those who departed this life since Christ came. If God would not let them reach perfection until Now they're there in perfection, meaning reaching the goal, being with Christ in his heavenly kingdom. The question is: what perfected them? Hebrews 10, 14, for by a single offering he has perfected for all time those are being sanctified. Sanctification didn't start in the New Covenant. It may look different, maybe more efficacious, but it has begun because whenever God regenerates people hard on the old and new covenant By this perfect sacrifice of Christ perfecting us, he has redeemed us out of that place. He has brought us to his heavenly kingdom to be with us forever. So there truly is one of the reasons he went there. Because they had waited for them to announce the good news to them, I'm your Savior, and to bring them out of there when he rose from the dead. Three days later. Now the second reason, and here's the one where I don't even want to touch 1 Peter 3 this morning. Elder How can he did a good exhortation? You can find online about it. It's a very controverted passage for my research on this. That is not the primary place of the first two hundred years of the church where anybody even went to talk about the descent. They went to the places that I showed you already Because it gets it gets a little strange about who's Jesus preaching to. I'm happy to go with the interpretation he preached the evil spirits He's not announcing to them salvation, but he's there as the incarnate Lord, announcing through his penal substitution on the cross, your ruler has been condemned, as he says in John 12. And guess what? He's getting cast out, which means you're getting judged too, and that day is coming when you're all going into hell and you're out of this earth and you're gonna stop harassing my people and messing my plans up in this world You know, I really John 12, he begins Holy Week, right, with six days before Passover. Well, Passover is a Friday when Jesus died. Saturday is the Sabbath. I can imagine Jesus going down there going, I'm not here while you guys are here, because I'm a sinner in myself. I'm here taking a little Sabbath rest before I wake up tomorrow and come out here on the eighth day And begin the new creation which involves banishing you all out of this one. The descent into Hades is glorious. The redeeming work of Christ is glorious, as he has brought his people out of those they've waited, brought them to perfection, and told them of their sure doom, because he is the Lord. And that's the third reason. Or fourth. He went there because he was redeeming us. He went there to take his people out. He went there to tell of his victory and lordship. He also went there to wrest the keys from death and Hades, because he is the Lord of Death and Hades. Here's how Christ, the risen Lord, encourages the church in Revelation 118. Fear not, I am the first and the last and the living one. I died, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and Hades. Now, brothers and sisters, I don't think they gave those keys up willy-nilly, do you? I can imagine Jesus shaking them going, and they're on my belt And don't worry, you're not going there because I've locked the door and shut that to you. I've received another key as the root of David. The keys of heaven, the heavenly Jerusalem, and that's opened up to you and to everybody through the preaching of the gospel So he went there to wrest those keys from death and Hades to fulfill this promise, right? When Peter professed Jesus as Christ, remember what he says? The gates Gates are not swords. Gates don't attack you. The gates of Hades, which means everybody in the ancient world knew you go into Hades, there's big gates there that shut behind you and you don't come out. They will not prevail over my church. That's hardly a word of encouragement if the church was never threatened to go there because when you died, you just went to heaven and never went to Hades. He's saying you're never going there because I've opened and brought you out of them, church. And you shall never go there. You and I never have to go there. We get to go to heaven. Have you ever thanked Jesus for that aspect of his redeeming work? I get to go straight to heaven. Amen. That's what it means to live under the Messiah's rule. One of the things to be. Finally, what does it mean for us? This does mean for us in a more general way. There has been a cosmic change since Christ. Redeeming work. Hades no longer has the righteous dead in it. That's a big shift. The powers of heaven have already come flooding into this world. And filling it with the powers of the resurrection. That's new. And heaven is populated with God's people, and Satan ain't there because he's been cast down. Those are mighty cosmic things that have happened in this world through the redeeming work of Christ that you don't generally find in your textbook on cosmology in school, do you? But we should believe it, profess it, and make it known. What adjunct has already said what it means for us, beloved, his death's door is shut to us. Jesus came out of there, closed it, lock and key. Have you ever been in that place in your life? You could just wish you could leave something behind and go on? You can leave death behind, congregation. It's behind you. Shut. You don't go there. As we preach to you in Heidelberg already, when a believer dies, it's entrance to eternal life. You're going to the heavenly kingdom. And nowhere is that ever called death, God's presence. Yes. It will be involved suffering. Yes, there's a death, and that you will be separated in intermediate state from your death and so and that, but there's nothing penal. Rather than descending, you ascend. You go up to be a Christ. And the church's hymnity has nailed this. He hath opened heaven's door, man is blessed evermore. He closed the yawning gates of hell, Hades, the bars from heaven's high portals fell. When thou hadst overcome the sharpness of death, thou didst open the kingdom of heaven to all believers. Because he did. That means for us, we should sing choirs of New Jerusalem, because we're already there. We should thank Christ that he has closed death's portals to us and open up heaven's gates and sing. Because you, congregation, are the members. You're the choir. Of New Jerusalem, as believers in Christ. You are the choir of New Jerusalem. We should live in New Jerusalem, right? That's the whole gospel exhortation You've died, your life's hidden with Christ, you've risen in the heaven. Don't live in New York don't live in St. Mary County. I'm not gonna even pick New York as a bad one. There's bad cities here. Don't live in them anymore. You live in New Jerusalem right here. Where was that nonsense? Who's king in heaven? God. Live like God's King. Who's King in heaven? Christ his son. Seated. Live like Christ is King. Live like He's a merciful Lord. Live singing his praises. Live living holy lives. Don't live earthly, filthy city lives of these earthly, filthy cities. Tell others of it. That's the good news. There is a new city opened up to us by the redeeming work of Christ. You don't have to do anything to get in. But believe it. Acknowledge that Christ is risen and sitting on his throne and turn from crucifying him to confessing him And you can go right in. That's it. All it takes is that confession of allegiance in Jesus Christ. That confession of faith. That's it. You just got to acknowledge the king. And live for him. You can go right in. Tell others of the good news of what Jesus has done for him and how to get in. Turn from your deathly ways. Turn to God. Believe in Christ. You can go in. And finally, we are expressly commanded in Scripture. To comfort each other with these words. For God has not destined us for wrath to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. Who died for us so that whether we are awake, living here, or asleep, we die, we might live with him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing. I know some of you here are grieving the loss of family members, recent ones. And you've all heard the news of one of our own pastors in the OPC suddenly lost a six-year-old daughter this week You know one of the wonderful things God did that comfort me when receiving that news as I was preparing this and thinking about the truths in Hebrews 12? I imagine losing somebody like that. All you want is to be near again. Beloved, you're in the same city as those who have departed in the Lord. That's not very far, is it? You still inhabit the same city with them. They don't speak to you, you don't speak to them, but you're there with them. That is what Christ has done for us. That is what God has planned and purposed for us. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Amen.