Congregation of the Lord, I rejoice to be able to bring you the good news this morning that our Lord Jesus has ascended to heaven. And that by God's grace and his power working in us and the spirit of resurrection, we too have already ascended with him, and we too will when he returns. I don't know about you, but I have been living in the joy of the study last week, seeing how Christ has definitively, in his redeeming work for us, has closed, closed. the gates to death, the gates to Hades, and has opened up for us the gates of heaven that we may enter in, even now by faith And for all time, for surely God has already brought into this world his eternal life, his kingdom of heaven, his power, his might, his glory, and his grace This morning we get to continue that theme as we look how Jesus has ascended into heaven. Now, that happened 2,000 years ago. And you and I are living in the reality of that, and you and I have only come to faith in Christ because of that, because from heaven as he sends out his gospel Ministers as he brings that word forth and by the power of his spirit he has called us and gathered us. But we'll get to concentrate this morning on the ascension and see what it means So we'll look at first what it is, and then we'll look at second what it's not, and then we'll end by looking at what it means for us. So what the ascension is what the ascension is not, and then what the ascension means for us today. Well if you follow along in your scriptures, turn to Luke 24, the gospel passage that we read. The catechism gives us a wonderful, there in question answer 46 definition and statement on what it is that he sent it into heaven. And if we look at verses uh 50 to 53 as we read, well I also want you to mark, sorry, Acts chapter 2, verse 34 as well. I want to look at that first. Acts 2, 34. The first thing about the ascension that we should know is it's good news. And you say, well, what do we mean by good news? Now, good news is a term anybody can use. You share good news when you call somebody and say so-and-so got well, so-and-so's baby was born, etc. We know what it is to share good news. What does it mean when the Bible says good news? Well, I'm not going to tell you everything it means, but one thing it means when we proclaim good news uh from scriptures, it means we are announcing that what God promised to the prophets, he has fulfilled in Jesus. So when I say that the ascension is good news, I'm saying this is something that God has promised to us and brought to pass in Jesus because he is the Messiah. So if you look at Acts two, verse thirty-four, Peter in the middle of his sermon there in Pentecost, answering that question, what does this mean? All these speaking speaking in tongues that aren't theirs, telling us the mighty deeds, and he answers it from Scripture. He answers it that God has raised Christ and exalted unto his right hand and poured out the Holy Spirit Peter says in verse 34, for David did not ascend into the heavens. But he himself says, and this is a quotation from Psalm 110, which we read, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Now next week we'll look at That clause in the idol should the apostles create, he sits at God's right hand. So ascension leads to enthronement. We worship a risen and ascended and enthroned Savior who's coming again So we'll talk about the rain next week, but today we're just going to talk about the ascension. But notice what Peter's proclaiming. What God said through David in Psalm 110, hundreds of years before, he has fulfilled When he exalted Jesus to his right hand and took him into heaven, my Lord, or the Lord said to him, My Lord, that's Jesus, sit at my right hand. So the first thing in about the ascension is it's good news. And good news means the Messiah that he's come and it's Jesus Hallelujah, the saving king and his kingdoms here. So the ascension is first good news, the fulfillment of God's promise through the prophets. Now turn with me to Luke 24. The second thing about the ascension that I want you to know is its theophany. What does that word theophany mean? In a manifestation. of God. God showing himself to us. Look there at um No, we've got to turn back to Acts again. Luke gives you Luke wrote both of them and he gives you a fuller account. But Luke 24 it says Jesus let him out Lifting up his hands, he blessed them. We'll talk about that later. While he's blessing them, he parts from them, so he's separated from them. And was carried up into heaven, and they worshipped him. And now what what I wanted to say about the carrying up into heaven as it's recorded there is Luke tells us in Acts chapter 1 and verse 9. And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. So Luke doesn't mention the cloud in the gospel, but he mentions Acts, and you say, what's the big deal about a cloud? Because when you read in Scripture, it is gods who ride on clouds. If you read the writings of our forefathers about that, I mean heathen pagan forefathers, right, they will tell you about all the gods who ride on clowns. The good news we proclaim is the true God The only God has actually ridden on a cloud up to heaven. So, as we'll talk next, the ascension is a removal of Christ from earth to heaven. But it's first and foremost a theophany of him. He is showing to his disciples who he is, the living God, crucified, now raised from the dead, as he departs from them. Riding in the heaven upon a cloud. Because he's the Lord. And we see what that leads to them in verse 52. They worshiped him. They prostrated themselves. They acknowledged Christ to be their God, the God, the Son of God, as they saw that glorious manifestation of Him in the clouds. The angel also, this is where verse 11 comes in, the angel also tells us that same way they saw Jesus leave all of us. If you're here on earth then and you'll be coming with him if you belong to him then, we'll see that same manifestation of his glory when he returns. To this earth, riding upon the clouds, because he's God. And therefore we should worship him, the God of grace. the God of glory, who freely calls us into his kingdom, who washes us by his blood. Let us tell the world. Let us Keep telling the world. We've been telling it for 2,000 years as a church. Let's keep telling it. Those idols aren't your gods. And you don't have to serve them anymore. Turn to Jesus and worship him. He will forgive you. He will wash you clean. He will make you new because he's God. So it's good news. We're announcing that God has fulfilled what He promised and the prophets, so that it is truly the Word of God that Jesus ascended. It's a theophany that the Lord is giving his people as he leaves departs. Second, it's translation, or thirdly, it's translation. And you go, what does this have to do with bringing this from Greek into English? I'm using translation because I'm just keeping with alliteration, Theophany and translation. But translation in its old form just means removing something from one place to another. Jesus is here being removed from earth, removed from the world you and I were born into. To heaven. He was carried up into heaven. Heaven is a real place. Heaven is a place where flesh of Jesus, heavenly flesh can be in, as real as this earth is. And as much as there are bodies upon this earth, as real is a place heaven is, and the risen and ascended Jesus who is in his heavenly body, and he makes it clear to his disciples, he's not a mere spirit. He said flesh, he said spirits don't have flesh and bones, and I have flesh and bones as you see. Heaven is a real place. Heaven is where God calls us, and that upward calling in Jesus Christ. Now, our ultimate hope, as we know, is that God will one day make heaven and earth one. But it's because heaven will descend here and envelop the world and transform it because everything must be conformed to the heavenly, as we once bore the image of the earthy We will now bear the image of the heavenly. And I say that so we don't despise the heavenly. Because that's what God's called us to. That's the eternal. That's what's lasting. And that's where Paul says our affections must be as believers in Christ. Jesus is there. It is a wonderful place. Heaven is. Full. Heaven's a created place. Heaven has not always existed. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And that's not just a visible heaven. The heavens that Jesus is in and God particularly manifests himself there in his throne and full of the holy angels and the saints as we heard in New Jerusalem. was built long ago, filled with his glory, and where Christ, the risen Lord, in our flesh as a human being, has ascended. So Psalm 8, as we open the worship with. has been fulfilled in him. Man God put all under his feet. One day those who belong to him will be with them and we too will reign over all things in Jesus Christ. Heaven is wonderful. And Jesus is there. And He wants us there and He calls us there. So that's what the ascension is. Good news, theophany, and translation as Jesus having finished the work the Father gave him here to do. has ascended into heaven to continue and do the work that he's given there to do until he returns and finishes it and consummates it. Well what that's what it is, what isn't it? The Heidelberg and questions forty-seven and forty-eight anticipate some objections to it Uh and and the best that I can understand um why these questions are being asked of you, because we just need to imagine that we are living in the sixteenth century. And we're being catechized, and not in the twenty-first century, and we didn't have to imagine ourselves to be in Germany, but in the southern part of Germany, that wasn't Lutheran but was of the Reformed Church And here they differed on the mode of presence of Christ in the supper. And so we're in and so it's it's anticipating the objections That if Jesus has ascended to heaven, well, Jesus promised to be with us, so how can that be true? If he has departed from us. So what we need to say that what the ascension isn't is it's not abandonment by Jesus. He is bodily ascendant, but he's not abandon his people. In uh John fourteen, Jesus says If you love me, you'll keep my commandments, which that chief one was, love as I've loved you. And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another helper, to be with you forever. Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it neither sees him nor knows him, you know him. For he dwells with you because I'm the anointed and he's been with you this whole time, my disciples. And he will be in you. And that's why Jesus then next says, I will not leave you as orphans. I'll come to you. Now try to remember back in the earlier sermon on the Trinity. How many of you have been rejoicing since that day in the uncreated perichoretic reality of the one God? I studied hard to come up with that. Our God, blood, is it the uncreated reality of God is Pericred, what does that mean? It means the three persons in hearing each other. You can't just meet one person of the Trinity Philip, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. If the Spirit's come to us, Jesus is really with us. And he even later says in John, the Father's come too, we're all coming. We come as a unit to dwell with you. So the ascension is not an abandonment by Christ, but he is not bodily present with us. He is with us according to his divine power and presence in the Holy Spirit, as he truly shepherds us. teaches us, cares for us, loves us, each one of us, and leads us to that promised rest as our Savior. So he's not abandoned us. That same truth is conveyed to us in Revelation 1, right? It can be difficult to be the church on earth. But Jesus makes it clear, I am in your midst. I am amongst you. What does that mean? That means he sees everything we do. He is ready to commend us and encourage us where we are holding fast to his word, doing his will, walking in his ways, but he's also ready To call us to repentance and to rebuke us when we are not living as his church. So Jesus is with us, shepherding us. So it's not abandonment Also, it's not absurdity. What do you mean by that? Well, absurd is a word that means obviously illogical. Now here's what I understand to be what the Heidelberg Catechism is trying to deal with. Have you heard of the phrase communication of properties? It's just a church term that it's come to develop as we've the church has had to for since its existence continue to argue how to rightly know Christ, the God man. Who has taken upon him a true human nature and united it in his person forever? Let me tell you what the communication of properties means. They can help you read scripture. The communication of properties means that the properties of both the human and the divine natures are now the properties of the person of Christ. And are therefore ascribed to the person. So everything we can say about humanity, we can say about Jesus. Everything we can say about God and His divine nature, we can say about Jesus, because He is a union of those two natures in his one person, and we can ascribe all of those qualities and characteristics to the person of Christ, as Scripture does. And I'm quoting Louis Louis Burkhoff from his uh systematic theology. He says we must be careful not to understand the term to mean that Anything peculiar to the divine nature was communicated to the human nature and vice versa. What's going on here is that Not all, but some in the Lutheran church, as far as I'm aware, wanting to do something good and right, maintain the real unity of the person of Christ. But just drew a conclusion that Scripture doesn't let us draw, that that means then we can transfer the human to the divine and the divine to the human. There's an actual transference of these properties. But the problem with that is it goes against the Chalcedon Creed in 451. I'll give it to you as the church has said how we're to think of the incarnation. It says In the incarnation, the distinctiveness of each nature is not nullified by the union. What that means is human nature, your nature is not divine. It is other and distinct from God's eternal nature. And in that union, those distinctions stay whole and intellect. They're not nullified. By any kind of confusion or transference. Instead, the properties of each nature are conserved. They stay um as they always have been. And both natures concur in one person. Now, I think what drove this debate, right, is How is Jesus present with us, right? In particular, how is Jesus because he promised it. So we're just working out the promise. I'll always be with you according to the Great Commission. How is he with us? Because he really is. And the issue seems to be, well, is he bodily with us, right? Is he under the bread? Is he under the elements in a physical though invisible manner? And some would argue that in the Reformed Church We say no to that because Jesus as in the in the witness of his apostles has bodily ascended into heaven And it is not a property as you well know. How many places are you at one time, beloved? Are you here and at home? Your mind might be there, but bottle, you're right here Bodily, our Lord is ascended at God's right hand. Spiritually, he is really and always present with his people. So that's what the Heidelberg Catechism is again. There's something taught in that day, and it's just trying to prepare you what we hold in the Reformed Church. They want to do something right, affirm God's with us, Christ is with us, want to maintain that real unity of Christ, just we think not in a biblical manner. So that's what the uh ascension's not. It's good news to us. Hallelujah. This is part of God's saving work for us in Jesus. It's a theophany to us. Christ is showing us who he is, our God. It is also a translation to removal of him from earth to heaven. It's not an abandon it's not abandonment by Jesus. He's with us, as he promised, nor is it, just using that turn absurdity, He has not now given to his human nature the divine properties so that he can bodily be with us. He remains those properties divine and human stay as they are, but he's spiritually present with us. Thirdly, lastly, here, what does it mean for us that Jesus has descended up into heaven? As the catechism teaches, the first thing it means for us is that Jesus is our heavenly high priest. He's our intercessor and he's our advocate of God's right hand. Go back to Luke twenty-four. Look at that last scene that the disciples have of Jesus. He leads them out to Bethany. He lifts his hands up, and he blesses them. Now if you go to Numbers 6, You'll see where God gave to the Levitical priest, which Jesus is greater than according to Melchizedek, but God gave to the Levitical priest. The blessing that he's to put on his people. He says, put my name on them. The Lord bless you and keep you, right? Here is the Lord Jesus Having shed his blood to bring in the new covenant and all the promises of God's eternal grace to us, ascending and blessing the people. Blessing them. Because he had died for them and redeemed them. And now what he wants us to see is he's ascending to his throne, blessing, he's leaving. Blessing his people so that we live under the blessing of the Messiah, even in this age and his eternal reign. Psalm one ten. I would love to just do a whole sermon on it, but maybe s maybe next week sometime we look at his reign. But as we saw verse one that the Lord said to my Lord, thou wast fulfilled in the ascension, well look what he says there in verse four. And the Lord has sworn what not change his mind. You are a priest forever. After the order of Melchizedek. The same ascended Lord Jesus. We've been going through this in Hebrews, and that finality of this is sinking into us. There is a lot of change in this world. One thing that will never change is Jesus and his priesthood. You are a priest forever. If you hope to receive any blessing, Have your sins forgiven, be washed, live in God's kingdom, dwell in his presence, be in the future inheritance. The only one that can do that is Jesus. He is the only one as priest that can believe that can bring us these things, and he will do it to all. Who say, You're priest, I'm sinner. Wash me clean and make me new Bring me before the throne of God that I may worship there. Because that's why he's priest, that we may come near to God and worship. I won't read 1 John 2. 1. I read through it earlier. But if we sin in this life, congregation, please do not try to defend yourself. You have an advocate, Jesus. He is the wrath-removing sacrifice. You don't need to fear or fail to confess your sin. You just need to humbly go and say, I sinned again. Lord, plead for me that I may remain in God's presence and worship Him, and you'll find more reason. To humble yourself before the throne of grace, you'll find more reason to rejoice before that throne of grace. And we'll probably come hopefully even more confident next time Because it's a throne of grace. I rejoice that we live under grace. Because that means we live. I wanted to read to you Hebrews 4, since we're talking about high priests. We're not saying everything, but aren't these words Everything we want to hear as Christians. Let us therefore strive into that rest that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience Oh excuse me. Well we should hear that. This is why we need the high priest. I meant to read it, verse fourteen. Since then we have a great high priest who's passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession If we confess him Messiah, he's our priest. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. But one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace That we may receive mercy, find grace, to help in time of need. I think, congregation, one of the best ways I hope I can be useful to you is to be really weak before you. I can't do a thing. I cannot even be your pastor. I need Jesus so much. It's easy to go back under the law, take it in our strength, and just do the Christian life because we know what we should do. The problem is not that we know what we should do. The problem is we don't do it. We can't do it. God's called us in grace. He's given us Christ. The throne of grace is not an idle thing. It's real for sinners. To have. And we can live. You need it to parent. You need it to go to work. You need it to be a spouse. You need it to be a brother and sister in the Lord. You'd need Jesus and His throne of grace. And you have Jesus. You have his throne of grace. Secondly, we have heavenly pledges. A pledge is a promise, right? Guaranteeing us something. We have heavenly pledges by the ascension of Christ. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 6, Paul writes, and raised us up, God raised us up with him, with Christ. And seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. United to Christ by faith. United to Him as your head. You are already raised to new life. And as we say here, that means you've also then been ascended with Christ and sit in the heavenly places. And what is true by faith will be true by sight. For where Jesus is, his people must be. That's one pledge. I said pledges, right? Because we have another pledge, the Holy Spirit given to us. In chapter 1, verse 14, Paul writes, well, let me back up to verse 13. In him, you also, Gentiles, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and you believed in him. What happens when you believe you were sealed with the promise of the Holy Spirit? You belong to God. He has put his seal upon you as his people Who is the guarantee or the down payment, the earnest of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it? The praise of his glory. To have the Holy Spirit congregation is not to have something of this life, but of the one to come. And to have it as a pledge from God that you will have all to come. Because of Jesus and his blessing. So the Holy Spirit should encourage you. This isn't my home. I've now been sealed here. It was resung. Seal me for the courts above. I keep wandering here. I don't want to wonder. I want to stay. Paul writes the same thing in remember the order of the books, 2 Corinthians in chapter 1. Verses 21 and 22, Paul writes, and it is God who has established us with you in Christ. God has done this, putting us in Christ. And God has anointed us. That's the Holy Spirit. And who has also put his seal on us and given us his spirit in our hearts as a guarantee, as an earnest. And in chapter 5, verse 5. He who has prepared us for this very thing, and that very thing, beloved, as Paul's writing here, is to be clothed with your heavenly body. We have an earthly tabernacle, but we are assured we have a heavenly dwelling as well, a heavenly body to be clothed with. He who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee. The Holy Spirit given to you by the risen and scended and enthroned Savior is a guarantee to you you will have a heavenly body. And you will live forever with Christ. And you'll be very happy about that. You'll thank God. And that leads me to the third thing. Thirdly, it means for us heavenly placement. Turn to Colossians 3. You can probably guess why I read to you Colossians 3. It's quoted in the Confession Catechism. Heavenly placement. We are called already now, Paul says, in the context here is Paul is dealing with unchristian or sub-Christian ways of living Christian life here. As we have to, as he says back in verse two, none of these are of any value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh Having a purely worldly oriented saying no to this, this, and this, which is just going to go away anyways. As if that's what God's called us to the Christian life is utterly missing an important part, Paul says. If you've risen with Christ, then you've ascended with Christ. The way to not indulge your flesh is to stop thinking like this is the only thing God has for you. And to remember, He has a whole heavenly kingdom for you. That there is more here. We heard a great testimonial at Presbytery yesterday by a man who's being ordained and installed this coming Friday as the pastor at Knox OPC who eventually take over for Tom Martin in five years, giving his examinations on the Ford Presbytery. And he said something that stuck with me about the Sabbath The Sabbath is saying no to good things, is say yes to better things. You can say no to the good things of the earth because there's better things as well. Because we all called to carry a cross. And you just simply can't stay here anyways. So for Christians to only be oriented here, Paul says wrong is a recipe for disaster and in denial of the gospel. Because you've risen. Therefore, you've ascended, and you are to seek those things where Christ is at. And I think the chief thing is to put yourself where Christ is at and on the throne and live there. To set your affection on those things. Because I do not get the impression from our Lord Jesus, though he wants to be with you, that he's pining to come back here in this world. To be a part of it, but that he's longing to complete his work and bring heaven to earth and you with him. Why do I emphasize this? We live in this country. It's it's it's great, it's fine. It's not the good news. The American dream is not the gospel because there's many people that don't live in America Do they have no good news preached to them? There are many earthly things. Paul goes in here, sexual morality, all these. What happens if you never get to experience that good gift and joy? Have you missed out on life? Because you died young? Are called to celibacy? Don't have children? Don't get married? Don't have a job you want? Economic disaster, things get wiped out Is this it? Is this life it? Because many things we're born into. We have no control over here. But you have things above, and you're called to set your affections on them, and you're called to encourage people. The same man gave a wonderful answer, as being he was being asked the contemporary question of how to minister to a transgender person who's mutilated their bodies, who's been awakened to the truth. And now knows I can never go back and be what I was meant to be. Is there any hope for them? The new creation? There is. We live in the last days for 2,000 years. Don't take that as a statement of Jesus is coming tomorrow, though I hope he does. There is so much more to come. So much God wants to give you. He's built heaven. He's seated Christ there. He's given you Jesus so you will certainly be there with us. Set your minds on those things, your affections. Seek them. Yeah. You have to live here earthly, but do it with the right mindset. So that you can sacrifice and serve. That you can live really sharing the hope of the good news as one who hopes in it. And be able to give an answer for that hope. We don't have time, so I won't do it. But I love the rest of these verses too, because Paul goes on to say, as much as we put our heaven minds there We also wear heavenly clothing now, right? Because we put off the old man. We put on the new. Spend some time this afternoon. I particularly love verses 12 and 13 about putting on compassionate hearts and kindness and meekness. Wake up every day as you strip off, the word there is strip off your night clothes, and you get dressed in your earthly clothes, remember to put on. Bows of mercies, tenderheartedness and compassion and kindness. Forbearing and forgetting us. And Paul says, don't also forget to put love on. And I'll end here so it'll go on to the table next Don't ever get to put agape on. Don't forget to put on what God did when he gave his son up for you. Don't forget to put on what Jesus did when he laid down his life for you. Don't forget to love each other in that way. That will bind us together as God's people. So I have good news for you, congregation, the same good news that Jesus has ascended into heaven. And you may ascend with him, and you will. So abide in Christ. Amen.