The first thing, congregation, that we want to learn this morning is why the Son of God is called Jesus, meaning Satan. Why do we call the incarnate Son of God Jesus, meaning Savior? The catechism gives us two reasons. The first reason is because he saves us from our sins. And we read that this morning in the gospel, in our passage in Matthew 1. But as he was considering these things, behold, the angel appeared, came to Joseph, said it was okay for him to marry, and I'll just read the last part why he gets his name. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name. Jesus, for he will save his people from their sin. The first thing in that passage that we read from the Gospel of Matthew, the first thing we see there is that God had to reassure Joseph That Mary was not an adulteress, and that it was okay for her, for him to marry her, for the child in her was his doing, was the work of God. But the second thing we see in that passage is that God had to pick the right name for his son that he was bringing into the world. We all have sought for that right name for our children. Well, God did too. God named his Son, born of the Virgin Mary, Jesus, meaning Savior. Because that was the right name for him, because he would save his people from their sin. I'm gonna pick on the Smiths this morning. The Smiths apparently named their child Knox in hopes that someday he's gonna reform the church, right? John Knox. Well God named His Son Jesus so that we would know He's the one who saves us from our sins. His name matches who He is and what He does. We also see a third thing in this passage. Matthew doesn't want us to miss the significance or the full identity of who this child is. He tells us that Jesus is the promised saving king of Isaiah chapter 7. Verse 14. All this took place, Matthew writes, meaning the virgin conception and the naming of God's Son Jesus. To fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. If you're familiar with the prophet Isaiah and his work, you know that just two chapters later, the prophet goes on to describe Emmanuel in this way. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called. wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, so rightly so The Messiah's people who know him truly call him God with us or Emmanuel, that he is the saving promised king. That's what Matthew wants the readers of this gospel to know. That's what Matthew wants the hearers to know. That's what God wants the world to know as the gospel goes forth: that Jesus is the Messiah. He is the promised saving king who would come save us from our sins. The good news, I remember, you probably don't remember, so I remind you, when we went through Mark a few years ago The good news is a royal proclamation. If you lived in the day of the Caesars, they would send you a royal proclamation. Guess what? Caesar's come to the throne. Peace, prosperity, and health. The barbarian hordes will stay away longer. There's a royal proclamation of a new king. Well, so it is. The gospel is the royal proclamation that King Jesus has come as promised. King Jesus has redeemed us as promised. King Jesus is reigning as promised. King Jesus has poured out his Holy Spirit upon all flesh, his church, his promise And King Jesus is going to come again if all that promise has taken place. We can be sure of the promise that He's coming again to judge his enemies, to save his people. He's also coming to do that and to make all things new. But take note here, as I mentioned in this passage, notice who Jesus' people are. Jesus' people are those in this world who call him Emmanuel. His name is often taken very flippantly and lightly, and he's called many things and has been But those who know him, those who are called by him, call him God with us. His people know who he really is. the incarnate Son of God. If that is your faith this morning, if you call Jesus Christ God with us and you treat him so, you are one of his people, whom he has saved. Uh whom he has saved you from your sins. Rejoice. Rejoice that you know the King So then, God is called Jesus, meaning Savior, because he saves us. His believing people who acknowledge Him as God Acknowledge him as their Lord, Jesus saves them from their sins. Now, the coming weeks, as we go through the rest of the catechism, especially in this section, will give us plenty of more opportunity to talk about exactly how Jesus saves us. But I want to spend a a little bit this morning to say a few things about how Jesus saves us from our sin. If you've read through Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, I'm sure you had, or if you've heard the gospel story, you know as you read the gospel that Jesus died. You read of his dying. You read that he was crucified, that he was executed as a criminal, that he was separated from his followers as his body went to the grave, as he descended into Hades That they were sad and he and they were perplexed. But three days later, on the first day of the week, You read that he rose from the dead, that he is back with his people as you read those encounters. The Lord has risen and they're so glad he's back. You read that he receives his people, he gathers his scattered flock, that he is fellowshipping with them. You can read the end of John's gospel, and he serves them breakfast on the beach. He comes to them, don't fear. He instructs them. He teaches them. He is ordering them, directing them, stay here, wait. It's coming. You see, that as you read the gospel, that is a picture, not just a picture. That is how Jesus saves us from our sins. Because you might think that it would be us on the cross and in the grave for our sins. Which has separated us from God and from life with God. But no It is God on the cross who's taken on flesh, our flesh, that he might redeem us. It is God in the grave. It is God in Hades preaching his victory in the cross. And when God, then it is God who has raised from the dead for us, our incarnate Savior, so that we will never be separated from Him. The Bible gives us the picture, right, of holy matrimony of salvation, that there is the wedding feast of the Lamb to come. And those who receive him now by faith are betrothed to him. Think of the Lord's Supper as a betrothment ceremony every week as we wait the coming of the Savior. And the full commencement and consummation of our union with Him. Matrimony with our Lord Jesus forever. There is redeeming grace. That is how God, that is how Jesus saves his people. That is the good news to us, congregation, that we will live together with Jesus. forever our redeeming Lord. Hear what Paul says in 1 Thessalonians 5, 9 and 10. For God did not appoint us to wrath. But to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us. That whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with Him. And that is the church's joy. That is the believer's joy. Never, ever, ever, ever to be separated from Jesus Christ. That's kind of the big picture. But we can have a little more detail. I think it's helpful to have a little more detail on how he saves us from sins. We need a threefold deliverance from sin. We need to be saved from sin's guilt. We need to be saved from sin's power. And we need to be saved from sin's presence. And Jesus saves us from all of these. Jesus saves us from the guilt of sin by bearing it on the cross. We read in 1 Peter 2, 24, He Himself bore our sins in his body on the tree on the cross. So Jesus saves from the guilt of sin By bearing the punishment for it. When you sin, beloved, even when you sin as a justified saint in Christ, when you sin, you incur guilt. That is, you incur the status of a lawbreaker and so become deserving to be punished by the law you broke, and in accordance with that law. And God's law demands death as a punishment for sin. That's what guilt is. It's a status of having done the crime, and so you have to pay the time. You're a lawbreaker. Well, Jesus died for us, his people who believe in him, suffering on the cross because our guilt was transferred to him. He took our guilt. He bore it in his body. That's what it means that he bore our sins. Took the guilt of what they deserved. It's as if all the sins you do It's as if he did them. He didn't do them. He just has to suffer for them as the one who did them in your place. That's how Jesus saves us from the guilt of our sin by bearing the punishment our sins deserve. I want to be very clear and plain to you, congregation, as the cross shows God does punish all sins. If you do not come to faith in Christ, you will die in your sins and suffer the punishment of them forever. So believe right now in the Lord Jesus Christ if you have not, and be safe. Call him Lord. Secondly, Jesus saves his people from the power of sin by breaking sin's hold on them. He bears sin's guilt. He breaks sin's power in his believing people. Here are two places, there's numerous in Scripture, but here are two places that tell us that in the New Testament, Galatians 2. 20 and 6. 14. Notice the cross is central here. The cross is central in bearing guilt. Cross is central in breaking the power. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. But God forbid that I should boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. by whom the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. As believers, and you believe in Christ Whether you were if you were baptized as believing a believing child of believing parents, or if you were an adult convert, you were your baptism means that you died with Christ. In a union with him. And now he lives in you. You have truly died, and you have truly raised to new life of Jesus Christ. We really live as believers in Christ dead to the world, as dead as if we were on the cross, right? That's how dead That's how dead we will be, that's how dead we hope to be, and that's how dead we want to be to sin. As dead as if we are dead on the cross, because we don't want the power of sin reigning in us anymore. And it doesn't. You know, I personally wish that I had heard more of this kind of preaching growing up. I heard the preaching Jesus died to bear my sins. I did not know a lot about Jesus also died to baptize me in the Spirit So I can live free from sin's power. It's one thing to summon men to obey Christ, the risen Lord, which every man should be summoned to do that. But what help is there if you know that you can't obey him? Isn't that just telling us what the law says Have no other gods before you, but God, Jesus is God's just the law. If you just preach, obey, you're just preaching law. Is there any hope for us as sinners? I didn't know that what Jesus is also wanting us to do in turning to him is to ask for his help. When we say Lord Jesus and come to Him as one who can't obey, He baptizes us in the Spirit and He enables us to obey. He lives in us. And we obey because obeying is just walking with the risen Christ. But I wish I would have heard a little bit more of that. If sin is raining in your life, if you're here this morning and it's raining, call on the Lord Jesus. I remember being in this pew when I was 15, going, that sounds great. But I don't have any will to do that. Is there any help for me? If sin is just reigning, cry out to Jesus He promises help. And I know as a believer in Christ, painfully sin reoccurs, and oftentimes the same sin. But it does not rain in the believer's life. Thank God it does not reign. You are not under the dominion of sin in Jesus Christ. There is hope. Turn to him. Seek his aid. So I hope we don't, you know, but with this teaching, right, we might think, man, the name of Jesus is relevant only when I become a Christian, right? So it will be relevant to you until he comes well always, but there is sa saving work he is doing with us from the time he converts us Till he completes that at the last day. The name of Jesus is always needed to us in saving us. Thirdly, Jesus saves his people From the presence of sin by bringing them out of it. He bears the guilt of sin. He breaks the power of sin. He also brings us out of the presence of sin. Paul cries out in Romans 7 in the end of the chapter, struggling for sin and against it, present in his ministry, present where he's at. He just wants to serve God. That's his heart. And he says, Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death in which sin indwells and therefore must result in death? Who is going to deliver me from it? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. That's saving that still future congregation. We are still waiting to be saved from the presence of sin and the presence even of unconverted sinners out of sinning. We'll be waiting to be saved from that. If you don't know congregation, sin dwells bodily in you. It is present, Paul says, in your body as a law. As long as you are in this Paul Cause body of death. Sin will be near to you. You will dwell in its miserable presence, and you must contend with it every day. But we live in hope, as Paul said. It's not a cry of despair, that's just the cry of a miserable person who can't wait to be taken out of his misery when God comes and redeems him fully. Because Jesus will deliver us from sin's presence when he returns and he raises us bodily to new life in those new spiritual bodies. At that day we'll get to say, with bodies brought out from the grave, brought out from sin's presence. Oh, death, where's your victory? Hades, where's your sting? The sting of death is sin. The power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Jesus saves from sins. He saved you from the guilt of your sin when he bore your punishment on the cross. He saves you from the power of sin when he baptized you by his spirit into his body. And he will save you from the presence of sin, probably as he progressively sanctifies you, but definitively When he frees you from this body in which sin indwells and brings you into the new heavens and earth where he promises there will never be sin again. Jesus saves from sins. That's the first reason why we call Jesus Jesus. Saves us from our sins. The second reason is well only He saves us. Catechism says, because salvation is not to be sought or found in anyone else. Congregation, it is sinful. To seek salvation from sin in anybody or anything else other than Jesus. It is sinful. God says so as we read in Isaiah 43:11. I Not those gods, I am the Lord. And besides me, there is no Savior. And later we'll say in Isaiah 45, 22. Turn to me and be saved. All the ends of the earth. For I am God. There's no other. It's sinful. For Odin, Baal, Asherah, Mammon, Knowledge, Christian parents cannot save you from sin. Jesus and Him alone can save you. God and Him alone, because only the God who has taken on flesh and says in that flesh, I am, can save you. Did you know that the name Jesus means Yahweh saves? Jesus, the name Jesus is formed from two Hebrew words. Yahweh, divine name, and Shua or help or salvation. Put them together. We say Jesus. Hebrews say Yeshua or Yahshua, Joshua. Jesus is Yahweh, come in the flesh, God with us to save us. In that way I've already explained. But notice, congregation, what the Lord Jesus is saying to you. He says, turn to me and be saved. If you've never turned to Jesus, Turn to him and be saved. He even says, all the ends of the earth turn to me and be saved. To turn anywhere else is sinful. And not to turn is even more sinful still. Jesus truly wants you to be saved He declares it. Turn to me. Everyone who hears that should turn to Jesus. Be saved. Do it. You will never regret it if you've not done it. Do it. Everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. And what that means Is that everyone who prays to Jesus as God seeks the riches of his grace and mercy as a crucified Savior Who relies upon His promise, believe in me, I'll save you forever. They will be saved It takes nothing to be saved but turning to Jesus in the faith that He is God to save you. That's it. But not only is it sinful to seek it elsewhere, congregation, it's also vain. It means it will be to no it no fruit. It will disappoint you if you do. Peter says, Acts 4:12, and there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. You know, think of this. If you were in that crowd in Jerusalem there and you were a Jew, you might very well think, yeah, there is another name, Yahweh, right? Well, Peter is saying that the name of Yahweh is Jesus. Jesus is the Lord who made heaven and earth upholds heaven and earth. All things consist. As you watch the birds fly through the sky and the season change, that's Jesus doing that. He's saying, call out to him no other name, because he is God, the Son of God. Jesus says he did this. If you know the uh or Peter, if you know the story there, Peter has healed a man born lame, I didn't do this, Jesus did The one you crucified, but whom God raised from the dead. Think of that. Think of the preaching of the gospel. Tortured to death by his wicked creatures, yet alive and still saving poor sinners. That is Jesus. That is the true God of this world. I love the song that we sing about the love of God far deeper than man's hate is God's love. I am so grateful for every person who ever preached the name of Jesus to me growing up. Because when I needed saving for my sins, I knew that name to call upon, and he heard me and saved me. Don't stop getting that name out. It may not look like they're hearing. Get the name Jesus out. There's no other name that anybody can be saved by. Keep preaching Jesus. So the Son of God has the name Jesus, meaning Savior, because he saves his people from their sin, because only he does it. Now here's the second part. Second thing we need to learn before we go, and I'll try to breeze my way through it, is that Jesus is a perfect Savior. Now you might already gathered that, but apparently it can so happen that the church can forget this. What that means that he's the perfect Savior is that everything you need For your salvation from someone destined to the grave, destined to punishment in hell, to being raised as glorious as Jesus Christ. Everything from then to there You have from Jesus, and you have it in him alone. You can see how question 30 naturally follows on from question 29. Because question twenty-nine taught us that Jesus saves us, and only Jesus saves us. Well therefore do those who look for their salvation and security and saints in themselves or elsewhere really believe in the only Savior Jesus? The question here is, right, it's checking us And it's searching us to find out, are we really trusting in Jesus alone to save us? Of course, that should be a question near and dear to every professing Communicate member here, because that was one of your vows. Are you trusting in him only in love? All those who would come up and make this profession of faith. You know, if I really believed and you really believed some of the info commercials and branding on certain products, right, the only cleaner you'll ever need, then I would only have one cleaner in my house, right? For congregation, the question is, do you only have one Savior? Because that's the branding of Jesus. He alone saves, and only him. You might think this is not even needed. Who could ever think otherwise in the Christian church? Especially so-called Christians. Well, it was not only in the time of the Reformation when this catechism was written. But even in the early church, where so-called Christians who profess Jesus as their Savior were also seeking that salvation elsewhere. Take Corinth, for example. It can't happen, congregation, that so-called Christians can exalt men to be their saviors. Especially charismatic pastors and teachers, so be very careful. Paul had to ask the church there who said, I follow Paul, I follow P Apollos, I follow Cephas. Some rightly said, I follow Christ. He had to ask them, well, is the Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Were you baptized into Paul's name? Do you belong to me? Am I your Lord? Am I your sin-bearer? No. Paul had to remind a church dividing, as he calls it carnal, that it only has one Savior, Jesus. That's a real church. Had to be reminded it had one savior, Jesus. That he died for you and not your pastor, that you belong to him and not that new teacher So make sure you never exalt men to be your saviors. You never say, I follow that pastor, I follow this denomination. Follow only Christ. Take Galatia. It can happen in the Christian church that believers who start out so well do the crazy thing of seeking another gospel of which there is none. Paul had to tell the Christians in Galatia who had received the message of Christ crucified for them Believing that had received the gift of the Holy Spirit, were hoping in His shed blood alone, His righteousness for the hope of glory, Paul had to tell them directly, you are severed from Christ. You who would be justified by the law, you have fallen away from grace. Now, Paul is not teaching in that statement on the eternal security of the believer. The saints do persevere, they persist in their faith and Christian calling because they are preserved by God's grace. But Paul is saying here, you cannot, believer Be both under the law and under grace for your justification and your salvation. You are either resting on what Jesus did for you finished, or you are trying to mix that in with your own good works. I say to you, congregation, if God put me under a law, I'd die. If God said to me, Damon, do this and live, I would die a thousand times over. All my hopes of eternal life would be dashed to pieces like that. Imagine you who know God's grace and have lived in it for decades, if God all of a sudden said, put a law on you. How well are you doing now with the one you have? You struggle against it every day. Imagine if he said, keep it perfectly and live. And that's what they're preaching in the Christian church. Teaching them to come back under a law to be safe. Make sure, congregation, that you are not obeying God, pursuing holiness and the commandments of his law to earn his favor. Because you are still afraid of him. If that is you, the Apostle John, if he were your pastor, would tell you. You have not yet been perfected in love. What does he mean by that? You don't yet love perfectly? No. He means why are you not receiving God's love? Why will you not receive and rest in Christ crucified for you, which takes away all fear of punishment? Why will you not turn to God then with a heart of love? Because He has set you free by His. That is Christian faith. That's what John calls the loop of love. It is imperfect. Until God's love is received by the believer and returned to him. Make sure that you are obeying God and pursuing holiness Because he first loved you, and you are under his unchanging grace. Take Colossians. It can so happen, congregation, that Christians can be taken captive by philosophy and empty deceit. They can be convinced that they need added rituals of the law to perfect Christ's work and save them. They can become attracted to Eastern mysticism and the adoration of Saints in some form of false humility, thinking we need many intercessors to come to God because we're so unworthy That their Christianity can become one of purely nos and don'ts, starving their bodies, beating their bodies, thinking that's how to combat the flesh and the lust in me. And Paul says, no. He had a very different word for them. Christ. He says, you don't need philosophy. Merely man's wisdom and human tradition. Because you have Christ in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Because in him dwells the fullness of the Godhead bodily Do we want human teachers or a divine teacher? He says you don't need the shadows of ceremonies. You have the substance, Christ. Do we want a shadowy religion? Or do you want God in the flesh? And that's religion. He says you don't need the adoration, the intercession of saints and of angels. You have Christ. Who's been exalted over all authority in heaven? He hears you. He prays for you. Come back tonight because we're going to talk about that in Hebrews again. He says you don't need asceticism, which is training for godliness merely by abstinence, and oftentimes very extreme abstinence, and very oftentimes a flight out of this world into the desert. For severity of your body, because you have Christ, the head. You are alive with him in his heavenly places. And there gazing on his beauty, that will stop your lusting and not just cutting things out. To combat all of this nonsense, Paul tells the church, Christ is supreme. Christ is sufficient. And not only that, Paul tells us that truth is worth fighting for. And he fought hard for it. Fight hard for this truth. If you do need to but let me say the caveat, Jesus is clear. If you do need to cut things out because it's causing you to sin, by all means cut them out. But don't forget, sanctification isn't just cutting out. When are you going to get new desires? And where are those going to come from? Jesus. It's not just a life of denial. It's also a life of saying yes to Christ. Yes to God I'll go on that mission trip. I'll go across to my neighbor. I'll go do that Bible study. I'll go help in the church. Whatever it is. If sin's guilt weighs you down, congregation, your only peace is the blood of Christ. Go to God by it. If the power of sin is oppressing you, cry to Jesus. He gives grace upon grace. He alone can make you blameless and holy before God's throne. If the ignorance of sin is frustrating you and you don't know how to live as a Christian, seek Jesus, His wisdom and knowledge. Pray. Read the word. Pray. Fellowship with Christians. Pray and read all kinds of things. That's why I get help. Months later I'm like, that's it. But I am planning to find that answer in that book, but Yes! That's what I was looking for. Pray and read. Let me close with this I am sure that if I asked everyone here if you have ever said the name Jesus, you would all say yes. But what if I asked, has everyone here called on the name of Jesus? Cause there is a difference between saying 911 and calling 911. Those who dial 911 and call 911 do so because they need help. Have you seen that you need help? Does those who call on Jesus know they need help? I call on them every day We are called to call upon him every day. The early church was identified as those people who call on Jesus. So make sure if you have not called on Jesus yet, you do so. And if you have, you keep doing so. And let us all praise God. That he named his son Jesus, who takes away our sins. Amen.