So, what do Christians believe when they say the first line of the Apostles' Creed? Well, when a Christian says the first line of the Apostles' Creed. He, using this catechism, professes that the eternal Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who out of nothing created heaven and earth and everything in them Who still upholds and rules them by his eternal counsel and providence is my God and Father for the sake of Christ, his son. What a wonderful, confident statement about who our Father and God is in the Lord Jesus. Let me give you a quick reminder that what a Christian believes to be true is what God says is true in his word. What we believe to be true is what God has told us. is true. You may not understand everything God has told you to be true or ever will. But you don't have to understand how the world was created to believe that God created it. He said it, it's true. Don't confuse faith with knowledge. Faith is receiving as true what somebody else tells you is true. And God tells you this is true in the gospel of his son. So let's consider then in this first part all these wonderful truths that a Christian professes and believes to be true when he says, I believe in God the Father. First, when the Christian says this, he believes that his God did not become a father when he created everything. The Christian believes that his God has always been a father. Ever before becoming a creator, God was father. God always had the power and plan to create, but he did not always have a creation to love and care for. Before he ever loved and cared for you and me, and his creation, the rest of it, he loved and cared for his son, our Lord Jesus Christ. Now I think this is a very wonderful truth to consider. That God has always been a father. He, like you and me, does not need to learn about fatherhood. He did not need to read books on how to be a dad or mom. God's fatherhood transcends our gender distinctions God speaks of himself very motherly in Scripture. However, that does not mean that we should call him mother. His eternal divine word, Jesus, has named him to us as Father. So we must call him Father. Even if he really wonderfully is our best mother too. Now I don't know about you, but when my children came and God gave me children, with that came a great reservoir of love. Out of which to love them all those late nights and still that reservoir of love to love them with But unlike you and me, God did not receive a great reservoir of love when his first man-child was brought to life, when he breathed into his nostrils. Because God has an infinite reservoir of love, because God is love. He has never been without a child. His child, Jesus. The Son of God incarnate, every boy became incarnate, existed eternally as God's Son As Christians, we refer to this truth as the eternal generation of the Son. I just throw it out to you, because if you spend time in a Christian church, you may hear that phrase. It's in our confessions. It's in our catechisms. You'll probably come across it. As we saw last week, the gospel reveals to us that our God is eternally Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. He is one God, three persons. He is three persons, one God. But why do we say the eternal generation of the sun? What does all that fancy lingo stand for? Well, we first say eternal because we want to lift out this truth out of our creaturely categories. Though we can give a name to it and say the eternal generation, we don't profess that we fully understand what that means. And again, that's why I mentioned to you, you don't need to understand something to believe that it's true. You only need to choose to accept it as true because God's revealed it as truth But secondly, we say generation because that's the word that expresses the relationship between fathers and sons. Fathers generate or fathers beget sons and daughters. Mothers give birth to them. So God the Father begot the Son, establishing a real relationship between them as Father and Son, just as a side note Contra the modalist, the people who deny eternal distinctions in the Godhead. Yet he begot him eternally, that the Son has always been and will be. He is co-eternal with the Father. Contra the other side, the Arians, there never was a time when God's son wasn't. He's eternally gone. And Paul tells us that from God's eternal fatherhood comes earthly fathers and mothers and families. From whom the whole family and heaven and earth is named. Ephesians 3:15. So God was a father before he was a creator. But he is a creator. The Christian believes that his God created out of nothing Everything that is in heaven, on earth, and under the earth. When we say God created all things out of nothing We don't mean that nothing is something. Nothing, as one theologian has put it, is what rocks dream of. You're trying to think what they dream of. They don't dream. There's nothing. It doesn't exist. Nothing only exists as a concept in our brain, so we can talk about the absence of everything. When you open up an empty box, what's in it? Nothing. You might go, why are you saying such an obvious truth to us, Pastor Young? We know more than that. Well, because today, reportedly, there are people teaching in our higher institutions of learning that nothing is inherently unstable. By which they mean, if I understand them right, eventually something will come out of nothing if you give it enough time. That is both irrational and sinful. It is irrational in that it defies our creative rationality. We all know nothing comes from nothing. It is also sinful in that it defies our Creator, because He's from which everything comes, not nothing. The bedrock of reality is not nothing, as the evolutionists think. The bedrock of reality is the triune God of the gospel, as Christians believe. Before the beginning, there was God. The three divine persons, as we saw last week, whoever enjoyed, you remember this term? Homerusial communion. One sharing that same one divine, being that one God, that God in eternal Trinitarian Fellowship. He's the one. Who is under it all, not a dark abyss of nothing. You can't even say to say dark abyss of nothing is irrational because you can't give an attribute to something that doesn't exist How can it be a dark abyss? It's just that's not the foundation. God is. And why am I harping on this? Just because the devil's pushing hard. That you and I should think nothing is the cause of everything. And we need to push harder back and say, no, the glorious God of grace, the God of love and truth and life, He's the source of it all. Everything has come from Him. He's the foundation of reality. He's a father. And along with all of this Believing in God as the creator out of nothing. The Christian does not believe that his God and Father is in eternal competition with another power. The Christian believes in evil. As we heard this morning, the Christian, as the Lord Jesus called him, is evil, does evil. Yet evil is not eternal. Evil, like creation, had a beginning It began that day when one of God's good creatures first turned from him in his heart. This the Christian cannot explain. However, in the light of the cross, the Christian can declare that God hates evil. That God will punish evil in the cross and resurrection, and that God will deliver his creation from evil. The Christian, then, is not a dualist. We don't believe in two eternal competing powers of light and darkness, good and evil, God and the devil. God alone is absolute. Your God, your Father, in Christ. There's nobody in competition with him. The Christian, by these words, also believes, again, the words of the apostles' creed, that first line, that his God transcends everything. He does not believe that his God is everything. Now, he believes, of course, that his God is everything and that he's the meaning of his life and he is what he lives for. But he doesn't believe that his shoe is his God, or the sky is his God, or the earth is his God. The Christian is not a pantheon. God alone is God. There's a real creation distinct from Him. By these words, the Christian also believes that His God made all things good that He made. The Christian receives all created things as his food, sanctified to him by grateful prayer in God's word, and it was very good. The Christian is not looking to his Heavenly Father for salvation from matter. No, he hopes in the resurrection of the body. I can put it this way, I don't know for sure. He looks forward to running and jumping and leaping and playing tag with Jesus in the new creation. I asked myself this week, do you think everybody will pick Jesus first? We're gonna be with him. What are we going to do with them? We're going to bodily enjoy life with them in the new heavens and new earth. He's there for us to enjoy, to worship, to know, to praise, to serve. The Christian is convinced that all of creation, as God made it, his Father made it, is good. He loves those psalms, those words of Psalm 139. God has wonderfully made me. He knew me before he made me. The deep recesses of the earth and he put my members together. He knows that to be true. The Christian is not a Gnostic trying to escape matter, body, as if it's evil, but thankful. That God has redeemed it. His father has redeemed it, giving his son to become a man like him. But even though God transcends his creation, it means his creation doesn't contain him. He's above it, beyond it, greater than it. Christian believes that his God is imminent or present in creation. His God and his father tends to and cares for the creation that he has made. And that He is Lord over. When the Christian sees the seasons change, the winds blow, the waters fall, calves calving, creation flowering, business being conducted. He knows his God is near and cares. That's what David sung about in Psalm 104, that meditation of his heart before God. As he considered his wisdom and wonders, as he just observed his work in this creation before his eyes every day. Christian sees his God's hands under everything, holding it up, holding him up, holding his family up. The Christian sees his God and Father's hands and everything to rule them and guide them and govern them. The Christian marvels at the eternal council and providence of his God as it is displayed every second of every day in the theater of God's glory, which we call creation. You live in a theater. You've all gone to the theater. You live in the theater where God's glory is on display to you every day. And he shows his might and majesty, wisdom, and love and power and holiness and justice every day. You get to live and observe that. How it's wonderful too, as he's working out that new creation in the she was well. He shows his sovereignty as he's bringing in the new creation amidst the old creation. before our very eyes, and raising the dead sons of Adam to life. That's not my work. That's not your work. That's God's work. That's your father's work. That's his glory before. The Christian is not a deist The other thing is God made this creation like a watch, wound it up, and left it. And he's busy elsewhere. On top of all this, wonderful truths about his God, Krishna also believes that his God is his father. The Christian believes that his God made him not only as a part of the first creation, but also as a part of the new creation. The Christian believes that his God wished to make known the riches of his glory upon him by making him a vessel of mercy prepared beforehand for glory. The Christian believes that his God has called him according to his purpose of election. The Christian believes that for the sake of Christ, his God's Son, He is his God and his father eternally. Christian loves to hear the words having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, by which he made us accepted in the beloved. The Christian loves the praise his God and his father's grace for adopting him as his child. He loves resting assured that as it was his good pleasure to do it. He doesn't have to earn his stay. He has been made accepted in the beloved. The Christian believes that his God and his father has loved him with an everlasting love. Is that your belief, congregation? When you say, everything I just mentioned there, when you say, I believe in God the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth. I dearly hope it is. To not believe it is to not live up to your patrimony. That's what your father gives to you. Your Heavenly Father has given this to you in the Lord Jesus Christ with that gift of his Son and your eternal redemption in him. that you would know him not only as God, but as Father. Father God maybe is the best way to call it. Because the Father came before he was your creator. He is the eternal God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. If that's not what you believe yet, keep listening to the gospel. Keep seeking God by prayer. Until you know you are a child of it. For the second part, and here's where we talk about our relationship to this God, our God and Father. Believing all this to be true about him, the Christian trust his God so much that I do not doubt he will provide whatever I need for body and soul, and will turn to my good whatever adversity he sends upon me. In this veil of tears. The Christian has learned from his elder brother Jesus Who is also God and creator? That God can be trusted to provide for his daily needs For both his body and his soul. His Lord Jesus, as we read of his inspired account, never went without food, drink, and clothing. Even though his calling, his work would eventually leave him without a place to call home or to lay his head. His heavenly father gave him godly parents to care for him, to provide for his needs as he grew up. His father put him in the covenant community to be watched over by the spiritual leaders and cared for by the members. That he might be taught, right, to know God, as our children are? Later in life, when his father called them to his messianic office, He provided for his needs, as we read, to the generosity of his followers, whom his heavenly father drew to him. We read of many and many women caring for Jesus in his earthly needs as he served his father. And so now looking to the example of his elder brother, also hearing his Lord's teaching, the Christian says. Do you say, I trust God so much that I do not doubt He will provide whatever I need for body, for soul. And if he does doubt, he looks around, as his Lord taught him, and he reasons like this. I'm here, like the birds, to give glory to my God. And he feeds them. He'll feed me. So I'll go on seeking his kingdom like my Lord Jesus before me and leave the worrying to my Father. I'm only a child. It's not my place to worry about these things. He may say, and I'm here like the grass to give glory to my God, and he closed them. He will clothe me, so I will go on seeking his kingdom first, like my Lord Jesus before me, and leave the worry to my Father. You can also reason. God's children helped to care for my Lord Jesus in his day. Well, my heavenly Father will make sure that his children do the same for me in my day. The church will look after. I'll leave the worrying to him in trust. Is that how you reason? If you profess him to be your God and Father, what does that mean for your life? Does it make any difference? That's really the heart of this, right? What is your relationship? Is it this relationship of trust? Because this is how God's children reason. It's taken right out of Scripture. Right out of Jesus' teaching. This is how he told you to think. He said it in a manner that was of a rebuke, right? Oh you of little faith. He thought, God's creatures have no reason to doubt him, period, ever. They must not know him. That's why he came, to make him known. We can be assured. We can trust him. The Christian believes that he is here on earth for a reason. His reason for existing here is not first to get food or drink. His reason for existing here is not first to get clothing. His reason for existing here is first to do his heavenly father's will. And seeking that In doing that, he believes his father's promise to add to him the necessary things of this life. My dear brothers and sisters Make sure that you are not living like the Gentiles do, who do not know God. Life is far more than anxious striving after food. Drink and clothing. Please keep your jobs. But don't forget your greater calling in those jobs to be a light where you're at. To be a witness to Christ. Because otherwise you're no different than everyone else there who doesn't believe. And then what's the point of believing in Christ if you're not going to be different than the world? The Christian has also learned from his Lord's example that his God and Father can be trusted to turn to his good Whatever adversity he sends upon him in his veil of tears. For the Christian has heard how God's Son wept blood in his agony. The Christian has heard how God's son said, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And yet the Christian has heard how God's son, despite that agony, Said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. That's trust. The Christian has seen his God and Father turn the adversity of the cross into the joy of the resurrection. And the Christian has seen how the Son of God trusted through it all, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. despising the shame and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God As Kevin DeYoung in his book about the Heidelberg Catechism says, and I quote, trust therefore does not mean hoping for the absence of pain. But believing in the purpose of pain. Not hoping in the absence of pain, but believing in the purpose of pain. The Christian believes that he suffers for a purpose. I just want to stop because I think when we say believe today, we think that's something unsure We think, oh, he believes and they believe, and everybody's got to believe. And it's all a mess. Remember, belief means you take it as true because God said it's true. The Christian believes, because God said it, that he suffers for a purpose. The Christian believes, as God said in Philippians 1, that he has been given a share not only to believe in Christ, but in his sufferings as well, that he may be made like to his Lord also in his resurrection. He trusts his God and Father in his sufferings. He remembers his God's former faithfulness when the adversity strikes next. God got me through last time and it was good. He'll get me through this time. I'm sure all of you here, believers in Christ. Can attest, rather the whole service of it, what seemed to you to be horrible at first, God has turned into something good beyond your imagining. James taught this lesson to the church from Job. Indeed, we believers count them blessed to endure. You have heard of the perseverance of Job and seen the end intended by the Lord. That the Lord is very compassionate and merciful. Who doesn't shy away from suffering like Job? I don't want to. Yet who doubts? Who has ever tasted that the Lord is good, that Job likes suffering will be a blessing? Because God is wonderful. Please do not pretend, as I'm sure you don't, that your suffering isn't real. Please do not pretend like it doesn't hurt. It does. Please don't try to shoulder it yourself. You cannot. Cry out to the God who is there and cares, your father. Turn to him in your pain and give it to him. As we read there, those we sung Psalm 84, our catechisms quoting it, this veil of tears is the valley of Bakaj, Bakaj is Hebrew for tears. For the saints on earth, the veil of tears becomes a refreshing spring by God's grace. Everybody on the earth in it, by God's grace, becomes a place of strength and refreshing for the saints. They go from strength to strength, as the psalmist says. Each one appears before God in Zion. Talk about believing in the purpose of suffering or the purpose of pain. Don't miss what the psalm is saying. If you live as a pilgrim in this world, like all of God's children do, you end your days not in weakness. But in strength. You get stronger through life's sufferings, not weaker. The inner man is truly renewed day by day. It appears you end right in the weakness of death. And yet that's not true for Christians. We arrive strong in Zion before our God. Because suffering is not the goal. The goal is before God in Zion. So we should praise God in our sufferings. We have reasons to do it as believers. And as I'm sure you can also test, who knows what good Your honest faith in God amidst your suffering may bring to others. Have you ever asked yourself, why do Christian people keep loving God? Keep loving Jesus, though he makes them suffer so much for it. Because as Paul says there in Romans 8, when he quotes Psalm 44, Nothing can separate them from the love of God. Even if their God gives them up to be butchered like animals, they won't stop loving him. His love for them has created in them, dare I say, an equally strong love for him. And if it's not as strong, at least Paul's telling us it is this strong that nothing created can destroy it. Because that's what Paul means there at the end of Romans 8. Nothing can separate us from this It is an invincible love on both parts. Remember, the promise is only good for those who love God. Well, isn't it great that you won't stop loving him in Christ? Because if you stop loving him, there goes everything you hope to be turned to your good Paul's not only saying God's love is invincible for you, he's saying your love for him in Christ is invincible too. He's really loved you, and you really love him. That is wonderful. Now God's children love their father. Finally, here, why should our relationship be one of trust? Because God is trustworthy. If you've ever played the trustfall game, that's a game where you fall back into the person's arms Have you ever played that game? You know that it requires confidence in the catching person's ability to catch you And his desire to catch you, right? If you're shakying and he's a lot smaller than me, I'm gonna crush him, then you're not gonna fall. Or if he's, you know, it's kind of one of those trickster people that, you know, likes to do tricks, you're second guessing whether you're gonna fall back. Well God's neither of those. The Christian falls into his father's hands for provision and for salvation because he believes that his God is able to do this. Because he's Almighty God and He desires to do this because He's a faithful Father Unlimited powers, getting at the idea of what Almighty is about, is only scary if the one who has it is scary. I love Mr. Beaver's words to Lucy and the Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. After hearing about Aslan for the first time, Lucy asks, but is he safe? She heard he's a lion. And Mr. Beaver says, safe? No, he isn't safe. But he's good. That is all you need to know about God, beloved. He is good. He is not scary. He is good. The one who upholds all power, holds all power in this universe, is good. You have nothing to fear from him if you fear him. If you treat him like the father who can pick you up and spank your little bottom if you misbehave, you'll do fine. Or as our brother, Lord Jesus, he puts it a bit more severely, but I will show you whom you should fear. Fear him who after he has killed has power to cast into hell. Yes, I say to you, fear him. He's talking about your father. You may meet people in this life, beloved, who will want to kill you because you are Christian. Don't fear them. Your father can do far worse to you than they can do to you. And he has covenanted with you never to treat you like that. Your father is able to make their threats vanish like smoke. He is able to catch them in their own snares. And not only is he able to do this. He desires to do these things for you because he's your faithful father. Remember, beloved, that the cross is the cost of discipleship You all knew that I hope when you made your profession of faith, you can trust, like Stephen, that if you are called To carry that faith and suffer as a martyr, that Christ will be with you in the moment for you to entrust yourself to him. And here I love these final words in the catechism. Because he is a faithful father. And so let's end where we began. Before God was ever your creator, he was Jesus' father. Being a dad is more natural, if you will, to God than being a creator. God's name revealed to us in Scripture is not creator, it's Father. Creator, the title that He earned when He created all things. The Father is who he is. Don't forget to ask Jesus to show you the Father. Because he can help you to trust in him as he did in this life. Take to heart his words. If you earthly fathers, then who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? It is not for children to be parents. It is for parents to be parents. But parents, as you know, you have Probably let your child down. Parents fail children. But don't forget also, parents, that they have a better father and mother, one who is without evil. And you have him too, parents. He's your father as well. So whatever you don't have, congregation, that you need to serve your God and Father with, ask him. He'll give it to you. If you struggle with God's faithfulness to care for you as his child, consider what Psalm 104 says. God watches over and cares for this world and its inhabitants, animals and human, not like an absent-minded or just absent father, but one who is present, tending to his creation. Be careful about what science says about how this world operates. But lead scripture. So congregation, you have a God, you have a Father They are one in the same. They are Jesus' two. He trusted in him, and so do you. Amen.