We speak of, as Christians, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. One Lord, creator of all, because that is how God has revealed Himself in His Word. We call God Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. We Christians speak of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. as the one Lord God, creator of all, because that is how God has revealed Himself in His Word, the saving revelation of Himself in the gospel of Jesus Christ. You began your new Christian life by being baptized into the name Of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. An act of worshiping the true God is how you began your Christian life. That was done by the command from Jesus to his disciples to baptize the nations. Converts and their children into this name. Jesus revealed this name to us in the gospel. When he came amongst us and said, I and the Father are one, and I will send another helper like me to be in you, the Holy Spirit. And you live as Christians now and forever under the Trinitarian benediction. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all forever. The Apostle Paul used that benediction at the end of 2 Corinthians, but the Apostle Paul did not come up with that benediction. He knew what we read this morning from the second commandment. He knew better than to create how to worship God. Who knew better than to come up with a new name of God, to put on the people of God, to bless them and dismiss them as they go out and serve God in the world? Oh, that benediction, that act of worship. He received from God Himself. And why do I start here then with this worship? This Trinitarian worship that starts your Christian life. The Trinitarian worship and life of God that you're blessed with now and forever. Because I can't say end your Christian life. There is no end to your Christian life. We are not the list that we're not among the dead but among the living We are raised and united with Christ. We're not a society of the dead, but of the living. Why did I start with this act of worship to make the point that the Church of Jesus Christ Has always worshiped the Trinity, has always been Trinitarian in its worship through and through from the beginning. And something of that revelation is sure and certain in the Old Testament, but it is seen there dimly. And it is made unmistakably known in the gospel of Jesus Christ and the church which he founded by that wonderful statement in Acts, when God purchased you by his blood. Because God took on flesh and God died. And he poured out his spirit upon you. The worship of the church has always been Trinitarian. That's why the church, and you read it history in those first several centuries have fought hard and did find fight hard to defend the deity, the divinity of Christ, the incarnate Son of God, and the Holy Spirit. Because the church, and dwell by the Spirit of the risen Christ, has always known The God she worships. Remember what Jesus said to the Samaritan woman, we Jews, the church is the Israel of God. We people of God know whom we worship. We're not worshiping an idol. Even gathered this morning in the name of an unknown God, but the only God there is Is the God we know and worship in Christ. The church knows whom she worships But how do they come to this worship? Well, that's as I said, as you know, through the saving revelation of God made known to us in his gospel. When in the fullness of time God sent his son into this world to redeem us, his people Raising him from the dead three days later and pouring out his spirit through the risen and ascended Christ, that's how the church came to know the one she worships. From Christmas, the birth of Christ, the incarnation, to Pentecost, the pouring out of the Holy Spirit from the Father through the risen Son. God has revealed himself, the triune creator God, has revealed himself to us as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit for our salvation. And to begin to consider this, look again at what question 24 says in the catechism. It asks us: how are these articles, the Apostles' Creed, divided? Now the Apostles' Creed, let me say this before I answer that. The Apostles' Creed can be, and it is treated so by this catechism, it can be considered as a summary of what the gospel contains What that means is the creed contains in it the gospel. The gospel, what it promises can be found in the Apostles' Creed. You can make known the saving revelation of God through the Apostles' Creed, explaining that, sharing that, proclaiming it, and teaching it. What does that mean? That means, right, just as the gospel has revealed to us a triune God, well then these articles that contain a summary of that gospel are divided into three parts. God the Father and our creation, God the Son and our deliverance, and God the Holy Spirit and our sanctification. And I selected scripture readings this morning that reflect that. Remember again, Isaiah 61. It prophesies about the Lord's anointed Jesus Christ. The promise of the gospel is that one day, right, somebody would come into this world, stand on this earth, and say, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to preach good tidings to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted To proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. And today, right in the Church of Jesus Christ, we proclaim that someone to be Jesus, the Son of Mary and Joseph, conceived by the Holy Spirit, the Son of God. But notice the Trinitarian shape of the prophecy. In that first line, you have the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. There are three figures here. The Spirit of the Lord God. Secondly, there is the Lord God. And third, there's the me, the Lord's anointed, because he says he has anointed me. Christ. So here you have Christ promised And you have them anointed by the Spirit of the Lord God, which the Lord God poured out upon him. The gospel of our salvation is inherently Trinitarian Because God is a Trinity, and He is the one who is revealing Himself to us as He saves us and brings us into a saving knowledge with Himself. Consider the passage in Titus, when God our Savior showed his merciful kindness and love to man. Look at what shape that salvation, that kindness took. We read, He saved us through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit. That's person one, the Holy Spirit. Whom he, person two, God, the Father, poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior, person three, the Messiah, the Son of God incarnate. Again, right, you see, three persons are mentioned as being involved in our salvation and being revealed to us. In that salvation, as the one Lord God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, when they have made known to us their reconciling love for us. Is it beginning to generate through our brains that we have to think through and through the gospel forces us in our salvation through and through of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit Lastly, consider John. Here both the Trinitarian nature of God and even the Trinitarian nature of our salvation is seen as Jesus gives these words. to his disciples right before his death, his resurrection and ascension. We read, If you love me, keep my commandments, and I, person one, Jesus We'll pray the Father, person two, and he will give you another helper, person three, that he may abide with you, forever as part of our salvation, the Spirit of God abiding with you forever. The spirit of truth and the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him. You, Christian, know God. You know him. For he dwells with you He dwells with them at that time because he's anointed Jesus. So they've as much as they've walked with Jesus, they've walked with the Holy Spirit. And then he says, he'll be in you. Pentecost. At that day, Jesus promises, this is a promise made to every Christian and dwelled by his Spirit. At that day, you will know that I am in my Father. We'll finally get through. And that you, here's that part of that Trinitarian salvation, you're in me. And I in you. And then he goes on to say, and we, Father and Son, will come to him, anyone who loves me, and make our home with him. You cannot escape the Trinitarian God of salvation as a Christian. Three distinct persons are spoken of here. And in this text, Jesus even begins to speak about the oneness. Between the three persons, right? I am in my Father. He also speaks of in our salvation the oneness of believers with the persons of the Trinity You and me, I and you, and we, Father, Son, will come to him. Now our oneness, as I'm going to make clear in a moment, but I'll just start it now, is not the same oneness that the that God has. But in our creaturely way we share in that oneness that is a part of the uncreated God's oneness, as He's brought us to a saving knowledge and brought us into s a state of salvation in His Son. So then, as we've seen from these passages, the gospel of our salvation is Trinitarian structure As our creed following the Bible shows. And what that means is that each divine person of the Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, is distinctly But also conjointly, together, involved in saving us from our sins. The God who made us and saves us is tri-un. His work of salvation is triune. The knowledge of God we get in salvation is triune. From incarnation, as I said, to Pentecost, the Trinity has been revealed to us men in our salvation. Just by the way, that's why if you follow the church's calendar, Trinity Sunday comes after Pentecost, because it's understood we now know who God is. We've seen the full revelation of Himself, from Christmas, to the cross, to the resurrection, to the Ascension, to the giving of the Spirit, and we wait in the consummation of that knowledge of God. And Christ our Lord returns. So it is true to say that we speak of as Christians God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. One Lord God, creator of all, because that is how God has revealed Himself in His Word. As you know, I'm sure, beloved, know, as you read through your New Testament, you will find places where both the Sun And the Holy Spirit, and by Son, I mean the Lord, I mean the incarnate Son, the Lord Jesus, and the Spirit are given the names of God, the attributes of God, the works of God, and the worship of God. It's through the biblical witness. If you just read the New Testament, it forces upon you that no other conclusion can be reached. That God is one, but he is three persons. Here's maybe a word you've not heard before that I appreciate. Or maybe you have, I don't know. Triunity. You've heard Trinity. Have you heard triunity? One God, three persons Three persons, one God. God is a tri-unity. Now here for the rest of the time I'm not going to tell you how long that is, so it shouldn't be too long. For the rest of the time, I want to talk about two terms. I've given you the biblical and obviously it's there's so much more, right? But just those three readings demonstrate it. But I want to talk about two terms that are associated with the church's teaching on the Trinity That hopefully as you grow up in the church, live in the church, die in the church, these terms you'll have heard of them, you'll know them, you'll be familiar with them. But as I say that, because here's where it can again get to be like conceptual, that's fine. But just remember that we when we use these and we teach on the Trinity, we're talking about a reality who is God And our terms, though we have true knowledge of God, still fall short of the full majesty of Him. He is and will remain ever incomprehensible to us Doesn't mean we don't have true saving knowledge of him. It just means he's God or not. He always truth transcends his creation, even as imminent That he is in it when he became one of us in the incarnation, he can still say, I am, and has not been bounded or changed through that fact. So, really, this study should lead us to our knees, and I think probably is better done on our knees in an adoring posture. But here we go. Here's the two terms I want to familiarize you with. Homo illusion. What does that word mean? It's a fancy Greek word that you all know from the Nicene Creed as a being of one substance with the Father. That's what it means, or uh it's Latin translation the Church of the West uses as consubstantial. So if you were to worship the Greeks We're worshiping in the Greek church, you would confess Jesus, the incarnate Son, to be Hamo Usian with the Father. As Latin Western Christians we say consubstantia with the Father, but since we do worship in the vernacular now, because God wants us to do in the vernacular, and ours is English, we say Jesus Christ is one being with the Father. Or one and the same being, one substance. They're getting at the same truth. That Jesus is one and the same being with the Father. And the second one is pericuresis. Another Greek term. The Latin is co inherence. And it talks about the truth and how each member of the eternity indwells in the other and exists in the other. So we'll talk about it more fully here. So we're going to talk about Hamarusion, Pericuraasis, and why you should care about it. These are not biblical terms, but they express biblical realities and are the ways the church has come to use to faithfully state The truth about God and clear away the error that it has battled against. And really, these truths, as I hope they demonstrate will naturally enforce themselves upon us right as we meet God, revealed to us through his Son Jesus, in the one Spirit, as we encounter Him in the pages of Scripture. I remind me of St. Augustine's saying, The faith of God now is your Bible. Go there to meet God. Now he's not God. The Bible's not gone. But it is such the living word of God. And it is through the word of God that we meet God and encounter the living God. Hamalusion expresses the truth of Jesus' statement in John 10. 30 where he says, I and my Father are one. That's what Hamuision is getting at I and my Father are one. And we ask, one what? One God Jesus, the incarnate Son of God, is saying, as the incarnate Son of God That he and his father are one and the same, be ye. When he acts, the father's acting What he says, the Father says. What he does, the Father does. He and the Father are one and the same being. That truth was given its creedal standing in the church's worship and confession to the world at the Council of Nicaea in 325. And then it was re-ratified and confirmed in 381 when they met again. And what Jesus wants you to know when he says, I and the Father are one, that he and the Father are enough. Homo uso relationship, if you want to use that term, communion. That when you meet him, you are meeting God. Period. You are meeting him through the medium of flesh. The word of God has become flesh. But he did not become flesh and ceased to be God. The incarnate Son of God says to you and me, I and the Father, that you don't see, but at the same time you do see. Because he and I are one. It should be a great comfort to us as Christians. It assures us. There's not a hidden God behind Jesus that we know nothing about that could be very nasty and mean that might take away our whole salvation and is mightier and greater than Jesus. That'd be a scary thought, wouldn't it? But it's utterly untrue. Because the only God there is is the one who clothed himself in our flesh and came to us. And said, I and the Father are one. So Hamaruson is this wasn't hammered out because the Greeks just wanted to show how brainy they are. They wanted to conserve for all time the truth of the gospel. That it is God being revealed in it, and your salvation is real and has standing because it's God saving you. So it's a hugely important term. The deity of Christ is not a thing to play around with. The other term, pericuresis, expresses the truth of Jesus' response to Philip's yet unbelieving request. That when our Lord was asked by Philip to show the Father to them, Jesus responded by saying, Do you not believe that I am in my Father? And the Father in me? That the words I speak to you, I do not speak my own, but the Father dwells in me. He does these works? Believe me that I am in my Father and the Father in me, or else believe me, for the sake of the works Who else could do these? But God. Periclesis is expressing the truth that Jesus is in the Father. And the Father is in Jesus, the incarnate Son. If we they will, if you will, contain one another If you try to put water into a vessel that is already full of milk, the milk will get displaced. Created reality is not perichoretic. Only the uncreated reality of God Is perikoretic, where they the three persons can completely inhere one another, exist in each other, dwell in each other, fully contain one another And we all stand up and say, Woo! That's amazing. The uncreated reality came into created reality and said in this full perichoretic reality with the Father, I and the Father one. I'm your God here. That is awesome. That is glorious. Alright, well let me drive home a few things about its significance for us. First thing, consubstantial homelucion, being of one and the same substance with the Father. Is driving home to us that Jesus, the incarnate Son, is truly God, revealed in his gospel, and as the incarnate Redeemer. He ever remains one in the same with the Father. And that means that God truly reveals Himself to you in His Son, that we should never say, like Philip Jesus, please show us who God is. That is not something that can be predicated about reality Because nothing in creation is one in the same being with other created realities. Only Jesus. Who exists in that homousial communion and fellowship as one member of the Trinity. Only God can say that He is one with something else. But this truth is also teaching us something wonderful about God. Because when you just hear the word God, you don't have the answer, but what pops into your brain? What concept do you have in your mind about God? Here's what you should have because of this teaching. This is teaching us that the being of God, rather than being a static impersonal essence Is a communion of persons. That God is inherently personal. When he chose the only name that could probably adequately reveal himself to Moses, it was I. It's a personal pronoun. I am. Who I am. The only thing he can define himself by is himself. I am who I am. God is not some Undefined essence, some impersonal essence, shared by equally in some generic way by the persons of the Trinity. He is a living communion of beings. That is who God is: infinite, eternal, wise, holy, wonderful, communion of three divine persons. Secondly, pericroasis really comes from the truth of Hamausian, of being one and the same. For if Jesus, the Father, and the Holy Spirit are one and the same being, then they are never separated from one another. Even though they always remain distinctly who they are. They can never be separated. They completely are in one another. That's why Jesus can say that the Father is in me, and He's always been in me, and He always will be in me. That's why Jesus also says to his disciples that the Spirit has been with you. Because he's in me. He's upon me. What is that teaching us? You cannot meet one person of the Trinity at a time. You meet each one distinctly, and you can address each one distinctly But they exist together. Where one is, the other is. That's why Jesus can say to those who love him, We will come to you. In one giving of the Holy Spirit, if the Holy Spirit is also consubstantial with the Father, he also exists in perichoretic relationship with the other person. So Jesus, when he says, I will pour the Spirit upon you, he can say, and we will be coming too to live in you Every believer, you're dwelt by the Trinity. You're not just dwelt by the Spirit of God. You are dwelt by the Spirit of God. But you dwell by the Trinity, because the Spirit can't be present without the other persons. This is so important, the stress. Because if Jesus, beloved, is not God, who is And how will we ever know him? Because the gospel tells us wonderful things like God so loved us that he did not spare his own son, but he gave him up for us all. Are we sure? If Jesus isn't God, if he doesn't reveal the Father to us, if he isn't God's Son, well how do we really know this then? How do we know that God was loving us and dying for us on the cross to redeem us from our sins and reconcile us to God if He's not one being with the Father? Let me tell you two ways you can apply this. Imply it to your preaching, and you can apply it to your praying The God who came and died and rose again and ever has the marks of the cross in his body, who sits in the throne of the universe, he's God. If you're a Christian, evangelism, which is the preaching of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, it is talking to people about the God you supremely and intensely love. I came home to me very forcefully this week in studying the Doctor of the Trinity We're not share, we're sharing, we're sharing the world about the God we've come to love supremely in Jesus Christ and solely. We're communicating knowledge of God when we share the gospel. That's why its demand is so immediate. And forceful. Repent or die. Receive this God and live Or reject him and live without him forever. But evangelism, as we come to know God as a Trinity, it's the wonderful joy of sharing who God is. As he has come amongst us incarnate in Jesus the Messiah and dwells us by his Spirit, we're sharing with the world the one we supremely love, the God we supremely love. That is I hope that's what evangelism means to you. I hope it's not an impersonal, let me pass a tract out and just get this guilt off my chest. But it's how can I not talk about this God? That I gather and worship once a week But I pray to every day the God who is, the God who is there, the God who cares, the God who so loved this world, he gave his son, and whoever believes in Not perish but death. So I I hope it does something. I I I know, I already knew when I stood up I was not gonna hit a home run. This is such That's a huge topic, but and it's so gonna be hard for me to convey to you, I think, but dwell on this teaching until this knowledge burns in you and you just want to share about the God you supremely love Because that's the only God, the God whose name is Jesus Christ. But also remember when you pray, that you are praying to the God who is crucified for you. Who still bears the marks in his body? Who loves you. I should encourage you to draw near to him. Remember that when you pray, you're drawing near to a father who loved you while you were still his enemy and gave his son for you. He obviously still loves you, even now that you love him back. Right? We go to God with that knowledge. How will he not give us all things besides? But it's the gospel of the true God that gives us confidence then to go to God and ask the things that we need. Also be at peace, because the God who suffered and died to make this world right again, the crucified God, he's the one who reigns over this universe as the only God. And he rules it in pursuit of his loving purposes. No matter how chaotic and evil it may look at times. And also remember, as you worship this God, as the Bible makes clear what you worship, you become. If you worship dead idols, you become dead. As we worship the living triune God, you become like Him. Through Christ in the Spirit, as we have access to the Father, we are becoming one more with God, and with that, one another, so we can the communion of saints It's not a natural reality. It's the outworking of this God's salvation for us people who are indwelt by the Spirit, who have communion with the living God and a new communion with each other. I love the way that John expresses it here, and this is where I'll leave you. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, our hands have handled Concerning the word of life, the life was manifested, and we have seen, and bear witness, and declare to you That eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us. It is the God that has been handled by men That's the true God, the living God, the triune God. And that's why John ends his letter and says, Little children, keep yourselves from idols. The triune God is the only God. So, congregation, keep worshiping. Keep proclaiming to this idol filled world the true God revealed in the gospel of Jesus Christ for our salvation. Amen.