Well my beloved brothers and sisters, all I can say to you right is there's a lot here this morning, isn't there? I have been uh wondering about the catechism's wisdom and treating all that All I can say is uh hang on. And if you feel like you're drinking from a fire hose this morning, please channel your frustrations at the men who wrote this and have been dead for 400 years And uh not towards me. But I think with that right, covering so much here, that should ensure there's something for everybody here to get this morning. You might wonder why all these things uh together uh from what I can surmise and how they've put the catechism together is last week we looked at the Holy Spirit, God's gift to us to bring us into his life, being redeemed by Christ from Sin and death. And that Spirit, God's Spirit, grafts us into Christ to become living members. So now we're going to talk about what that is, the church, those grafted into Christ. And then talk about what life in the church is like, the communion of saints, fellowship with Christ, with one another, and then end with, well, why do we have this Communion with saints. Why do we have this life with Christ? Because we've been forgiven. So that's the way I understand it is that these are the benefits that belong to being redeemed in Christ and having his spirit. We're members of his church. We share in its life. And our sins have been forgiven us. And then next time we'll look at the benefits that we have even yet to come in the resurrection of the body and eternal life. So that's the logic I understand here and how the catechism is put together. So we're going to talk this morning about the church. We're going to talk this morning about the communion of saints. And we're going to talk this morning about the forgiveness of sin. And I'm sure like you I speak from a special joy this morning, right, of being a member of Christ's body. You know, who here l likes being a church member? You know? We could all uh you know, I don't know when that happened to you in your life and it happens to us at different times, at different places. I could I could tell you about mine, but talking about this this morning, you know, this is talking about what we love Being a member of Christ's church, knowing Christ, knowing his people, sharing in all the gifts and graces of Christ. This is a special. So I guess I've been praying and hoping that we would go away encouraged this morning about the gospel and about the church because right times in church can be very good. We've all experienced extremely good times. Times nerves can be very hard to and very difficult, but we could probably all attest that good or bad, God's gracious will is being worked out, and it's being worked out for our good And for his glory. And we can go away going, I don't know how he did it, but even the heart was good. And it's amazing what he did out of it. So we'll start looking this morning here at the Holy Right Catholic Church, and Catholic means little sea universal. And question 54 in the catechism is telling us what the church is. It's very full and complete. I I wish they would say something about God's house. So it's not a perfect thing, but it's a very good one. And so we'll look again this morning and remind ourselves about what the church is. And what the church is, as they put it here very succinctly, is it is a chosen community for eternal life That is united in the true faith out of the whole human race from the beginning of the world until its end, that the Son of God is gathering, protecting, and preserving for himself, of which you and I, by God's grace, by faith, are living members of. That's the church. That's a wonderful statement from the church. Let's start with the catechism starts right. Who builds this church? And the answer right is the Son of God. We read some weeks ago and we looked at our Lord's descent into Hades, but you remember what Jesus told Peter in Matthew 16, verse 18? And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock, right, I I Jesus, I, the Son of God, will build my church. And the gates of hell, the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it. The church is a work of God's creation. It's what God builds. Church building, right, is Jesus' work. He uses men, He uses women, right? He uses you, He uses me. But it always remains his work. And I think then that should remind us, right, that it's never Pastor So-and-so's church It is always Jesus' church. He is the builder. He is the architect. He is the designer. He builds the church. It's his. You know that should encourage a strife because it's in good hands if it's his. And he will hold on to it. And he will take care of it. So hold on to him, right? Because he's building it. But how does our Lord build up his church? He does it through his spirit. This divine spirit, the Spirit of God. And he does it through the Word. And for example, as we heard this morning in Matthew 11, right? Jesus' own words, he says, Come to me. All who labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. Or there is a word right there, an invitation from the Son of God, and powered by His Spirit that He uses right to gather His people out of the world and bring them to himself. Come to me. Another one, as we read in in 1 John verse 3, That which we have heard and seen and heard, right, we proclaim also to you. This is the apostles here, proclaiming the gospel, so that you too may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Notice the goal of making Jesus known is to bring others into this fellowship. And we'll talk about that in the next part of the sermon. But notice, right, it's the apostles who are the eye, ear, and hand witnesses, as we read, of the incarnate Son of God. They are proclaiming him To bring people into their fellowship, fellowship with them, the apostles, that is right, church membership. But of course, as he says, it's not just fellowship with us Because fellowship of the apostles is fellowship with God Himself, with the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ. Apostolic fellowship, church building, right? This is something that is created through the word that is preached, the apostolic gospel as it's preached And as it's received, the church is built up, it's being added to. And Jesus said This is what would take place, as we read there in Matthew 11, verse 27: All things have been handed over to me by my Father. No one knows the Son except the Father. No one knows the Father except the Son. And anyone. To whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Jesus speaks personally to his people by his Spirit And by his word, calling each and every one of his sheep that he knows by name to himself, to have life from him. and life in him. And with that. One thing I really enjoy about first John's passage is, because maybe sometimes we hear it Talked about you got it you know church is optional come to Jesus, right? And John says, well no, come have fellowship with apostles, which is having fellowship with Jesus. So they're not you don't have to pit them against each other. If you're having fellowship with Christ, you're having fellowship with his people. If you think you're having fellowship with Christ and you have nothing to do with the church, you're not having fellowship with Christ. I suppose you could also be having fellowship with believers, but not really being having fellowship with Christ either, which means then you're not even really having fellowship with believers. So you need to come to Christ, and coming to Christ, you'll have fellowship with his people Well, what does our Lord Jesus build his church out of? The catechism says, out of the entire human race. Not just one people, but all peoples. Our Lord has his people in every place on this earth, in every land I mean every place of society and every land you go to, the Lord has his people. Some already know him, some don't yet know him. And that is what motivates the church. To keep going out and sharing the good news in every place. This is why I picked for us this morning Psalm 66. Because it is a very evangelistic psalm. Right, come and see, verse 5, come and see what God has done. But the He is awesome in His deeds towards the children of men. That's what we're proclaiming the gospel. Look what God has done. Come and see this. And then it says in verse 8: Blessed our God, O peoples. That's everybody. Bless our God. Let the sound of his praise be heard. Everybody, all peoples are invited to come. And see the good news, of course, as it's proclaimed. But then right, we have the sacraments. You get to see in baptism the work. that God has done in a person to bring them to faith in Jesus Christ and make them a new creature as He's turned them from sin and given them a new heart. As it is symbolically seen in baptism and washing. In the Lord's Supper every week, as we've seen how Christ has died for his people, gathered and made in one, feeds and nourish them. There is Good news to be seen and heard in the church to be proclaimed. And we need to keep inviting people to it. One uh 21st century Anglican priest and Oxford scholar while he was walking uh in a street parade casually shared Jesus with a man which led to his conversion. We think, wow, this shouldn't always be that easy for me. I know it doesn't always work out like that for us, but it could. Let's never underestimate the power of Jesus' name. Never underestimate the good news. Just tell people faithfully what the Lord has done. Christ will draw all his people to himself. But saying that, let's be reminded here and what the catechism is saying: the church is Christ's people. It's not a he didn't get his materials from a lumber yard or a rock quarry. The church is the people. It's you. It's me. It's all of us in every place. In every land. But when did construction Take place. When did the Lord start building this church? And when will he stop building this church? Now the catechism says, from the beginning of the world until its end, the Lord has been building this. Church. Every week we hear here in the words of institution for the Lord's Supper, 1 Corinthians 11 26, for as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup You proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Until the Lord comes. That's the end. We must proclaim his death. And word and sacrament to build up his church. Until that time, the Lord's church will continue to be built here on earth. But when did the Lord start building the church? From that passage in Matthew, which you know I read to you, Matthew 16, 18, about on the rock. One could gather that the church went under construction when Peter first began to preach Christ, which was on Pentecost. And we read that last week. And about 3,000 souls were added that day. But notice what the catechism says. It says, from the beginning of the world, the Son of God has been building his church. Now, I would uh here's an area where we could spend a lot more time, and I know there could be more to be said here that you're not convinced of this, but let me just say this. When Adam and Eve fell The Son of God immediately stepped in as mediator and drew them to himself in faith through his word of promise. That he was coming to bruise the serpent's head, right? That is in nutshell there, the word of the cross. That bruising of Satan's head is our legal victory. over the accuser. This is what we call in Reformed churches the covenant of grace. That the covenant of works was God's arrangement with Adam, that eternal life would be given to Adam and his progeny through Adam's obedience? And the covenant of grace is God's arrangement with us in Christ, or with Christ, and with us in Christ as his seed. That God gives us eternal life through our faith in Jesus, who obeyed in our place for us. Fulfilling the law and suffering its punishments. What this means, right, is that there is this one Savior who has been working to save one people according to one plan ever since the fall. There are not many Saviors, but one, the Son of God. There are not many peoples of God, just one. Scripture calls that people Israel, made up of the patriarchs, then made up of Abraham's seed, now made up of all nations, blessed in him. And there are not many ways to be saved but one. Faith in Jesus Christ. A faith that Paul tells us in Romans 10 that calls on the name of the Lord. Says, Lord Jesus, save me. That kind of faith But did you know at the end of Genesis 4, right back at the beginning, we see that faith? Genesis 4, verse 26, to Seth also a son was born, and he called his name Enosh. At that time, people began to call upon the name of the Lord. From the beginning, Jesus has been building his church So the church is old. The church is new. It's got a new covenant. It's taking a new form. We call it Christianity today. The church is a people. It is a people that need to be gathered, a people that need to be protected, a people that need to be preserved by the Son of God. You know that's that threefold work here that Catechism says that Jesus has been doing, gathering us. You don't bring yourself to faith in Christ. Protecting us. You don't keep yourself in faith in Christ, preserving us. Jesus does this. Until we are called through His Spirit and Word, the church is scattered. Jesus must go and gather his people from all the broken, confused, disillusioned, and shameful places that they have been scattered to And hallelujah, and he is not afraid to go there and bring him out. That wherever his people are lost in sin at, he goes and recovers him. I was there, you were there. Praise God, we're not there anymore, but in his church, and we know him, our Savior. So don't lose heart. Keep saying to those you love, come to the waters. Keep saying to them, come to Jesus. Keep saying to them, repent, turn from your sins to the living God. Believe this good news that He has forgiven us all through Jesus. Put your faith in Him. And what our Lord gathers, he protects. We read about that in Psalm 84. Now this was what he did in the old covenant, but It's true today. He turned the sea into dry land. They passed through the river on foot. You remember what was chasing them, right? Their enemies. There did we rejoice in him, who rules by his might forever, who keeps watch on the nations. The Lord knows what the nations are up to. He's got to watch over them. Let not the rebellious exalt themselves. It's only going to be worse for him because the Lord protects his church. From all the dangers of this world that lead to postasy, turning from the living God, Christ protects his people. As we read there in verse 6 of Psalm 84, as they go through the valley of Baccha, Baka in Hebrew means tears. Not a good place to be in. It's a painful place of grief, of suffering, of heartache, of loneliness, of loss, of persecution, whatever it is, as they go through the valley of Baca They make it a place of springs. Their tears turn into a source of refreshment. The early rain also covers it with pools. Rather than being in despair, they're refreshed They go from strength to strength. Each one appears before God in Zion. Each one of Christ's gathered people appears before God in Zion. That is your chosen destiny, congregation. To appear before God in Zion. I'm so happy for you. We should be happy for each other because you will be so happy in that day. I've said it to you before, I would just remind you. Please do not seek your best life now. God never intended it to be your best life now. He wants you to have that best life then Have the good life of Christ's church now. But don't try to live your best life yet. There's just more to come. There's just we're not in his presence yet, in that full sense. By God's grace, as you know, Congregation, I know you know, life's hard times and life's painful times are also for us renewing times. That increase our faith, increase our hope. And also what the Son of God protects He preserves by his strength. Blessed are those whose strength is in you, in whose heart are the highways desire. Where does this strength come from? to persevere in faith. Jesus himself. He also preserves us right by his grace. Paul says in 1 Timothy 1:16, But I received mercy for this reason, that in me as the foremost Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who are to believe in him for eternal life. Who here has been trying the Lord's patience? It's perfect So they think, how patient is he with me and how foolish I am. But we trusted in him for eternal life, and he's going to ensure that we get it. So our Lord is building his church through his word and spirit. He's gathering out of the nations from the beginning to the end his people. He's protecting them. He's preserving them. And why is he doing it? He's doing it for himself. The church is for Christ. You and I are for Christ. You and I are his bride. And I tell my children, who are trying to figure out which one of your children they're going to marry someday, that they can be married right now. They can marry Jesus right now. I tell them daddy's married to Jesus, you can be married to Jesus, and that's a marriage that's going to last. Jesus says the gates of Hades shall not prevail. As we heard, death's doors is shut to you if you're a believer in Christ. It's only life in front of you. Only life. That makes us, as the catechism says so wonderfully. A community chosen for eternal life and united in true faith. You know, let's remember, congregation, that church membership is God's choice God has picked each one of us to be in this church. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, Paul says. The church's makeup, if you will, was designed by God from the foundation of the world. That we should be holy and blameless before Him and none. We are here by sheer grace, as Paul says, and I don't think it's ever been said better. Romans 9:16. So then it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy. And what we have been chosen for is eternal life. Now there is a whole question of that coming in the catechism, so I'm not going to deal with it now, but it gets into the idea we'll talk about next of fellowship. But we have been chosen. For eternal life. But also notice that we are a people, a chosen community for life that is also united together in true faith There's a true union in this community that holds us and binds us together, and that's our true faith. Because what else is keeping us together but our faith? We all became communicant members in the same way? By faith, there's no other way to become one? Faith. Profession of faith. We all profess, right, the same faith. Paul calls it the faith of God the left, or as we the church has been using and we use here, the faith that we've been looking at in this creed, the Apostles' Creed. We all profess the same Faith, truly united in these truths, in these realities of God as our Maker, Christ as our Redeemer, the Holy Spirit as our sanctifier. And this one faith leads us all to share in just one way of life: Christianity. The worship and service of the Lord Jesus Christ, the discipleship by the Lord Himself. One faith and one way of life are we united to together. The truth truly does unite us. And I'll say a little bit more about that when we get to the fellowship piece. But the truth of God Unites us together. That is first and foremost why you're here. And I I hope that you're here for that. I hope you're not here just to have a good time, right? In a social club. And these are nice people and those things that all be true But it's the faith, when it becomes not pleasant, that will keep you together. Because where else are we going to go? As Peter told Jesus, you have the words of life are only here It's that faith that truly unites us. Well, what should our response be all this? I appreciate the catechism tells us how to respond here. And of this community I am and always will be a living member. And that should be said with joy, right? Of this community, I am and always will be a living member. And I don't know a better community. Oh no, better place to be, as we heard in Psalm 84. My soul longs for your courts, O Lord. Better is one day as a doorkeeper in your house. Then however many thousands of days and years in the tents of the wicked, so good is it to belong to Christ and be in his house. Membership in Christ Church really should be the joy of every regenerate heart. Because it is a privilege. Of God's grace not to be taken lightly, to belong to Christ and be in the church Because this is the only living community on earth. All other societies are dead and will die because this is the only one that communes with the living God. And has life evermore from him. Here we know God. Here we grow in grace. Here we are amongst the company of the redeemed and the saved, who are filled with Christ. And we can know that we are members of this community by that faith, that God-given faith that we have, which works through love. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love. That's how you know you're in the church We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death. So we know we are of Christ. And you and I can know that we will always be members of this community by God's unfailing faithfulness. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 7 to 9, so that you are not lacking in any gift as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will sustain you to the end. Guiltless in the day of the Lord Jesus. God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. So to God be the glory for making us members of his church, his glorious church. Secondly, what is life in this church like? It's Jesus's. He builds it. It's his. What is life here like? Now in one sense I could probably don't have to tell you. In other sense, Let us remind ourselves what is life here like? Well, question 54 tells us what the church is. Question 55 tells us what it's like, and the key word in it is communion or fellowship. That is the key ideal of Jesus' church, a communion, a community, a sharing, an intimate fellowship. That's the life of God's church And who participates in this communion? Believers, one and all. Faith cannot be assigned an age. At whatever age a person has it, he or she participates in the church's communion. It's fellowship. And what is the mode, or what's the way in which we have this communion as members of Christ? the Lord. I mean here we've got to take this to heart because what it's telling us is there cannot be communion with Christ. Fellowship. There cannot be sharing in his benefits. There cannot be communion with his people without first Union with Christ. It's as members of his body. Only as we are united to Christ that's made one with him by faith Jesus is Lord. By the Spirit do we share in this communion, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians 12:13, for in one spirit we were all baptized into one body. Jews are Greeks, slaves are free, they're all made to drink of one Spirit. You cannot have communion in the community of the church without union with Christ. So saints or believers first have communion with Christ. And this, I think, is the heart of church life. This is the beating heart Of life in Christ Church, fellowship with Him, communion with Jesus Christ. We read there in Matthew's Gospel. About Jesus' invitation to him, fellowship with the Lord began the day that you took Christ's yoke upon you When you stopped serving other lords and came to know the Lord and said yes to him, that's when fellowship, that's when you entered into fellowship with the risen Christ. And our Lord describes there in that passage that we read this fellowship as service to him, right? He says, take my yoke upon you. That means service. Be my servant. But he also describes it as discipleship with him and learn from me. So, as Christians who have communion with Christ, that means that we are going to be serving the Lord and we are going to be learning from the Lord all of our lives. That's the fellowship and communion that we have with him. This is what we have been invited to. This is what we are inviting people to. Right, to have common fellowship with us. Because our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Think about that. You know, people are saying, come have fellowship with the Republican Party, come a fellowship with this group, come have fellowship with this group, be a part of us. We like guns, we go hunting, we go to club, I don't know, fellowships, right? Come on, fellowship with us. We know the living God. We walk with him in the light. We are his people. We should be inviting people into this fellowship Now, before you and I came to Christ, what we were yoked to, as serving, what we were being discipled by, made us weary. Because of the heavy burdens that put on us. The Pharisees, there in context, made Sabbath keeping a burden by their traditions. Jesus says, Come to me, I'll give you rest. I'll show you what real Sabbath keeping inside. Our Lord offers to us liberty from sin. Our Lord offers to us liberty from man-made religion by enrollment right into his school. By enlistment into his service. Now I love this passage in Matthew because though Jesus is the divine teacher, right, he's gentle. How many know the Lord is gentle? How many of you have ever been taught by someone who's not gentle? That ain't fun. Be because we're all I don't know about all. I guess I won't speak for you. I'm a prickly proud sinner. So I don't like people coming and saying, Don't you know you're doing this wrong? I'm so thankful Jesus doesn't generally do that to us Gentle encouragement. Though he is the Lord of all, he is low leave Ever been taught by someone who thought they knew it all? They might know it all, but it ain't fun to be taught by people who know they know it all, and that's not a good experience. That's not Jesus He says his yoke is easy, right? And I mean don't we know that as believers? We hardly even know what's on. We don't get up and go, oh, I've got to be a Christian today. Do him go, yes, this is great being a Christian. This is awesome. This burden's light. That means that fellowship with Jesus is what makes our soul weariness go away. Because we are fellowshipping with love incarnate. John's going to go on and say, and God is love. Our fellowship is with love incarnate. That has to be a sweet fellowship. Be in fellowship, in love itself, himself. And I know that you want to, and I want to, I want to keep that fellowship here, right? That's the kind of fellowship we want to have as the beating heart here at the church. And that means we all must wear just one yoke here. Jesus'. That means you don't try to put your yoke on me, and I don't try to put my yoke on you, right? We all just serve the Lord. And we don't take any other burdens upon ourselves here in the congregation, but the commandments of the Lord Himself. You don't command me with your opinions, and I won't command you with my opinions. We'll go to the Lord's word together and we'll say, what does Jesus say? What does the Lord say? That will be the burden we go with. And that's an easy yoke to carry. Because I know you've been in churches, right? Well that's not always done, is it? And it can be a worrisome thing. People are putting things on you that the Lord doesn't put upon you. Weighed down by people's opinions. This is how you should do it. This is how you should do it. It's hard. We don't want that fellowship here. We all serve Jesus. We only have one person to please. You don't have however many people are sitting here to please. You have one, Jesus. Because it's impossible to please everybody here. You won't But seek to please Jesus. And we all only have one teacher here, Jesus, teaching us through his word. By his Spirit, who's working by and with that word. We don't have many teachers. That gets confusing. We just have one. But also notice right our fellowship, we're going to keep it here, is with the light. Sin is a terrible slavery, and it is a heavy burden. So we must avoid it and shun it and put it to death. And I am confident, Congregation, if we pray for this and live this way together, we will enjoy and keep enjoying the rest that Christ gives us. His people, as he's invited us to, and promised we would have. Catechism says also that as we walk with Christ and are loved by him and love him in this fellowship, we also share in all his treasures and his gifts. There's not time to go through all of that, but we might ask ourselves, what are these? And in the and you can say it one word, everything Romans 8:32, He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with them graciously give us all things? We get to share in all things in Christ. Things earthly, right? You know one of the things, if you go through the New Testament, look up that word communion or fellowship, you'll find out that fellowship amongst believers and with Christ is financial at times. And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. And that very often goes through the grace of God's people, communicating to the poor and needy, out of the abundance they have, so as Paul says, there'll be inequality. Things heavenly, right? We come to share in the Spirit with the divine knowledge and the knowledge of divine things that you can't get anywhere else but from the Spirit. The Spirit's fruits. We get the fruits of the Spirit from Him. Love, joy, peace, and all. The gifts of the Spirit to build the body with. The pledge of the Spirit, right? That bodily redemption and immortality. All these things we share in. From Christ. So fellowship is not only financial, it's also spiritual. Capital S, spiritual. So we've come to share in the Spirit and all that the Spirit gives to us. That's God's people. So church life is first and foremost communion or intimate fellowship with Christ, but second, it's been communicating to others what we've received from Christ. You know, the thumb owes it to the body to pick up the cup, right? We joke about having opposable thumbs, but imagine if you didn't. The thumb needs the work with the hand to pick the cup up. The eye owes it to the body to avoid walking off cliffs. The members of the body must interact with one another for the common life the one life of the body. You know, communal obligation, communal obligation may not be popular in the West today or even known, but it does exist In the body of Christ. And you say, well, how does it exist? How is there this oughtness and duty, this obligation to share? Well, we have Christ on example. Philippians 2. Let each of you look not only to his own interest, but also to the interest of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is Christ, right? Who though he was in the form of God, did not count any quality of God's name to be grass, he emptied himself, he took on the form of a servant, being born the likeness of men, being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, death on a cross, right? Our Lord took. But God gave him a body, and he served us with it. And we're given that example to not put only our interests before us for the interests of others and share. Second, we have the obligation because as good stewards of what God's given us. Because we do not possess what we receive from God Merely for ourselves. Peter writes in 1 Peter 4:10, as each of us has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's grace. What this is telling us, beloved, is I'm sure you know, we are all needy, not just some of the time, all of the time. All of us are needy from what we get from Christ and what we get from Christ's people. There's never time we say I'm so mature I don't need the body. We are all needy Amen. And we are all needed all the time. All the time you are needed here. All the time you're needed in the church, God calls you to where you'll be going. You're needed in the body. So ask for help because here's the place you'll receive it. And be ready to help, because here's the place to give it. I like what the catechism says. That we should use these gifts readily. That means without having to be asked or prodded to do it, joyfully. This means not being a grump about it, for the service and enrichment of other members You know, I think how readily, right, the eye serves and enriches the body. Think about it. How enriched you are. Who knows what joy that brings to the eye? I don't know. But I I'm convinced, Congregation, as you do, I'm just encouraging and as reminding you of this. I know work's going on here. That if you go about your God given work here As an act of service to enrich others. If that's your mindset, then I think the readiness and the joy will come. Because that's how we're to do our work. Lastly, the forgiveness of sins. Why do we have this church and fellowship? Because God has forgiven us. And what does that mean? It means he will no longer remember any of my sins, nor will he remember my sinful nature, which I need to struggle against all my life. Each of us still struggles with a sinful nature. But in Christ, God's pardoned you. So let's remember two. We're saints. We're sufferers, we're sinners. I like what Kevin DeYoung says here about the n The needing to struggle every day. He says this is not an excuse for laziness in the war against sin, that God pardons our sinful nature, but it is a call for perpetual joy In gratitude at the forgiveness that is mine through no work of my own. You know, it's a lot of work struggling, but through no work of our own, God has pardoned that, so we can fight against it. God does not treat us as our sins deserve congregation. God does not treat us as our sinful nature deserves. But rather, by His grace, God grants us the righteousness of Christ that we may never come into judgment. I appreciate what that means. There are later sermons on this. Kevin DeYoung in his book illustrates imputation this way. Imputation means instead of holding five hundred dollars in your hand Someone else wires it to your account. The money is not actually in your physical possession, but it is legally and truthfully considered to be yours. Now, of course, you and I could go to the bank and then pull it out, and it's physically in our hands, but you get the illustration. Christ's righteousness is not physically yours, but it is legally. And truthfully yours. And with it in your account, you will never come into condemnation. And why has God shown us this grace? Because of Christ's satisfaction. Because he lay down his life for us for the sake of that offering that our Lord Jesus made for us. God forgives us, does not impute our sins to us, but the righteousness of Christ. So, congregation, as Psalm 84 says, blessed are those who dwell in your house, ever singing your praise. For a day in your courts is better than a thousand else, for I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. I say to you, congregation, stay out of those tents. And in the house of the Lord Jesus, Amen