What does it mean that Jesus sits at the right hand of God? How many of you children at the dinner table, your father has a designated seat? Does dad sit in the same seat? Imagine if dad got out of the seat and said, son, you come and sit in the seat. That's what it means that Jesus sits at the right hand of the Father. It's a metaphor because God's the Spirit. He doesn't have a body, parts, or passions. He doesn't have a right hand Uh, from my understanding, it comes from the practice in the ancient Near East that if you were highly favored by the king, you were brought up to sit at his right hand, that favor would be unshown to everybody. This is the king's favorite And you would then be in power and great honor. Everybody would have to bow down to you and serve you. That's what it means that Jesus sits at the Father's right hand. He has all power And he has all honor. He is, if I can put it in his terms, the acting God of the universe. His word and his acts are the acts of God. He sits in the place and power as the crucified, risen, ascended, and enthroned Messiah. Hallelujah. So we'll be considering that this morning. We're considering that because where we're at in the Apostles' Creed, excuse me, the height of our catechism. has us going over the Apostles' Creed as a summary of what we as Christians are bound to believe, because what we as Christians are bound to believe is everything that God has promised us in the gospel. Which of course you can find in Scripture, and if you want to find it in a place summarily, then the Apostles Creed works as well. So that's why we're going through the Apostles' Creed as we've been going. There are three questions and answers this morning. My plan is to look at each of these in turn. The first one is about the king and his rule. Second one is about the king and his benefits or blessings to us. And the last one is about the king and his judgment. Each one of these questions and answers essentially give us kind of two teaching points for us to digest and take, and they'll give some and they have several scripture readings that go with it. Some of them we've already read and a few others I'll I'll read to you. And then we'll have some applications to make from each one of these questions and answers. So that's the plan this morning. Let's start and look at question 50. Question fifty asks, Why the next words? Because last week we looked at Jesus ascending into heaven. So why, after those words in the Creed, do we say, and sits at the right hand of God And the answer given is in question fifty is explaining to us why Jesus ascended. He ascended that he might show us to heaven that he is the head of his church. And not only that, he is the one whom God governs everything. Not just his church, of course, but all things. That's why Jesus has ascended to heaven to rule. And it might be known by all. He is in charge. He is reigning. Hallelujah. So the answer here given teaches us two things. One, Jesus ascended to show that he is the head. enthrone. Let's remember that. He is a real king, really has been enthroned and really is reigning forever. And second, Jesus rules over all. This week is getting us, last week and into this week is getting us at the most basic Christian confession, and that is Jesus is Lord. I remember reading some weeks back, months back, about um it is right we can say that Jesus reigns in our heart. That's that's good and true. He should be enthroned there. Given that seat, we should serve God not just with our lips, but obeying Christ in our hearts and following him? Well that's not quite the message the apostles preached. They didn't go to Caesar and say, He's the king of your heart. She said, He's the Lord. We gotta get that clear. He is objectively the Lord And he wants everybody in creation to know he's the Lord. That he sits at the Father's right hand There's not a molecule, there's not an angel, there's not a spirit, there's not a human being that isn't to know that and to receive that lordship of Christ. Trust in Him for salvation Believe in him, obey him, and tell everybody else he's Lord. I read to you, uh we read Daniel 7. So you saw there in Daniel's vision that Jesus is the enthroned king in verses 13 and 14. That is referring to his ascension, as he ascended to heaven in the clouds. Of course, he will come back as well in that manner, and the same reality will be on display to all that Jesus is king. There's a great quote. I meant to share it last week, but I forgot, so I'll share it this week. J. A. T. Robertson. Uh I if it's the same one I'm thinking of, he's a grammarian, but it doesn't really matter. The words are great. Jesus' ascension is the advanced notice of the end. That's great, isn't it? Yeah, you're all going. Yes. Christ ascending to heaven is the advanced notice of the end. This world cosmos and cosmic rebellion against God is not going on forever. It has already begun as Christ has subjugated you to Himself and brought you to acknowledge Him as Lord. You know His loving kindness and mercy and goodness, and now you submit to it. Except we can't all say perfectly we've done that yet. But many don't. And we wonder who's in charge, right? It's kind of it's kind of a big claim to say Jesus in charge of kingdoms here and people like, well there's not a whole lot of people obeying him at times, right? Does that deny his kingship? No, we see in Daniel that God has made clear to us in the mystery of the kingdom that the rebellion and opposition will continue for a time until he comes in judgment But remember, I think I've said it to you before, I want you to know this. The reason it continues is because God is long suffering. He doesn't like sin, doesn't like disobedience, doesn't like rebellion any more than you do. Especially parents, you've seen it in children, it's quite an ugly thing. We can all condemn ourselves But he's merciful, right? He doesn't just drop the hammer. That's why sin happens in the world, because of who God is. Not that he's the author of it, because he's long-suffering and patient in his goodness. Giving sinners a space to repent. Cease the rebellion and turn from it. But there is a day coming when he will come in judgment, and all that will be gone. But now is the day to repent. Now is the day to turn to the Lord and call on his name. Psalm 110 we read last week. Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your footstool. That was essentially the psalm of the New Testament. It's quoted like over 24 times and probably alluded to more times If you were to walk into an apostolic church, you'd probably heard a sermon on Psalm 110 being preached to you. Matthew 28, 18, I know you all are familiar with the Great Commission, right? All authority. In heaven, in earth has been given to me. That is the foundation, the finished work of Christ's redemption, is being obedient unto death and now being exalted Because of that suffering to the Father's right hand to send down that we can announce this good news of the Savior's kingdom. The Savior and the He's the one who wants salvation preached to the end of the earth He's the one who wants repentance for the forgiveness of sins for claims of all nations in his kingdom now and gathering in his people to live under his good rule. I haven't read this one to you and I'll read it now. It'll also come into play later. In John 5, verses 22 and 23, Jesus talking to the Pharisees or Won't receive him as he is, the Son of God, God in the flesh. He says, For the Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son. That all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent them judgment is a function of lordship. He has all authority. And as the authoritative ruler, it's his task given by the Father to pronounce judgment. And then we read in Ephesians 1, and I like the way uh question 51 starts by saying, you know, how does this glory of Christ as your head benefit you? Because Ephesians 1 just These verses studying this week reminded me of the great glory both of Christ, but already beginning, because he's the one who fills the church and the church, and the glory of the church as well. That the Father has placed Jesus far above rule, authority, power, and dominion. And what Paul's talking about there is the evil spirits, which he'll say later in uh verse si or chapter six, excuse me. The powers behind, the dark powers behind the evil age, because we do not war against flesh and blood, but These evil rulers, which in Scripture, Daniel 10, Deuteronomy 32, and other places, God put the nations under when he dispossessed them. Picked Abraham to be his inheritance, but promised in him he would gather all the nations back in to be his people That we have these angelic hosts, wicked, rebellious ones, leading men astray in false worship, oppressive, evil forms of government, and idolatry, and all the horrors that come of paganism. Those evil powers that kept the men in bondage and oppressed, Christ has been exalted far, far above them. And put under his feet. There is not a name in this age. There's not a name in the age to come that is greater than the name that Jesus has right now Amen. And he has put under his feet, the Father has put under Jesus' feet, everything. And then hear these great words. And the Father has given, this is a gift, has given Christ as head. Head means the one in charge over everything for you and me, for the church. Because we are his body. We are the fullness of him. Already Christ is filling us up with his presence, with his grace, with his spirit, with his rule, and one day we'll fill all in all. Because that's why he's a saint. So how do we apply these truths that Jesus is the enthroned King, the head over not just the body he is, but everything? and rules the cosmos. Well first, as I sit back and reflect on that truth, I think I'm not sure I have enough pride in Jesus. What do I mean? What other society on earth can claim that their head is the exalted king of the universe enthroned in heaven? But we can claim that, can't we? World, the one who rules us, is the one who rules the universe Let's be pr let's have pride in Jesus. You know, Paul tells Timothy, right, don't be ashamed of the testimony of him. Yeah, he died in weakness. executed as a criminal. And again, I know it's just hard for us with two thousand wonderful years of church history boasting and glorying in the cross, where you just have to remember how offensive that message is that he was crucified like a common criminal. And all that shame and humiliation. And yet he is the one in charge. Secondly, it reminds us: though the powers assault us. They are under Jesus. And you and I, though we may be oppressed by evil spirits, we can never be possessed by evil spirits. Is greater he who's in us, Christ, the Spirit, is greater than the one in the world. No longer are we under evil powers. They may still as they do assault us. They're behind the wickedness. They work through men and means and methods in the world. But we are not possessed by them. They are even under Christ's feet, therefore they are under our feet. And we reign over them. Here's the obvious one. And I know that this is your joy as Christians. If Christ is king, it means receiving him as king, right? Rejoicing in his rule, praying for his rule and increase of his reign, receiving him and submitting ourselves to him as our king. The church, right now, as Ephesians 1:23 is telling us, the one who filled, we are the fullness of him who fills everything, the church In the world, by God's design, is the focus of Christ's presence and rule. And what I want to say about that then is that we are not a lawless society As members of the church, we live under King Jesus. To us, what Jesus says is law, right? What his apostles teach, what is in his word The world is in opposition and rebellion. But God has reconciled and made peace through Jesus and by that blood has brought us near. To preach the kingdom of God, congregations, and to say, Thus says Jesus. Jesus says, Pray like this. So if you're not praying like this, you're not praying according to the kingdom. You need to repent. Call God Father. Jesus says, I came to lay down my life as a ransom froze. If you're not drawing near to God through that redemption, who's made peace for you, you're not living according to the kingdom. Jesus, love as I have loved you. If you're not laying down your life in sacrificial love. And that's not just preaching at the church at the whole, we're preaching the kingdom to everybody. The church recognizes that, believes that, obeys it. But we proclaim the gospel of the kingdom when we just preach the word of Christ, Jesus says But we preach it in our homes, right? How wonderful every marriage relationship, spousal conversation Child parent interaction, church member, session member, all relations were under the words. Well, what does Jesus say? Let's do that. Does he say don't judge? Let's not do that and be hypocrites. Does he say give in full measure and abundance and be given to you? Let's do that. Does these say trust that your father loves you and provide for you so you can seek his kingdom and not give your whole earnest effort wearing yourself out here to get provision? Let's do that. Right? You know, at when you get to the end of Matthew and you hear, all authority in heaven and earth is mine, go make disciples baptized, teach them everything that I've commanded you That's when you go back to chapter 1. Now you know he's the king. It was a mystery at first right. You read back through it again and you highlight every command Jesus made. And then you say, Oh, I'm gonna start doing this, because that's what it means to be a follower of Christ, a disciple of his. What if everybody here knew how many commandments were in Matthew? I don't I started, I got halfway through and then The weakness of the flesh caused me to fizzle away. On to something else. What if everybody here knew every command of Jesus? You know, Psalm 19, right? Lord, I know all your commands. Now I know it's not just enough to know the commands, you've got to do them, but it's a good place to start to know what the king was, right? But the Spirit can recall it and bring it to mind when you're in that situation. You know, 1 Corinthians 13, Paul's expounding on love. I meditate on those, I say those frequently, very helpful in the middle of a situation. Oh, I am seeking my own here. Backtrack. New approach. Because Jesus says, love. And lastly, as you know, if we are the fullness of Christ, that means everything we have as Christians comes from our exalted head. Why do we have the life we love? And live and rejoice in daily as believers? Because Christ died for us. Christ was buried for us. Christ rose for us. Christ ascended, exalted, and thrown as our Savior. As we're going to next, has poured out His grace and gifts and the Holy Spirit and is filling us up. So remember, everything you have as a believer in Christ, all that you enjoy and your new aspirations, desires Love, the change of your whole heart, the people of God, the church and its worship, the rule of Christ, everything. Remember, it comes from one glorious source Our risen, ascended, and enthroned Savior Jesah. Bow before him every day. Let's get on our knees as families and say, Thank you. I know we've got much here. I know it's a difficult calling to live in and it's hard to be in this world, but we can still say, Jesus, thank you. That we are your fullness. And you are filling us up with yourself every day as you loved us and laid down your life for us. So that's the king, that's his rule, that's not everything said about it, because you're on time. Those are some things, but no, he's the king And no, he is ruling us and governing us by his word and spirit. Secondly, what are the benefits that Christ brings to us Two of them are identified here by the catechism that through his Holy Spirit Christ pours out gifts from heaven upon us, his members. And secondly, by his power, he defends us, preserves us from all his enemies. I read to you those passages here in Ephesians 4. I also read you those passages I know I'm sure are very familiar to you in John chapter 10. Jesus is the good shepherd. He gives his sheep eternal life. He preserves and they shall never perish, but he keeps them. Nobody, nothing, can snatch you out of his hand. Well I want to focus uh first then on this passage in Ephesians and then and then John. This verse in Ephesians is, as you know, a wonderful text. It's not the only place on spiritual gifts. In fact We'll be looking at the Spirit next week, so it'll be time to say some more there. But look what it says there's Paul after talking about the unity we all have in common, he reminds us there's diversity in the body God intended diversity because we need it to be the body. And Paul says, but grace, think about this congregation, grace Um grace, that word grace, caris, means a favorable disposition, but grace can also then take on a concrete meaning and an actual favor given, right? And so it has the sense here as you've received an actual grace gift from Christ. Grace was given to each one of us. According to the measure of Christ, you think about this. Christ knows his sheep by name, calls each one of you, and according to his measure says, I know this sheep, and I'm gifting them. And they have this grace. So let's remember: every one of us, the least of us, the greatest of us, the youngest, the oldest, all of us have received a gift from Christ. All of us have received grace. Therefore, all of us can say thank you, Jesus. And all of us are look at to our neighbor and say, thank you, Jesus, for them. And encourage each other and the use of his grace and gift. Because that's what Paul deals with here. He focuses here. on the narrows down into the particular gift and grace of ordained ministry and its life in the church to perfect the saints. Think about that. Christ Has given men to bring you to completion. Because he loves you. Christ has given men to do this work of the ministry. He's given men to build you up. So that you can enjoy, as he says wonderfully in John 10, I came to give them life more abundantly. And here Paul's explaining, as you know, how he does that. He he talks about everybody, and he also talks about an ordained ministry to build the body up that you might be that new person. And live that new life that Jesus died to give you. He tells us how long this is to go on in verse 13 until we all attain the unity of the faith. This text is one reason why I wanted to go through the Heidelberg Catechism this year. I want to make sure we're all unified. What is that faith As it has been confessed throughout the centuries, that we can attain to it and come to the knowledge together as the Son of God. Now I'm convinced this is not going to happen short of glory. But we are moving, always attaining together to that unity of the faith, the knowledge of the Son, that full stature. Think about Christ wants us to be in that fullness of people who fear God. I still struggle with pleasing men and fearing man, and it it robbed you of being a man. Because we were made to be that way. We're made to fear God. Trust in Him. Be like Him. Stand as men. Not tossed every wind, right? God gives us an ordained ministry so that we won't be infants, because the things about infants in our faith is we're unstable. We don't know what to believe. You read this article, you hear this newspaper, you get this YouTube clip, this pastor said this, and you're just spun around. This is not a comment on the man, but this is a comment on the ministry that Christ gives. As you know, but just want to encourage you with it. I'm convinced That if you do not sit under ordain ministry of some sort, you will be stunted in your growth. You will not reach the fullness of what Christ wants to give you. Now because we also because we need the whole body. Generally people that don't come to church aren't spending time with believers either because Paul's going to talk about Christ building up his people and his kingdom through the ministry of men, but Paul also ends in verse 16. The whole body grows. The whole body builds itself up in love. The ministry is to equip the saints, but the saints together, all of us. Men and women, how does this body mature? How do we grow into our head in Christ? Everybody hears how And the mark of maturity is not that we can state longer doctrinal theses. That's fine. What's the measure of our love? Because that's the measure of our Christian life. Are we loving one another like Christ? Are we taking that knowledge and using it to the glory of God? And building each other up. Because notice how Paul says the church is built, speaking the truth in love. If I can encourage you to a life verse, I don't encourage life verses. Bear the good one. That verse tells us we all need to know the truth because you can't speak the truth if you don't know the truth. But reminds us we need to speak it. And we need to speak it in love. That means not to do somebody harm, but good. And I think as we grow on that, we're probably going to learn when to speak and when not to speak, right? And how to speak. Add this to your prayers for the church and this church. Oh Lord. Teach us your truth, because you've anointed us in the spirit of truth. Help me. Help us all to be able to speak that in love that we might see this body grow and mature and be the body of Christ and give a mature witness in word and deed to all around. And not only that, just enjoy the life of being spoken to in love. That's great. We've all been hurt by words. Intentionally, unintentionally, and we're going to show each other grace. But that's how we mature and grow as the body of Christ. Notice here also that maturity is the mark of growth in a church, not multitudes. Church grows from airliness maturity. Let's preach to the multitudes. Jesus did, but he often ended his words with those who have ears to hear, let them hear. Let's make sure we are feeding the sheep and concentrating upon them. Secondly, Christ Defends us, preserves us. Isn't that wonderful? Is it wonderful? Your soul. I don't mean that in just your immaterial part. The Bible often means with that, just you As your own created reality distinct from God as a gift, created entity in his image. You're in Christ's hands When's the last time you said, Lord, I trust myself to thee? And put yourself in his hand. Because that's what he's inviting us to. That's why he came to earth. To invite us, sinners, as we are. It's so wonderful. I guess I was going to preach this on the next point, but preach it now. It all goes together. Isn't there those wonderful words when Jesus says, I didn't come to judge He tells them, I could say a lot of things about you guys. Don't worry, Moses does enough condemning of you. Why am I here? To save you. That's what you need. You need someone that can love you, who will, you need someone that can give you eternal life. I can, I'm the Son of God, who won't condemn you, who will I've been rejoicing in these words and that blessing God promised when God will bless the nations, and Peter preaches in Acts 3, he sent Christ to you and to bless you, and then he says, turning you away from your sins. How many of you find it a joy and a blessing to be turned more and more away from your sin? I ask. Why and and and then more and more see the tender, patient way Jesus does it. What a blessing. Be in his hand. Kept by him. That should just feel that we should be able to go to sleep peacefully at night, knowing that our lives aren't in our hands. If you don't know that Put yourself in Jesus' hands. He invites you to him. Call on him. He is coming in judgment, but until that day His word, his whole command, I love these words. I read through John this week. That's why I'm on a John kick. His whole command was eternal life. He did not say a word, do a thing that did not convey to us eternal life. That's all he will ever give to you who trust in him. In fact, he goes on to say, if you reject me, you condemn yourself. And that will be your judgment at the last day. You rejected me. My word of life to you. How wonderful. Psalm 23. I had to sing it. I know you know it. Many of you have memorized it. I would encourage you to daily recitation and singing of it. Because even when you have enemies which you will, and even when life's difficult, he still feasts you in their presence. You'll still find joy amidst all of that, and you'll know that his goodness and mercy follows you all your life, and you'll dwell in his house. So, Psalm 23 is a wonderful psalm for the people of God. Lastly, our King is ruling. Our King is blessing us with eternal life now, filling us with His presence and rule, giving us His Spirit. Creating in us that life of his kingdom. Lastly, our King's judgment. The catechism asks: how does the judgment comfort us? It doesn't get into a lot of details about it. I might say a few extra words. The answer in all distress and persecution. With uplifted head, I confidently await the very judge who's already offered himself to the judgment of God in my place, remove the whole curse from me Christ will cast all his enemies and mine into everlasting condemnation, but will take me and all his chosen ones to himself into the joy and glory of heaven. I had us read those words in in Romans 12 about not avenging ourselves. Notice what it says, all his enemies and mine enemies. Your enemies are your enemies because you're Christ's enemies. It's talking about people who oppose Christ and the Bible calls them anti-Christian, anti-Christ. All those who deny him will not submit to him, do not know him. Several uh two things being taught us here. One, believers have confidence in the day of judgment. Imagine if you thought for a moment that if your judgment depended upon your works, How much misery you would just live in your whole life. Because you could you already know you've failed today. And it would be no comfort to you to think God's coming. You would just say, Mountains, please follow me right now and cover me from the face of the Lamb. So wh why then does Paul though well not only Paul why does Jesus say which the catechism borrows here and Luke 21, 28, why does Jesus say? Now when these things begin to take place, straighten up and raise up your heads because your redemption is drawing nigh. He doesn't tell his people to be in fear of that day. But to lift your heads up confidently for it. The Apostle Paul Tells us in Philippians 3, 20 and 21, but our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await A Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. Now he says we're actually we're waiting for a Savior as God's people. One of my personal favorite verses in Scripture is Titus 2, 11 to 14, but verses 13 and 14 say, waiting for our blessed hope. The appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness. And you purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works. Now of course, if you take the name of Jesus on your lips and are not penitent and deceiving yourself, then you have a lot to fear. But if you have been converted by God and call him Lord, know your sinfulness, beseech his mercy daily, know your weakness and trust in him despite that. And seek by his grace to follow him. You have nothing to fear. You're one of his. Daniel 7, I read you that, those verses about what will happen to Christ's enemies when Jesus comes. Daniel 7 is being fulfilled now. It's taken up by John in the Apocalypse or Revelation and filled out as far as the beast goes. Daniel 7, 21, as I looked, this horn made war with the saints and prevailed against them. That's why the catechism can talk about in all our distress and persecution, because there's this little horn Who defies God wants to make himself God, persecuting those who say, no, Christ is God, and serve him. But the court shall sit in judgment, his dominion shall be taken away to be consumed and destroyed to the end of the earth. And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms of the whole heavens shall be given to the people, the saints, of the Most High. Jesus is the king of that final kingdom, and the saints of the Most High shall share in that rule. How do we apply this? The final king and kingdom have come already, beloved, and you're in it. You won't have another king. You won't be regenerated again. There are final realities right now, the final king, Jesus, and the final kingdom that shall never be destroyed. And you are participating in it already, right now, in this world. But its final form has not come. Glory. It's under the cross now. Hallelujah. That's how God wants it. What glory that brings to him As his people will f willingly take up the cross to follow Jesus and make his love known throughout the world. That's so going right in the face of Satan Right in the face of our enemies, loving them, and preaching Christ. I want to read a couple excerpts This one comes from the, I don't know if you say it Luzane or Lausanne Covenant. This goes back to the 70s in world evangelism, and they put out a statement of faith. This one comes from the last article, Article 15, on the return of Christ. We believe that Jesus Christ will return personally and visibly, power and glory to consummate his salvation and his judgment This promise of his coming is a further spur to our evangelism. For remember his words, again, preaching the kingdom, that the gospel must first be preached to all nations. We believe that the interim period between Christ's ascension and return is to be filled at the mission of the people of God, who have no liberty to stop before the end. We also remember his warning that false Christs and false prophets will arise as precursors of the final Antichrist. We therefore reject as a proud Self-confident dream, the notion that people can ever build a utopia on earth. Our Christian confidence is that God will perfect his kingdom And we look forward with eager anticipation to that day, to the new heaven and earth in which righteousness will dwell and God will reign forever. Meanwhile, we rededicate ourselves to the service of Christ and a people in joyful submission to his authority over the whole of our lives. I think that says it very well. This one comes from the Catholic Catechism of the Church. Again, I think they say it very well. The persecution that accompanies her pilgrimage on earth, the church, will unveil the mystery of iniquity In the form of a religious deception, offering men an apparent solution to their problems at the price of apostasy from the truth. The supreme religious deception is that of the Antichrist, a pseudo-false messianism by which man, might think false Christianity, glorifies himself in place of God and of his Messiah come in the flesh. The Antichrist deception already begins to take shape in the world every time the claim is made to realize within history That messianic hope, which can only be realized beyond history through the eschatological, that's the final coming judgment The church has rejected even modified forms of this falsification of the kingdom to come under the name of millinarianism. especially the intrinsically perverse political form of secular messianism. And there I think it's talking about and it's a communism. There's a great kingdom that's come, Jesus is. There is no utopia on earth yet. God must do that. How do we prepare for that day? But we watch. I would encourage you to say every day, come Lord. That can test our hearts, right? He's coming. Are we living ready for it? Or have we forgotten it and we're living as servants in his house, just doing what we want? I mean that's that's the Lord's teaching, that's the Lord's words, those are his parables to remind us. That's why it's important for Christians to pray, come, our Lord. It's our hearts right. Judgment, as I mentioned, is a function of Christ's lordship. I already mentioned That now the judgment and salvation of the end times is even being worked out, depending on whether you receive the good news of Christ or not. Jesus promises in John 5. 24, everybody who believes in me will never come under condemnation. He passed from death to life already. Jesus is coming to reward his faithful followers. He is coming to deal with his unfaithful followers And he is coming to slay the wicked who did not want him to be their king and rule over them. That's another parable Jesus told in Luke 19, 11 to 27. He's king. That must be known. That must be made known. He offers forgiveness and salvation to all, but he's king. Let me end with this quote. Ascension Day proclaims that there is no spear, however secular, in which Christ has no rights. And no sphere in which his followers are absolved from obedience to him. Instead of it being a fairy tale from the pre-space age, Christ's ascension is the guarantee that he has triumphed over the principalities and powers, so that at his name every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That comes from the scholar Bruce Metzger, New Testament. um Greek scholar on the manuscripts and everything, critical uh scholar. But he gets it so right. There's not a A realm in this creation, brothers and sisters, were reabsolved from proclaiming Jesus as Lord and seeking to bring everything under his rule. There's no place where we can escape that and live that One of the things I you know I've greatly learned, I think, in my growing in Christ with joy is is just that's how we answer people. Well, Jesus says. And that should be the answer for all of our lives as Christians. Why do we do this? Why do we do that? Jesus says so. That acknowledges his present kingdom, his present power. He is the answer for that. Why do you forgive others? Jesus says it. He's forgiven me a mound of debt. Why do you not hold to no fault divorce? Jesus doesn't say that. Jesus said. That's how we are to live our lives. I guess if I can put it this way, that's a chief takeaway. I want us to go away more and more encouragement. The glory of Christ is our exalted head. Be proud of him. Be thankful for what he fills your life with, is the life I know you love to live as Christians. But remember, on this earth and forever, the kingdom's come, Jesus said. And as you suffer for that and are made to suffer That is God's just judgment that you are worthy of his kingdom to come. When he will come, bring you that salvation you're waiting for, and destroy forever the wicked from his presence. So Rejoice, congregation, that the Lord is King. Amen