Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the 23rd chapter of Leviticus, Leviticus chapter 23, verses 9 through 11. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the people of Israel, and say to them, When you come into the land that I give you and reap its harvest, you shall bring the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the people. priest, and he shall wave the sheaf before the Lord so that you may be accepted. On the day after the Sabbath, the priest shall wave it. Reading from Luke chapter 24, 1 through 12, the Gospel Story of the Resurrection. But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they went to the tomb, taking spices they had prepared. And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. But when they went in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel. And as they were frightened and bowed down their faces to the ground, the men said to them, Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but has risen. Remember how he told you while he was still in Galilee that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise And they remembered his words, and returning from the tomb, they told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. Now it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary, the mother of James, and the other women with them who told these things to the apostles. But these words seemed to them an idle tale, and they did not believe them. But Peter rose and ran to the tomb Stooping and looking in, he saw the linen cloths by themselves, and he went home marveling at what had happened. And then the reading of 1 Corinthians 15, 20 through 27. But in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die So also in Christ shall all be made alive, but each in his own order. Christ the first fruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ. Then comes the end, when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power. For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death, for God has put all things in subjection under his feet. But when he says, all things are put in subjection, it is plain that he is accepted who put all things in subjection under him. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be We drive by them all the time. There are two on Chancellor's Run Road near where I live And there's one just down the road here on St. Andrew's Church Road at St. Andrew's Church. Fields of stones. The stones are markers for graves. Some are beautiful, like Arlington National Cemetery with its fields of white granite crosses. Laid out perfectly and majestically, but all are fields of graves Will they ever be opened to life? Will those who have planted there rise? The resurrection of Christ is described graphically by Paul Not in platitudes and metaphors, but in plain propositions of historically verifiable fact. He says, listen, from 1 Corinthians chapter 15, the earlier part, verse 3, he says, for I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received. That Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures. That means as the Scriptures had predicted, in accordance with the Scriptures. Then he goes on, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance again with the scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas. That's Peter, we just read about him at the at the tomb in the gospel reading. And then to the twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me. What is Paul doing here? He is denying the deniers. He's denying anyone who says this is not historical fact. This can't be verified. He's saying, yes, it can be verified. There are 500 people who saw him alive, plus others. And most of them are still alive. You can go and find them and talk to them, and they are talking about what they saw. And this is in accordance with the scriptures as foretold by the scriptures. And so what else does Paul say in this context? Down in verse 20. This is our passage. He says, but in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead. Historical fact. And then he says this. The first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. The first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. He says, For as by man came death That's Adam. By a man has also come the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ, the second Adam, shall all be made alive. But each in his own order. Christ, the first fruits, there's that idea again, firstfruits. Then at his coming, those who belong to Christ. Now let's focus upon this for a moment. Where did Paul get this idea of first fruits? Well in Leviticus chapter 23, which was read. And we read this. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land that I give you and reap its harvest, You shall bring the sheaf, that is a bundle, the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest, and he shall wave the sheaf before the Lord, so that you may be accepted. That happens on the day after the Sabbath, the priest shall wave it. So what does this mean? It means that under the Old Testament law First fruits were the earliest gathered grains or fruits and vegetables, and they were to be dedicated to God in recognition that God, in his faithfulness, would provide their necessities in They were to give him the very first part of the harvest in faith that God would bring the rest of the harvest in. in the spring, but this particular kind of harvest does take place in the spring. Various herbs and legumes were harvested in the spring, but the most important spring crops were cereals, barley, and wheat We can go down Indian Bridge Road here or in other places in the county and see beautiful fields of green wheat or barley and it's just a few inches tall, maybe five or six inches tall at this time. This happens in places in the southern part of the United States as well, and they're much taller. But in a few weeks, those green shoots that are so beautiful and green, like a newly mown lawn will be tall and golden, and then they'll eventually be completely ripe, and they'll be cut and they'll be made into a harvest. This is the spring thing. Barley and wheat were planted in the autumn, just like they are here, and ripened in the spring. Barley matured faster and would be harvested sooner. The first fruits, therefore, of the grain offered during the festival of unleavened bread would have been barley. The Israelites were to offer to God a sheaf, that is that bundle again, and that would be the first fruits. And Paul is talking and taking that first fruits idea and bringing it into this Corinthian church letter to reinforce what? The certainty of the resurrection. Just as those Israelites in faith believed in the certainty of a great harvest that would come, and therefore offered that first fruits. Christ, he says, is the first fruits of the resurrection. There's going to be a great harvest of resurrection in the future. God will gather the rest of the harvest at the final judgment and the resurrection. And Paul wants the Corinthians to understand by this Old Testament metaphor that Christ's resurrection is Is a pledge of our resurrection. It is inevitable. It is guaranteed by God Himself. And so in this passage, we can see three things. First Christ has been raised from the dead with a forward look. The forward look is that harvest to come when he will bring in the whole harvest and bring it to the judgment. The ligoner statement on Christology, which is a new document that's recently come out, says this. We affirm that Jesus ascended to his heavenly throne at the right hand of God, the Father. that he is presently reigning as king, and that he will return visibly in power and glory. And then they say, we deny that Jesus was mistaken about his return. or that his reign has been postponed until some future period of time. So what they're saying is what Paul was saying The first fruits has come from the grave, and the great harvest will come, and Christ will bring it, because he is alive and reigning in heaven until now. The second thing we want to see here is that Christ is now reigning until his enemies are put under his feet. Listen again to these words from 1 Corinthians 15. Paul says, then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power. For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death, for God has put all things in subjection under his feet. Now this week I was talking to my daughter Hannah, and I was bemoaning all the terrible things that are going on, and ISIS threats and attacks. and the political circus that we see in both parties. And I said, Hannah, it is as bad as it has ever been in my lifetime. And Hannah answered back in a little while. She said, Dad, early believers endured persecution and poverty and loss of everything. And yet they believed that God was in control. And that's right. She's exactly right. In fact, the writer of Hebrews in chapter 2 says, it has been testified somewhere. What is man that you're mindful of him, or the son of man that you care for him? You made him a little lower than the angels, you crowned him with glory and honor. And then it says, this is the same thing that Paul says, putting everything in subjection under his feet. And then the writer says, Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. And then listen to this. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor, because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for every one. What this is saying is that even though we sometimes can't perceive or see that Jesus is reigning, He is reigning. He has ascended to reign, and he is subduing all things under his feet. He said, I will build my church And the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And so we by faith believe, even when things seem very bad, that He is making everything subject to Himself, even though we can't see it We need to believe what we see or what we hear from God's Word, and not just what we see and perceive in our own lives. The third point here is that Christ will finally destroy death itself. What a wonderful thing that is. In Revelation, this is a picture in Revelation 20 of the judgment before the great white throne. Listen to this. Then I saw the great white throne, and him who was seated on it. From his presence, earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and the books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to what they had done Then listen to this. This is the resurrection part and the victory part over death. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them according to what they had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. Death and Hades, hell itself, death itself will come to an end because Christ is the resurrection and the life. He is the first fruits of the great harvest that is to come. This, therefore, is a book of belonging to Christ. This is about Christ's victory over sin and death. To whom are you united? To whom do you belong? You see, everyone is united to Adam by birth You belong to him, you're united to him, and you reap all the things that come with belonging to him, with being in union with him. This union leads to external death. as the scripture said. Existence apart from God, miserable suffering, regret, and anguish, you need to be adopted by the second Adam, Jesus Christ. This union leads to eternal life, existence in the presence of God, unending joy, happiness, and peace. It is death working backwards. In his story, the lion, the witch, and the wardrobe famous writer C. S. Lewis portrays an enchanted universe that is held together by what he calls a quote deep magic And to rebel against the magic's laws is to what to threaten widespread destruction. The white witch is exercising her craft for wicked purposes But she does have very real universal forces at her command. That is the deep magic, the law of God is being represented by that figure. Jesus Christ in this novel is represented by Aslan, the majestic lion, and he has opposed the witch's magic, the use of the law to condemn, and is aware that he must pay the price. The price is what? His own death. But Aslan also knows of an even more basic truth. The witch may use her deep magic to satisfy her lust for power, but there exists a deeper magic which subverts the laws of the deep magic reality. As the story unfolds, the deeper magic, which is God's gracious purpose, raises Aslan from the dead and brings about an ultimate restoration of all things. Lewis, you see here, is speaking very meaningfully of the hope of the resurrection, a deeper magic than traditional categories of decay and death. In Christianity, in the gospel, the cross and resurrection serve twofold purpose: to pay the costly price of sin on the one hand and to show victory over its consequences. namely death. Historically, therefore, the empty tomb which we celebrate on Easter and every Lord's Day is embodied in our Savior's life, our Savior who served as evidence for this event. That faith and hope are built not on idle speculation or sentimental desires, but on the knowledge of the resurrection, a historical fact. And the joy, the deepest, most fantastic joy of all, is that there is a deeper magic available for us all. Christ's resurrection is death working backwards. It is both a celebration of the historical reality of the resurrection as well as the hope of the future promise of our own resurrection. We're going to sing it in a few minutes. The hymn by Christopher Wordsworth, which has a stanza that says this, says the very same thing that we've been saying. saying. Christ is risen. Christ the first fruits of the holy harvest field, which will in all its fullness at his second coming yield. Then the golden ears of harvest will their heads before him wave, ripened by his glorious sunshine from the furrows of the grave. Alleluia, alleluia, glory be to God on high. Alleluia to the Savior who has gained the victory. Alleluia to the Spirit, fount of love and sanctity Alleluia, alleluia, to the Triune Majesty. Brothers and sisters, Christ has been raised from the dead With a forward look, there will be a great harvest to come because he the first fruits guarantees the great harvest of resurrection to come. When the fields of stones will give up the dead that are in the sea, every other place where the dead have been buried will give them up. The great forward look of the harvest of the resurrection And he also we also know that Christ is now reigning until all his enemies are put under his feet. Even though we can't see it or perceive it at moments in history, he is reigning and he is subduing. And putting all his enemies under his feet. And finally, Christ will destroy even death itself. Death working backwards. But it depends upon this. It depends on your union. To whom are you united? To whom do you belong? By faith, you are united to Jesus Christ And you will share in his victory. You will share in the great harvest of resurrection, and you will rise not to judgment and perdition, but rise to life and glory. And peace with God. Aleluia. Aleluya. Alleluia. Amen.