To really begin to understand Christ and Christians, you must first know that they have been both appointed by God And anointed with the Holy Spirit. Now you see that there in question 31 and the answer to question 31. Because he has been ordained, in another word for that, is appointed by God the Father, and has been anointed with the Holy Spirit You also see that there in the answer to question 32, talking about the Christian. Because by faith, and I remind you that faith is an appointment by God. We are called into the fellowship of Christ. As Paul says, we have not been appointed to destruction, but to salvation through Christ. So by faith, I am a member of Christ. That's my appointment And so share in his anointing. And what this is saying is this those whom God appoints to some task He first anoints. That's the principle there. Those whom God would appoint to do some work for him, he first anoints them. The appointment comes first. You can read about all the prophecies of Christ. We'll look at some of those. Then comes the anointment. But what's the relationship, or is there a relationship between appointing and anointing both by God? What's the relationship between them? Well, if you and I lived in the ancient world or in the times of the Old Testament, athletes or God's appointed servants, prophets, priests, and kings. But often be smeared with oil to prepare them for their contest or service. And that's anointing, being smeared with oil. For Christ and for Christians, we are anointed with the Holy Spirit. Hence, the Son of God is called Christ, meaning anointed Not with oil, but with the Holy Spirit. That word, that Greek word Christos, English word Christ, just means anointed. If you wanted to describe somebody as someone who's been anointed, you would just call them a Christ We say in English just an anointed one. Christ means anointed, and Christ has been anointed with the Holy Spirit. Christians have been anointed with the Holy Spirit. Now here's a great quote from this catechism's author that explains why God anoints those whom he appoints. I quote, because as oil strengthens, invigorates, and renovates And makes firm the dry and feeble members of the body, and renders them active and fit for the discharge of their office. So the Holy Spirit enlivens and renews our nature, unfit of itself for the accomplishment of anything that is good And furnished it with strength and power to do that which is agreeable to God, and to discharge properly the duties imposed upon us. And the relations in which we are called to serve Him. End quote. What that's saying is we see that God anoints Christians with the Holy Spirit To make them fit for his service. Without God's anointing, we would be unprepared for the service that he's called us to, but then the joy is you have been anointed as a Christian, so you can serve him So the relationship between appointing to some work and anointing is preparatory. The anointing is a preparation. for the appointment. God anoints you to equip you and enable you to serve Him. This is both true for Christ Not because he was weak and a sinner like we are, but because the task God had called him to as a God man required that full anointing of the Spirit to do his work. Now before we look at that specifically in these in these different roles in his office, just look Briefly with me a little bit closer at Christ's own appointing and anointing, and then we'll look at ours We read this morning in the Gospel of Luke his baptism, and that was Jesus' appointing and anointing ceremony for his God-given task when he was baptized by John the Baptist. Now, when all the people were baptized, when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were open. The Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove, and a voice came from heaven You are my beloved Son. With you I'm well pleased. Here you see that the Holy Spirit descended on Jesus in bodily form. That form was a dove. There's not enough time to say everything about that, but think of After the flood and the new creation of Noah when the dove, this is the idea of here's the new man, assigned the task of bringing the new creation, the anointed of God. There was Jesus 2,000 years ago on this earth being anointed for his God-given threefold appointment. You see his appointment in the words, you are my beloved son, with you I'm well pleased. In Israel it came to be that Davidic kings were God's beloved son. God named Solomon Jedediah Which means beloved of Yahweh, because he loved the child of David and Bathsheba. 2 Samuel 12, 25. What a mercy of God. To name Solomon, beloved of God. Solomon, of course, became the God-appointed ruler after David So God is identifying here Jesus as the Vedic king and Messiah by the words, you are my beloved Son. Now we know, of course, in the gospel it takes on a far richer meaning than just an earthly one, but the eternal Son of God. But nonetheless, encoded in those words is also Davidic King, Messiah. Destined, as we joyously sung in Psalm 2, to rule forever on God's holy mountain, Mount Zion, consummately in the new creation. The words, with you I am well pleased, are a quotation from Isaiah 42 and the other servant songs in Isaiah. They designate Jesus as Yahweh's chosen suffering servant, who would through his self-sacrifice bring redemption from sin and universal righteousness and peace. These words mark Jesus in his prophetic and priestly office, but here I want to give a short caveat. That yes, we can distinguish between these offices, prophet, priest, and king. Nonetheless, Jesus performs them simultaneously. And the book of Hebrews has Jesus sacrificing as a priest, but if you read John's gospel, it has Jesus sacrificing as the good shepherd or king. So all that is saying was we just need to be careful about too sharply distinguishing between the offices. They're performed by one individual. They are the work of a prophet, priest, and king. We should delineate, but not separate too far. Well, so that's Jesus' ceremony. But what about ours as Christians? Well, there's several in the New Testament, but here's one that that just nails it. 1 Corinthians 12, 13. For in one spirit We were all baptized into one body, Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and all were made to drink of one Spirit. Baptism is our appointing and anointing ceremony. When you became a Christian and believed on the Lord Jesus Christ Christ Himself baptized you into His body by the Holy Spirit. And notice what the text says: you continually drink. Of that same spirit. Drinks, of course, prepare us for work. Cars drink gas to drive You drink water to run, and Christians drink the Spirit to live. And they get it from Christ, their exalted Lord. So that's your anointing. And your appointment is that you have been baptized into one body. The body of Christ. Being a member of Christ's body, as I said, is a calling. God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Not every human being is effectually called. By that we mean converted. To be effectually called is to be chosen of God. But election is a privileged responsibility. Membership in Christ's body means work. God appointed work. There is work for baptized members, and there is work for professing communicant members. And generally, that is in the general sense that encompasses all special tasks, that work is to keep fellowship with Christ. No mingling at the tables of idols. But as Joshua said, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. So, anointing is a God-given preparation for a God-given service. So, let's see then how Christ serves his God and Father. And how we as Christians serve the same. So we'll start then looking at prophet and preaching. That's what we're going here with profit and preaching. Well, the first thing Christ and Christians are anointed for is to preach. They're prophets. Jesus, as we read in Deuteronomy 18, is the promised prophet. I didn't read you Acts 3, but Peter says in Acts 3, quoting that, he's the promised prophet. Jesus said of himself, which we did read in Luke 4:18, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. And notice here how the Spirit equips and enables even Christ. Proclaiming or preaching is something that prophets do. Christians have been prophets since Pentecost, and in the last days it shall be, God declares, I will pour out my spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. God did at one time in the Christian church use Christians to foretell some events. He doesn't do that anymore. But prophecy here should be taken in a general sense to mean declare God's word. That's what a prophet does. A prophet is very simply God's mouthpiece. God puts his word in your mouth And you tell others whether they want to hear it or not, what God has commanded you to say That word could be about past events, present events, or future events. It doesn't matter. What matters is that it's God's word you're speaking And the Spirit helps you. And for Christians today, that means every word in your Bible, preach it to yourself Preach it to your kids. Preach it to your neighbors. Preach it to your colleagues. Preach it to this world because you've been anointed to preach. Not be quiet. A silent church is not an anointed church. We must preach because we have the word of truth. The word of reconciliation. The gospel of salvation. The glorious news of the new creation and the grace of God and Christ's victory These are not things to be quiet about, but to be shouting from the tops of the mountains louder and louder and louder as the day draws near. So, how does Jesus then fulfill this office? Well, the Catechism says he fully reveals to us the secret counsel and will of God concerning our deliverance. Jesus' prophetic ministry is primarily concerned with the way of salvation and making it known. He did this, of course, by announcing himself on earth as the fulfillment of what God promised through the law and the prophets. It's here I am. John says, No one has ever seen God, the only Son, who is in the Father's bosom. He has made him known Now, I don't know about you, but for me, the God that I see in Jesus, in the gospel, is not my destroyer, but my savior. Jesus' whole incarnate life preaches to his law-breaking sinful creation salvation to them. He didn't give anybody on earth when he was here first what their sins deserved. He gave him mercy and grace and love and lay down his life His whole life preached peace and salvation to men John tells us that Jesus said to his disciples before, on the night that he was betrayed, No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing. But I have called you friends, for all that I have heard from my Father, I have made known to you If you are here this morning and you know the gospel of Christ, which Paul calls a mystery, the secret that was once hidden. That nobody knew on earth from the foundation of the world. If you're here this morning and know that gospel, then you learned it from Jesus. He is the one to reveal to you that He is Yahweh. Come to earth as a man voluntarily to lay down his life as a sacrifice for your sins, to rise again three days later as the Lord of the living death. He is the one who preaches to you that salvation is found only by believing loyalty in him. In his love. So that's how Jesus preaches himself to us. He's God in the flesh. He just lives and speaks, and that's his word. So what does it mean then? How do you apply that? It means you listen to Christ. He's the prophet. We read in Deuteronomy, there is a great warning and woe to anybody here who hears the words of Jesus, reads the Bible, and does not come to faith in Christ. God will hold you accountable, he says. You'll have to give a reason why you chose not to believe in Jesus Not to receive him as your Lord, not to choose life and salvation, but why you held on to your sin and chose death when he preaches to you life Listen to Christ. Every word he preaches. There is a day in accounting. This day will come under review before the Lord. But how do you then, Christian, fulfill your office as a priest who shares in Christ's anointing? When the catechism says, I'm anointed to confess his name. And we get the joy this morning of hearing two of our own do just that before us. Emily and Eden will demonstrate their God-given anointing. Thus, they're calling an election by confessing Christ's name before us and becoming professing communicant members in his one body, the church. But what does it mean to confess his name? Well, it certainly means saying the name of Jesus, saying the title of Christ. But it does mean more than that. Jesus says in Matthew 10, 32 and 33, so everyone who acknowledges me before men I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven. You might have heard that as confess They mean the same thing. Acknowledge, confess. Confessing Christ then means acknowledging Jesus Is he the incarnate Son of God crucified and raised from the dead as Lord of all? Then acknowledge it The world right now will tell you, you are free to acknowledge that at home, but keep quiet about it in your workplace or in the town square. But what does Jesus say? Before men. But the second thing, congregation, that Christ. And Christians are anointed for is sacrificing and prayer because they are priests, Christ and Christians We read in Hebrews 7 of our Lord Jesus, you are a priest forever. And Peter says of Christians, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood. A holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Did you notice that that text has a whole threefold office Royal priesthood to proclaim right there is a work of a Christian in 1 Peter 2. 9 So, how does Christ perform his office as a priest? So the catechism says, He has delivered us by the one sacrifice of his body, and who continually intercedes for us before the Father. Our Lord Jesus, as our priest, has reconciled us to God by his death from the cross Delivering us from the wrath of God, and as alive now forever in heaven, he intercedes for us And keeps us in that salvation. I cannot say it better than our larger catechism, some of quoted on Christ's intercession Question 55. How does Christ make intercession? Christ makes intercession by his appearing in our nature, his heavenly, glorified, exalted human nature that we will one day wear. He is in heaven now. Before the Father, in the merit of his obedience. How is he there? The merit of his obedience and sacrifice. That he performed honor, declaring his will to have it applied, his merit and obedience to all believers, all on earth who will believe in him, answering all accusations against him. Don't answer them yourself. Let Christ answer for you. Let him silence your enemies, procuring for them quiet of conscience, notwithstanding daily failings. Who here is frustrated, but daily failings? Who did again this morning that thing you woke up, I'm not gonna do? Tired of doing that on the Sabbath day. I didn't want that to happen. And yes, here's worshiping with a quiet conscience Because you're not resting on your mode and manners to mediate with Christ. Because you trust in him. You know you're a sinner. And you know you've never been called but by God's grace, and you don't live before Him, but in Christ's righteousness alone, giving us access with boldness. To go before God and say, it hurts. To go before God and say, God, hear my prayer and answer me right now. That's Jesus' intercession. And acceptance of their persons and services. You can start right now today, whoever you are, if you've not believed in Christ, giving yourself as you are right now Because you are accepted in Christ and your works. You will not offer a perfect work on this earth. Is it hopeless? No. What you do for Christ, for God is accepted by him, period. That's his intercession. We should be rejoicing. And not staying away from God, but ever drawing near. The guiltier you fear, feel, the guiltier you feel. The quicker you should come to God. Because you never come but in His righteousness. Is it perfect? Is it accepted? Yes. Is yours imperfect and not accepted? Yes. So don't work on it. Don't worry about that. Just take the one God gives you and draw near to Christ, to God. So how did well I've already preached it to you. That's how you apply his priesthood, just doing what I've said in all those words that I just said there. Rely on Jesus He's a true priest. You're not appointed to sacrifice for your sins. You have your own. He has. Rely on it. But how do you then perform your office? Well, the catechism says, I'm anointed as a Christian to present myself to him as a living sacrifice of things. And these are just the words of Romans 12. 1. I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your reasonable worship or service. What that's saying, congregation, is that as priest, you are the sacrifice. You. Not for sins. God did not appoint you for that. But for praise. Christian living is an act of praise To the Creator who has redeemed you. To the Creator who has spared you from the pit of destruction. Who has restored you to your God-given vocation as an imager to rule over his creation. It is no wonder to me that Paul calls this total self-surrender to God a reasonable worship or service. Because it is only reasonable that if God spared my life and gave me a second chance, if you will, that I will serve only Him with all that I am. Because the alternative is horrendous. Peter really nails it. He says in 1 Peter 2, 5, you yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house. To be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. You see the interplay between His priesthood through Him, your priesthood, to make these offerings. And the question just is, well what are the spiritual sacrifices I'm to offer? Well, if you read the rest of 1 Peter, that's what it is. It gets unpacked as How you live in home, society, and church. God glorifying living Through obedience to Christ, down to every thought, that is your spiritual and reasonable service to God. That means read God's Word. Learn His will. What does He say to me about a husband, a wife? Father, mother, child, brother, sister, statesman, whatever, pastor, elder, deacon, all of that, that's your spiritual sacrifice to God. So, beloved, I say to you, let's do this together. We have been, let's keep doing it together. Let's encourage one another and every Christian to keep doing this together. Let's pray for this for one another. Let's remind one another, you are bought with a price. Glorify God in your body. Jesus had a sacrifice himself And he has an intercession, your eternal salvation. But you too have a sacrifice, your self. And you have an intercession, prayer for all mankind. Thirdly, king and country The third thing Christ and Christians are anointed for is to rule, because they're kings. We read of Jesus in Matthew 21, verse 5: say to the daughter Zion, This is a quote of Zechariah 9:9 Behold your king is coming to you, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the full of a beast of burden. And I've already read to you from Peter How God's children, Christians, are called royal priesthood. Let me give you a few more passages that should really blow your socks off for what's in store for you as Christians. In Revelation 2, 26 and 27, we read, The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end. To him I will give authority over the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. As when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received authority from my Father, rulers of the nations. Are Christians who conquer? Revelation 3:21, Jesus promises: the one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne. As I also conquered and sat down with my father on his throne. That is simply stunning. Almost unbelievable that you will sit on God's own throne, that He would share His throne. With you to sit on, Christian who conquers. If you remain loyal to Jesus through this life, you will reign with him forever. Well, how does Jesus perform this office as our King? Catechism says he governs us by his word and spirit. And he guards us and keeps us in the deliverance he's won for us. In that Great Commission, Matthew 28, Jesus said Baptize believers, those who believe the gospel that I'm the risen Lord and all authority in heaven and earth is in mine. Baptize them, right? That includes in baptism the receipt of the Spirit And teach them, here's the word, to observe all that I've commanded you. Through the His Spirit and His word in us The Lord Jesus rules over his church and his household. He also uses church governors, elders to do this. But their rule is only ministerial. That means they teach you Jesus' word. They exhort you to obey that word. They encourage you. They come alongside you, encourage you to do that. They at times may have to admonish you to do that. And they, of course, are setting an example for you, saying, imitate me as I imitate Christ. And if need be, they of course have the power to censure, because the Lord has entrusted the keys to his kingdom, the administration of it, to the elders. Continue to pray, pray, pray for the government of this church through its word, Christ's word, and his spirit I appreciate Kevin DeYoung's words, word without spirit is a dead letter. You need both. Spirit without word is hopeless relativism. I think the Bible said this. Well let's actually go to it. I got the spirit. Experience. You need both together. But Jesus also guards us and keeps us in this deliverance. He's one for us, right? He wonderfully says to us in John 10. 28, I give them eternal life. and they will never perish. No one will snatch them out of my hand. Not sin. He has satisfied the law Not Satan, he has bound him, and not death, because he now has the keys of death. Hallelujah. That nobody can take you out of Christ's hands. What does that mean? How do you respond to this glorious king? You submit yourself to him. You acknowledge him as your king. I'm going to play on this Greek word here. When in Matthew 28, when you read about they came to the risen Christ, it says they worshiped him. That word is pros kuno. It's made up of two words. Pros, which is an old adverb preposition that deals with direction. You know what the second word means? Kuno? Kiss Because if you and I lived under an eastern monarch like a Persian king, and if we were brought into his presence, you know what we'd do? We'd hit the debt, prostrate ourselves before him, and kiss his feeder's robes Do you kiss Jesus' feet? Have you lain prostrate before him and acknowledged him as the Lord? Given allegiance to him as king. Because he's the king. And he's worthy to be worshipped. That's how you respond to the king. You say your king, I'm subject. Your shepherd, I'm sheep. Bah, take care of me. Keep me. You see how wonderfully looking at this threefold work makes the object of our faith so clear? What do you do with the prophet? Listen. What do you do with the priest? Let them take your sin away and bring you near to God. What do you do with the king? You serve him You fight for him. That's where we're going next. And in God's grace, you reign with him. How do you then, Christian, perform your office as a king? Well the catechism says, I'm anointed to strive with a free conscience against sin and the devil in this life and afterward to reign with Christ over all creation for eternity. Christians strive against sin and the devil in this life because they now are mortal enemies. Once we belonged to Satan. Once we served sin. Once we followed him and lived under his tyranny. But no more. Notice what it says. Now we belong to Christ. Now we fight with Him, and now we do it with a free conscience. What does that mean? A free conscience. It means the burden of our guilt has been lifted. The judge has pardoned you for your rebellion. Your uh what's that word when you sh jump jump sides? Try to think of the Benedict Arnold, let's say God. The traitor, yeah, your treachery, thank you, right? Your treachery, the king has pardoned you for your treachery. It was treachery. Your sin was rebellion and joining league with the evil one who thought he would overthrow God's rule on earth. But God's pardoned that. But more than that, not only did the judge pardon you, he took his robes off. He came down and he hugged you and he took you home to his house and said, I'll be your father, and you'll be my child, and he made peace with you. Your baptism taught you, beloved. All that enmity is buried away. You live a new life in Christ. All that has been forgiven. All of it. You are on God's side now. His grace is to set you free because you know what he wants you to do now? Put that sin to death that you used to serve. Resist that devil that you used to follow. And you won't do that if you're sin laden and guilty. And a burden conscience. Because he wants you to go at it, hacking it to death, giving it no quarters, brutally murdering it. Because what's the alternative? Living with the devil? Living with sin? No. No. Let us do this for each other. Let us do this for our children, our grandchildren, our great-great-grandchildren. Let us fight the devil here in this county and keep fighting him. You have the spirit congregation. You can do this. I know what it is to fight I know what it is to have camaraderie with a band of brothers. This is the band of brothers I want. This is the camaraderie that I want. Because this is the fight. Fighting against sin. Oh, I've met a lot of tough Marines. Sure they can fight. Yeah. They can't keep their mouth shut for no reason. They ain't got the strength to do what's right. Pray for men's fellowship, pray for women's fellowship, attend men's fellowship, attend women's fellowship Pray for Christian ed. Attend Christian then. Pray for Sabbath services. Attend Sabbath services. Pray for Christian fellowship all through this county and world and attend it. And fight together. This is your band of brothers. This is the camaraderie. We are not each other's enemies. Are we gonna sin against each other? Yeah. Are we gonna hurt each other? Yeah. But we're on the same side. You need to be quick to make peace. Because it is a weakening in the armor A weakening in the ranks, so that the next silly word, unthoughtful letter from the session, whatever, just upset people and give more room. If you have a real grievance against your neighbor, tell them. Humble yourself and tell them. Go as a brother and make peace. If someone's grieved you, go and make peace. Live at peace. We fight together. We're not enemies. We're the church of Christ. Let me leave you with these words. Most likely it will cost you the suffering to live this way. But notice what it says, what I've read to you from God's word. You are a king, a cosmic ruler in God's coming country in the making congregation How you rule now with Christ in life, how you deal now is demonstrating your fitness to administer the nations and judge angels. You are cosmic kings in the making. We should continue to sing as the early church sang, and Paul wrote in 2 Timothy 2: If we endure, we will also reign with him. You can endure, because greater is He who is in you than the one in the world. Christ is the object of your faith. He's your prophet, priest, and king. Christian living is the objective of your life, to confess Him, sacrifice yourself to God and thanksgiving, fight against sin and the devil, and reign with Christ in the world to come. I love you all, and may God give you His grace forever. Amen.