Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, our Lord suffered and died for us. To redeem us from our sins and to make us children of God. That is the word to be proclaimed again to us this morning. As we consider the fourth article of the Apostles' Creed, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified dead. And buried. I mentioned to you how we're looking at two Lord's Days this morning. So there's double the amount of content, seven questions in all. And over these next two Lord's days, this one and next week, we will get at the heart of the biblical gospel. The sufferings of Christ and the glories to follow, the resurrection. And they are always in this order. Christ suffered and then entered his glory. And so we too should take courage, congregation. Because we will enter our glory after we first suffer here for a little while. These seven questions this morning teach us about our Redeemer, Christ And the benefits of his redemption, his death for us on the cross, for all those who are united to him by faith and in the Spirit. We're just going to work through them together. They will teach us many wonderful things, so let's begin. Question 40 37 is, what do you understand by the word suffering? As Christians, congregation, we confess the reality of our Savior's sufferings. Not just at the end of his life here on earth, which ended on the cross, but throughout his whole life our Lord suffered And there is great comfort in that, that our God volunteered to become a man and enter our sufferings in a sin-filled and cursed world. Several former skeptics and atheists can attest to how this truth brought them to have faith, a believing trust in the God of the Bible For pain can be terribly persuasive that God hates us, and yet God's voluntary suffering throughout his whole life and on the cross Ought always to persuade us that he terribly loves us. I'm using irony there, because he's very good at it In the gospel, as we have it recorded, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, our Lord suffers hunger pains. He suffers tired and aching feet. He suffers exhaustion in ministry. He suffers temptation. He suffers the proud and hateful spite of the people that he came to save. He suffers the sorrow of heart from hard-hearted men. And he suffers rejection. All these hurt, they are all real sufferings, and our Lord Jesus really suffered them. But when we say congregation that Christ suffered, we mean these, but we especially and usually mean the cross. We mean what our catechism says that Christ sustained in body and soul, that's his human nature The wrath of God against the sin of the whole human race. And that phrase, the whole human race, means that our Lord's sufferings are sufficient for all But they are efficacious to his chosen people, those chosen out of the fallen race of Adam for salvation in Christ. If God wanted to save one more and choose one more He wouldn't need a new sacrifice. Christ's sacrifice is sufficient for all. It is truly our God congregation on the cross, suffering there, who took to himself. A true human nature. Natures don't suffer. People suffer We talk abstractly about human nature, but you and I have never met a human nature, but we've met plenty of humans, people. Well, divine people who have only a divine nature, the persons of the Trinity, don't suffer hunger, grow tired, or suffer bodily. For they are spirit, which cannot hunger, grow tired, or experience nails driven through their flesh. And divine persons also don't suffer wrath from each other, for they dwell in perfect love, because God is love. But a divine person who has his own human nature, body and soul, can and did suffer in these ways, like our Lord Jesus Christ. And he did so to redeem us. Just as our sufferings are never without purpose in this life, neither were Christ. He suffered to redeem us from eternal condemnation, that's the sentence to death, and to gain for us God's grace. righteousness and eternal life. I ask you, congregation, don't you love living under God's favor? Isn't that wonderful? To have his smile upon you? To him just treat you with sheer kindness because he just wants to treat you with sheer kindness. Isn't it wonderful, Congregation, to be clothed in Christ's righteousness by a Father? Who loves us so much and treats us as if we're that this children of his old age, right? Like just. Isn't it wonderful, congregation, to have a living hope and to live in hope of eternal life? And already have an enjoyment of it here and now, and knowing who your God truly is. Well, we're going to sing afterwards in response, but I will sing of my Redeemer. Is the response to all these blessings of his redemption. So, question 37 is teaching us when the church confesses that Christ suffered, that our Lord suffered to redeem us. But why did he do it under Pontius Pilate as a judge? That's the next question. Well, the name Pontius Pilate in the Creed congregation not only fixes for us the date of our Lord's sufferings Because the Romans kept a record of who was governor when, and we can go back and find out when he was governor. So there's an historical record affixed to this that the crucifixion is a historical deed, it's a fact, something done accomplished. But it also reminds us that Jesus went before a judge, and he was sentenced. He was sentenced to criminal execution on a stake or a cross. But why did the earthly court have to get involved if it was really a divine affair or it's sins against God? Because God uses earthly courts to carry out his affairs on earth. The Apostle John records for us in his gospel that Jesus told Pilate, You would have no authority over me at all, unless it had been given you from above. Pilate had his authority from God, as Paul teaches in Romans 13. Yet he abused it for personal gain, as is often the case in human government. But nonetheless, Jesus submitted to it, knowing that God was judging him as our representative, our Adam. For our sake, Paul writes, he made him to be sin, who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Sin always incurs judgment because it's a violation of a law, God's And Jesus underwent that for us the innocent for the guilty. And I think, right, how amazing that Christ would go for me before that judgment seat of God as the guilty criminal and take my sentence. To take it away from me. And that is a great comfort to us, congregation, that God is no longer our avenging judge. That doesn't mean that we won't all still go before Christ's judgment seat, or we will. But it does mean that for those of you who believe in him, you will go before him as your redeemer. To be rewarded by him for your service to him in this life. Well done, my good and faithful servant, is a verdict you'll hear. And the judge If you are not serving the Lord Jesus yet, please do so. He will take you. He will show you mercy, for this is God's will, and all would serve King Jesus. And if you are serving King Jesus, then keep at it his good and faithful servants. So our Lord was sentenced with our sentence of death. But does it matter how he died? Could he have died anyway? He got the sentence of death. Does it matter how he died? And the answer is yes. And that's what question 39 is getting at. How Jesus died, congregation, is very important. We all need to know why Jesus died the way he died. So that we can comfort ourselves and the world with this gospel. Hear how Paul explains the gospel of Christ crucified to us From Galatians three, Paul writes For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse For it is written, cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law, and do them. Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law, for the righteous shall live by faith, but the law is not of faith. Rather, the one who does them shall live by them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree. And it is written congregation in Deuteronomy chapter 21, verse 23. Christ crucified is the only way that you and I, beloved, or anybody, can be redeemed from the curse of the law. As lawbreakers who do not abide by all things written there, we were once under the curse of it ourselves. But thanks be to God, through Christ Jesus our Lord, we who believe no longer are And that is good news. That's the gospel of Christ crucified For now we are blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus our Lord. And being delivered by his death, we have been transferred into his eternal kingdom. Hallelujah. I will sing of my Redeemer. But also here's our comfort, congregation. We are not cursed of God, but blessed. Whatever shame and humiliation you will suffer here as the followers of Christ will only redound to a greater weight of glory for you in the world to come. So press on daily, take up your cross and obey King Jesus. Question 40. Why did Christ have to suffer death? Well, we already talked about the necessity of Christ's death earlier this year, which is what this question and answer is about But as it is so essential to the gospel message, let me just touch briefly on it. Again, the necessity of Jesus' death. Simply put, the death of the Son of God as a ransom for our sins was necessary because of who God is. And God doesn't change. God is just, and therefore, right, lawbreakers, beware, because he will not justify the wicked. He will punish sin, and his justice demands it. He is also true to his word. God told Adam what would happen if he disobeyed. You will surely die. God will never go back on His word. That is a comfort to us. We come to trust in that word that all who believe on the Son shall not perish, but have eternal life. Christ died to satisfy divine justice and to prove the word of God true. You can rely upon it. And this is how God shows us mercy, congregation. He provides us with a substitute, one to take our place, even his own son. You and I, therefore, congregation, we no longer have any need to die. The necessity of our dying has been removed by Christ. Dying in our place. There's no need for us to die anymore. You know, this is really out of the world. Because you probably heard this saying, right? In this world nothing is certain except for death in taxes, right? But in the world to come, what's certain is that these are no more. Remember when Jesus asked the Peter Peter, who pays taxes? The king's children or the subjects? The subjects. Well, you're God's children, beloved. He ain't paying taxes in the world to come. You're the king. So death and taxes are no more in the world to come. Pay him here I will sing. My Redeemer, you will know what it is to be a child of God in the fullest sense. You know it now. You're really going to know it. Hang in there in the world to come. Amen Question 41, why was our Lord buried? Why was he buried? Those burial testifies are really dying. There is nothing, congregation, like a corpse to bring home the reality of death, is there? Our Lord died Therefore, he was buried, and his body was laid in a tomb. In a few weeks, we'll talk about where his soul went after death. Though his body and soul were separated in death like ours, if we undergo that, Christ could come back first. Yet they remain united to his divine person. The incarnation is a ceaseless reality that not even death can break. Though his body and soul were separated, they remain united to his divine person. In the resurrection, they were reunite. You know, as congregation today, I think we surely say this with greater significance. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For our shepherd Jesus has walked there first. Trust in him, and especially you little ones. My heart wants nothing more than for my own children and little ones. We will all face the reality of death. It awaits us all. To trust in Jesus. You hear that, children? Who are you going to trust in? You're going to trust in Jesus, right? The Lord. He will shepherd you all your days, even through death. Trust in Jesus. Just think, congregation. That when you die, just by dying, you'll have more in common with Jesus than now. Because that's one more experience that you'll share with him. And then you'll also share the resurrection with him too when he comes back. Look how Jesus death, the most terrifying thing. And look how Jesus takes that away, right? Take this to heart. Death is there. The world doesn't want to talk about it. It's still there. We can stare it in the face through the gospel of Christ crucified. We can face up to that horrible reality because God is for us and loved us and Jesus gave his life for us. Let's keep preaching that good news. I think I've shared this for you, but Charles Spurgeon said, just preach that which makes man not fear death, and you'll preach the old gospel. Amen. Well that ends sort of the exposition about Jesus' sufferings when we confess that in the creed, as is contained for us in Scripture. But next, in these last two questions, we look at application of our Savior's sufferings. We've already talked about some, but here are the catechism: two ways to apply our Savior's sufferings to us. Since Christ has died for us, why do we still have to die? Answer: our death is not a payment for our sins, but only a dying to sins and entering into eternal life. Death for us, congregation, has lost all its punitive, that means punishing significance. Our death is not a payment for our sins. As the catechism says. Because Jesus has made that payment for us by his death, and he has redeemed us from the evil of death. Death now, congregation for the believer is a blessing. Paul says it's gain. Amazing Well, what do we gain? The first thing we gain is a dying to sin. At death congregation Your strife against sin, against the world, against the flesh and the devil will be over, and your victory in that regard will be complete. Because there still is the victory to come over the grave. And as your pastor, I want you to know I do not like the phrase. So and so fought hard but lost the battle to cancer. Bodily death is not a battle you are called to fight. Please pray and seek to stay alive here if you're sick to serve God. That's not my point. My point is simply what Paul says: the body is dead because of sin. The leading cause of death really remains too many birthdays. This body must either die and return to the dust. Or be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye. There's not a third option. But why do I say all this? Because it is wrong to say you have lost something when you haven't. Christians have victory over the grave, which means they have victory over illness. They just have to wait for it in the world to come. So don't waste your time fighting a battle that isn't yours. Christ will raise you. That's his promise. That's his job. That's his fight. However, I do say to you, congregation, keep fighting the battle that is yours to fight, spiritual warfare, especially in sickness. Keep your holy armor on every day. Fight the good fight of faith every day. Confess Jesus Christ every day. That's the battle. But secondly, what do we gain in death? Through bodily death, believers gain an entrance into eternal life You know, this seems strange, but this is what John affirms in Revelation 20, verses 4 to 6. I'll read them to you. Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed. Also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus for the Word of God. And those who had not worshipped the beast or its image and had not received its mark on their foreheads or their hands They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life until a thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection. Over such the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with him for a thousand years. Now, I am aware of how controverted this passage is by good, faithful, well-meaning Christians of all stripes And I am not going to pretend to give you the final word of this portion of Scripture this morning, but one thing in this passage is clear. If you die in Christ, that's the first death, and in context it's martyrs, and those who confess Christ In face of persecution, but confessors of Christ. If you die in Christ, the first death, the second death, the lake of fire, has no power over you. For you have persevered in the faith. God has preserved you in his grace, and now you are home safe. At death, you will undergo what John says here, the first resurrection, which is coming to life and reigning with Christ in heaven There is, congregation, a lot to look forward to, even in death. Eternal life and a heavenly, priestly rule truly does await you when you fall asleep in Jesus. And I think that should then be a great comfort to us all who have lost loved ones to know that they are reigning with Christ right now. And that heavenly reign awaits all of you who die faithly in the Lord. Amazing beneficence. Who really looks forward to death? I don't want to leave my children and wife and you all in the things here I'm not saying we should anticipate it. The point is we have to, or Christ has to come back. So it's there, and we even have gain with all the sadness that will come with it We will die to sins forever. That's comfort you can give on the deathbed for a believer. Your strife with sin is going to eternally be over. And if you know that strife, that's where is some But you'll win. You will be alive forever, safe at home for all eternity. That is comfort to give at the bedside of any dying sin. Lastly, secondly, here, Christ savings benefits. Because we don't have to wait till the end, congregation, meaning the end of our life to start getting benefits from Christ's death We can do so every day here. What further benefit do we receive from Christ's sacrifice and death on the cross By his power, our old man is crucified, put to death, and buried with him, so that the evil desires of the flesh may no longer ruin us. But instead we may offer ourselves as a sacrifice of thanksgiving to him. Now you know why I read Romans 6 to you. Which I like to call the baptized life, being dead to sin and alive to God every day. This really congregation is a huge benefit. Let me briefly just try to show you how big it is. Consider what the Apostle Peter says in 2 Peter chapter 1, I forget the exact verse, but he says By which, and he's referring to Christ's glory and his excellence, he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. Having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. Those two words. Sinful desire, sum up everything that is wrong with this world. Man cannot And we'll not solve that problem. We like our sinful desires. And there's nothing we can do to change our hearts. You cannot medicate this? You cannot treat it with cognitive behavioral therapy. This is not a it's a human problem. That can't be answered by a human solution, but only the grace of God. Only, as Jesus says in John 8, only the Son can set you free All who have sinned are a slave to sin. Only the Son can set you free. And in Christ's congregation, know that you are free. Though sinful desire is present in you It no longer rules over you. That's a great comfort. That's a blood-bought benefit of the Lord Jesus that we get to enjoy every day as his people. Though it's there, though we hate it, though we resist it, though we strive against it, praise the Lord Jesus. It does not dominate and rule our lives anymore. What this means is we, and I'm emphasizing the word can here, we can love one another as Christ loved us. We can forgive as Christ forgave. We can forgive. We can die to ourselves and our wishes, like the Lord Jesus. Not pleasing ourselves here on earth. We can put others first. We can work and serve together. We can listen to one another, we can do all things together through Christ who strengthens us. I rejoice in all that we have done together as a congregation and all that we will be able to do together as a congregation because sin doesn't reign in us anymore, not in the men individually as members, nor in this body. United to Christ's congregation, we are called every day to live dead to sin. And alive to God. Our morning routine is to get up and say, here I am, Lord, send me. Our morning routine is to get up every morning and take our Lord's yoke upon us for that day and offer ourselves sacrificially to Him. For his service as a thank offering, because this body in toto and soul has been redeemed, right? It's his And we must do it right with joy. Acknowledging and praising Christ for all that we can now do since we're no longer slaves to sin. If you lived under it and been free of it, it's wonderful. Every day let us rejoice in what we can do because sin doesn't reign in us. Congregation, by the sufferings of Christ. You are no longer under law, but under grace. You are under the one who loved you And who gave himself for you. And now he lives in you. So serve God, following Christ Do everything that Christ says to you in His Word. Daily follow his example. And may the God of all grace help you to do so. Amen.