Dearly beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, it is a joy and privilege again, and I thank our God to be able to proclaim to you now again his good word, rejoicing that he has made himself known to us in such a loving and saving way in his Son, Jesus Christ. As I just mentioned, and as you know, we've been going through the Apostles' Creed now for a number of weeks as we're making our way through the Heidelberg Catechism this year. The Apostles' Creed contains in it a summary of all that we are to believe, or all that God has promised us in the gospel, and therefore all that we are to believe as Christians, and also bear witness to in the world. And this morning we're going to consider the words from the creed, and I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe in the Holy Spirit. Now there is an order to this creed, as we saw in an earlier sermon, that it starts with the Father as our Creator, creating us through his eternal word and spirit. It then moves on to discuss our Redeemer, the incarnate Savior, His Son, Jesus Christ And we uh ended that last week as we looked at his exaltation and his coming again in glory to judge the last day And now we go on to look at the Holy Spirit, the sanctifier of the church, and also those blessings that we have in communion with Christ. And this is because according to the inter-Trinitarian procession, as you know I love Trinitarian fancy church words. That just means that the Father, uh the Son proceeds from the Father, and the Spirit proceeds from the Father and Son. According to those, because this is just who God is, as he's revealed himself into the gospel The reason we follow this order is because the Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son. And in the gospel revelation of Himself for our salvation, God has revealed himself that, as we read this morning, through the Father, or excuse me, from the Father Through the incarnate, crucified, risen, ascended, and now enthroned Savior comes the gift of the Holy Spirit, thus completing The revelation that God makes of himself in our salvation, the same God who created us on Pentecost completes that revelation of himself as one God in three persons for our salvation and ushering us into his divine life through this gift When that Spirit was poured out on that day, we commenced our new beginning, our new birth as God's creatures, called and chosen in Jesus Christ. Our new and eternal life began that day when you were regenerated and brought to faith in the Lord Jesus. It is now then by God's grace, being redeemed by His Son, that we are being renewed constantly by His Holy Spirit. And being renewed for a goal to bear that image, fully bear the image of his image of the invisible God, which is Jesus Christ. Now beginning in our inner renewal of ourselves, but one day fully when we bear the same body as Him, and that renewal and transformation is completed. So our focus this morning will be on the great sanctifier of the church, the Holy Spirit. Of course, we will not be able to say everything uh in this sermon. I I took the time this week to look up all three hundred and eighty-five usages of the word pennuma in the New Testament. Not everyone is doing the Spirit I'd recommend you do that in your concordance if you have spare time this week. It's wonderful to see from the scriptures the fullness of the life that we have in the Spirit and His living activity of God amongst us. So we won't get to say everything, but we'll say these chief things that the Heidelberg directs us to this morning. And the catechism focuses on the person of the Holy Spirit and a bit of his work, as I said. And uh we can summarize uh what the catechism is saying there in three sentences. The Holy Spirit is God The Holy Spirit is gift, and the Holy Spirit is grafter, the grafter, the one who grafts us. He's God He's gift, he's grafter. Those will be the heads of this morning's sermon. So let's start with looking at the Holy Spirit Now I am certain, Congregation, that it comes as no surprise to you for me to say the Holy Spirit is gone. But what if I were to ask you, congregation, to defend that assertion? How would you do that Or if I asked you, well, how do you know that the Holy Spirit is God, what would you say in response? Now I am certain that some of you, maybe all of you, would say, well, because God says so. I'd say yes and amen, and that's a sufficient and adequate answer. But then what if I pushed further and said, well, where did God say so? And how did he say so? What then would you say? And at that point, all of our AP Trinitarian students would chime in and say Quoting the larger catechism, question 11, how does it appear that the Son and the Holy Ghost are God equal with the Father? Answer The scriptures manifest that the Son and the Holy Ghost Spirit are God equal with the Father. ascribing unto them such names, attributes, works, and worship as are proper to God only And then, of course, they wouldn't end there. They would open the Bible, and they'd take you and me through Scripture, and they chose all those places Where in God's word are ascribe to the Holy Spirit the names and attributes and works and worship of God and convince us overwhelmingly that the Holy Spirit is God. But we don't have time to look at every of those places this morning. I do, however, commend to you this day to study and look at Lord's Day or larger catechism number eleven Go on the opc. org's PDF version, it will give you the scripture references and look at all those places yourself. But let's look now just at two of those places. Where we see the Word of God ascribed to the Holy Spirit, the name, work, and worship of God Now the first one, turn with me, if you will, to Acts chapter 5. I know we didn't read Acts chapter 5. If you want to I'll read it now, but if you want to read along, Acts chapter 5 And we're going to read together the first four verses of Acts 5. I'll give you a second since I said term there. Acts chapter 5, we'll read verses 1 to 4. Acts 5, verses 1 to 4. Here's God's word. But a man named Ananias with his wife Sapphira sold a piece of property. And with his wife's knowledge, he kept back for himself some of the proceeds and brought only a part of it and laid it at the apostle's feet. But Peter said, Amanias Why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to man, but to God. So you can see then that Peter first tells Ananias that he lied to the Holy Spirit. But then he says, you lied to God. So here's one of those places in Scripture where the name of God, and we'll see in a minute, the work of God. As it's implied here, is being ascribed to the Holy Spirit. Because Ananias probably thought there is no way Peter will ever know about this. My greed will be hidden from all while I get glory for being a great saint. And of course he was right. There was no way that the Apostle Peter by himself would ever know this. But the Apostle Peter, ever since Pentecost, had been doing ministry with the Holy Spirit. With God Himself. And as one of the sons of Korah declares in Psalm 44, verses 20 to 21 If we had forgotten the name of our God or spread out our hands to a foreign God, would not God discover this? For He knows the secrets of the heart. John Calvin says here, how did Peter know Ananias' fraud and purloining just means theft? Undoubtedly by the revelation of the Spirit. The Spirit is doing there, you see, the work of God, searching and knowing the heart. John Calvin goes on to say, therefore, Luke signifies to us that the apostles did, after a sword, represent God's person. And supply his room. End quote. Ananias thought that he was lying to a man, and he did not factor in Pentecost. That God had come upon the church. Come back tonight as we talk more about the punishment that such contemptuous sinning against God will merit. As we look at Hebrews chapter 10, verses 26 to 31. Secondly, the Bible ascribes to the Holy Spirit the worship of God. And this shows him to be God together with the Father and Son. And to get at this, I think I just need to ask you one question. What name were you baptized into, Congregation? That's right. The name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. And how many names is that? One name. Baptism is an act of worship and service. To the one living triumph God. When baptism is performed together with the Father and the Son, the Holy Spirit is being worshipped and being glorified. The Bible's usage of the word name is broader than our usage of it today, generally. A name is somebody's fame. God has made himself famous, if you will, by his acts in creation, providence, and redemption. That's why we praise him. Because we praise famous people, right? And praise the God who's made himself famous for what he's done. Because we know God has more acts that he's going to do. And we'll praise him for those. And he'll make himself famous by those. It is through God's acts that He reveals His name to us. To be a Christian, beloved, as you know, is to be Trinitarian. To worship and serve the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, to call upon him as your God or salvation. And to be baptized is to acknowledge the gospel of Jesus Christ as the one united work. Of the one triune God, Father, Son, and Spirit, for the salvation of this world. So then the Holy Spirit is God And therefore he is to be worshipped and glorified by us as God. He is to be trusted in and submitted to as God. The scriptures is if you do what I said and you look through all the usages Jesus and now Jesus' followers, Christ and now Christians, are filled with the Spirit and led by the Spirit That means you have to be submissive to the Spirit, which also means being submissive to the Word of God And most definitely, the Holy Spirit is not to be lied to by telling lies to anointed church members. I don't know if the Holy Spirit would do the same for us today, but I hope that He would. Because God truly watches over the purity of His church. Because his name is at stake. The members of his church are baptized into that name. Secondly, the Holy Spirit is gift God the Father and God the Son have made to us, this church, a gift of the Holy Spirit. We read in Acts 2, I'll read verse 33 and verse 38. Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit He has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift. Of the Holy Spirit. It's the Father and the Son who pour out this gift on all who repent and believe and are baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, which as we saw is the same as the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The Father and Son give us this gift that we might share and their one divine, eternal life. Having sinned in Adam, we looked at this our men's study on Saturday. Romans 5:12, we lost the right to life We died and were cut off from God's life. Paul says, right, we lived dead. The word there is corpses. We're corpses, living as corpses in our trespasses and our sins. But as you know, right, thanks be to God, through our Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ Who died that he may redeem us and deliver us from sin and death, that by God's grace, as he has poured out that Spirit upon us, we come to share once more in God's life. The light, as we saw, and as Jesus told us, is a life of love. The life of light. The life of joy. The life of peace is God's life. Jesus describes this life to us there in John 14 as we read. I'll read verse 18 and verse 23 to you. I will not leave you as orphans. I'll come to you. And Jesus answered them, that being Judas. Who remember asked that question, Lord, well you're here now and we see you, but how are you going to come back so only we see you and not everybody else sees you? And Jesus said, if anyone loves me, he'll keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to and make our home with him. You know, we all think Jesus went away. He did body. He's come back in the spirit. He is not absent from the world. He's with believers. You know, I think, is there any or a more lovely description right here of the Christian life? At home with the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. That's how Jesus is describing being redeemed in the Spirit. You know, as we found out again this week, storms can damage our homes, don't they? Life's ills can take us out of our homes, don't they? And as I read this week in a book that is written to help people who've lost a child, Homes, and probably more than just children, can turn into houses when those we love die, don't they? But Jesus is telling us here of a different home, right? That as Christians, through all of this, one home stays the same. The one that he has made for us with himself. The one that he now crowds with his glorious triumph. The one that we are privileged to dwell in together forever with him, our God. My word of advice to you all is before you buy and purchase an earthly home. Make sure you secure an eternal one by loving Jesus, who loved you, laid his life down for you. Because that one you can keep. So then, God the Spirit is our gift given through the Father, and now his exalted Son, the Lord Jesus. That means then for us, congregation, that we need to be daily mindful of the gift. As we saw a couple weeks ago when we talked about how the ascension benefits us. We saw there that the Holy Spirit is both a present provision for us of salvation. It's the first fruits of the harvest. We're really eating something of God's eternal life now and enjoying it. But it's also the pledge of the salvation to come. The Spirit is the first installment of our eternal inheritance as the heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ. So we should patiently abide our trials here as God's people. We should gladly suffer with Christ as we do God's will. Until our Lord comes and in judgment exalts us to glory? mired in its sinful ways and distracted by its cares, its allurements, so that we choke the good seed out that's been planted into us? The Bible also makes clear as we've received this gift, you have been transformed, as Jesus said, into the house and home of God, his temple. So let us not walk in sinful ways anymore, but glorify God in your body. And Paul writing then, as it is still the same plague and scourge today, is talking chiefly of sexual sins. Cut it out. Third and finally, the Holy Spirit is grafter. He is God, He's gift, He is Grafter. The Father and the Son have gifted to us, congregation, the Holy Spirit, so that he might graft us into Christ. crucified and risen and throned, so that in him we can share in all of his benefits, the benefits of redemption So that we may be comforted by the Spirit, that we might enjoy forever his sanctifying presence of us as God's people. Paul wrote to the church at Corinth because he had to deflate their innate pride, but also their overconfidence in men. The preachers of the gospel who through that ministry God was blessed and gifted in that spirit, where he writes in 1 Corinthians 2. 11, For who knows the person's thoughts except the spirit of that person which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. Here would be another place where the omniscience of God is being ascribed to the Spirit, as He knows everything. And Paul goes on to say in verse 12: now we have received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit who is from God that we might understand the things freely given us. by God and those freely things are that mystery that lay hid until it came bursting on the scenes when Jesus of Nazareth was born. Glory be to God in the highest. And he was baptized, and he fulfilled his ministry, and he performed his miracles, and he taught, and he died, and he rose again, and he sent down the spirit Those are the things that God has freely given to us, that we know by the Holy Spirit. As you know, well, beloved, you could read the Bible all your life and never come to a saving faith in Jesus Christ. Because people do. Paul is telling us that only God can reveal God to us. Your teachers can't do that. I can read to you God's word, I can explain to you its meaning, I can help you to understand it, but I cannot effectually teach you that you might be drawn to Christ and believe in Him. That belongs to God alone, and He gets the glory. Only the Word of God, the Spirit of God, working together can bring us to a saving faith. And we unite ourselves to Christ our Head. Make ourselves one with Him, dying with Him, and rising with Him, sharing together His faith and His glory. But simply without the Spirit illuminating our minds, renewing our hearts, we'd never come to know Jesus Christ in a saving way. Paul would write later in that letter to correct their bad spirituality. No one can say Jesus is Lord except And the Holy Spirit. The Spirit has been poured out that you might say, Jesus is Lord. And in that faith, remain united to Him. This teaches us in congregation that we should pray constantly for the Spirit's work to teach us, to blow upon us, to fill us, to lead us. If you like me are a bad evangelist, well the word and spirit aren't. Hallelujah. I am learning to just trust in the sufficiency of God's Word. I'm learning just to tell people plainly what they can read for themselves in God's Word, if they just open it up for themselves, right? You don't got to tell them a fancy word. Just tell them if they open up the Bible, they can read for themselves. It could be a good advanced. Even the Bible, right? The Word, the Spirit are sufficient for these things. They're sufficient for instructing your children. That's why we encourage you here, right, to open, to have daily family worship. And opening the word of God and means grace or just Times of correction, times of encouragement, as you know. But it's not just for children, spouses to be encouraging one another, siblings to be encouraging each other, congregants to encourage each other If you want to see life transformed, the word of God has to be spoken. And the Holy Spirit has to be prayed for. Or we will just settle in for sinful seconds. And just get by with what we can get by as Christian. That's no way to live as Christian. We should never seek to change God's word so we can see the church grow. Don't be tempted to do that. Knowing that only God can convert people doesn't mean let's just sit here. That's not the point of saying that. It's so that you and I won't be tempted to change the message. Just share faithfully the one message, the Word of God. I hope like you or like me, you're being humbled by this, because we need to be humbled by this Because this is what gives God the glory. Salvation is His work. We do not gather to boast in ourselves before the Lord and give ourselves glory as Christians. But to the Lord Jesus and the God of grace, as we sung this morning. And as I said, it should drive us constantly to our knees to seek earnestly the Holy Spirit. I know there's kind of that tension, right, of having to wrestle with God for his blessings. I know he has his wise and perfect reasons through it, because I'm sure it's changing our hearts. But at the same time, as Pentecost makes clear, God wants to do this work. This is his will. Let's go in that faith wanting to do his will and not ours as Christians. And ask for that spirit. Now the benefits, I'm not going to say much about them today because in the coming weeks we'll get to look at those. Because they include the communion of saints. The forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, eternal life, so those will be future sermons. But let's end with looking at the comfort that we have in the Holy Spirit. In the early church, when I say early church, I just mean the apostolic church, because that's the beginning. We read of a remarkable situation. That after a time of persecution, Luke tells us in chapter 9, verse 31 of Acts, so the church throughout all Judea and Galilea and Samaria had peace and was being built up And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied. And I'm learning that as and I think a chief part of Christian maturity is learning how to comfort and to encourage other believers. The Hebrews speaks strongly about that. Christians need constant encouragement from Christians. They need to be constantly considered in their life circumstances by other Christians. But the chief comforter and encourager of the church is not you and me, but God the Spirit. You have God Himself comforting you, congregation. We read those words. Why should they sing? Where is our God? As we sung that psalm in Psalm 42, right, clearly there was a time of great spirituality in the land, fallen on hard times. Nobody wants to go to the house of God and worship anymore, and he's crying and thirsting out for his God. And people are mocking him. Where's your God? Congregation, you don't have to ask that question. He's with you God's with you. He comforts us by his presence. Jesus said, right, I will ask the Father, He will give you another helper to be with you forever. If you like the Holy Spirit, good for you, because you get to be with them forever. That word means forever. What a joy. What a joy. Real salvation right now. Real life with God But the Spirit does not only comfort us by His presence, He also comforts us through His activity amongst us. That's one of the things, as I read this week, and there He does a lot of stuff in the church. He is an active divine person. He teaches us Christ He teaches us the words of Jesus. He brings to remembrance those words when we most need them. He he shows us greater and greater depth of their meaning and significance. As you all know, you've read the Bible, you're like, and you go back again, you're like, I never saw that before. As you are being grown and matu, becoming one more with Christ, growing in the Spirit, He is able to take you deeper into God's word to see more. Spirit comforts us right through his groanings that are too deep for words, as the Holy Spirit intercedes for us according to God's will. You know, most Christians that I talk to are amazed at how God so perfectly meets their needs and watches over them. That doesn't mean Christians don't suffer and suffer greatly. But in those sufferings, right, they see God's hands and provision. But that's right. One of those reasons has to be because the Spirit knows best how to pray for us in those situations and is praying for us. In those situations. What a comfort that when you and I are at a loss of what to do, which again, most Christians I know get at some point in their life, they're at a loss of what to do God the Holy Spirit knows what to do and how to pray and prays for us. You are not in it alone. You are not in it alone. God is not idle, inactive, or distant. He is with you. Comforting you in all these ways. So how more wonderful can it get? And how more glorious can God be in our salvation? And here I want to say this to the younger Christians, but it is applicable to the older too. Learn to walk now in the light of God's Word. Learn to trust in Him and why life is less complicated now, and less is being asked of you. Make the most of this time to store up God's word in you. The Spirit also comforts us through our inward renewal. That though our bodies get sicker and sicker until they die, Or we suffer a debilitating injury, yet inwardly we are being renewed and strengthened every day, says Paul. 2 Corinthians 4:16, so we do not lose heart. Though our outer self, the old man, the old creation, is wasting away our inner self. The new man, the new creation, is being renewed day by day. I don't think AI can bring you that kind of healing, can it? As we look at what might health might come to us. Think of this, right? In Christ, you leave this world healthier than when you came into it. You do not die in sickness, you die in health and life spiritually. That is the site of faith. That is the truth to us in Christ. So let that cheer you, because I know many of you ache, and all of you will ache. I do ask that God would grant you present bodily relief. I remember today the prayer, I will pray for it. But don't lose sight. Of the real and lasting health that you have now in Christ. Health that loves and believes in God. Health that waits patiently on him, right? It is childlike. Think of that movie Benjamin Button. Have you ever seen that? He's born old and dies young. You're becoming more childlike. And your health. You die young, not old. That health that loves your neighbor as yourself. Picks up the cross day after day, laying down your wishes and dreams and desires for others. That is divine health, divine life Congregation, God's redeeming gift to you is life in his spirit. His life. Now you share in in Christ and with Christ. So be comforted that God is coming into this world to fill it more. That he has already come into it through Jesus Christ and now by his Spirit And he is here and he is not going away. The wicked are. So make sure all of you repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. And those who have that you continue to abide in him. Amen.