Please turn your Bibles to Isaiah twenty-seven. Read the first six verses. Isaiah twenty-seven. In that day the Lord with his hard and great and strong sword will punish Leviathan the fleeing serpent, Leviathan the twisting serpent, and he will slay the dragon that is in the sea. In that day, a pleasant vineyard. Sing of it. I the Lord am its keeper. Every moment I water it Lest anyone punish it, I keep it night and day. I have no wrath. Would that I had thorns and briars to battle. I would march against them. I would burn them up together Or let them lay hold of my protection. Let them make peace with me. Let them make peace with me. In days to come, Jacob shall take root. Israel shall blossom and put forth shoots and fill the whole world with fruit. Just the word of the Lord. Thank you, Jesus Christ. Revelation chapter twelve. Strange Christmas text, maybe. But here we go. Revelation twelve, beginning at verse one. And a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars. She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains and the agony of giving birth. And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great red dragon with seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems. His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bore her child he might devour it. She gave birth to a male child, one who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. But her child was caught up to heaven, to God, and to his throne And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, in which she is to be nourished for 1260 days. Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back, but he was defeated. And there was no longer any place for them in heaven. And the great dragon, which was thrown down, that ancient serpent who is called the devil and Satan The deceiver of the whole world, he was thrown down to earth, and his angels were thrown down with him And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come. For the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God And they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives even unto death. Therefore, rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them, but woe to you, O earth and sea. For the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short. And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth He pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child. But the woman was given two wings of a great eagle, so that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness. to the place where she is to be nourished for a time and times and half the time. The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman, to sweep her away with a flood But the earth came to the help of the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had poured from his mouth Then the dragon became furious with the woman, and went off to make war with the rest of her offspring, on those who keep the commandments of God, and hold to the testimony of Jesus And he stood on the sand of the sea. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that you will now open to us this mysterious portion of your word, that we might understand it and gain the comfort and help that it affords This through Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Folks, there are times, I'm sure, in all of your lives and certainly in mine, when hopes have been dashed. Pain and disappointment and sorrow darken all of life. And we can wonder if there will ever be a bright day again. I'm sure you can think of some times in your life like that. Maybe right now If you call my sister's telephone number and she doesn't answer, you'll often get a greeting that says, God will make a way when there seems to be no way. Well, this vision that John sees is a way of saying that very same thing The visions that we call the revelation are an uncovering. It's not hidden stuff. It's an uncovering, an unveiling of stuff. An unveiling of things unseen. That's the meaning of the word apocalypse. It does not mean disaster. It means unveiling. Now, in the context of this unveiling, remember that Jesus had promised, I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it And before he ascended into heaven, he had said in Matthew 28, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go, therefore, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching all nations to observe what I have commanded you. And behold, he says, I am with you. Always to the end of the age. Those were the wonderful promises of Jesus, you see. But how has it gone since he ascended into heaven? What's been going on? A few decades later, the Church of Jesus at this time was quite small. It had zero political power. It owned no buildings or other real estate. The church organized under the authority of Jesus Christ and his apostles and The pastors and elders appointed to carry out the work of the gospel did exist, but it did not enjoy the favor of the world around. In fact, the church was being persecuted and would face even greater persecution in the future. Let me just give you a list of of the apostles and how they died. James was martyred in 44 or 45. Peter was martyred in 64, being crucified upside down as tradition has it. Andrew was martyred in 70 A. D. Thomas was martyred in 70 A. D. Philip was martyred in 54 A. D. Matthew was martyred somewhere between 60 and 70 A. D. Nathaniel, also called Bartholomew, was martyred in 70 A. D. And James the Lesser was martyred in 63, Simon the Zealot in 74 A. D. Judas Thaddeus martyred in 72 A. D. Matthias martyred in 70 A. D. And Paul, the apostle, the great apostle, martyred in 67 A. D. or thereabouts. John, the writer of the Revelation. is the only one of the twelve apostles who died a natural death. And although he did not die a martyr's death, he did live a martyr's life. Because as he sees this revelation, he is exiled to the island of Patmos. Exiled by the Roman government to the Isle of Patmos in the Aegean Sea off of the coast of Mos Modern Turkey, a very rocky place with little inhabitants in those days. And so here's the picture. John and the believers. might easily feel that the future of the church is indeed very doubtful and grim after all these early martyrs and persecutions, that the thing that Jesus was instituting has become mission impossible. The tremendous power of pagan Rome, together with the strong opposition of the Jewish establishment, may well have seemed to be an unbeatable foe. Do you ever get the feeling that the truth is losing? That the Christian faith is going down hard That things are going from worse to worse. I was recently waiting to visit an historic Christian church building And noticed the people coming out dressed in rather odd clothes. They were dressed in medieval costumes with capes and odd headgear It looked like a New Year's Eve costume party coming out of there. It was soon explained to me that what was going on in the building was a druidic wedding. The Druids were having a wedding. Druid ceremonies in a Christian church building. And that made me feel like, oh man, we are losing. I looked up what druidism is because I didn't really know, and according to Wikipedia, the great source of truth, uh Druidism is a religion taught by the members of the priestly class of the Celts about 2,000 years ago. It's a nature-based religion that has many elements in common with New Age and Wicca. But with a focus of ancestry and nature. It has no official doctrine or sacred scripture, and therefore it can take many forms, like the New Age movement. in general. It can adapt to a large variety of spiritual beliefs. So there are Druids who are pantheists and polytheists and monotheists and animists. And monotheistic druids believe in a god or goddess. Polytheistic druids would believe in many gods. Pantheistic and animistic druids would deny any personal God, but would instead affirm the presence of God as a force that exists in all things. Have you heard that before Anyway, I felt a sadness. The gospel of Jesus Christ had been taught in that place for 300 years, and now this. Are we losing? Will Christ lose The revelation was given in order to reveal the unseen reality of Christ's victory. In the Revelation, and you really have to study the whole Bible to understand the Revelation. You really have to study the Old Testament in order to understand the Revelation. Because there are many allusions to Old Testament events. It alludes to creation, it alludes to the Exodus, it alludes to the Babylonian captivity, and many other allusions. These events were included to remind the church that God protected and delivered Israel in the past, even though he allowed her to suffer at times. And it's not unlike the present situation, folks. Chapter 12, where we're jumping right into the book here, reveals the unseen reality of a war being waged. First between God and Satan, and then between God's people and Satan. It's given in three scenes. The first scene is the woman, the dragon, and the male child. Chapter 12, verse 1. And a great sign appeared in heaven. That literally means it appeared in the sky. Not at the throne of God in heaven, but in the sky. A woman clothed with the sun, so she's very bright and shining, with the moon under her feet and on her head a crown of twelve stars. What is this picture? Well, if you could decipher it looking at the whole teaching of Scripture, you would see that this is the true Israel. This is Zion. This is the faithful, the justified people of God. Clothed with light, you see. And there are twelve stars, indicating what? The twelve tribes of Israel, of course. And this is similar to the vision that was seen by Joseph in the book of Genesis, where he he dreamt a dream and told it to his brothers and said, Behold, I have dreamed another dream. Behold, the sun, the moon, and the eleven stars were bowing down to me. So it picks up on that a little bit. And then verse 2 of our text, she was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains and the agony of giving birth. What's this about? The faithful Israel, personified as a pregnant woman, was suffering. And she was waiting for the advent, for the birth of the male child. The promised child, promised in Genesis 315, where God said to the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel, she's giving birth to that male seed. And it means that he, that seed who's going to be born, is going to stomp the head of the serpent. Defeat and ruin for him. And it also means that the child and the children of the child, those who are associated with this child, will be many, many people. Because in Isaiah 54 it says, Sing, O barren one, who did not bear, break forth into singing and cry aloud. For you have been in labor, for the children of the desolate, the one woman who is waiting to give birth, the children of the desolate will be more than the children of her who is married, says the Lord Enlarge the place of your tent. Let the curtains of your habitations be stretched out. Do not hold back. Lengthen the cords. Strengthen your stakes, for you will spread abroad to the right and to the left And your offspring will possess the nations and the people, the desolate cities. So this is a beautiful picture of Israel, the faithful woman, waiting to give birth to the male child who will rule the world. And when she does, his kingdom will spread. You'll have to make a bigger, bigger, bigger tent to accommodate all of God's people. Verse 3. Another sign appeared in heaven, the sky again. Behold a great red dragon. With seven heads and ten horns, and on his head seven diadems. Folks, heads and horns are symbols of power. And seven is the number of fullness. Seven and ten both are numbers of completion and fullness. And ultimate power is being described. This dragon has ultimate power. It's also, by the way, a cardnate on the red gleaming dragon in the temple of Marduk in ancient Babylon. So what you have here is a picture that ancient Babylon and Rome and apostate Judaism are all seen as the great formidable enemy of God's people, a huge dragon. In fact, so huge that his tail, just sweeping his tail, he brings down a third of the stars. Verse 4. His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman. You've got to picture this in your mind. The dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth So that when she bore her child he might devour it. Wow. She gave birth to a male child, one who was to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. That is obviously Jesus. Because in Psalm 2, it is said of Jesus, you shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, the ends of the earth your possessions. See, that's Jesus, the male child. And at the time of Jesus' birth, you'll remember this. We'll sing about it in a little while. Herod is probably the latest incarnation of this dragon, Herod the king of the Jews at that time, this crazy megalomaniac king of Judea. Because you know the story from Matthew. When he heard about the birth of Jesus, the king of the Jews born in Bethlehem, what did he do? He ordered that all the baby boys born there at that time be killed. The hymn that we're going to sing later is. Got a verse about that. It says, Herod then with fear was filled. A prince, he said, in jewelry. All the little boys he killed at Bethlehem in his fury This is the megalomaniac, the dragon that just tries to destroy the Christ But it says in the next phrase of our text: her child, that is Israel's child, the Messiah, was caught up to God and to his throne. So we go from the birth of Jesus to the ascension of Jesus, just like that. In this chapter. Huge jump. Christ is now in heaven at the throne of God. But what will happen to his people? Well, we see it in verse 6. And the woman fled into the wilderness where she has a place prepared by God, in which she is to be nourished for 1260 days. What this means, folks, it's symbolic. What it means is the church is cared for as long as the persecution continues. 1260 days is cited in chapter 11, verse 2, and chapter 13, verse 5. And it means the church is protected and cared for. For the same time as the great persecution will continue. What a great comfort to the beleaguered church! As John sees this vision on the island of Patmos, what a great comfort. All is not lost Christ has ascended. His church is left on earth. The plots of Satan have been foiled. Christ did not get eaten and destroyed, although he was crucified and rose again. The church has been redeemed by his blood and will be cared for as long as is necessary. So that's the first scene. Let's go on to the second scene. Scene two, Satan is defeated and cast out of authority. This explains what's going on at the very same time as the other scene. Verse 7. Now war arose in heaven, Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought back, but he was defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in heaven. And the great dragon was thrown down, that anxious serpent who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world. He was thrown down to earth. And his angels were thrown down with him. And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Isn't this beautiful? Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Christ have come. For the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God. And they have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony For they love not their lives even unto death. Therefore, rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them, but woe to you, O earth and sea, for the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short Well, we can't go into every single phrase here, but it describes the great cosmic battle, a power struggle over Satan's plans and God's purposes. And it's all about you and me as members of Christ. Satan, the accuser of the people of God. He is at the judgment seat. He is the attorney for the prosecution. And Michael, the captain of the armies of God, the messenger of the covenant. Is the advocate and defender of God's people, as it's pictured in Daniel 12 and elsewhere. He is the attorney for the defense. But Satan was defeated in the death and resurrection of Christ, who ascended the throne Christ ascended and has power and authority, and Satan descended from real authority. He does not have real authority. That's what the message that John is telling the church Satan is not in charge. It seems like he is sometimes. Jesus, by the way, said this very same thing in John 12, verse 31. Looking at his crucifixion and resurrection coming, he said this, now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And when I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all people to myself. You see, it's a beautiful picture. But, verse 12 of our text, therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them, but woe to you, O earth and sea, for the devil has come down to you in great wrath, because he knows that his time is short. So here we have a loud voice rejoicing and warning at the same time, proclaiming the victory and rule of Christ, but also warns the earth that Satan is angry. And he wants revenge. And that brings us to the third scene, and that is the present situation. The persecution of the woman and her offspring Verse 13. When the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child. But the woman was given two wings of a great eagle so that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness to the place where she is to be nourished for a time and times and half times. Here's the picture. The male child is out of reach. He's in heaven. So Satan attacks the mother and her children. Who is the mother? The church. The faithful church. And she, the faithful church, is carried on eagle's wings. Sounds pretty good, doesn't it? She is protected and fed as Elijah was in the darkest days of Israel. In 1 Kings 17 through 19, she is protected. as Elijah was. And she is protected as Joseph and Mary were protected from Herod by fleeing to Egypt. But then in verse 15, we see this. What does Satan do as he's trying to get the church? Verse 15: the serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman to sweep her away with a flood. Well, we have something like that in in Psalm two, where it says the kings of the earth set themselves up. And the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and his anointed. See, it's a that's a flood of big shots trying to ruin us. And in Psalm 124, Israel says this in its praise to God. It says, then the Flood would have swept us away, the torrent would have gone over us, then over us would have gone the raging waters. But then it says after that, Blessed be the Lord who has not given us as prey to their teeth We have escaped like a bird, like a snare, a bird from the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we have escaped. And then finally that great phrase, our help. It's in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth all power. Go on to verse 16. But the earth came to the help of the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had poured from his mouth. What does this mean? It means that God, who is the God of nature, the God of creation, will call all heaven and earth to defend his people, just as he did in the great Exodus. The sea opened for the Israelites and closed over the Egyptians Verse 17. It intensifies. Then the dragon became furious with the woman. We're living in that now. And went off to make war with the rest of her offspring on those who keep the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus. And he stood on the sand of the sea. That's the end of the text. Who is the dragon after now? You and me. The church throughout the ages. The battle goes on today. Satan is defeated His accusations against you, though, quite true, cannot condemn you as you hold fast the testimony of Jesus who died for you. His blood is your defense. It is the ground of your victory. You are united to him in baptism and faith, as it says in Romans 6. All of us who have been baptized into Christ were baptized into his death. We were buried with him by baptism into death. In order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. And the only thing left, the only thing left that scares us a bit is martyrdom. It says in verse 11, They conquered him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they loved not their lives even unto death. Martyrdom. Yes, we can still die, can't we? Many Muslims are willing to die as martyrs, as we well know. The problem with Islamic radicals is not that they're such fanatics so as to die for their faith. That's not the problem. The problem is that their faith is false. And the deeds that follow are evil. They are a satanic distortion of the truth, a corruption of the God revealed in the Bible You see this. Islamic martyrs die in pursuit of the death of others. Christian martyrs die in pursuit of life for others. Big difference. Christians cannot deny Jesus. In him is life. They know that he is Lord of all the earth, Lord of all the world for people So you see how the early church needed this unveiling. It looked like all was lost They needed to know that despite the great powers against them, they would be victors through the victor. The victor over sin and death and the death of the They needed to know that though they faced persecution and even death as martyrs, they were victorious in their Savior. You also are involved in personal battles. You are absolutely powerless, friends, each one of you. I'm speaking to you. You're absolutely powerless before the dragon who has been cast out. The world system of evil calls you away with its siren voice. Your own fallen nature, your flesh, pulls you towards sin and death and hell. Does this sound like a hopeless situation? Finding the way out of this despair might seem impossible, and all by yourself it is impossible. But you are not alone. Jesus is with you. And he loves you with a victor's love and a command and power. And we can't even comprehend this so great. The devil is seeking to devour you. His mouth is open wide to devour you, ruin you forever. You are no match By yourself, there's no possibility of success. But in the Heidelberg Catechism In the Lord's Prayer section, question 127, it says this, and it's a wonderful answer. Listen carefully. Which is the sixth petition? And the petition is, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. That is, the answer says, so, since we are so weak in ourselves that we cannot stand a moment, And besides this, since our mortal enemies, the devil, the world, and our own flesh, cease not to assault us. Do thou therefore preserve and strengthen us by the power of thy Holy Spirit, that we may not be overcome in this spiritual warfare but constantly and strenuously may resist our foe till at last we obtain a complete victory. Yes That's the meaning of that phrase, lead us not into temptation. So what has been unveiled as John fees these visions Good news. The good news of Christmas. The good news that God has sent the special forces in, military folks. His long-promised son, the God man, in him you triumph. In him you are dressed in victory. And you, by his power, can resist the powers of darkness by the power of the Holy Spirit What a gift it is to know this, to see this. What a gift. Merry Christmas. Amen. Almighty and everlasting God, mercifully look upon our infirmities. And in all our dangers and necessities, stretch forth your right hand to help and defend us through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.