Please open your Bibles to the Book of Exodus, chapter 33. We'll read the entire chapter. The book of Exodus, chapter 33. The Lord said to Moses, Depart, go up from here, you and the people whom you have brought out from the land of Egypt. To the land which I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, To your offspring I will give it. I will send an angel before you. And I will drive out the Canaanites, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. Go up to a land flowing with milk and honey. But I will not go up among you, lest I consume you on the way, for you are a stiff-necked people. When the people heard this disastrous word, they mourned, and no one put on his ornaments. For the Lord had said to Moses, Say to the people of Israel, You are a stiff-necked people. If for a single moment I should go up among you, I would consume you. So now take off your ornaments, that I may know what to do with you. Therefore, the people of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments from Mount Herod onward. Now Moses used used to take the tent and pitch it outside the camp, far off from the camp. And he called it the tent of meeting. And everyone who sought the Lord would go out to the tent of meeting, which was outside the camp. Whenever Moses went out to the tent, all the people would rise up. and each would stand at his tent door and watch Moses until he had gone into the tent. When Moses entered the tent, the pillar of cloud would descend and stand at the entrance of the tent, and the Lord would speak with Moses And when all the people saw the pillar of clouds standing at the entrance of the tent, all the people would rise up and worship, each at his tent door. Thus the Lord used to speak to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. When Moses turned again into the camp, his assistant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, would not depart from the temple. Moses said to the Lord, see, you say to me, Bring up this people, but you have not let me know whom you will send with me Yet you have said, I know you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight. Now therefore, if I have found favor in your sight, please show me now your ways that I may know you in order to find favor in your sight. Consider too that this nation is your people. And he said, My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. And he said to him, If your presence will not go with me, do not bring us up from here. For how shall it be known that I have found favor in your sight I am your people. Is it not in your going with us so that we are distinct? I am your people from every other people on the face of the earth. And the Lord said to Moses, This very thing that you have spoken, I will do, for you have found favor in my sight, and I know you by name. Moses said, Please show me your glory. And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim before you my name, the Lord, and I will be gracious to whom I will be in Gracious, and I will show mercy on whom I will show mercy. But he said, You cannot see my face, for a man shall not see me and live. And the Lord said, Behold, there is a place by me where you shall stand, where you shall stand on the rock. And while my glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and I will cover you with my hand until I have passed by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back, but my face shall not pass. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You read from Hebrews 3, 1 through 6. And then from John 14, a few verses, Hebrews 3, 1 through 6. Therefore, holy brothers, you who share in a heavenly calling, Consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession, who was faithful to him who appointed him, just as Moses also was faithful in all God's house. For Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, as much more glory as the builder of the house has more honor than the house itself. For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God. Now Moses was faithful in all God's house as a servant to testify to the things that were to be spoken later But Christ is faithful over God's house as a son. And we are his house. If indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our hope. And then please turn to the Gospel of John chapter 14, 12 through 18. John 14, 12 Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do. And greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do. That the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another helper to be with you forever. Even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, as you have wonderfully given your word written and read Speak to us from your throne today as your word is preached. By the power of the Holy Spirit. Amen. A friend of mine in the ministry asked his congregation a question. He said, What if you could have God to take care of your needs, such as safety? We all pray for safety when we travel, right? Food, shelter, health. And to take away your eternal punishment due to your sins, but God would keep his distance from you. What if you could have God do all those things for you, but that God would keep his distance from you Not be personally involved with you. What if God would be nearby when you need some help, but not be personal with you? Not be intimate with you. How would that be? Think about it. That is what many people really want from religion. They really want God to help them out, but not be close to them. Now, as you think about that, we're going to consider something like that in Exodus 33. But first let's review. In Exodus 24, the last narrative before 32, God ratified his covenant with Israel. The blood of sacrifice was poured on an altar, as we said, representing the propitiation of God. God is propitiated and sinners are propitiated. And some more of that same blood was poured on the people, was showered in a hot shower on the people. The representatives of Israel to propitiate and cleanse them, to be prepared, to be in relationship with God, they had to be cleansed. And then the covenant vows were taken. This was a real wedding ceremony, you see. And afterward there was a wedding feast. Where God was present, and the representatives of the Israelites were there on the mountain, and they ate a meal together in peace with God in his very presence It's a picture of beauty and intimacy and it's a wedding picture, isn't it? Then Moses went to the mountain for 40 days to receive the terms of God's living with Israel And he got there the tabernacle and all of its furnishings and the special priesthood and what the priests would wear and how the worship would be conducted And the whole sacrificial system was being given for those 40 days in great detail. That's chapter 25 through 31 of Exodus. Why was all this being done? Because God had married his bride, and he wanted his bride to learn how to love him. He wanted to take her in love and be personal and intimate with her as his bride. God did not want to be used. Like the Canaanites and others use their gods to get protection, to get stuff, but not to be personal. God did not want to be served by people who actually didn't like him, but put up with him out of necessity. We've been studying in Sunday school about the uh English Reformation and uh I would say this, God did not want a marriage of expediency like many of the political marriages of the 16th and 17th century England like the marriage of Catherine of Aragon and Henry VIII. Or Queen Mary, Catherine's daughter, and Prince Philip of Spain. He didn't want that kind of distant Just political arrangement. Instead, God wanted and wants, even today, God wants the relationship that he had back in the Garden of Eden. That's what God wants. God wants the relationship he had with Adam and Eve described as God walking with them in the garden in the cool of the day. That's what God wants. It reminds me of a gospel hymn that is sometimes spoken ill of. It's the hymn in the garden. And it has in its chorus. And he walks with me, and he talks with me, and he tells me I am his own. And whether you like that hymn or not There's some truth. God wants that kind of relationship with his people. Walking and talking and him telling us that we belong to him. That's intimacy, you see. So while Moses is up on the mountain getting the instruction for living with God and God dwelling intimately with Israel, what was Israel doing? What were they doing down there at the bottom of the mountain? We had this a few weeks ago. They were melting their gold jewelry that they had gotten out of Egypt. And they were making an idol, a golden calf, and bowing down to it and having a party and worshiping it Making a golden calf, breaking the first and second commandments that God had given. In verse thirty in chapter thirty-two, verse seven I'll read this. And the Lord said to Moses, Go down, for your people whom you brought up out of the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have turned aside quickly out of the way that I commanded them They have made for themselves a golden calf and have worshipped it and sacrificed to it and said, These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. And the Lord said to Moses, I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people. We talked about stiff-neck. It means stubborn. Willful. And he says, God said then, now therefore let me alone, that my wrath may not maim. Burn, not not burn, but may burn hot against them, and I may consume them, in order that I may make a great nation of you. And what did Moses do? Did he get out of the way and let God destroy them? No. Moses stood between God and the people, and he pleaded for them like Christ pleads for us. God listened to Moses Christ-like pleading, and God relented from completely wiping them out. Now there were severe punishments. 3,000 were killed by the sword who were loyal to the idolatry, and a plague came at the end of chapter 32. And that was the end of 32. Now we're in 33. And the problem of God's marriage to Israel and desire for relationship with Israel is still before us today in chapter 33. And here it is in 33. 1. The Lord said to Moses, Depart from here, you and the people whom you have brought up. He didn't say whom I have brought up. He says whom you have brought up out of the land of Egypt, to the land I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, To your offspring I will give you. And then God says this: I will send an angel before you. And I will drive out the Canaanites, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebuzites God has a problem with his bride. She is a sinful bride. She is a stiff-necked bride. God is disgusted with her He's afraid that if he has to live with her, he'll kill her. So he says in verse 3, go up to the land flowing with milk and honey, but I will not go up among you. Lest I consume you on the way, for you are a stiff-necked people. And the people heard this Report of what God had said. God said, I'm not going with you, not in your midst. I'll go ahead of you, but I won't go with you because I'll kill you if I do And the people heard this in verse 4. This disastrous word, they mourned, and no one put on his ornaments. And the Lord said to Moses, say to the people of Israel, you're stiff-necked If for a single moment I go up among you, I will consume you. So take off your ornaments, that I may know what to do with you. Therefore, the people of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments, their wedding garments, their beautiful wedding dress. The honeymoon really is over, you see. The honeymoon really is over. She takes off her wedding clothes and mourns. Israel does. God keeps his distance. And that was described in the next set of verses where Moses pitches a tent outside the camp and he goes there and he talks with God. It says in verse 11, thus the Lord used to speak with Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. Boy, that's intimate. But it's not intimate with Israel, it's intimate with Moses in a tent outside the camp. And then it says, when Moses turned again into the camp, his assistant Joshua, the son of Nun, and a young man would not depart from the tent. And then what do we find out happening in that tent outside the camp? It's verses 12 and so forth. Moses having a talk with God as a friend, an intercessor. And verse 12, Moses said to the Lord, See you say to me, bring up this people. You can just imagine. Here's the Lord, and here's Moses. And Moses says to the Lord, see you say to me, Lord, bring up this people, but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. He's objecting, you see. You have said, I know you by name, and you have found favor in my sight. Now, therefore, if I have found favor in your sight, please show me now your ways that I may know you in order to find favor in your sight. Moses is basically saying, I want to know more of you. I want to learn your ways. I want to be close to you, Lord. It's very important to me. And then he's also interceding for the Israelites that are over there. He says, um Consider too that this nation is your people. God was calling them Moses' people, and Moses is saying, no, they're your people. And he says in verse 14, and he said, My presence, that is my face in Hebrew, will go with you, and I will give you rest. So God is saying to Moses, I promise to be close to you, Moses. I'm not going to be close to them. I'll kill them if I do. But I'll be close to you, Moses. And he said to him in verse 15, If your presence will not go with me, do not bring us up from here. Basically, Moses is saying, you're promising to be with me, but you've got to be with us, Lord. If you won't be with us, if you won't be a husband to us, we can't do this. I will not, we can't go. Don't send us if you won't be in our midst, Lord. And verse 16 and so forth, he says, How shall it be known that I have found favor in your sight, I and your people? Is it not in going with us, not just with me, Moses, but with us, so that we are distinct, I and your people, from every other people on the face of the earth? So Moses is begging God, please don't don't don't stay away from us, and please don't just go ahead of us. Please be in our midst. If you're not going to be with us, if we're not going to live together as husband and bride, don't do this at all. Verse 17, and the Lord says to Moses, the very thing that you have spoken, I will do, for you have found favor. In my sight, and I know you by name. Now that's the turning point. I'll read it again The Lord said to Moses, this very thing that you have spoken. What is the very thing? It's the being with us thing. This very thing that you have spoken, I will do, for you have found favor in my sight, and I know you by name. And then after that we have the Moses asking God to show him his glory and God granting that request, which is part of that intimacy. So what do we see here, folks? How do we boil this down? Moses, again, is playing Christ. As God's friend and Israel's priest. And this is a gospel principle. You think the Old Testament doesn't have the gospel? Oh, it does. This is the gospel principle. God here accepts Israel on the basis of Moses' acceptance with God. God accepts Israel because he has accepted Moses. And Moses is interceding for and pleading for God's people. God's people are comprehended in union with Moses, God's friend. Philip Riken says this God is pleased with Jesus, and therefore he is pleased with anyone who trusts Jesus. The pleasure God takes in us is based on the pleasure that he takes in his own beloved Son. So how can he love the Church of Jesus Christ on earth in its presence form? How can he love the church? How can he love you and me who trust in him? Is it because we're so good Oh, heavens, no. We are not. The church is a mess, and we are a mess. God accepts us for the sake of his friend. His Son Jesus Christ, who died for us. That's all. And you've heard it so many times that we need that in our souls. We need to be fed with that. We need to be strengthened in that. God takes pleasure in Jesus, therefore he takes pleasure in all who trust in Jesus. Paul says this, therefore as one trespass led to the condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification in life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. We are made righteous by faith in Jesus God's Friend, God's Son, God's salvation. And we have the same thing in Colossians chapter 3. If you have been raised with Christ, seek to things that are above. In verse 3, for you have died and your life is hidden. What's that? Your life, your life is hidden, wrapped up. Parceled together with Christ in God. Your life is hidden with Christ in God. So God accepts you and me because He loves Christ. Christ is perfectly acceptable. If you are in Christ by faith, if this is a Christian church, then God dwells here. He has pitched his tent, not outside the camp, but he's pitched his tent among us. God indwells us. And surprise, surprise, that's what we see in the Gospel of John, which I hope to preach through at some point. We see it in the Gospel of John, chapter 1, where we're seeing about the glorious Son of God, the Word, who became flesh. In verse 14, it says, And the Word became flesh and pitched his tent. Dwelt among us. He's with us. And we have seen his glory. Does that sound like something in Exodus 33? Moses saw the glory of God. We have seen his glory, the glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. God has pitched his tent with us. Us poor, miserable sinners, us fallible, weak church. God shows us his glory in the person of Christ. The glory of incarnate love, the glory of sacrificial love, a love so invincible that we cannot be lost. And we have that in one of our hymns, O love that will not let me go, I rest my weary soul in thee. Congregation, God chose us in Christ and took us in love and wants to be personal and intimate with us as his bride. God does not want to be used like the modern pagans. I was speaking a few weeks ago about moralistic therapeutic deism. God doesn't want to be used like that pagan way of People using their God to get protection, to get stuff, to have a little help now and then. No, God does not want that. God wants you to know Him To adore him, to serve him for love's sake, for Christ's sake. That is the final condition That is the final condition described in Revelation 21. What does it say there? I saw a new heaven and a new earth. I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down from heaven, from heaven from God, prepared as a Bride, isn't that interesting? As a bride adorned for her husband, and I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, listen, behold the dwelling place. The tabernacle, the dwelling place of God is where? With man He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. That's what Moses was begging for. And that's what we have in Jesus Christ. So what if you could have God available to take care of your needs, such as safety and food and shelter and health, and take away your eternal punishment too, but not be close to you, keep his distance from you. Would you really want God not to be personally involved with you? This wonderful God? Think about that question In sense, God is a person, God is three persons, God is personal, God is the source of personality, God is the source of our personality. Think about it even in terms of your earthly family friendship relationships. How would you like to have such an arrangement with your spouse or your children or your grandchildren or your mother? Think of Mother's Day. Where you have no real knowing of your friends, your children, your mother, just you use them as a resource. You don't really have any personal relationship. Just use them as a resource. What would that be like? What would that be? It would be described by psychologists as a dysfunctional relationship, a broken relationship You see, but since God is personal and God is the source of personality, God is one in three persons. Who constantly know and love and share together, we are to grow in that same way, in knowing each other, in loving each other, in forgiving each other, in growing together. And if you are in Christ and you are growing in the likeness of God, who is personality himself, you are destined to be in full and sweet communion with God and His people. Isaiah forty-nine, there's a question that God asks. He says, Can a mother forget her nursing child? And you think about that question, can a mother, that's a relationship, can a mother forget her nursing child? Well, first of all, she carried that child. There's a bond. Secondly, the child is nursing, so there's a biological reminder, frequent reminder. But God says, even if these may forget, Yet I will not forget you. That's how wonderful God's relationship is with those who trust in Christ. I will not forget you. This passage teaches along with the whole of Scripture that God actually wants to know you and to be known by you. And that's why Jesus came. That's the message, I believe, that we find here in this chapter. God wants to be close to us. God wants to live in our midst. He wants to be a part of our lives, not just used by us. And look at the cross. Look what Jesus did. Look at the friend of sinners did to have that relationship with us. Let us trust Him. Let us love Him and worship Him and honor Him. Amen. Lord, we thank you that we by grace have come to love you, not because we hope for heaven or because we're afraid of hell. But because you loved us and sought us to be yours So we pray that you'll help us, Lord, to grow in our relationship with you and grow in our relationship with one another. Lord Jesus. Amen.