I would like to begin the sermon this morning, congregation, with an object lesson about God's providence. And if your parents or the adults are sitting with children let you, you can respond to my question. Tell me, children, what happens? Do y'all see the m paper here and my hand under? What happens, children, when I take my hand away? What happened to the paper? It fell down. Now, you can't see the paper. You'll see in a minute. Tell me what happens, children, when I take this piece of paper in my hand and put it over here. What happened to the paper? Yeah, it went where I wanted it to go. I went over there by my hand. That is God's providence, congregation. His hands, he is hands-on with his creation. He upholds it and he governs it So if you can remember God's hands, you can know a lot about his providence, that he is hands-on with his creation. I would also like to tell you real quick When I first learned about that, because like most or all merely natural men, not born again. Uh we think that man rules in the world and then God responds to him. Well, I was reading my Bible In a year Bible reading program that my brother challenged me to do, and I got to um Saul's conversion in Acts 9. And uh reading about how Saul wanted to go persecute Christians, but how Jesus had different plans for Saul's life than Saul had for Saul's life And Ananias, who was the man that Jesus wanted to send to Saul to go be baptized, was objecting to Jesus in his dream vision, saying, You know what kind of man Saul is? He says, Go. For he is my chosen vessel to bear my name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel. When I read those words, I was so offended by them. I was offended to the point of feeling violated as a person. And I didn't know what else to do but close the Bible, call my uncle, and ask him if the Bible was wrong. Because how can God make man do something he doesn't want to do Paul did not want to preach Jesus. Paul wanted to persecute those who preach Jesus. What right does Jesus have to say he's my chosen vessel? I was so offended. Because God showed me that night he has a very different approach to the world than I thought he had to the world. And that turned my whole world upside down to see how hands-on he is to the creation he made. At first, this threatened my whole existence. I thought man ruled in creation, and God just responds to him. And it is very different. God rules and his creation. So little did I know anything of the sovereign Lord Jesus and of his Father So little at that point did I know anything right of God's providence. But by his grace, as I know you as well can say too, and I'll use the words of John Calvin, we can say now that the ignorance of providence is the greatest of all miseries, and the knowledge of it the highest happiness. God's hands-on approach to his creation. So this morning, congregation, that's what we're after. That highest happiness. through the knowledge of God's providence, as it's taught us in Scripture, as it's put before us in the catechism. But not only do we want to know about this knowledge, but also once we learn about it, see how that uh knowledge of God's providence can help us. Because it can help us. And we will look at that from Scripture. So our sermon will just be instruction on God's providence, followed by application of God's providence. So the first part is what is the the catechism asks us right what do we understand? And maybe you can ask yourself this morning before you think just real quick, what is my understanding of God's providence? Because that's what we're going to look at here in the first part. our understanding from God's word of what providence is. Now if I sent you home With the homework of doing a word study on the term providence. A term is a word that refers to a concept. Not every word refers to a concept. Table just refers to the table, but a term refers to a concept. If I sent you home to do a word study on the term providence You probably I get a bunch of frustrated emails. Because depending on which English version of the Bible you use You will either find that word in it one time in all the scripture or no times in all of Scripture Just open up your strong King James Concordance. You'll find it once used in Acts twenty four two, referring to Festus, and they're praising Festus for his providence, which has brought blessings to the Jewish nation, as he's about to then use them to tribe Paul. And as far as I can tell, I've not looked at all of them, but most modern translations don't even use that word. They translate it by foresight, as the Greek there is proinoia. Foresight So then the question becomes, how can you and I even understand, begin to understand providence if it's not even necessary when translating the Bible to use that term? How do we begin to even understand it? Well, providence is like the term Trinity. We just learn about it when we read our Bibles. If you read your Bibles, you'll learn of Trinity. If you read your Bible, you will learn of God's providence. I once, and I don't remember where I read it, but I once read someone who's remarking on reading the Bible, just reading it. In the world, it appears as if man does everything, right? Who's talking about what God did in your workplaces? Who's talking about what God's done in our highest places of authority? Who's talking about what God's done? But in the Bible, God does everything. In the world, it appears that man does everything. When you read the Bible, it appears that God does everything, and that person got it. Just by reading his Bible, he understood what God's providence is, that God's hand, hands are in everything. Now here's the key, as far as I'm convinced, to understanding providence. And it's knowing what it's about. Providence is about how God relates to his creation. That's the most basic understanding of what Providence is. How does God relate to the creature he made? That's what Providence is getting at. What kind of relationship does he have to the earth The creatures in the earth, to heaven, and the creatures in heaven. That's what Providence is giving at. What kind of relationship does he have? The reason I'm saying that so many times is because it's key and important, and I want you to that to stick in your minds, I want you to get that, that providence is about how God relates to his creature. Creatures, creation, to each one of us here. And I'm convinced, and I agree with the Heidelberg catechism from Scripture that how God relates to his creation is in a very hands-on way. And the first thing that you and I need to know about God's hand, hands, his hand, is that God's hand is almighty. And God's hand is ever present. It's always there. It can do everything He wants it to do, and nothing can get in its way and stop it. And it's always there. Ever present. The hand in Scripture you saw it referenced there in Job. Stretch out your hand against him, Satan said God put Job and Job's things in Satan's hand. Hand in Scripture, it's the Bible's way, it's an idiomatic way, that means the Bible's way of talking about power. In scriptures, as you read, people fall into the hands of somebody else. They come under their power. Well, you and me, congregation, we came under God's power when He created us. And we will always exist under God's power in his hand. Paul, when he is on his missionary journey there in Athens, And seeking as God's command to share the good news and bring the nations back to the knowledge of the true God, right, finds that inscription. They're worshiping, they want to make sure they worship every deity there might possibly be. So they have an altar there that says to the unknown God because they don't want to forget anybody. And Paul says, Let me tell you about him. In him we live, move, and have our be-ing. That same or the same almighty power and ever-present hand of God that created each one of us Now upholds us. And that's the first thing about God's providence, his relationship to us, is God has his hands upon, or really his hands under the creation to uphold it or the fancy term you might hear preserve it. That if God were to withdraw his hand at any time, you and I would fall back into nothing quicker than that piece of paper fell to the desk this morning. God's hand upholds us. His hand is almighty and ever present, just like that piece of paper. My hand has to have enough strength to hold up that piece of paper. And my hand has to ever be present for that piece of paper to remain holding up. God's hand, his might and strength is what gives each one of us existence and all there is And his hand ever present is what keeps it in existence. And this is a wonderful truth, because no one is holding God's hand under you, under his creation But his own goodness, his own faithfulness, and his own love of which he created us from. Nobody's forcing him to give us life and hold us in existence But his sheer goodness and faithfulness to the creation he made. That is wonderful. Let's stop, stand up, and praise, let's not, but that's what we want to do. Because God He is consciously every day choosing to give you life, choosing to uphold your existence. Choosing in his loving goodness and faithfulness to maintain you. That is our God. That is your God congregation that you've come to know in the Lord Jesus. The second thing that you and I need to know about God's Almighty and Ever present hand, not only does he uphold everything, but he has his hands on everything. ruling it and governing it and guiding his creation, bringing it to where people need to go and things need to go and to the ends and purposes and goals that he's created. Guiding, governing, ruling and directing. He uses his hands for. We uh generally call this idea of God's hands ruling or providence as his sovereignty. And his sovereignty, that word just means his supreme rule over everything. And we praise God for this this morning when we opened up by singing, The Lord reigns over all. That's his sovereignty. So God's relationship to his creation and he preserves it, but he also relates to it as its Lord. He rules it by his hand. Paul as well had to remind the ignorant Athenians of this. God had sovereignly left them to their ways. But now he was calling them back to himself. And Paul told them, God, who made the world and everything in it Since he is Lord of heaven and earth in charge of it, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor does worship by men's hands as though he needed anything. Since He gives life, He gives breath, He gives all things And we need to take this to heart, congregation, that the one who made us does not depend upon us, but we depend upon God for everything. were the dependent ones, not God. Chance, which just refers to random happening, has not brought you your life, congregation. Though we might speak about being an unplanned pregnancy, humanly speaking, nothing could be further from the truth as far as God is concerned. Chance has not given you life. Every life that exists is a gift of God, a willful act of His sovereignly lordship over His creation. Chance has not brought you your breath today. You're not breathing randomly by chance. But God has given it to you. What purposes does He have for you today as He gives you breath? Chance has not brought you all the things that you've had? That you do have now or that you will have that make up your existence, your children, your spouse, your work, your homes, your clothes, your callings, your gifts. Chance has not brought you these things God, as he relates to you, as your Lord, who rules over your life, has brought them to you. Paul says, and all these things are gifts of God to us. Whatever he brings in our life comes from his hand. I like how the Heidelberg Catechism puts this. All things come to us by God's fatherly hand. Catechism, of course, is talking to the church. God relates in this way to every one of his creatures, but as those redeemed by Christ's blood, Reconciled to God through his death, called to be his children, adopted in his grace, given that spirit of sonship when we now say daddy and father to our God His fatherly hand is what brings everything to us in our life. Our Lord Jesus Talking to the disciples about this, knowing uh how scary the world can be, threatening it can be, particularly as his followers taking up his name, his cross He talks about this when he says, but the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Your father knows the number of hairs on your head and he's given them to you and he cares for you. And not one of those or even a bird can fall to the ground without his willingness John Calvin and you you'll probably you'll hear me quote Calvin a lot this morning because he loved the doctrine of providence and he has a lot of wonderful things to say about it. Calvin comments here saying What more could we wish if not even a hair of our head can fall save in accordance with His will? What more as God's beloved redeemed creatures could we wish if not even a hair of our head can fall Except in accordance of his will. And who can ever doubt his good purpose is towards us in Christ? He who did not spare his own son, right? Not when we were his friends, not when we were seeking him, not when we loved him, but when we hated him and lived our lives against him. He gave Jesus up for us, and Christ died for us then We can trust it. The catechism goes on to give, as you see there, as we read, a whole list of things that God is responsible for. I won't list those again, but I'll give you the biblical references behind them in Jeremiah 5 Sinful people of the Lord, God's talking to them to the prophet, he says, they do not, this is my own people, do not say in their heart, Let us now fear the Lord our God, the one who redeemed us and brought us out of Egypt to Himself, who gives reign, both the former and the latter, in its season. He reserves for us the appointed weeks of the harvest. They don't understand that these things come from God because they are without knowledge of them in their sin. They don't know him. They don't know his providence. They don't understand that it's God who is withholding from them these things because of their sinfulness. In uh Acts 14, if Paul had the opportunity to share the gospel in another pagan town, And uh when he did a mighty miracle and healed um a crippled, they wanted to sacrifice to Paul and Barnabas as Zeus and Mercury, the the messenger of Zeus And Paul says, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men of the same nature as you. And preach that you should turn from these useless things to the living God. Remember, our God is living. He's as alive as you are alive. He made the heaven, he made the earth, he made the sea, he made all the things in them, who in bygone generations allowed the nations to walk in their ways, nevertheless. He did not leave himself without witness of his goodness, and that he did good. He gave us rain from heaven, he gave us fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. Here Paul is saying, though that they though they didn't know God God was testifying to them in his hands-on care for them, his hands-on care for the nations, even as he let them go on in their own ways. God maintained his hands-on care for those nations. giving them full bellies and gladness. That is hands-on care as he relates to all of his creation. Everybody in it Jesus, answering the disciples' question about why this man was born blind, says, Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but that the works of God should be revealed in him. Here Jesus is telling us that being born blind was God's doing or God's purposes. He had a hand in it. And his good hand was in it. Because Jesus then could heal that man and bring them to faith in him as Son of God, that they might be eternally saved. God, what looks like, and these you know, look like a horrible thing. Look how good his hand is in it for the good purposes, even in someone being born blind. God's hand is also in wealth, in poverty. Read in Proverbs 22, verse 2. The rich and the poor have this in common. They don't have much in common, but they have this in common. The Lord is the maker of them all. No man's greed or his diligence, his sloth, or his misfortune. Have a part to play in as being rich or poor, God's hand is determinative in it. He rules So let me sum up and we'll go to the second part. Providence is about how God relates to His creation. He's the creator of it. Now that he has created it, how does he relate to it? That's what providence is dealing with. And scripture shows us that God relates In a very hands-on way to what he made. His hand upholds it, and his hand rules in it. We continue to exist because God upholds us. Our existence is what it is, that is made up of all the things in it that make up your life, because God's fatherly hand has brought to us everything in it and about it. That's God's Hands-on dealing with you. That's God's providence, his hands-on relation, hands-on approach to the creation that he made. Well, how does this understanding of God's creation and providence help us? That's where the catechism goes next. Okay, I now know that God has a hand in everything about me from my mere just existing. To everything that ever has, will, and will make up my life, God's hand is in it. Well, how can I apply this? How can this help me today? The first way the knowledge of this helps us can help you, is it can make us patient. I remind you that patience means Suffering without complaining. Patience means endurance. God's providence can help make us patient in adversity And adversity is a general term that can refer to any difficulty that's in your life, any hardship, any distress. Any misfortune, which I know misfortune is a misnomer as to the teaching here, but anything bad you didn't plan for or expect. That can be adversity. You all know of Job, and we read of Job this morning. Who of us can fathom That adversity which God brought upon him. In you could see there was something of a fear in his heart, and all of a sudden In one night's change, day, moment, seconds, everything he had is gone And yet we read of Job in all this, Job did not sin or charge God with wrong. Rather, we read that he worshiped God. The Lord gave. And the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And just so you know, blessed in Scripture means speak good things about somebody. So when we talk about God, it means praising God and giving thanks to Him Blessed, Job said, be the name of the Lord. Here we see that Job was helped by the knowledge of God's hands-on relationship to him. in his adversity. The Lord has taken away, and therefore Job could endure it David also was helped by this knowledge. When Shemei cursed him, you know, when David and fleeing from Absalom and his sin Shemei curses. David leaves us in Psalm 39, verse 9, a record of the help he received by this when we read, I was mute, so he's being cursed. I was mute. I did not open my mouth. Because it was you, meaning the Lord, who did it. And Calvin has a really good comment here. I quote: The whole comes of this. He's been talking about providence. When unjustly assailed by men. Overlooking their malice, which could only aggravate our grief and wet our minds for vengeance. Let us remember to ascend to God and learn to hold it for certain That whatever an enemy wickedly committed against us was permitted and sent. By his righteous dispensation, and dispensation means dispensing, handing out, by his righteous handing out, is how David thought of it. It's Calvin's commentary. That's how David thought about it. Because as David said, it was you. God's hand was sending Shemey to curse David and so he could patiently endure that adversity. I don't know what remedies you fall back on in your times of adversity to keep you from anger. We're being impatient, but I commend you, congregation, the knowledge of God's providence to help you in that The God's hands-on approach to your life to ascend to Him. I don't know what present adversity you have in your homes right now. I don't know what adversity you have in your workplaces, your communities, the church, but you can be patient in it. If you ascend to God, if you turn to Him in it, turn from your sin in it. Wait on God. Continue walking in his ways until he delivers you out of the adversity. And no, truly, beloved, no. Your heavenly Father intends you good by the adversity Job came to a better knowledge of God from his adversity. Speculating, I could imagine if you ask Job at the end of it, Job. Was it worth it? Would you wish it never happened? Or are you thankful for how you know you're God now? Has it ever happened in your life? You come through some adversity. And I know in my life is the overwhelmingly, God is so lovingly kind. And you wonder how can he deal with me such a sinner and yet do it so wonderfully? That when we go through adversity, we're glad we went through it, because he intends our good in it. James also speaks to us in his letter when he writes about trials make us perfect as individuals, complete Lacking nothing. Joe James is saying that you actually gain from adversity What might often very much seem like a loss is in the end a gain from the adversity that God's fatherly hand brings to us. I really appreciate what our own confession says here about God's providence in our temptations. Now, chapter 5 in the Westminster Confession of Faith is devoted to Providence. In Article 5, it says, the most wise, righteous, and gracious God Does oftentimes leave for a season his own children to manifold temptation. There's numerous in kinds and types. And the corruption of their own hearts. Why does he do this? To chastise them for their former sins, or to discover to them the hidden strength of corruption and deceitfulness of their hearts. Why? That they may be humbled. That's a good thing. That God may raise them To a more close and constant dependence for their support upon himself. Such a wonderful thing to learn to depend more upon God And to make them more watchful against all future occasions of sin. That's a wonderful benefit. To be more on the alert against that sin that would destroy you and your home and your family, your church. And for m many other just and holy ends, it's saying these aren't even all of them. These are the ones we see in Scripture. God could have very many other reasons. Point is, even beloved, your morally culpable falls into sin. Your Heavenly Father rules over them for your good. We should thank God, and I know you do, for his hands on dealing with us, even in our sin, for our good. That's his providence. The second way the knowledge of God's hands-on relationship to us can help us, it can make us very thankful in prosperity. It'll be the opposite of adversity, is prosperity. In uh Deuteronomy 8, chapter, or chapter 8, verse 10, Moses writes to the people who are about to head into the land. Remember where they came from? Egypt, terrible adversity. Wilderness sufferings of their own sin, terrible adversity. Yet God had shown them goodness. Now about to go into the promised land. When you have eaten and are full, Then you shall bless the Lord your God for the good land which He has given you. Here we learn that full bellies are God's gifts Good land is God's gift. And when I consider that, I'm a bit at a loss. Of what Scripture says about God Himself being our portion. He's giving them that promised land as their portion and inheritance, and the wonderful things come about that. What about when God gives us himself? As our portion. I know that I can never thank God enough for Jesus Christ, the bread of life I vowed never to forget it. I pray that all of you truly do and would have full bellies, but I pray more that you'll have full souls. Make sure that you are feeding, beloved, on the bread of life. And if you are here this morning and you're not and you don't know Jesus, come to Him for life. He is seated at the Father's right hand. He will gladly take you right now and feed you with himself forever. Don't feed any longer on what is not bread. In what does not satisfy. So we can be thankful for the prosperity God gives us. Yes, earthly full bellies. Yes. All souls as we feed on that heavenly food all our life. Third way the knowledge of God's creation and providence can help us It can give us, in Calvin's words, I love these words, incredible security for the time to come. Incredible security for the time to come. The catechism's way of putting it here is, for the future we can have good confidence in our faithful God and Father, that no creature will separate us from his love. And then why can we have this good confidence? He goes on to say, for all creatures are so completely in his hand that without his will they can neither move nor be moved. Satan could not do a thing to Job without God's will. And God's will was not that he and Job should be separated. But that Satan should see that he and Job will never be separated despite the worst that he can do. That's the purpose of Job God has made an eternal covenant with each one of us in Christ. He has put his everlasting love on each one of us in Christ. I think Calvin is right. Our future is incredibly secure. This is what our own confession says about God's providence about believers. As the providence of God does in general reach to all creatures, we've been talking about that. So after a most special manner, it takes care of his church. And it disposes all things to the good thereof. God moves, arranges, orders, rules everything from his throne, with our exalted high priest and mediator there so that everything is arranged, ordered, disposed in the creation for the good of his church. You, the members of it. Hallelujah. Credibly secure. Calvin again, another good one here. I just give it to you because it should encourage you when you go back and read the Old Testament. He says, no, the chief aim of the historical books, he's talking about Genesis and Joshua and Judges and Kings. The chief aim of the historical books of Scripture is to show that the ways of his saints are so carefully guarded by the Lord as to prevent them even from dashing their foot against the stone. How much does God prevent his people from disaster, as we read about? Or when they fall into it, recover it, and when they're put into it, turn it to their good. That is God's providence As you read Scripture. Alright, I'm going to close with a few clarification things here because this hands-on approach Can be misunderstood, has been misunderstood. We can draw wrong conclusions when we hear that nothing can move without God's will or be moved. I'm going to use our confession here again. Here's one of the things we need to be clear about when we say this. God is not the author of sin. even though his will is behind its existence and he has his hand in it, he's not the author of it or the approver. The almighty power, unsearchable wisdom, infinite goodness of God, so far shows itself in his providence That it extends itself even to the first fall. God had a hands-on approach to the fall. All other sins of angels and men, your sins, my sins. That not only by bare permission, but such as joined with it a most wise and powerful bounding and otherwise ordering and governing of them in a manifold dispensation to his own holy ends. Yet so as the sinfulness thereof proceeds only from the creature, not from God, who being most holy and righteous, neither is nor can be the author or prover of sin. Now I know we're going, that's dense. A bit archaic. Let me try to give you the cliff notes. We should not fear, beloved, that is we should not pull back from saying that God has his hand in creaturely evil. His hand is not in it as its author, but his hand is in it to set limits to it. He bounds it. His hand is in it to order it and direct it to his own holy, just, and good ends. And we should thank God that it is. I couldn't even imagine otherwise. The misery of this world would be unbearable. To think there was another hand ultimately controlling its evil than the good God who created. God's almighty, ever-present hand Is even ruling over this creation's evil. Not as the author of it, not as the prover of it, but as the Lord of it. And we should take rest in that. Saint Augustine, talking about this, considering Christ's death, he writes, Since the Father delivered up the Son. Since Christ delivered up his own body, since Judas delivered up his master, three hands here, how in such a case is God just and man guilty? But just because in the one act which they did, the reasons for which they did it are different. Each there had a hand in Jesus' death. Father, Christ, Judas. Judas's hand, sinful, for the reasons he did it, which we know about But Jesus' hand and his father's hand, holy and just for the reasons they did it, which we read about and praise, because it's our salvation. Second thing, so God's hand is in sin, but not as the author and prover. Here's a second thing we need to be careful about. Men still remain responsible for their sinful behavior, though God's will rules over it and predisposes of it. That doesn't excuse us from our moral culpability in our evil because God's hands in it as well. Peter says, right, him being delivered up by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God you have taken by lawless hands, have crucified, put to death. God's hands-on approach to our sin does not excuse us or remove our guilt again because his hand is in it for different reasons than you and I. Are in it. But three, God's hand doesn't exclude every other hand either. People really are the causes of things in the world, too. I don't want to use you might hear secondary causes, that's the philosophical thing. That is, you're a real cause too. God's the primary one. But you're not God and He's not you. You have a real freedom and a real hand in the things you do. What does that mean? I just focused on that means something for everybody. What does that mean for us in Christ? Well, since we've been reconciled to God, it means that you and I can have a hand in what God's doing. The church is God's co-worker. Dwelt by the Spirit of Christ, we seek to work with our Heavenly Father's hands. Rather than having His hand work against us and constrain us because we're the naughty children, and He's got to direct otherwise Now we're reconciled. We can join with Christ. We can have our hand in the work of spreading the good news. Making Christ so showing deeds of love and kindness, building up the saints. If God's hands in everything, his hand's in the building up of the church and gathering it too, and we can have a hand in part of that as the people of God. Under his problem. Do we perfectly do that yet? No. But we're getting there. And we will be there when Christ returns. Well, dear saints, it is very true: in the world, God does everything. His hands on his hands on approach to creation, his hands-on approach with the own life. Should lead us to learn like David in Psalm 131 to be like a weaned child Resting in our father mother's lap. We don't have to cry, when are you going to feed me? And worry about these things. Let's not worry about the things too high for us. Let's trust our Father as providence. Let's trust his hand. Trust his hand in your life. And let this knowledge turn your world right side up Because truly, in creation, the Lord reigns over all. Amen.