Please turn to Daniel chapter ten. Daniel ten, we'll read verses twelve through twenty-one. Twelve through the end of the chapter. Then he said to me, Fear not, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand And humble yourself before your God. Your words have been heard. And I have come because of your words. The prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days, but Michael, one of the chief princes Came to help me, for I was left there with the kings of Persia, and came to make you understand what is to happen to your people in the latter days. For the vision is for days yet to come. When he had spoken to me according to these words, I turned my face toward the ground and was mute. And behold, one in the likeness of the children of man touched my lips. Then I opened my mouth and spoke. I said to him who stood before me O my Lord, by reason of the vision, pains have come upon me, and I retain no strength. How can my Lord servant talk with my Lord? For now no strength remains in me, and no breath is left in me. Again, one having the appearance of a man touched me and strengthened me. And he said, O man greatly loved, fear not. Peace be with you. Be strong and of good courage. And as he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, Let my Lord speak, for you have strengthened me. Then he said, Do you know why I have come to you? But now I will return to fight against the Prince of Persia, and when I go out, behold the Prince of Greece will come. But I will tell you what is inscribed in the book of truth. There is none who contends by my side against these except Michael, your prince. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Two readings. First is the Gospel of Mark, chapter 7, verses 14 through 19, and then the preaching text after that from Romans 14. Mark 7, beginning at verse 14. And he called the people to him again, and he said to them, Hear me, all of you, and understand. There is nothing outside a person that by going into him can defile him But the things that come out of a person are what? Defile him. And when he had entered the house and left the people, his disciples asked him about the parable. And he said to them, Then are you also without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him, since it enters his heart, but his stomach, it enters not his heart, but his stomach And is expelled. Thus he declared all foods clean. And then the preaching text from Romans chapter 14, 13 through 23, and in the first three of 15, page 949 Beginning at verse thirteen of chapter fourteen. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on another any longer. But rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. I know that I am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and not and for mutual upbuilding Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating does not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproachers of those who reproached you fell on me. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us draw near to the throne of God's grace, asking for His help. Oh Lord, we pray now that as we approach this portion of your word in preaching and in listening, that you will attend the word that you have inspired by the Holy Spirit, illuminate So that we will understand it and be able to make the right use of your word. Help us to store it up in our hearts and practice it in our lives to your glory. Amen. Well, you will need your Bible, so I encourage you to have the Bible. One of those few Bibles will be good, and I'll give you the page references when we get to a different passage. But first, I want to break this sermon down into three parts as usual. The first head is to first defend your liberty. And you see the outline there. It's verses 14a and then 16 through 18. Defend your liberty. You have a duty as a Christian. Set free in Christ, you have a duty to defend your liberty. He says in verse 14, I know And am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself. Then in verse 16, so do not let what you regard as good to be spoken of as evil. That's defending. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. This is not new teaching. We just read from Mark's Gospel, which is on page 842. Where he called these people and said to them, Hear me, all of you, and understand there is nothing outside a person that going into him can defile him And then he said it again when explaining this privately to his own disciples. And it says at the very end, the gospel writer says, thus he declared all foods clean. That's what Paul's saying, too, isn't it? All foods are clean. And we also know that God had to reveal this in special revelation packages to the early church. It's recorded in Acts chapter 10, which is on page 918, where Peter saw this vision of a sheet full of unclean animals coming down from heaven. And uh Then he hears from God, it's in verse 13, there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter said, by no means. For I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean. And the voice came to him again a second time and said, What God has made clean, do not call common. This happened three times and the thing was taken up at once to heaven. Another instance where we have revelation telling us that we must must defend our liberty to eat all kinds of things because they're not unclean anymore. And Paul defended Christian liberty, especially for the sake of the gospel. This is found in Galatians chapter 5. Page 974, Galatians chapter 5, 1 through 6. This is important. I want you to turn there if you can. Here's what Paul says to the church in Galatia. He says, for freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. And then in verse 2, he says, Look, I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. What's going on here? These Galatian Christians had been taught by some clever teacher That not only did you have to receive Christ as the Messiah and trust in Him, but you also needed to go a step beyond that, and if you were male, be circumcised And you needed to observe all the dietary customs and laws, too. And that would complete your salvation. Paul says, no, absolutely not. I'm going to defend my liberty in Christ, and you must defend the gospel liberty in Christ and not accept the slavery, another yoke of slavery. He says, Christ will be of no advantage to you. You will undo the gospel in your life if you do that. He says, I testify again to you every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. If you start this way, you're going to have to go on and you'll never finish. He says in verse 4, you are severed. That's strong language. You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law. You have fallen away from grace. So he's definitely saying, defend your liberty in Christ. Paul was irate, you see, about what was going on in the church there. They were teaching, again I say it, they were teaching that everyone must observe the Jewish customs and laws, in addition to faith in Christ. for their salvation. Now, how does that apply today, to some extent We all have our own list of do's and don'ts. We all have our own list of personal standards, what I will do and won't do, and we'll eat and drink, whatever. If you choose personal standards for yourself, which include some things that others would not do, be clear in your mind. That those practices do not qualify you or disqualify you for salvation as a believer. Be clear This is kind of a silly illustration, but I'll try it anyway. If you, as a believer, trusting in Christ alone, by grace alone, through faith alone, Want to celebrate Christmas with blow-up Santa Claus and Mrs. Santa Claus figures in your yard and electric reindeer on your roof? While you know full well that those things have nothing to do with the birth of Jesus or faith in Jesus, go right ahead. And when your Christian brother, who has a different point of view, tells you that those things are foolish and worthless, commercialized pagan trappings, and hands you a list of holiday do's and don'ts in order to be truly saved. Be prepared to defend your freedom to waste your money on them, knowing that such things do not and cannot affect your standing in Christ. My point is clear, I hope. Nothing can be added as a condition to the gospel ever This must be defended at all costs. That's the first point. Defend your freedom in Christ. The second one Goes with it and helps us put some things together, calculate the risks. There are risks There are situations where insisting on your legitimate Christian liberty is harmful to others. Verse 14b. But it is unclean for anyone who thinks it is unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you're no longer walking in love By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another person stumble by what he eats in liberty. It is good not to eat meat or drink or wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself by what he eats or proves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats because his eating is not from faith. And whatever does not, this is important, whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. What's he saying? Let's boil it down. There's a few clauses here. He is saying that if someone has been conditioned to think a particular thing is displeasing to God, And because of you goes ahead and does the thing against his conscience He will be doing it in rebellion against God, and it will be sinful for him to do it. You see that? How that works? Again it says, but whoever doubts, so this is the condition, is condemned if he eats, because his eating is not from faith, and whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. Avoid doing things that lead others to sin. There is a circumstance that is listed or taught in the book of Acts, page 924, Acts 16. where Paul observes this principle that I've just laid out to you. Calculate the risks. Calculate the risks. In Acts 16, 1 through 5, let me read it to you. They're doing their missionary work, Paul and so forth. It says, Paul came to Derby and to Lystra. A disciple was there named Timothy. The son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek Gentile. He was well spoken of by the brothers at Lystra and Iconium. Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him, and he took him, listen, he took him and circumcised him. Because of the Jews who were in those places. Now wait a minute. Didn't we just read Galatians where he says, if you allow yourself to be circumcised, Christ will be no use to you at all? But now he circumcises Timothy? And they he goes on to say in Acts, for they all knew his father was a Greek. That's why they're doing it. As they went on their way through the cities, they delivered to them for observance the decisions that had been reached by the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem, previous chapter. So the churches were strengthened in the faith. Here's the outcome. They were strengthened in the faith. And they increased in numbers daily. It was a good thing that Paul did here that had a good outcome. So look, let's look back at it. Paul did something to Timothy that was completely unnecessary for Timothy's salvation. He circumcised him. They were going on a journey delivering mess the message of the Jerusalem Council. And what was that message, by the way? The message of the Jerusalem Council was that it is not necessary for Gentiles to become Jews in order to follow Christ. And Paul could have marched, he could have in liberty marched Timothy right into all those towns and synagogues and right on into Jerusalem at the temple, just as he came from his mama. But he would have offended the sensibilities of the Jewish Christians Paul might have used that occasion to preach a bold message about grace versus the works of the law. But he probably would have lost all opportunity by bringing that young disciple into their midst without first circumcising him. You see, folks, there is a time and place for insisting on what you know is right. Galatians is a time and place for insisting on what you know is right. And there is a time and place for accommodating the needs of others in order to serve them in Christ. Never compromise the gospel, but always be willing to do much to accommodate the needs of others And there's one more passage on this point that I want to bring to you. It's from Acts 21, page 930 in the Pew Bible. Acts 21, beginning at verse 17. It's a modest proposal for a particular situation. See, we had this tension in the early church between the Jewish believers who wanted to observe the customs and ceremonies and practices of Judaism and the Gentile believers who needed to understand that that's not required that this tension between customs that varied. So here's the situation and here's the proposal that is laid out in Acts 21. When we had come to Jerusalem, he's reporting what happened in Acts 15. When we had come to Jerusalem, the brothers received us gladly The following day, Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present. After greeting them, he related one by one the things that God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry. And when they heard it, they glorified God and said, You see, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews of those who have believed, they are zealous for the law And they have been told about you, that you teach all the Jews who were among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or walk according to our customs. What then is to be done? They will certainly hear that you've come. Do therefore what we tell you. We have four men who are under a vow Take these men and purify yourself along with them and pay their expenses so that they may shave their heads. Thus all will know that there is nothing in what they have been told about you, but you also live in observance of the law. And then verse 25. But as for the Gentiles who have believed, we have sent a letter with our judgment that they should abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols. It's a small list here. One is abstained from what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality, shortlist for the Gentiles And Paul took the men, and the next day he purified himself along with them and went into the temple, giving notice when the days of purification would be fulfilled, and the offering presented for each one of them. He is being very careful here. He's going out of his way to accommodate the needs of these people. And yet he's insisting, and the council was insisting. on a very short list of do's and don'ts for the Gentiles to observe. And not for their salvation, by the way, but as good, solid moral principles for the Gentiles to observe. So let me summarize this far. You may, you might grieve a Christian brother or sister, so be careful. There are times when you should keep your convictions in non-essential things to yourself, lest you impose them upon others, binding their consciences in non-essential. You should be careful because you might harm yourself by a self-seeking exercise of your Christian liberty, wounding your own conscience by what you do. You can exercise your liberty and then Regret it later because it didn't have a good outcome. For example, in New Testament times, as a liberated Christian, have every right to buy those juicy stew meats at the Zeus meat market And so serve them in a stew at the fellowship meal of the church, causing grief and spiritual offense to a whole third of the congregation And that person didn't sleep so well for a long time after that, wounded his own conscience. Be careful. You can, in the exercise of your liberty, wound your own conscience. Number three, you may become the occasion of someone else's sin by your exercise of Christian liberty, because you lead them to do what for them is not from faith and is therefore. Sin. Here's a personal illustration from my background. Growing up in a fundamentalist Baptist Situation. When I was growing up as a young Christian, members of my church were not free to have a beer. Without sinning, not free. The Church of my youth had a denominational covenant that said, We will abstain from the sale and use of alcoholic beverages. The whole denomination. When my dad was in the denominational college Students and their families were not allowed to work or shop at stores that sold alcoholic beverages. By the way, they were also not allowed to engage in mixed bathing, which is not as interesting as it sounds. It only meant that males and females were not to swim in the same swimming pool at the same time. If someone would have handed me a beer in those days, if I had been old enough, Given my training and background, and if I had drunk it, I would have been led to sin against my conscience and to be drinking it in rebellion against God Even though I now know that God did not and does not forbid it. You see the principle there Because it says, whoever doubts is condemned if he eats or drinks, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. So be considerate in the exercise of your liberty. That's the bottom line. And then thirdly, this is really cool, I think, practice Christ-like courtesy. We're always to imitate Christ. Christ, aren't we? Practice Christ-like courtesy. And the verses there are 14, 19 through 21, and then 15, 1 through 3. Listen to the Christ-like courtesy that's being proposed here. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block in the hindrance. In the way of a brother. That's Christ-like courtesy. Verse 19, so then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual a building. That's Christ-like courtesy. Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. That's Christ-like courtesy. And then chapter 15, 1 through 3, we who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. That's courtesy. And at the very end there, verse 3 of chapter 15. We have a quotation of Christ speaking through David. He's speaking from Psalm 69, verses 6 through 9. Found on page 482. Psalm 69, 6 through 9. And it says this, let those who hope in you Let those let not, I should say, let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me, O Lord God of hosts. Let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, O God of Israel. For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach, that dishonor has covered my face Listen to Christ here. I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's sons. That happened to him. For zeal for your house has consumed me. And then this is the verse that's quoted by Paul. And the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me. Christ was willing to suffer. To serve us. So, in quick summary, the gospel always comes first and cannot be compromised. in any way. Secondly, the service of others comes next. And finally, the imitation of Christ is your pattern. He must be your motivation. And think of it all this way, Christ had so much zeal for you sitting here today. We are his house. Zeal for your house has consumed me, it says. Christ had so much zeal for you and me, his household, that he was willing to have all the hatred of sinners against God fall upon himself. in order to save you. He did this willingly, but it was not easy. He did not please himself. Think of his life of service, his rejection, his being misunderstood, his agony in Gethsemane and the cross Folks, our Christian liberty and our exercise of Christian liberty, and our dealing with other people who have differing customs, ideas, standards. It's not always about you, your ease, your comfort, or even your personal convictions. But rather you must imitate Christ by serving others, bearing with others. Yes, put up with their frailty. Serve others for the sake of Christ and in the likeness of Christ. Amen. Lord, we thank you for this carefully worked out portion of Scripture. The Apostle Paul tells us what priorities we must have. Gospel priorities and people priorities, personal priorities as well. Help us all to keep them in balance, not to wound Or destroy those for whom Christ died. And may our gospel witness be vibrant and shine forth and bring many to Him. Amen.