Your congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, we are continuing this morning in the Heidelberg Catechism, using it this year to take us through Scripture. We are also continuing our explanation of the Apostles' Creed as we are going through it in the Heidelberg Catechism. The Apostles' Creed is being explained to us as a summary of all that God has promised us in the gospel. And therefore, all the promises that we are to believe as Christians. And this morning we'll be looking at the third article of that creed. and its saving benefit to us who believe. So question 35, what does it mean that he was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary? Now it may seem strange to you that we're talking about the incarnation only a few weeks before Easter. And that's something, you know, we should do at Christmas. Well, all I can say is that's the order that the Heidelberg Catechist has put it in, but I can say something about this order. It matters that we understand rightly who was undergoing the events of Good Friday, of Holy Saturday, and of Easter for our salvation. So the focus in the first part of the sermon this morning will be on rightly thinking about the incarnation. Rightly, or how to think about the incarnation of the Son of God. Now the church has set herself to this task ever since she first realized just who her Lord was in the resurrection. Emmanuel, God with us. And she has remained dedicated to this task amongst many wrong attempts to explain the incarnation. Thinking rightly about the Son of God should be a task that every Christian is committed to. And so this morning I hope to help us all grow in thinking rightly about the incarnation. Thinking about the incarnation always fills me with wonder. Wonder at Christ's love and at His humility, at His graciousness to become our incarnate Redeemer. Because God's Son has not put on flesh for a moment, but eternity To save us. That is a gracious thing indeed. So, how should we think about the incarnation? All I can say is if you follow the catechism's instruction, you won't go wrong. It is a good and a faithful explanation of this great mystery As Paul says, without any controversy, here's one controversy the church should never have. Great is the mystery of godliness, that God was manifested in the flesh. And the task is how to adequately understand that, not just so we can impress everybody with our great theological knowledge, but so we can worship. and wonder and marvel and appreciate the one we are meeting, named Jesus Christ. It is a good and faithful statement of this teaching for two reasons. The first one, it's biblical. And second, it's little C Catholic, universal. This question and answer just represents very well the Bible's teaching on the incarnation in a in a real succinct nutshell As well as the church's teaching on it as it has argued and hammered it out over about four or five centuries and continue to think and go, but there's not been really any major development since the six hundreds. faithful statement on the church's teaching. And all that to say then is here you are on good ground about the incarnation. Thinking rightly about the incarnation begins with getting the subject right. Who was incarnated? And the answer here is the eternal Son of God, who is and remains true and eternal God. God was incarnated. God the Son was incarnated. Not the Father, and not the Holy Spirit. Only the Son. The one that we refer to as the second person of the Trinity Now, this bit here is very important as well. The language who is and remains true and eternal God. At no time has Jesus ever stopped being God, though he now has his own human nature. At no time, neither nature, neither one of his natures, the divine nature or his human nature, underwent any changes in the incarnation. Most discussions about the incarnation center around the word union If you've ever read on this or read the church's catechisms and confessions, the word union comes up when we talk about the incarnation. How exactly did God, the Son of God, unite to himself a human nature? Well, here's one way he didn't do it. He didn't do it by confusing the two natures together. Because if you confuse them together, like if you take one liquid and pour it in a cup and pour another liquid in the cup Some things can happen and they change. It destroys the natures. The incarnation is not a destruction of the divine nature and a destruction of the human nature to become something completely different that's neither God nor man. He also didn't do it by just merely relating the two natures together, for that would only result in a mere union of two persons. Like we have, as we are in union with Christ and with God, that would not be a true incarnation of the Son of God. Now, I think the whole key to thinking rightly about the incarnation starts with understanding that there is only one subject, the Word of God, the Son of God. The union in the incarnation is what the church has settled on calling a personal union, hypostatic, personal union. In the incarnation, the human nature of Jesus is united to his eternal divine person as his own flesh. So that there is only one acting person, God the Word, and two whole Or complete natures that act in conjunction with one another What that's saying is avoiding one of the errors that said Mary gave birth to some other dude who then got adopted and then joined into a union of relationship with his son, so there's two persons That's not the incarnation. The incarnation, as we'll get to, is the Son of God taking on his own lash. There's just one subject. The Divine Son, who takes on a human flesh, one acting subject Well, how then did the incarnation take place? The subject is the eternal Son of God, who is and remains God. Brother Catechism answers the hell by saying that he took to himself through the working of the Holy Spirit from the flesh and blood of the Virgin Mary a true Human nature. Here you have the what and the how of the incarnation. What happened in the incarnation was that the Son of God took To himself, a true human nature. And a true human nature means that the Son of God now has his own body And his own rational or reasonable soul. That's just the way we distinguish our kinds of souls from animal souls He has a human soul. He's got a will. He's got a human will and a human mind. He's taken on a true human nature like you and I have. They are now his forever, his body, his soul. They were not anyone else's before they were his. He took them to himself without any change to himself. But where did they come from? Well, that's the how of it. The Son of God became incarnate through the working of the Holy Spirit from the flesh and blood of the Virgin Mary. Now that's essentially right the answer that Gabriel gave to Mary in Luke chapter 1 as we read this morning. In place of a biological human father, Jesus only has a divine father. Joseph adopted him when he gave him the name Jesus. He had all the rights given to him as a Jewish son, but he doesn't have a biological father. Through um God the Holy Spirit, God the Father conceived his own son. in Mary's virgin womb. And from Mary his mother, he took his flesh and blood. That's Scripture's way of saying a human nature, like you and me. So that's the what of it. Jesus or the Son of God taking a human nature, a true human nature, with the Spirit conceiving him in the Virgin's womb and taking from his mother Mary His human nature, flesh and blood. But why this incarnation? Why did this incarnation happen? Well the catechism says, so that he might also become David's true descendant. Like his brothers in all things except for sin. The Son of God took on flesh that he might also become David's true descendant. And if Jesus is David's true descendant, then I have good news for you. He's your Messiah, your King. He fulfills Israel's longings that we sung in Psalm 132. Remember your oath. You could imagine being in Babylon, but remembering God swore an oath to date. This is not going to be the end, living under Babylonian rule and captivity. We will live in the Messiah's kingdom. He fulfilled the longings of Israel, as they sing in Psalm 132, which was based upon 2 Samuel 7 As we read there this morning, God's oath to David to make of him an eternal dynasty or kingdom. So the good news, congregation, that we are, that has been proclaimed for 2,000 years, that we still rejoice in and are sent out to proclaim. Is that Jesus is the promised saving king? He's come. He's saved us. He's ransomed us through his blood He's ascended on the high and rose from the dead and baptized us in the Spirit. He rules and reigns over us and gives us the blessings of the new covenant and keeps us and he's coming again to raise us bodily. Jesus Is the promised saving king. That is good news. As we read, his kingdom won't have any end. He's reigning now, and he's coming again to put his enemies under his feet. That last one, death. And then we will get to sing together the victory song. Are you looking forward to that? Imagine that whole church finally having one worship service I'm sure we'll agree upon how we're going to do it then. And sing together that victory song that Jesus our saving king gives us. Hallelujah. But Jesus also underwent this, or the Son of God did, as the catechism says, so that he might be like his brothers. It's you and me believe in him, like his brothers. In all things except for sin. You know, there's only one difference between you and Jesus, beloved. As far as human existence goes, He never sinned. Besides that, you have everything in common with him. One thing is different. He's just never sinned. Other than that, everything. Everything. Leave me. Everything. He knows your life through and through. Everything you have in common with Jesus. And that fact that he has never sinned is of immense saving importance. And it leads us to the second question here this morning. How does the holy conception and birth of Christ benefit you? Well the answer is He is our mediator. It's the one who comes between God and men to make peace. And in God's sight, he covers with his innocence and perfect holiness my sin in which I was conceived. You and I, beloved, were born in sin. From our parents all the way back to our first parents, we inherit original guilt and the sin nature. The saving benefit of incarnation is a wholly new head of the human race to cover us in God's sight Jesus himself was born of a sinner. Mary, she was a sinner, but he was born sinless. Through the way in which we already discussed, through the conceiving of the Holy Spirit. And the Roman Catholic Church will teach you that by a special act of God's redeeming grace And only for Christ's merit, Mary was kept sinless from birth. That is, she had and has no actual sins of her own only original sin that she inherited from Adam. And I know this because I read their catechism this week on it. But nowhere in Scripture is this explicitly taught. It is a mere conjecture. It has been pieced together by taking and combing several truths of Scripture to come up with this ideal. of her immaculate conception and remaining sinless. What that means then is nobody here is bound to believe that, nor should you believe that. Now the result of the incarnation congregation was that God himself Incarnated himself in our flesh to become our Redeemer and to fulfill the broken covenant of works for us. That's the covenant God made with Adam to obey him, promising him life, if he would have. As the second and last Adam, Christ obeyed God in our stead. And he suffered in our stead for our disobedience. Through that act of grace. And by act of grace here I mean Jesus' whole earthly career culminating in the cross. He has redeemed you and me who believe in him and given to us new life in himself. And it is to that new life in Christ that I want to turn now and end here this morning Thinking rightly about the incarnation should lead to living rightly by it. The reason we want to understand it so rightly That then we might not only get the saving benefit through faith, but also know how to live by it. And live by this Savior, Jesus. Now I want to give you a quote real quick that I think really captures what I've said about rightly saying, what the catechism says here, sums it up, and then we'll transition us into living rightly by the incarnation. I quote: Christ's human nature belongs as his own to the divine person of the Son of God who assumed it Assume is to take something on right. You and I assume responsibilities and new roles all the time without ever changing who we are. The Son of God took upon him a human nature without ever changing who he is as the Son of God. That's that personal union. I continue. Everything that Christ is and does in this nature derives from one of the Trinity. It's saying, where does how he speaks, acts, do? Where do his wonders come from? Where does ability to suffer like that come from? How can he deal so patiently with us and speak so graciously to us Where does all that come from? One of the Trinity. Because he is the second person of the Trinity, has taken that human nature to himself. The source of it all is one of the members of the Trinity The Son of God, therefore, he communicates to his humanity his own personal mode of existence in the Trinity. He gives His human nature, a share in existing as the Son of God. He doesn't change, he doesn't change human nature to be divine, but he's joined it to his divine person and he shares his eternal life with it. What this means is after the incarnation, there is still only three persons in the Trinity and not four. There's not a fourth person joined to the Son and made of not a Trinity more of quaternity. He's taken a human nature, joined it to himself, has given it to share in his divine life In his continue, in his soul and in his body, Christ thus expresses humanly the divine ways of the Trinity. That's behind Jesus' statement to Philip when Philip wanted to see God. He said, How long have I been with you, Philip? You haven't seen him yet. Because Jesus expresses humanly to us the ways of the Trinity. As the Son of God has incarnated himself, taking to him a human flesh and personally uniting it to him. I've been hesitant to use the word clothe himself in it because that's been language used historically in church to lead to heresy But the idea is he has clothed himself in our nature, put it on him, and now expresses to us, lives amongst us as Emmanuel expresses humanly to us The ways of the Trinity. I continue, and here's the end. The Son of God worked with human hands. He thought with a human mind. He acted with a human will. And with a human heart he loved. In Christ now congregation, in the Spirit now congregation, the risen Son of God communicates to you His divine way of living. The Son of God came to raise you and me up from the life of disobedience. To the life of obedience. God came, became man that we might become like God in the Spirit now, joined to Him. He is now giving you a share in his divine life. You now call Father Daddy like him You know now the Spirit as your comforter like him. You exist in Christ, in the Spirit, and you know Him as your brother, as your Lord, as the eternally begotten one of the Son. You share now his life. He's the source of it. Everything a Christian does ought to have as its source the Son of God. Everything a Christian will do, because we're heading to glory and perfection, will have as its source. The Son of God. Now much can be said here about Jesus being the Messiah, the Son of David, as we saw. Because of the incarnation and like us in every way. But I'll just say these three things about it. First, it means that Christ builds the body. As we read there in 2 Samuel, God promised David that his son would build him a house. He shall build a house for my name, 2 Samuel 7. 13. For congregation, you are that house. You are the house that the Son of God is building. Paul, in comparing Moses to Christ, says in Hebrews chapter three, but Christ as a son over his own house. Whose house are we if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm to the end. By God's irresistible grace, congregation, the Son of God has most powerfully and pleasingly drawn you to Himself. To make you a member of his house. Second, it means that Jesus now rules over the body. Not only did God say that Christ would build a house, for him a house, a temple, but that he would establish Christ's kingdom forever. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom. forever. Now what kind of throne is that, do you think? I think it's a high one. It's in heaven. I think it's a powerful one who can resist his will and all things have been subjected to him and will be placed under his feet. But it is chiefly known to us today, congregation, after the incarnation as the throne of grace. Because Jesus sits there ready to give grace and mercy to all who will ask him for it. And he does this not only as your king, but as your high priest. And so third and finally, Jesus helps his body. He builds it. He's built us. He rules over us. And he helps us. As God's house congregation here on earth, you are the focal point for emanating God's presence in the world. At one point I was a tabernacle in the wilderness. One point that was Solomon's temple. One point that was the second temple built under Aaron. Where is it now? You. Me, the church. God's glory presence, His Spirit indwells you, that is to be emanated out from the church here on earth God's love, God's grace, God's mercy, God's goodness, God's righteousness, God's truth are still incarnated in Jesus' body today. You and me, who've been joined to him. It's a big task, isn't it? When people meet you, congregation, they come into God's presence. If you're in the Spirit. Surely they're not meeting a mere human anymore. I mean you are only a human, but the point is surely there's something more than every other human being that now you're in Christ? God's spirit dwells in you, walks amongst you. I think that is quite an amazing truth. And reality, because it's real that we sinners Our God's sons. That we sinners now in Christ can actually emanate the glory of God through our holy living I know you know what it is to be a sinner. And God would actually trust us with such weighty responsibilities. Our father would make us children and give us such serious tasks. Of evangelizing the nation, speaking the truth in love, showing the glory of God and shining it into a dark world I've been overwhelmed this week as responsibility upon responsibility has been put on my plate and we've talked about some of the things going on in Presbytery and I'm going, you've called me to do this? This numb school, God really has called all of us, congregation in Christ, to the serious task. Of incarnating himself. Serious task when you meet people, you love them with God's hands, God's mouth. You listen with God's ears. You go with God's feet in peace. From birth To resurrection congregation, our Lord Jesus walked the sufferer's path in obedience to his Father. And he did so sinlessly. And he did so showing us God all the way in human flesh. If you have taken up the call to follow Jesus here this morning, then you are walking that same path. Imaging that same God again in Christ. Now I know that it is always hard to obey congregation For when I would do good, says Paul, evil that's present with me. Have you found that to be true, Congregation? If you settle deeply that you are just going to meet resistance in this life when you want to do good, you're never going to get to a moment without opposition. Don't wait for it to act. For when I would do good, evil. It's present with me. It is especially hard in our suffering and infirmities to obey God and emanate his glory. But it is also in our suffering that we can most brightly shine God's light and radiate His presence to a lost world. To bring back lost sinners to him. Because as we began this catechism, the comfort of the gospel is because we are sinners who are miserable People are sinners and they're miserable and they're suffering. And you suffer in many of the same ways as them. But you can suffer in a very different way. And obedience. You can show something of the glory of God in it. You know, that was very clearly shown to me a few weeks back at Barbara Buckingham's funeral. I did not know her very well. What I knew of her impressed me, so I wanted to go to the funeral. But those who did know her well said over and over two things about her. She suffered greatly. She showed Jesus greatly in her suffering. And you and I can do the same, beloved. If we will humble ourselves and go to the throne of grace. Because Paul says that the key to obedience and suffering is to remember Jesus. That's the whole context of Hebrews Where he says, seeing then that we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. You know, God never would have put his incarnate crucified son on the throne if we didn't need him to be there. You cannot do the Christian life without him. Don't try. In fact, you are not even on the Christian life until you turn to Jesus for help and start doing it. by him. Jesus came down to know your life, congregation, that he might raise you up to know his In light of the incarnation, it can never be said of God. He just doesn't get it. He doesn't know how tired we get. How hungry or hangry we get, how lonely we are, how sad we become. How weak we are, how hated we are, how hurting we are It's all good for him to demand obedience, but he doesn't even know what he's asking. He does, doesn't he? And he's asking you to trust him. He is a fellow sufferer with you. And it is upon that truth that Paul says, let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy. And find grace to help time of need. I do not know what all of your needs are at the moment, congregation. But I know that Jesus can give you grace in them to obey God. He can give you that grace that you might show the glory of God through a dark. And a tasteless world. And if you have disobeyed him in your pain and frustration, if you threw in the towel this week and gave into that lust, If you failed again to keep your tongue, if you spoke rashly or foolishly, he is also full of mercy to forgive you. Become boldly congregation because we are coming to one who is touched still by the feeling of our infirmities. You know how many of you search out for that sympathetic nurse or waitress? Or store clerk. And when you find him or her, you go boldly to them for help. I mean, you don't waste a second. You are locked on, and you just go straight to them and ask for help. Why is that? Because you know. That a person's sympathy creates boldness in others who are in need. They're going to help me. They get it. And they're not going to turn me away. Neither's Jesus, because he gets it, and he's going to help you. The whole reason our Lord took on our flesh and learned obedience in it by what he suffered. Not only to save us which he did, but also to help us, to raise us up, to be like him. He wants you where he is, reigning on high. But there is only one narrow path of getting there, the path of following Christ. Saying no to sin, no to the world, and saying yes to God, yes to Christ, and following the Lamb wherever He would lead you. Because he has so much more work for you to do there. You are faithful to him here in a little. What a God, congregation. And what a Satan. Your infirmities are real. But so is Jesus' mercy and his grace, and you will never find a more reasonable and understanding God than the Lord Jesus. I'll leave you with David's words. Trust in him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us. Ah mer