Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, it is with great joy that I address you this Easter morning in the name of our risen Lord Jesus Christ. Our encouragement and instruction this morning, congregation, focuses us on the benefits we have received by our Lord's resurrection. And as we saw in the catechism, they are three. And you can remember them by these three P's: partaking Power and pledge. Partaking, power, and pledge. For by these three peas, partaking in Christ's righteous Living by His power, pledged to our own glorious resurrection, our lives have already begun to be transformed into conformity to Christ. Him crucified and raised from the dead. Our God promised us this congregation When he spoke to us through the prophet Isaiah, as we heard this morning, when he said in verse 3, For the Lord comforts Zion. He comforts all her waste places and makes her wilderness like Eden, her desert like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness will be found in her. Thanksgiving and the voice of song. Our God's comfort congregation comes in transformation. He comforts us by making our sinful wilderness like righteous Eden, our unholy desert like the holy garden of the Lord. Turning our sorrow into joy and gladness. And for us, congregation, our God has accomplished this in Jesus Christ. him crucified for our sins, and raised from the dead on the third day. As we pass from the sufferings of Christ, which we remembered on Good Friday, To the glories that were to follow, which we remember today in the resurrection, we pass from redemption accomplished To its eternal application of it to us. Already in Christ we experience the resurrection of Christ As we have been united to him by faith. Though we do not know it all yet, we will Now, these three benefits that we're going to talk about this morning: participation, empower, and pledge, form a chain. They lead from one to another while still remaining connected. And the Apostle Paul speaks of them in Romans 8, verses 10 through 11. Let me read you those words. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. Now that righteousness is not ours, but Christ's that we partake of. That's the first benefit. If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, that's the second benefit, his power in us already. He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead Will also give life to your mortal bodies. That's the third benefit, raising us from the resurrection of the dead through his Spirit, who dwells in you. Justification, sanctification, and glorification are all linked together for us in Christ. United to him by faith, we partake of all of these benefits and blessings of our God's grace. And they have begun and will accomplish that transformation that He has promised us in Jesus. Together, these constitute, what we could say, our comforting conformity to Christ. Once we were condemned Now we are righteous in Christ. Once we were dead in sin. Now we are alive unto God in Christ. Now our bodies are dead, but united to Christ in glory, they will live. So let's look together at these benefits of our comforting transformation into the image of Christ crucified and raised to glory. Now, the first benefit is partaking of Christ's righteousness. By His resurrection, which is where we're going to end this morning. So we'll talk about that when we get to the third benefit. By his resurrection, he has overcome death, so that he might make us share or partake in the righteousness he obtained for us by his death. Now I want to affirm what the catechism is saying here, because it's right, but then I want to go a little bit deeper. By his resurrection, Christ has truly overcome death for us. Paul writes, When the perishable puts on the imperishable Which our Lord has done in the resurrection, and the mortal puts on immortality, likewise, then Shall come to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. By his resurrection from the dead congregation Death is swallowed up in victory for our Lord Jesus Christ. And it will be for us who believe in him. So the catechism is right. However, I do think it truer to say that by his death Christ has overcome death. For that is the good news or the good of Good Friday. And I say this because of what the Apostle Paul goes on to say after the verses we just read about death. He says, the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And that victory congregation, which our God gives us through our Lord Jesus Christ, we must always remember is a legal victory. That victory was fought for and won before Christ rose from the dead. It was fought for or it was fought for up to and on to the cross Where he despised its shame for the joy that was set before him, a renewed universe with his holy brethren. There on the cross, dying for our sins, Christ dealt death, its death blow, as the obedient servant of God. The resurrection three days later was the inevitable outcome of his victorious life over temptation and obedience to his father's will. For the pains of death, as Peter says, could not hold him, the righteous one. And by his resurrection on the third day, as the catechism says here, he makes us share in the righteousness he obtained for us by his death. Now, I think this can best be explained to us by the words of Paul in 2 Corinthians 5:21. For our sake, he made him to be sin, who knew no sin. God was very effective at making Jesus sin. On the cross, Jesus was made sin. And nobody wanted to share in that lot. The lot of an accursed sinner. It was only by the light of the resurrection That they have and we have learned to say for our sake so that in him we might become the righteousness of God And our God knew that we would not understand this? Isaiah foretold it. And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Only when the Father raised Jesus from the dead for our justification was the veil removed And we believed in him as our promised Redeemer and Saving King. The resurrection congregation forces us to rethink the cross. And that is exactly what the Spirit has been sent for. One of the things. When he comes, said Jesus, he will prove the world to be in the wrong about righteousness, because I am going to the Father where you can see me no longer. We should all be quite convinced, congregation That nobody goes before God the Father, sits on his throne, takes from his hand the sealed scroll, and starts executing his world plan through his unrighteous. For our the habitation of our God's throne is judgment and justice What that means then for us is that Easter is our assurance that Christ is our Redeemer That his death was a holy death. It was a sacrifice made to redeem us lawbreakers from the curse of the law, to bring us the promised blessings of Abraham upon our heads. Jesus is the righteous one. He is advocating for us at the Father's side. There he does plead for us. His obedience unto death for all penitent persons who believe in him His resurrection from the dead, as the Apostle Paul says, should convince us all that we are no longer in our sins. For he had never died, congregation, if no man had sinned. And he never would have rose from the dead if he were a sinner. His dying was for our sinning. His rising is because he is righteous. Christ raised from the dead is certainly good news. It is the good news of God's grace to us. By the one that many have been made righteous. And now, as that gospel goes forth, We are taking people a real righteousness that can save, a finished work that they can receive and live by. And what that means for us, for those who believe, congregation, is Jesus' blood-bought people. He wants us to feed on his grace. For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. We do not need to justify our own existence For he has done that for us on the cross. What we need to do is keep receiving him and his grace and live by it. And that is the second benefit that we turn to now, congregation. New living by Christ's power for those who believe in Him. Second, by his power, we too are already raised to a new life. That's the second benefit that we have in Christ. Now, Jesus' power congregation is the spirit by which he is raised immortal forever. Since Pentecost, the confessing church, those who confess Christ Has been clothed with his power. And Paul makes life in the Spirit the defining mark of a Christian. He says, if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ They do not belong to Christ. And this Spirit of Christ congregation, you have received when you came to him in faith. And by it, he has already raised you to a new life. I chose Philippians 3 for our epistle reading Because Paul is an amazing example of this transformation, of this new life, being raised to it already in Christ. And his transformation should be an encouragement to us all. Because Paul said himself, as the chief of sinners, he only received this grace. To be an example to all who would believe on Jesus for eternal life. Before Paul met the risen Lord, he thought much of himself But after that encounter, he saw his life without Christ for what it really was: rubbish, not worth keeping. For he had found the pearl of great price. And now he was content to say goodbye to this world. For knowing Christ's congregation is, as you know, so far better than anything That it defies words. I don't have the right words to tell you how awesome it is to know Christ. And leads us to discard completely. Our old way of living without Him. For the justified believer in Christ, as Paul says, once one thing. To know Christ, that I may know Him. And Paul goes on to explain this to us As knowing the power of his resurrection. And that power, congregation, does not come from knowing about Christ. That is not what Paul says. Textbooks on Christology have their place, but they cannot replace Christ. Reading about him is one thing and a very good thing. Walking with him, quite another. And that is what Paul means here by knowing Christ. Full on discipleship. All in, no reservations. I'm yours. A whole new life by his power The Bible describes this new life for us in many ways, calling it dead to sin and alive to God. Putting off the old man and putting on Christ, the new man, imitating God. But I like the way Paul describes it here in Philippians 3. Participation in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death The new life you and I, congregation, have been raised to, as you know, is the way of the cross. For that is where fellowship with Jesus is to be found. Jesus' kingdom here on earth is cruciformed under the cross until he returns. To avoid it is to lose fellowship with Christ. And Paul never wants to do that. And that is why he is content to rid his life of everything that might get in the way of knowing Christ. And the power of his resurrection. And the chief thing that gets in that way is thinking a lot about ourselves. We s we'll talk more about justification by faith in coming sermons as the catechism has it But that doctrine, amongst the many things it should do for us, one chief thing is humble us. Because it tells us none of us measure up. One has measured up. And God tells us that, so we'd stop pretending and just come feed on crust. For the life he would freely give us more and more and more eating and feeding on him to know him more and more and more. Never getting to a comfortable place saying, oh I'm I've made it in the Christian life. I'm good. I can sit down here. I've achieved it. No, you have it. Keep eating and keep going deeper and feeding on Christ, becoming like him in his death. Let us throw off congregation the works of darkness. And let us walk with Christ in the ways of holy living, holy love. Love that builds up and does not tear down. Now, Paul, here, what he's saying to us Is that like Jesus before him, and now with Jesus in him, he wants Two, to go all the way with Jesus, being obedient himself unto death, out of love that he has for his Savior, out of love. that he has for his God. No more saying no, but saying yes. And that truly is An amazing transformation for a hard-hearted Pharisee like Paul He once said, I was blameless in the law. And now he says, just get rid of that and give me Jesus. And that congregation for us too is amazing transformation. Because Christ, right now is changing you and transforming you who belong to him by faith and have his spirit in him That you too will walk with him, that you too will share in his sufferings, that you too will be conformable to his death as a holy offering to God. Who has loved you, has redeemed you, has laid his life down for you. Just think. If you read church history, If you know the things that have happened since the 2,000 years, just think of the transformation already that has taken place in the world. Through the resurrection of Christ. All these lives, your lives mark by turning away from sin and following Christ. That is wonderful. That Is what Jesus died for. That is what he lives to give us evermore. All the world shall die, congregation, unless Christ comes first. But Christians show that they are alive now by how they die, trusting in Him. And of course, they also show it by how they live, following Jesus and all holy obedience to his will. So keep feeding on his grace, congregation. Keep following the Lord Jesus Christ, because that is how Paul says We will attain the resurrection of the dead. And that's our third and final benefit that we receive from Christ's resurrection. The third, Christ's resurrection, is a sure pledge to us of our blessed resurrection. Now the reason, congregation, that Christ's resurrection is a sure pledge to us of our blessed resurrection is that they are one and the same. They are in fact the same event. Take for example, you sow a field with seed. The first fruits come up. And then a little later, the rest of the harvest. Both of them are the same event. The sowing of that seed was sealed to produce a crop. And both of them are one and the same. A seed that has come to fruition. The only difference between the first fruits and the later harvest is a matter of time. One came up first, but then later came up the other. And so it is with Jesus Christ. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 15, beginning at verse 20, but in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits. of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive But each in his own order. Christ, the first fruits, then at his coming, those who belong to him. Whether it be 2,000 years congregation or 20,000 years that separates Christ's resurrection from yours, they are still Of the same event. That seed sowed on Good Friday, where Jesus offered himself on the cross and went into the earth, laying in the tomb. And they are one and the same, as Paul says later in Philippians 3, who will come, that they will be like his glorious body. Same event, same resurrection, just a matter of time God has given you this pledge, congregation, by raising Jesus already from the dead. And your God wants you to hold fast to it by faith. And holding fast to it by faith, he wants you to patiently wait for it. Comforting yourselves in all your afflictions in this life. I like the way that Isaiah prays for God to finish his grace as we read there. All those verses leading up to verse 9, the Lord's telling us what he's going to do. to comfort his people and transform us. And the prophet doesn't say, that's great, I'm going to get back to television or my job. He falls on his knees and he says, Awake! Awake! Put on strength, O arm of the Lord! Come now like in the days of old and do this work of redemption and redeem us now When's the last time you've been in a church service that prayed like that for Jesus to come? Let us awake our God congregation to send Jesus. That we might share fully in that resurrection and be patient until he does. Now we have said a lot about Christ's benefits for us, the resurrection, but let's end here looking at what the resurrection itself is. What happened on Easter morning? What is going to happen to us? So the simple answer is that the soul of Christ, this human soul, Was reunited to his body that also underwent some changes. At death, the body and soul of Christ were separated. His body was laid in the tomb, and his soul descended to Hades. And we're going to talk more on this next week. The resurrection is the overcoming of this death, the separation of body and soul, for immortality, never to return to corruption. And that means a new creation. I imagine, congregation, I don't think I have to imagine, that we all arrived here today in the same way. We got into our cars, drove here, walked to the doors, and sat down. But that is not Or because that's because that's how bodies behave according to this creation, but that's not how Jesus arrived at church on the first Easter evening there. As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them. Like that, he was present to the disciples. And that so scared them that they thought they were seeing a ghost, a spirit. And so we had to assure them By showing them his hands and his feet and eating some food with them and before them, that it was still him, the same Lord Jesus, in the same body. That has been raised from the dead as it was prophesied by Daniel and the other prophets, that the resurrection has truly taken place. I know it's sinking in the resurrection has truly taken place. Yet some things change. Though it is the same Lord Jesus who died and rose, some things are different. And I like the way Paul describes in 1 Corinthians 15, the first man is of the earth, earthy. You know it is that's Adam. The second man is the Lord from heaven, Jesus, the incarnate Son. As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy. So we're earthy right now. And as is the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly, will be heavenly. And as we have borne the image of the earthy We also shall bear the image of the Heavenly. On that Easter morning, congregation, they saw the new Heavenly Man. They saw the image of the heavenly. They saw what they will be and what you and I will be one day by God's grace. Jesus died weak. He was raised in power. He died a natural body. In a natural body, he was raised in a spiritual body. And so will we, congregation. I think it very worth your time to reflect today About how God is going to change your body to be like Jesus. I think it's stunning to think. What someday God is going to do to me in transforming me like Jesus. It's a think. If David says of this earthy body, I am fearfully, wonderfully made I wonder what he is saying about Christ right now in heaven as he sees that heavenly body, which he too one day will wear. So groan on, dear saints, and wait patiently for the Lord to accomplish all of his grace towards you. Listen to me, you who know righteousness, says the Lord, the people in whose heart is my law, fear not the reproach of man, nor be dismayed at their revilings. For the moth will eat them up like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool, but my righteousness will be forever, and my salvation to all generations Abide in Christ, Congregation. Amen