Ephesians five, eighteen through twenty-one. Listen, this is the word of God. And do not get drunk with wine. For that is debauchery. But be filled with the Spirit, addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual song. Singing and making melody to the Lord with all your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, the last time we looked over the Apostle Paul's shoulder And perused his letter to the Ephesian church, particularly chapter 5 and verses 1 through 14. There, together with your brother saints of two millennia ago, you also received God's warning to escape Through Jesus Christ, the stain of sexual sins and perversion. You've been promised that those who repent And confess that your only hope lies in the power of Jesus Christ. We'll hear his words of pardon. Then your charge is to walk by his Spirit in the right path, always holding before your mind's eye the beautiful principles of God's Word. This way you can live as clean men and women, boys and girls, in a dirty world. Next, the apostle pens verses 15 through 17, which forms something of a transition to tonight's text. By pressing home a fourfold command upon which we might just briefly comment. First, hear them, verses 15 through 17. Look carefully, then, how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise. Making the best use of the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will Of the Lord is. In your walk of life, you need to behave wisely, not unwisely. That is, you need to watch your step because danger lies ahead, and you have only one life to live. Therefore, you must take care to make the best use of it and recognize that the days are evil. Living as you do in 24th century USA, do you need the apostle to warn you with that kind of language? We don't even need Fox News very long to make that point. Do I need to underline the fact and remind you that you are going to have to avoid The foolishness and downright abomination of your day and age. Now, to do that You will need to understand and follow God's will, His revealed scriptural will. And to do that, you will need help. Not just a small push in the right direction, after which you can take it on your own. This is no, with the help of God, I will do this or that So common in the protestations of natural man, who does not mean God working in me, but rather. God giving me just a providential push. You know, a break that will allow me to do what I want and am basically able to do. No, not that. Real help. The kind that will produce wise walking in this world. Making the best use of the time before Christ returns, not foolishly disregarding the revealed will of God, but keeping it from my heart. That leads me to put into one sentence what I think is the whole point of the text for tonight, verses 18 through 21. And it's this: you believers are to seek God's filling you with all his fullness By means of his Spirit, so that you might joyfully praise Him with thanksgiving and in mutual submission to Him. And the first point that I'd like to make to explain this theme is this. It is found in verse 18. You need to be controlled. You need to be controlled. He starts out with a negative: do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery. But be filled with the Spirit. Do I need to tell you that a peculiar and indeed prominent Manifestation of the folly of these days in which we live, and in fact for millennia, is drunkenness from alcoholic beverage. Right down the ages, as literature from the earliest period towards now and onward bears testimony. People have sought to rise above their cares and gain a sense of exhilaration and gaiety through intoxicance. Not just alcohol, but drugs as well, particularly today. Now it is true that the Bible never demands total abstinence. from intoxicants, except in the case of those who had taken special vows, and that must be left to the individual conscience Of course, total abstinence from the use of all alcoholic beverage is allowed Especially as sure as abstinence from red meat, or zucchini for that matter, or anything else created by God that is good, is allowed. At the same time, moderate use of all things not evil in themselves. If the drinking of alcoholic beverage were evil in itself, Jesus never would have done so. And he did. Moderate use is permitted the believer so long as he or she does all to the glory of God. However It is not to the glory of God to come under the control of any substance. Thus, the Bible often condemns drunkenness. Even as this forbids gluttony or any other abuse of God's good gifts. But particularly drunkenness. Listen to Paul's words to the church at Corinth, where this apparently was a problem. Do not be deceived. Neither drunkards will inherit the kingdom of God. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be enslaved by anything. Now, that is not to say that anyone who has ever become drunk will surely perish everlastingly. Of course not. But it is to say that people so characterized by commission of the sin of abusing the use of intoxicating drink that they are no longer persons But drunkards, and that unrepentantly will so perish It is to say that if the Bible is to be taken seriously, and it is, my friends, to be taken seriously. No wonder that in the New Testament all church officers must avoid it. 1 Timothy 3, 3 and 8. In describing an elder, he says that he must not be a drunkard, and deacons that they must not be addicted. Too much wine. Here in our text tonight, the specific objection to drunkenness is that it is debauchery as the ESV has it, or that it leads to debauchery, as the NIV has it We could say that it involves dissipation, coming under the thraldom, the control, the sway of intoxicating substances. Wastes away one made in God's image. The particular Greek word that the apostle chooses here is revealing. It is asotia. Translated here as debauchery. We say that an habitual drunkard is a sot. I guess apparently from that Greek word, asatiya. Asatiya describes the uncontrolled action of the drunken person As well as the wastefulness that he or she has brought about through immoderate drinking. Hence debauchery, dissipation. Money down the drain, and other resources, but primarily the wasting of a life that happens in the case of the habitual drunkard The corresponding adverb is used in the phrase riothous living in the parable of the prodigal son. He was a drunkard. Both the wastefulness and the lack of self-control should not be seen in the lives of those who are in Christ. Just don't do it, commands God. But the apostle is not merely negative, put off. Paul does not merely want to take away all joy and pleasure as though true Christianity were to be found in the denial of every fleshly enjoyment. He's not sending each and every one of us off to the monastery. Rather, he would replace drunkenness from wine with something far higher and better. Be filled with the Spirit he enjoins. Remember the day of Pentecost When the fullness of wine and the fullness of the spirit, those set side by side, are clearly contrasted Read Acts chapter two, verses fifteen through seventeen. For these men are not drunk As you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day. But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel. And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. Be filled with the Spirit. Be filled continually, writes Paul. The verb is present imperative. So this is not a once-for-all experience. It's not become a special spirit-filled Pentecostal Christian. To be distinguished from other regular Christians. It's an ongoing thing. You must seek it every day. You need to be drunk by means of the Spirit of God daily, under his control. You see, the particular grammatical construction that we have here, filmed by the Spirit, has a very definite and clear import. Comparing it with parallel passages yields this interesting fact. It never means be filled with In the sense of having something contentful put into you. You don't get the Holy Spirit put into you. The same thing is true with the case of the parallel situation of drunkenness. In this very same verse: a person is not drunk with wine, but rather by means of wine. The drunkard's stagger is not caused by the presence of wine in his stomach. Rather, the wine has brought about through ingestion into his nervous system A loss of control. Likewise, you are to be filled by means of the Holy Spirit, not with the Holy Spirit, as sort of a commodity. You don't carry the Holy Spirit around with you in your liver or spleen, or even in your heart and mind. Not that kind of filling. Well then, what is it that the Holy Spirit fills me with? The answer is given earlier into the letter, in the letter, chapter 3, verse 19, to be exact, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. All his communicable attributes, his wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth, that's what you need to be filled with. And you are filled with those things by the Spirit. That content and that filling of the Spirit. Now, this is not in contrast with what Ed preached this morning at all. I think both things are true. Those wise virgins were filled with the Spirit. They had the Holy Spirit. And so there's a sense in which they gave evidence of the fact that the Holy Spirit had brought sanctification and life in their hearts. But now Paul is going at it in a slightly different angle, and I think both can be true. Christians have the Holy Spirit, and they also have the filling. By the Holy Spirit. It's that second part, I think, that's before us tonight. Thus in Ephesians 4:10, it is Christ who is said to be the agent of this filling. Listen to the words. He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. Jesus Christ is the filler by giving his Spirit filled gifts. Described in the following verses, with the end that we may be filled to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So to put it another way, as simple as I can, and this is a little bit tricky, you believers are to be filled by Christ. By means of his Holy Spirit, with the result that there will be content of God the Father's attributes. Does that make sense? What a destiny. What a calling. And as happens, you are controlled by that. Not as you would be controlled by alcohol. You're controlled by the triune God and not by intoxicants. That's an intoxication that you should relish, my dear brothers and sisters. You should want that kind of control. You should pray for it. You should seek it. You should be grateful for it. It's the pearl of great price. When you have it, you lack nothing. What could be greater than that the Holy Spirit should come and bring you all the fullness of God? But now secondly, what you will do when you are rightly controlled. That's found in verses 19 through 21. We've already read them. And in those verses, which is the heart of our text, here we have three participles addressing Which I take it includes singing and making melody, addressing, secondly, giving thanks, and thirdly, submitting. Three participles These are the three things that you will do when you are under the control of the Holy Spirit of Christ and are being thus filled with all the fullness of God the Father. Your sanctification. And your sanctification will include these three participles. For one, addressing one another. Send letters, emails? No. Addressing one another, you will engage in joyful corporate worship Of Jesus Christ, your Lord. Now we see that in verse 19. Addressing one another In psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with all your heart. It is true that in worship, when you sing, when we sang tonight As one voice, under the control of the Holy Spirit. We sang to and for God, didn't we? He is, you might say, like the girl on the balcony, whose praises you sing, whose glories you extol There is clearly that vertical dimension. We sing upward to him. But it is interesting to note that here in our text The apostle amazingly identifies another dimension. Did you notice that? Yes, the horizontal. You are to address one another in your worship songs. I wonder what he means by that. Of course, you're not praising other people. You're not worshiping other people. But nevertheless, there is a sense in which your worship singing Is also for your fellow believers. And thus you address them. This is easy to see in the case For instance, say of many psalms of Scripture that call upon the church Or angels, or even inanimate creation, to engage in praise. It is clear that in those words, you're not asking others But now in this case, you're asking your brothers and sisters in the church to praise him. Thus you speak to one another. When you sing your worship songs. And it is understandable why you do that. For one, because God commands it here in our text, but we can readily see why he does so We are weak and foolish, and we often lose our way. We become dependent and despondent. In the face of adversity, weary in our fight against sin, and sometimes literally and physically worn out It is in times like that that we need encouragement. And that we receive not from angels, and not even solely from the words of the Bible. But from people, people who are in it with us, people who urge us onward. And their contribution to our sanctification is perhaps nowhere more forceful and fruitful than it is when we hear the Word of God sung. From their throats and hearts. Did you hear it tonight in our worship singing? Addressing one another in song, indeed. But in saying that, the apostle mentions three kinds of song. First, he speaks of Psalms. That word means something that is sung to the psaltery or the harp. Those would include not only the psalms of the Old Testament. Particularly the 150 Psalms of David, but also such New Testament Psalms as the Magnificat of Mary. The Psalm of Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist, and the Psalm of Simeon in the temple. Psalms in the New Testament. We sing them. We're also to address one another in hymns. A hymnus, a hymn, was a festive lyric in praise of a god or a hero in classical Greek. Here it refers to such early Christian hymns as are found in Scripture. In other words, on turning it on its head, not only is Scripture found in our hymns. Our hymns are found in Scripture. Here are some examples. Look sometime at 1 Timothy 3. 16. The mystery of godliness lies. That's put in poetic structure. It's a hymn, an early Christian hymn that the Ephesians knew about. Such trustworthy sayings, which are also hymns in the Bible, as the one found in 2 Timothy 2, 11-13. You can look that one up too. Again, it's in poetic lines, expressing a hymn that was well known. by the church in Ephesus. And surely that of the 24 elders in Revelation 4. 11, you are worthy. You'll find it two times in that chapter of Revelation. So well known was it? Kind of like, Abide with me. Singing was apparently widespread and common in the early church. In fact, Acts 1625 tells us That Paul and Silas were doing exactly that while in prison. They were singing hymns. And 1 Corinthians 14, 26 indicates that apparently there were numerous hymn writers in the church. Because Paul says, when you come together, each one has a hymn. It's kind of like our Sunday evening worship service. He's come with it with your hymn. Again, the Apostle James recommends the singing of praise as the appropriate expression of cheerfulness. When you're happy, sing hymns, just as when you suffer. Pray. Psalms. Hymns. Spiritual psalms. What are the spiritual psalms? Well, every movement of the Spirit of God has brought a fresh outburst of song, and it is particularly so in the age of fulfillment of God's gracious covenant of salvation. Of course, the New Testament church sang more than just the 150 Psalms of David, because now Jesus was not only coming, he was here. And that brought forth, prompted by the Holy Spirit, that we are filled with all the fullness of God, and we give expression to what Jesus came to do. You sing also of his glorious attributes, not far off, not coming, but here, very close, his unspeakable gift of Jesus Christ. Thus, prose is not adequate to even begin to express your gratitude. For that, it takes singing. Another thing that you will do when you are controlled by the Holy Spirit, and this is the second attribute. You will give thanks to God the Father in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, as you read in verse 20. Better perhaps is this translation, always giving thanks to God the Father for each other. That phrase for all, as it is in the Greek, or for everything, can be either masculine or neuter, so it can be rendered for all of your brothers and sisters. It would also be biblical to understand this as a command to be thankful for everything. Yes, I know that. We are indebted to God for everything. But I think that the context here dictates that we take it personally in this particular situation We are, after all, the family of God, his building, and especially the body of Christ. Thus, our unity is everywhere underlined in this letter. And it seems to me entirely appropriate that the apostle should continue along the same line of thinking when it comes to the matter of giving thanks to God. Thank him for what? Well, for one another, for sure. To thank him that we don't go it alone in this Christian life Your religion is not a private matter only between you and God. It is that. Yes, but it is a corporate matter too. And for that you need to be very thankful, are you? How would you like to plow through your life all on your own? Without another person in whom you could confide and from whom you could receive wise counsel. But God has given you not only parents And perhaps a spouse, but also a church. So thank him for that And of course, that peace of thanksgiving as all is in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ because it's only because of him that there is a church. Finally, and this is the third participle, you will submit to one another. You will submit to all other believers out of reverence for your Lord Jesus Christ That's clear in verse 21. That enthusiasm that the Spirit brings you is not individualistic, but it is always in fellowship with other Christians. There are really no soloists in our worship singing. And there is to be mutual submission, therefore. You're not prima donnas. You're a choir. And if you've ever been in a choir, you will know that the choir master is constantly harping No pun intended. Hopping on this. Listen to the others. Blend The Robert Shaw Corral, do you know that about that? Does this particularly well if you have any recordings of the Robert Shaw Corral? You listen to those recordings and you have no idea how many members there are in that ensemble. Somewhere between one and a whole lot more. But it's impossible to tell because they sound like one voice. One rich, full, and dynamic expression of lyrical beauty. Now I'm surely we do not reach that in our singing here at Grace and Peace Church, but we're working toward it. And we get help from our from our pianists and our organists. Poll commands, submit to one another There must be in the Christian fellowship of believers a willingness to serve any, to learn from any, and even to be corrected by any, regardless of age, sex, class, or other division. In a moment, Paul is going to call upon wives to submit to their husbands. Yes, there is that particular submission that belongs to the marital role of the wife. And we will talk about that next time, God willing. But before the apostle writes that command which is coming, he says, tonight to everybody, submit to one another. Even the husband will need to submit to his wife in the sense in which the apostle speaks in our text tonight. In this case, it will be submission by a husband, not to one who is his wife, but to his sister in the Lord. From whom he just might need a word, or words of correction And all this out of reverence for Christ. Literally in the fear of Christ. He is your king, and you need to obey him He knows whereof he commands, of that you may be sure. For in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. And he wills to conform you to himself. Amen. Heavenly Father, we pray that these participles Will characterize our Christian lives, that we may be worked upon by Jesus Christ through His Holy Spirit To bring us to display all the fullness of God. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.