Please turn to Exodus thirty-three. We'll read verses twelve through twenty-three. Moses said to the Lord, See See you say to me, Bring up this people, but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, I know you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight. Now therefore, if I have found favor in your sight, please show me now your ways that I may know you in order to find favor in your sight. Consider too that this nation is your people. And he said, My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest. And he said to them If your presence will not go with me, do not bring us up from here. For how shall it be known that I have found favor in your sight, I and your people? Is it not in your going with us, so that we are distinct, I and your people, from every other people on the face of the earth? And the Lord said to Moses, This very thing that you have spoken I will do, for you have found favor in my sight, and I know you by name. Moses Said, please show me your glory. And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before you. And will proclaim before you my name, the Lord. And I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy. But, he said, you cannot see my face, for man shall not see me and live. And the Lord said, Behold, there's a place by me where you shall stand on the rock. And while my glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and I will cover you with my hand until I have passed by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back. But my face shall not be seen. This is the word the Lord. Reading is from John chapter 13, 21 through 35. So this is right after the uh the washing of disciples' feet. This is right after Jesus quotes from Psalm 41, I think it is, He who ate my bread has lifted up his heel against me. In verse 18. Yes, and now we begin at verse 21. After saying these things, Jesus was troubled in his spirit and testified, truly. I say to you, truly, truly I say to you, one of you will betray me. The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke. One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining at table close to Jesus. So Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Jesus of whom he was speaking. So that disciple Leaning back against Jesus, said to him, Lord, who is it? Jesus answered, It is he to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have dipped it So when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, that after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him, Jesus said to him, What you were going to do, do quickly. Now no one at the table knew why he said this to him. Some thought that because Judas had the money back, Jesus was telling him, Buy what we need for the feast, or that he should give something to the poor. So after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out, and it was night. It's just the word of the Lord. So this morning we'll be considering Christ's teaching in this section under three headings. The first is Christ the betrayed, the second, Christ the glorified, and Christ the body. First, Christ the Betrayed. Betrayal is a devastating experience. It's bad enough to be rejected, but far worse when a pretense of love and loyalty covers an evil betrayal plot. In Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, we hear the surprised and painful cry, et tu brute. You too, Brutus. You see, the whole Roman Senate rose up to assassinate Caesar in Shakespeare's political tragedy, but it was Trutus' knife that cut the deepest. Because in addition to doing serious damage to Caesar's flesh and internal organs, it also really hurt his feelings to be betrayed by his friend Brutus. Yes, betrayal is a devastating experience. But no betrayal in history is so terrible as that of Judas betraying Jesus. No doubt Judas greeted Jesus every day with smiles and cheerful words. No doubt he spoke highly of Jesus' miracles and amazing encounters with those who opposed him. They ate together daily. They slept in the same room or out in the wild. They sang psalms and discussed God's inbreaking kingdom together with the other disciples. Judas prayed the prayers of Israel and celebrated the feasts at Jesus' side. And yet Jesus knew that Judas was not true in his heart. Whether Jesus always knew this because of his divine knowledge, Or perhaps perceived it gradually by reading the scriptures, having his limited human understanding Unfolding to him, we do not know exactly how he came to know of Judas's betrayal. But Judas did become aware of, Jesus did become aware of Judas' treachery. So here in verse 21, after saying these things, he was troubled in his spirit. And testified, Amen, Amen, I say to you, one of you will betray me. Earlier in chapter 13, he had said, if you know these things about washing each other's feet, serving each other, blessed are you if you do them. I am not speaking of all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but the scripture will be fulfilled. He who ate my bread has lifted up his heel against me. Just a few minutes before he said that, he had gone down to the to the floor, Jesus, and lifted up Judas's heel to put it into the basin and wash Judas's heel. feet. But now he says, one of you will betray me. One of you will lift up your heel against me. Verse 22, the disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke. One of his disciples, the one whom Jesus loved. That's John, no doubt. Very demourly referring to himself. The one whom Jesus loved was reclining at table at Jesus' side. So Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Jesus of whom he was speaking. So that disciple, leaning back against Jesus, said to him, Lord, who is it? As the disciples gathered in the upper room to eat, they say pillows were on the floor all around a U-shaped table, children. With Jesus at the head of the table, that's what you see in that drawing. They leaned on the table with their left elbows while eating with their right hand. And their legs would be stretched out behind them into the side. So the description here indicates that John was on the right side of Jesus, leaning into Jesus. And Judas was on the left. The left side is the place of the best friend. The right is the place of honor. When Jesus said these things, William Hendrickson commenting, says that perhaps the disciples thought to themselves the words of Psalm 139. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way Everlasting. Is it me, Lord? So verse 26, Jesus answered, It is He, answered John, It is He to whom I will give this morsel of bread when I have dipped it. So when he had dipped the morsel, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. Then after he had taken the morsel, Satan entered into him And Jesus said to him, What you're going to do, do quickly. Judas had already planned. Matthew tells him. Tells us that Judas had already planned, he'd already bargained for Jesus to turn Jesus in for 30 pieces of silver. He already had the deal arranged. That's what Jesus is. Referring to what you're going to do, do quickly. Verse 28. Now no one at the table knew why he said this to him. Some thought it was because Judas had the money bag, and Jesus was telling him, buy what you need for the feast. Or that he should give something to the poor. So after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out, and it was night, the scripture says, it was night Now, you think, well, okay, it's dark outside. It's night. Now you're just throwing that in. No. Throughout John's gospel, light versus darkness has been a thing. theme and it's a recurring theme. In John chapter 1, verse 5, John in the prologue says about Jesus Coming into the world. He said, the light shines in the darkness, the darkness has not overcome it. And in John 8, 12, and this is the judgment The light has come into the world, and people love the darkness rather than the light because their deeds were evil. And in John chapter 12 again, and Jesus said, I am the light of the world. I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. And Jesus said later in John chapter 12, the light is among you for a little while longer, while you have the light, walk in the light, lest darkness over you. Overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he's going. And then finally in John 12, 46, I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain. In darkness. And so when Jesus, when John records that it was night, he means it more than just Literally. In First John, later written by the same author He says, this is the message we, the church, have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. And then in John, 1 John 2, the darkness is passing away. The gospel has come. The darkness is passing away. And the true light is already shining. Well, there it is, Christ the betrayed. And it was night. Let's move on to Christ the glorified. Glory. Glory. What is glory? Well, it has shades of meaning depending on how it's used in the scriptures. But it generally connotes something or someone being acknowledged as very, very important or very worthy of honor, of great value. That's something that's glorious or someone who's glorious. Verse 31, when he had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and glorify him at once. So how many times. has that been used there in those very few verses? The glory of God in Christ. The glory of God Especially when it refers to God, is a very, very important concept. We see in Scripture that God God's glory is sometimes felt, sometimes seen, as of the glory cloud that came and appeared and went with the Israelites, and the glory cloud that filled the temple in Isaiah 6 But we see that God's glorious face is always covered by darkness and by a cloud and not quite fully seen. And we see that in the scripture that was read from Exodus chapter 2033, where Moses said, please show me your glory. And he said, I will make my goodness pass before you and proclaim before you my name the Lord, and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will show mercy on whom I show mercy. But he said, You cannot see my face. That's the glory of God, you see. For man shall not see me and live. And the Lord said, Behold, there is a place by me where you shall Shall stand on the rock, and behold, while my glory passes by, I will put you in the cleft of the rock, and I will cover you with my hand until I have passed away passed by, excuse me. And then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen. Moses could not see the God's face, God's glory, and live. But now in John John's gospel. What do we have in the very first chapter? John says about Christ, that he's going to tell the story of Christ. He says, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his Glory. Glory as of the only Son of the Father, full of grace and truth. So what we have here, when Jesus says, now is the Son of Man glorified. We see that Jesus, though rejected, soon to be rejected and scourged and stripped and nailed to the cross, will give us the gracious and glorious face of God. God unveiled. Here on Good Friday, the choir sings Faithful Cross Above all other, one and only noble tree, none in foliage, none in blossom, none in fruit thy peer may be. Sweetest wood and sweetest iron, sweetest weight is hung on thee. Bend thy boughs, O tree Tree of Glory, thy relaxing sinews bend, for a while the ancient rigor that thy birth bestowed suspend, and the king Of heavenly beauty on thy bosom, gently tend. The glory of God in the cross of Jesus Christ Was about to be seen. It is about to be done now, Jesus says. And finally, thirdly, Christ, the body. Verse thirty-three. Little children. He says that to grown men. Little children, yet a little while I am with you You will seek me. And just as I said to the Jews, so now I say to you, where I am going you cannot come A new command I give to you that you love one another just as I have loved you. You also are to love one another By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love one for another. Christ the You see, Christ is so sure of himself. And he's so sure of his powerful grace that he commits himself and his mission to us in each other's love. His physical body will soon be crucified. It will be raised up on the third day and made new and incorruptible. And in that body he will ascend into heaven, and he will rule while seated at the right hand of God the Father. In that body he will return to consummate his kingdom But until then, he is building another body, his church, infused with his spirit to do his work of love They, the body, are also crucified and dead to sin and alive to righteousness. They believe what Paul says in Philippians 1:6. I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. Christ the body is under construction. And you as an individual member are under under construction. I came across this beautiful thing really. Ruth Bell Graham, Billy Graham's wife, died a few years ago in 2007. And one time when she was traveling, she took note of a common roadside sign, which read, End of construction. Thank you for your patience. You've seen Those, haven't you? That is what you will find on her grave marker today at the Billy Graham Library in Charlotte, North Carolina. End of construction. Thank you for your patience You and I are the body of Christ. You and I are under construction as we walk through life in the body of Christ. And inside the body of Christ. As 1 John 2:9 records: whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness. And 1 John 3, 11 through 18, for this is the message that we have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. Do you hear that before in the gospel? We should not be like Cain, who was of the evil one and murdered his brother, and why did he murder him? Because of his own deeds which were evil and his brothers which were righteous. Do not be surprised, brother, that the world hates you We know that we have passed out of death and into life because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. And then verse 16: By this we know love. That he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. And then he says in verse 18, little children. Did you hear that before in the gospel, right? Little children. Let us not love in word or talk, but in deed and in truth. That's the body of Christ. And Paul says in 1 Corinthians 12, now you are the body of Christ, and individually members of it. And in Ephesians 4, he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ. So, what is commanded for this version, this present expression of the body of Christ on earth is love. Love. Love is costly. It requires investment of time and care and prayers and tears. I got a text from someone on the way to church today saying Please pray for me. I'm having a very hard time today. Bear one another's burdens. Love means we sometimes overlook a fault. And cover it in love. And when we cannot do that, we do the hard work of reconciliation. Because We are members of not some ordinary organization, not the Rotary Club or Lions or something. We're members of the body of Christ. So there they are, the three things. Christ the betrayed, Christ the glorified, and Christ the body Consider yourself then in the blazing light of Christ's teaching here. Is there any betrayal in you? Are there circumstances that you can imagine where you might just walk away? from Jesus. If a certain dark affection of yours could be satisfied for the price of rejecting Jesus either overtly or subtly Would you seize the opportunity and go for it like Judas did? Or if God were to take from you something that you highly prize? Would you in anger do what Job's wife suggested? Curse God and die? Search Me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. See if there be any grievous way in me and lead me in the way everlasting And are you viewing the glory of God in the cross of Christ? In his gracious face shining into your heart, as it says in Second Corinthians, for God who said, Let the light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of God. Jesus Christ. Are you letting that glory of God and the cross and the face of Christ shine in your heart? Are you walking in this wonderful light, delighting in his glorious face, waking up each morning and saying, thank you, Christ, for your glory in my life And are you loving? Loving all those who are united to him by faith. Faith marked in baptism. Baptism showing forth death to sin and new life. Are you loving all those united to him and therefore loving and serving the family, the body? Created. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for these words of scripture recorded by John on this terrible night, and yet a night when you said that it was glorious and you commanded love. So teach us to do that We pray in Christ's wonderful name, Amen.