Now please open your Bibles to Psalm forty-eight. A song. A Psalm of the Sons of Korah. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, his holy mountain, beautiful in elevation. is the joy of all the earth. Mount Zion, in the far north, the city of the great king. Within her citadels God has made himself known as a fortress. For behold, the kings assembled. They came on together. As soon as they saw it, they were astounded. They were in panic. They took to flight Trembling took hold of them there, anguish as of a woman in labor. By the east wind you shattered the ships of Tarshish. As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God, which God will establish forever. Say La. We have thought on your steadfast love, O God, in the midst of your temple. As your name, O God, so your praise reaches to the ends of the earth. Your right hand is filled with righteousness. Let Mount Zion be glad. Let the daughters of Judah rejoice because of your judgments. Walk about Zion, go around her, number her towers, consider well her ramparts, go through her citadels That you may tell the next generation that this is God, our God, forever and ever. He will guide us forever. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, in order to understand this psalm better, let's look at the context of it within the Psalter as a whole. Please turn to the beginning of book one of the Psalter, Psalm 1. The focus of book one. as Palmer Robertson puts it, is the confrontation between God's kingdom and the ungodly kingdoms of the world. You see the conflict through the eyes of God's people. And Book 1 is consistent about its us against them perspective. If you turn to Psalm 3, look at verse 1. It says, O Lord, how many are my foes? You see there it's us against them. And then turn over to Psalm twenty-eight. I'm just hitting on a few highlights in this book. Psalm twenty-eight. Look at verses eight and nine. Verses eight and nine say, The Lord is the strength of his people. He is the saving refuge of his anointing. Oh, save your people and bless your heritage. Be their shepherd and carry them forever. It says God sustains and protects us as we confront the ungodly nations around us. And then if you turn over to Psalm thirty-five Verse one says, Contend, O Lord, with those who contend with me. Fight against those who fight against me. See, God fights for us in this battle. And if you peruse the other Psalms in book one, you'll see this theme throughout. Book one. Now let's look at book two. And please turn to Psalms fourteen and fifty three. And try to keep them both open if you can. Fourteen in book one and fifty three in book two. Now regarding book two, God's people and the ungodly in book two are still locked in battle. But now the psalmist is driven by God to address the other nations of the world directly. His audience has now changed. And one evidence of the change of audience in Book 2 is the term the psalmists use to address God the Father. The term used for God the Father about 85% of the time in book one is Yahweh. This term references the fact that he is the covenant Lord of Israel. The term used for God the Father about 85% of the time in book two, however, is Elohim, the general name of God. And there are also numerous places in Book 2 where Yahweh would typically be used by the psalmist because of the covenant context of the psalm. Yet Elohim is used. Now here's an ideal example. Psalm 53 in book 2 is practically a duplication of Psalm 14 in book 1. You see that. Now, why would the very same Psalm be placed twice in the Psalter? It's because Psalm 14 is addressed to God's people. And Psalm 53 is addressed to those outside the covenant. Not only does Psalm 53 change for Yahweh's to Elohim, But all references to God the Father in Psalm 53 in book 2 are Elohim, the general name of God. For example, verse 2 of Psalm fourteen of book one says, Israel's covenant God, Yahweh, looks down to see if any seek him. See the audience? And verse 2 of Psalm 53 in Book 2 says, God in general, Elohim, looks down to see if any seek him. Different point of view. And for our purposes this evening, I want you to understand that because it resides in Book 2 of the Psalter, Psalm 48's ultimate audience. are the ungodly nations of the world. Now let's look within Book Two to get a glimpse of its contents. and gain a sense of for Psalm 48's narrower context. Please turn to the first Psalm in book two, Psalm 42. After the book's introductory Psalms forty-two through forty-four, Psalms forty-five through forty-eight declared to the world, that audience. That Elohim and his Messiah are kings of all the nations. Psalms 45-48 are categorized as kingship Psalms Kingship Psalms describe two divine kingships. Kingship, uh God is king, and Messiah is king. And they rule in union with one another. And more specifically, Yahweh is king, and he rules through his Messiah. Who is king on his behalf? Psalm one ten, verse one. Be there one king speaking to the other king. After God has been declared king over all the nations in Psalms 45-48, God formally summons all the nations of the world, including his people, ancient Israel. to be judged by the king in Psalms 49 through 52. The next Psalms in book two. And notice in 49 through 52 In Psalm 49, God summons the ungodly nations of the world. And then in Psalm 52, It describes God's charge against Doag the Edomite, who represents all unbelievers in Satan. He summons them in 49 and charges them in 52. And then in between those two, in Psalm fifty, God summons his own people. And then in Psalm fifty-one, their submissive response is ascribed to his charge against them. So in Psalms 49 through 52, the ungodly nations of the world are to see that God is fair in his judgments. He holds his own people accountable too. Now he has a Savior for them, but he holds all accountable. Then in Psalms 53 through 60. You see the psalmist addressing seven atheists in the world, seven enemies of the Messiah King. Psalm 53 is a heading for the whole group. And then in Psalms 54 through 60 Each one of those includes a statement that declares King Messiah's triumph over an enemy. These enemies represent all the kinds of enemies. of King Messiah and his church. If you just kind of flip through there with me, 54, Psalm 54, the Ziphites. Are the enemy? Triumph is declared in verse 7, 7B, Psalm 55, unnamed, an unnamed closest friend Betrays David. You see that in verses 12 through 14. And that represents, that person represents all deceitful men. And triumph is then declared in verse 23. And then in Psalm 56, the enemy is the Philistines. Triumph is implied in verses 8 through 9 and then verse 13. Then Psalm fifty-seven. King Saul is the enemy. Triumph is declared in verse 3b and verse eleven. Then Psalm 58, unjust rulers in general. Triumph is declared in verses 10 and 11. Then Psalm 59, Saul's henchmen. Triumph is declared in verses 16 and 17. Then in Psalm sixty, enemies from distant countries. Triumph is declared, verse twelve. So you see, seven enemies, seven, a number of fullness, all the enemies of Christ and his church. And then moving on in book two. Psalm 61-68, there's a dialogue between Elohim and his messianic king, King David in the immediate context. The king speaks to God in Psalm 61-64. God then speaks to the king in Psalms 65 through 68 And then after the battle between God's kingdom and its enemies is described again in Psalm 69 through 71, the final Psalm in book two, seventy-two, Declares King Messiah's triumphant rule over all his enemies. So, Book 2, speaking to those ungodly nations, the psalmists are saying. You are ultimately going to all be defeated. And then the psalter goes on to climax in this final book, book five, with the consummation of King Messiah's kingdom. So, to sum up the context for Psalm 48 in the book of Psalms. Psalm 48 is found in Book 2 of the Psalter. Which means that its ultimate audience is the unbelieving nations of the world. Psalm 48 is a kingship psalm, which means that it is declaring to these unbelieving nations that Elohim is king. And his Messiah rules on his behalf, and the defeat of this king's enemies is inevitable. Now, how was Psalm 48 used by God's people in ancient times? Psalm 48 should be interpreted in a worship setting. Likely the psalm was used in one or more of the gr three great annual pilgrimage festivals that God had commanded his people to celebrate once they settled into the Promised Land. Deuteronomy sixteen, next. Exodus 23. These Old Testament Christians would leave their homes and farms, travel together to the temple in Jerusalem, and participate in festivities and ritual worship. Psalm 84 gives you a glimpse into the heart of a devoted man while on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem in one of these festivals. He longs to arrive at the temple, to get a first glance of it, and then to reflect on its physical details. He recollects the blessings received from God for worshiping in his presence. Therefore, Psalm 48's original setting was at the temple in Jerusalem. where it was sung during an act of worship taking place in the temple. Now let's look at the contents of Psalm 48. But we need to translate Psalm 48's Old Testament terminology into New Testament terminology. And let's turn to Hebrews twelve so that the Bible can show us how to do that. Hebrews 12. We'll look at the first two verses initially. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame and is seated at the right hand of the of the throne of God. So just like God's people in the Old Testament, who faithfully set out on their annual pilgrimages to Mount Zion in Jerusalem. You are to set aside every weight as you lead your lives as a pilgrimage of faith. 1 Peter 117 and 211 calls your walk with God here on earth a pilgrimage of faith. And you are to travel as those who are in Christ because he is the way. Now I'm skipping down to verses twenty-two through twenty-four. Here we get the translation. 22, verse 22. You, and he's speaking to believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, have come to and he lists lists eight things. To Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. And to innumerable angels and festival gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven. And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. And to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. Those are your eight things. The writer uses a kind of pilgrim traveler imagery here. You see that? You've come to this, these things. Here he says, you Christians, when you were regenerated and were brought into union and communion with your Lord Jesus Christ through faith, you arrived at a place, so to speak. It's a place the Old Testament used multiple names to refer to. You've come to Mount Zion, or you could also call it the city of the living God, or you could call it the Heavenly Jerusalem. Psalm 48 repeatedly mentions these places by name and this side of Jesus Christ's fulfillment of the covenant of grace. We can see that all of these refer to the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. There's your translation. Mount Zion, city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, equals the church. So now we can work our way through the psalm. If we were to translate or paraphrase in this New Testament terminology, verses 1 through 3 of Psalm 48, it would go something like this: The Lord is great and most worthy of praise. The church of the Lord Jesus Christ is beautiful and the joy of all the earth because it is where God has chosen to dwell. God is known as the great protector of the church. So in verse 2, you see the church is God's dwelling place. The church is beautiful because of God's presence. The more Christ-like, the more beautiful, strong, and impregnable the church is. Through though Jesus Christ sits bodily in heaven, He is with us, and he sent the Holy Spirit to put you into communion with him. Ephesians 2, 19-23 tells you that the Holy Spirit is building each of you. And the church corporately into a dwelling place of God, the place where God lives in this world. Therefore, if people want to know where God lives in Southern Maryland, Where they can meet with God, you should tell them the only place is his body, the church. Corinthians 6. Now it also says there, verse 2, the church is the joy of all the world. Though there's nothing inherently special about the people of God. The church is the joy of the whole world because, as one said, it is the only place in the world where one can find God's free offer of salvation and his perfectly just law and word. Glorious things of thee are spoken, Zion, city of our God. We probably know that hymn, right? Now notice in verses 1 through 3, the psalmist assumes the world is able to see the church. The world knows the church is God's holy mountain. See those people in those verses there, they recognize in verses four through eight, they recognize God was there. The world has seen God's work in church members' hearts, how He has changed them, how He blesses the work of their hands. The ungodly notice that God's people are not like the other people in the world. But what if the world cannot even see the church? What if in St. Mary's County the world is unable to observe the church's beauty, strength, and impregnability? Burkhov said this, the church becomes visible in Christian profession and conduct, in the ministry of the word and of the sacraments. and in external organization and government. So the church is visible in its profession of faith. A public profession of faith is particularly important to the churches being visible in the world because God's people must actually join a local congregation, not a so-called home church, but one that has the marks of a true church. Our brothers who wrote the Belgic Confession, Article 28, and this is in our Trinity Hymnals, about on page 865 or around there, put it this way: quote. We believe, since this holy congregation, the Church, is an assembly of those who are saved, and that out of it there is no salvation, that no person of whatsoever state or condition he may be ought to withdraw himself, to live in a separate state from it, but that all men are in duty bound to join and unite themselves with it. So, to be visible as a Christian, you must be a member of a local congregation and honor your membership vows, which include participation in its weekly public worship This means, too, that if you're out of town over a weekend, you should make it a priority to find a like-minded church to attend. Now, what about Christian conduct and the visibility of the church? If those calling themselves Christians act, think, and speak like the world, then the church is invisible in this area. If rather than preaching and teaching God's word, the pastor just tells nice stories and makes everyone feel good, the church is invisible in that area. If the Lord's Supper is not offered frequently and regularly, the Church is invisible in that area. If the Church has no governors, elders. And neglects to practice church discipline. It's invisible in that area. So, to what extent are you making the church visible? How can you make it more visible in these areas? And other areas. Now let's move down to verses four through eight. There are only two kings in this world, and each has a kingdom. The kingdom of Christ and the kingdom of Satan. And they are mortal enemies with each other. Every person on earth is either subject to King Jesus or to Satan, the Prince of Darkness. Every one of you here is either subject to King Jesus or Satan. Neutrality or simultaneous allegiance is impossible. And God protects his church, you see, in those verses. Because the church is Christ's body. What did Christ say to Saul when Saul was solving the church? Did Christ ask Saul, why are you attacking the church? No. He asked Saul, why do you persecute me? This, on a human level, can be likened to a husband dealing with another man who has assaulted his wife. They're one. Just like Christ and his church are one. Verse 8 says, the church of the Lord Jesus Christ will last forever. Now how do we know this and have faith in this? Well, in Matthew 28, 20, Jesus says to his church, I am with you always. And this means that it's an impossibility that it could fall because Christ is the rock on which it's built. But you should not forget, at the same time, God also weaves out whole churches Individual church members, and even whole denominations that turn away from him in rebellion. Remember that the prophets for hundreds of years warned God's people that if they were unfaithful to him, God would destroy them, which he did in 722 B. C. , 586 B. C. , and 70 A. One pastor noted, any person, any church that God has left is devoid of life, glory, and stability. So what's the lesson in this for you? To the extent that you are faithful to Christ from the heart. You are impregnable to the assaults, the assaults of indwelling sin and all evil enemies of the church. Your loyalty and faithfulness to Christ will determine how frequently and how severely God has to discipline you through the events of your life. Now, verses 9 through 11. Here you see Mount Zion rejoicing because of God's judgments. Now there's something quite amazing in verse 11. I want you to notice that there. The psalmist, almost 3,000 years ago, envisioned Mount Zion herself rejoicing in God's sovereign decisions for his creation. He's talking about a mountain there. A literal mountain. Jesus Christ has made his church the holy mountain of God, so that Mount Zion today can literally rejoice in her Lord and Savior. You see how that looked forward to today that Mount Zion is a people. God's people. This means that you have a general underlying you should have a general underlying joy in your demeanor, even when God is putting you through difficult times. Now, how successful are you in doing that? If not, ask God to help you improve and dis and ask Him to discipline in you this area if you're neglectful as well. Ask him to motivate you to have an underlying joy in your demeanor. In verses 10 and 11 You see God's righteousness, verse ten, and his judgments, verse eleven, they always go together. These two things. His judgments, his decisions are his judgments, are perfect because he always judges according to his character as revealed in his law and revealed word. God's perfect justice is satisfied with the destruction of the wicked and the protection of his redeemed people. And this is the whole focus of the church's rejoicing. Even in Old Testament times, God's people understood the equity of God's judgments because the sacrificial system preached the gospel to them. Not only would their Savior King atone for their sins, they saw this in the reparation offering in Leviticus, but he also would pacify God's wrath against them. They saw this in the burnt offering. And purify them of the pollution of sin. All that had to be done and was done when Jesus Christ came and and fulfilled once and for all all these requirements for his redeemed people, making you at peace with God now. Some of you may remember how it felt when you were not at peace with God. Therefore, everyone has fallen and it deserves God's wrath, but God is absolutely fair when he deserves it. destroys the wicked while protecting his people. Verses twelve through fourteen Let's look at the original meaning there. Remember, the Old Testament Christians sang Psalm 48 in the temple during at least one of the annual pilgrimage festivals. God commanded them to go to the temple. and celebrate. In the last three verses of the Psalm, the Old Testament pilgrim worshippers were invited to leave the temple and circumambulate the city, noting its physical defense system. Kidner says, a commentator, Quote, upon completion of the rebuilt wall of Jerusalem by Nehemiah after their return from captivity, he had two processions countermarch around the top of the wall as a dedication. This would also have been appropriate at one of the pilgrim feasts. Another commentator states, quote, Mount Zion, both city and temple. which had been the focus of words earlier in this in Psalm 48, was now to become, as they walked around the city, the focus of sensory experience. As the worshippers processed around the mountain, seeing its towers, fortress, and citadel, they would gain a profound impression of the reality of Zion. Which they could take home with them and share with their children. The next generation, verse 13 says And that next generation, because that next generation, their children, were ch uh too young to participate in the pilgrimage. So what's the meaning for us today? Christ wants you, his bride, to know your identity. Notice it's not a suggestion, it's a command for you to actively see, understand, experience, and study the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now what's involved in your identity as Christ's bride? He wants you to know your strength and beauty are purely a result of your being his. He wants you to remember how he has protected you from evil in the world. He wants you to trust his protection over you as you live for him. And he wants you to understand and have faith in your future with him. You must circumambulate the church Till the day you die, so that as verse thirteen says, you can teach these things to your children. Each generation should not have to go it alone. The previous generation should guide the next. So they can take their faith further than ever before in history. This isn't just about acquiring knowledge about the church. But rather getting to know your Lord Jesus Christ better and better. The implication of verse 14, you see, there is that if you do not know the church very well, Then you do not know God as you should. It says there, this is God. Do you like, here's a question for you, do you like to read biographies of fellow Christians that tell how God protected them from sin, the world, and Satan? Do you have a biography maybe on your bedside table? Do you tell your children how God has protected his church in history? I encourage you to read and study Zechariah 12, 1-9, which describes how Christ promises to defeat all those who assault his church. Zechariah 12, 1-9. Now in conclusion, you today live in the last days, a time when Christ has provided an even greater outpouring of blessings. to all the nations of the world than in the times when Psalm 48 was written. Today the church has been given the task of carrying out the Great Commission And in order to understand what your task is with regard to the Great Commission, you need to understand what Christ says about your citizenship here on earth. earth. You hold a dual citizenship this side of heaven. First, now that you have been redeemed, you're a you are, quote, fellow citizens with the saints and are of God's household. Ephesians two nineteen. This means that as a Christian, you are a citizen of heaven, the heavenly Jerusalem. Philippians three twenty So this is your first citizenship. And second, you're also a citizen of a nation here on earth. In most of your cases, It's the United States. So, you're not to renounce either one. You hold both citizenships simultaneously, that of the church and that of your nation. Now, what does your Lord Jesus Christ require you to actually do with regard to the Great Commission? To make the nations of the world his followers. But what exactly does that entail? The citizens of heavenly Jerusalem will teach the nations God's word and his law. Isaiah 2, 2-4. And the Holy Spirit will then enable these nations, the families and institutions within them, to believe God's whole word and adopt and enforce God's law, thereby creating an increasing How do you know, though, that your job of making a nation a follower of Christ, as Christ said to do, has been successful. How do you know you could check a nation off the list? That your job is complete in a particular nation. One commentator described The God-given litmus test of whether a nation has come to Christ this way. There must be institutional conversion to God, not simply personal conversion Isaiah 2, 2 through 4 says that it is when the nations of the world come to Christ and to the law of God that we know that they have truly come to Christ. The latter-day glory of the church and world begins when the nations of the world give up natural law. It's when the nations of the world turn to the law of God for their politics. Their economics, their science, their everything. In short, Isaiah not only describes conversions, he speaks about law-abiding conversions He not only discusses converted people, he describes converted nations with converted laws, converted politics, converted economics, converted education, and so on. Across the board. And each converted sphere is known to be converted, how do you know it's converted? By its compliance to the law of God and God's word in general. So this is to be the God-given goal of your life, beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the point of Psalm 48 is that you make the church visible in the world and carry out the Great Commission. As you do so, God protects you. That's what Psalm 48 is telling you. See, they were confronting the world there This was Mount Zion doing so, and God was protecting them. In Psalm 48 Essentially, Christ is warning the world, you will be destroyed if you assault the holy city of God, the church, as she carries out her commission, because if you assault her, you're assaulting me, Christ. The church is always to be on the offensive. It's never to have a defensive posture because Christ is with her always, and his Father has given him all authority in heaven and on earth. Matthew twenty eight. God protects you, his church. Now, lastly, look at the effect of that protection On the world, the ungodly nations. Two particular events in the history of ancient Israel are good possibilities of having inspired the psalmist to write Psalm 48. One of them is God's defense of his people under King Hezekiah as they face the onslaught of Assyria, 2 Chronicles 32. Now, what were the effects on the surrounding nations of God's protection of this people there? 2 Chronicles 32, 22 through 23 says. So the Lord saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the land from the hand of Sennacherib, king of Assyria, and from the hand of all his enemies, and he provided for them on every side. And many brought gifts to the Lord to Jerusalem and precious things to Hezekiah king of Judah, so that he was exalted in the sight of all nations from that time onward. Hezekiah, representing God's people, was exalted in the sight of all the nations. And this exaltation was long-lasting. But even more importantly, notice that other nations, these are all ungodly nations, pagan nations, ancient nations, who heard the news brought gifts to the Lord to Jerusalem. Jerusalem, his dwelling place. His dwelling place. The church is his dwelling place today. Therefore, as sheep of the good shepherd Rejoice and tell the next generation and the world how Christ has protected you, your local church, and the church as a whole. God will cause the nations to witness Christ's protection of you, the heavenly Jerusalem, as you carry out the Great Commission. Christ reveals himself to the world through his protection of you and your efforts to glorify him. Our Heavenly Father, just as you used Augustine's study of this very psalm To motivate him to write his City of God and therefore change all of Western civilization. Indeed, lay the foundation for Western civilization. We ask that you use our study of Psalm 48 and continued study of it to act in faith And glorify you in the coming days and months and years. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.