Please turn your Bibles to Isaiah 39. We'll read the first eight verses. Isaiah 39. At that time, Meredak Baladan, the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent envoys with letters and a present for Hezekiah. For he heard that he had been sick and had recovered. And Hezekiah welcomed them gladly, and he showed them his treasure house. the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious oil, his whole armory, all that was found in his storehouses There was nothing in the house or in all his realm that Hezekiah did not show them. Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said to him, What did these men say? And from where did they come to you? Hezekiah said, They have come to me from a far country, from Babylon. He said, What have they seen in your house? Hezekiah answered, They have seen all that is in my house. There is nothing in my storehouses that I did not show them. Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the Lord of hosts. Behold, the days are coming when all that is in your house And that which your fathers have stored up till this day shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the Lord. And some of your own sons. Who will come from you, whom you will father, shall be taken away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the King of Babylon. Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, The word of the Lord that you have spoken is good, for he thought, There will be peace and security in my days. This is the word of the Lord. The text of the sermon will be Isaiah chapter 40, which you'll find in the sermon outline The whole thing is printed there under outline headings. But the New Testament reading will be from Romans 11. I think that if you Consider what we just sang from Psalm 90 and then also some phrases here from Romans 11, you'll see how they comport with Isaiah 40, the sermon text. But now Romans 11, 25 through 36. Lest you be wise in your own sight, I want you to understand this mystery, brothers. A partial hardening has come upon Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in And in this way all Israel will be saved, as it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion. He will banish ungodliness from Jacob And this will be my covenant with them when I take away their sins. As regards the gospel, they are enemies of God for your sake. But as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers. For the gifts and calling of God are irrevocable. For just as you were at one time disobedient to God, but now have received mercy because of their disobedience. So they too have now been disobedient, in order that by the mercy shown to you, they also may now receive mercy. For God has consigned all to disobedience, that He may have mercy on all Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and how inscrutable his ways! For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor, or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Lord, we praise you and thank you for this, your holy word. We pray that you will illumine our minds by the same Spirit who inspired these words to be written. Help us to lay these things up in our hearts. May they frame our thinking about everything. And help us to practice them in our lives. For we pray through Christ our Lord. Amen. The 40th chapter of Isaiah is what you have in the outline before you. It marks the great shift in focus. The 39th chapter and all the previous chapters, 1 through 39, are prominent in their thinking about judgment. God is going to judge here, he's going to judge there, he's going to judge the nations, he's going to judge, and he's going to judge Israel, and he's going to judge Judah as well, including Jerusalem for their sins And in that prophecy of judgment 1 through 39, there are flashes of joy and flashes of light. You know some of them from great texts of Christmas about the Virgin Shall Conceive in Isaiah 7 and bear the Son. And his name shall be called Emmanuel, God with us. We know that one, right? That's one of those flashes of light. And then also in Isaiah 9. the one who's going to come, the counselor, the almighty God, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called wonderful counselor and so forth, right? Flash of light, but if those are just flashes of hope and light in the midst of otherwise a very very dark Chapters 1 through 39. And we know why that is. Because these last words of Isaiah 39 foretell the plunder of Jerusalem. Silly King Hezekiah invited foreigners in and he gave them a tour and he showed them everything. He was like a bragging goofball Here's all my stuff. See how much I have. And then Isaiah comes and says, You're gonna get, it's all gonna be gone. It's all gonna be carried away. And some of your sons, some of your grandsons, great-grandsons, and so forth that come from you are going to be made into eunuchs. And they're going to serve in the in the uh Harem of the king of Babylon. And again, still being kind of not with it, not very clear in his thinking, he says, Well, this is good. Because it'll be peaceful in my time. Very, very short-sighted. Sometimes people are very short-sighted in their thinking and their decisions and what they choose to do or not to do. So he was told that not the Assyrians, which were the great threat at that time, not the Assyrians, but the Babylonians who would become a threat many years later. would uh would be the threat that would take them and carry them away to Babylon. And it stands to reason that not only their sons would be carried away, but their daughters would be given in marriage to Babylonian men. Men who would not let them worship the Lord. This was an unthinkable tragedy to any pious Jew. And beyond that, he had to understand and imagine that the temple would be destroyed and all of its treasures carried away and put in pagan temples in Babylon. What a tragedy indeed. Terrible news of a dark future spread among the people of Jerusalem from here on. This message that went to Isaiah was talked about, was gossiped, and it was a doom and gloom message. And I don't doubt at all that Isaiah didn't just preach it one time to King Hezekiah, but he preached it at various places all around Jerusalem, so the message was spread wide. But at some point, Isaiah received a new word from the Lord, a word of comforting hope A word of future blessing, a word which would be told for generations and even be told among the slaves, the Jews in Babylon. And what is that message, Isaiah 40, verse 1, comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. Isaiah gave the word of promise that God would return the Jews to the land someday, and that the sad route of deportation to Babylon would be made into a joyful highway of God, a free way for God's people to come home and be restored to the land of promise. And we see that in verses three and so forth. In the wilderness. Prepare the way, the highway you see. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up. This is engineering, folks. And every mountain and hill be made low, and the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain. For what reason? And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. What is the glory of the Lord here? It's the glory of the promise of God to bring the exiles home someday. This is the word of comfort. This is the word of joy. Good news after bad news. Hope after despair. Life after death But it is long distance off good news. I pause to ask you or mention this to you. It would be wonderful to know that you are a future heir to some great fortune. that you're going to inherit millions someday, some years distant. But if you're facing poverty right now, If you can't pay your bills, then your car won't work, and all kinds of other things are going on. You still suffer in the present, even though there's the future hope of great riches. It would be wonderful to hear that your long illness would be relieved by surgery, but the immediate prospect of scalpel and bandage and painful recovery still can be depressing, can't it? Dear brothers and sisters in Christ, it is wonderful to know that Christ has died for our sins. And that he rose from the dead, that he's preparing a place for us in heaven, a wonderful, safe, eternal home. But in the interim, though justified by faith in Christ, we still struggle with living in a sin-sickened world. We have frail human frames that get old and tired. We have a heart and mind which are not only limited but but sinfully inclined. And so it is to this interim that we now turn as we see Isaiah offering divine comfort and encouragement, and this is our comfort and encouragement. A message for their life until they arrive home in Jerusalem in the future. And it's the same message which you and I need to hear as we travel with Christ in this life, waiting for the glory which will be revealed. The first thought in the message is something we need to get a hold of, and that is human weakness. In verses 6, 7, and 8. Human weakness is described there in very graphic terms. A voice says, Cry. And I said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass. In other words, someone said, Preach it, brother. And the preacher says, What am I going to preach? We're all weak, we're all frail. All flesh is grass, and its beauty is as the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades, the breath of the Lord blows on it, surely the people are grass. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. This is human weakness. We are weak indeed. And you are also mortal and yet immortal. Your spirit will live forever. Your body will be raised at the last day, and you will live forever. But as for your earthly life, don't plan on living here forever That's what this message is right here. We're weak. We're human. We're frail. We have short lifespans. That's the truth. Now People have tried to get around this and try to figure out a way to save themselves from this weakness. The pharaohs of Egypt, rich as they were, took pains to build pyramids Their corpses have decayed, although slowly, but the food was not eaten that was put in these bedchambers. Some moderns have decided to have themselves frozen. They put themselves in liquid nitrogen, cryogenics, I guess it is, and hope for a cure for what ails them at some future point. And they even try to discover some reversal of the aging process. We are not to plan on living here forever. We're not to store up wealth for ourselves as though we needed to save up for a thousand-year retirement. If you have money, which will outlive you? Make it a blessing for future generations. God is the God of the future. Live then as the humble creature that you are. Do not imagine that you are great, but know that you are small. And that's what this passage, these verses teach. Human humility. But in contrast to that, we also want to see divine power. Divine power. So here's what the preacher is commanded to preach in verses 9. And so forth. Go up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem, herald of good news. Lift it up, fear not. Say to the cities of Judah, say to the cities of Judah, Judah who's worried about the future, Judah who's been told she's going to be taken into exile. Say to the cities of Judah, behold your God. Get that picture in your mind. And then in verse 10, behold, the Lord God comes with might, and his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. And then if they wanted to make it very clear, who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand? You just think about that. You think about the hollow of your hand and there's the waters. What are those waters in God's hand? Those are all the oceans of this planet. Who has done it? God has done that. He can see it all in the hollow of his hand. Who has marked off the heavens with a span? A span is your your thumb to your little finger. And God measures the heavens one after the other. You know, that's the way he measures things with his hand. His thumb and his little finger. It's it's anthropomorphic, I know. It's not literal But God is great, is he not? He is great. We are weak, we're frail, we're temporal, but God is great. He's marked off the breadth of the heavens with his hand. And that's a lot to think about, really, right there. Um we uh we know that uh space telescopes have seen light from stars so distant that the light just arriving in the lens of the telescope was transmitted. 2,000 years ago. And it's been traveling at the speed of 186,282 statute miles per second. Yet God has marked off the heavens with hand breaths. People of God, these words are intended not to define limits for God. But to astound our every thought of God as being limited at all. He is unlimited You're brief and weak, limited, but God is great beyond all telling. And we also see then he's also perfect in understanding in verses 13 and 14. Listen to these for us. Who has measured the Spirit of the Lord? Or what man shows him his counsel? Whom did he consult, and who made him understand? Who taught him the path of justice and taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding and the Answer to these rhetorical questions is no human has, that's who. No one is taught God, no one counsels God. His understanding is Beyond our fathoming. So we ask questions sometimes when we don't understand. We ask the widower says, Why did my wife die? If we lose our job, why did I lose my job? We look around and see terrible things happening in the world and say, why do the wicked prosper? Someone who is single may say, Why am I not happily married? And someone who grew up in a dysfunctional family may say, Why did I grow up in this dysfunctional family? We sometimes answer flippantly, Well only God knows. But that's really true. Only God knows, but He does know. He is not in the dark about it. Somebody knows there is an answer. Someone in the universe can explain it. Someone has designed everything, every thread of the tapestry of time and eternity. The great mind of God is high, exalted. Many, many years ago, there was a Methodist preacher in the United Kingdom named William Edward St. And the Pastor Sangster tells of a visit that he had in the home of an elderly widow in his village. The widow was always composed, always polite, very pious. In the company of others. But as Dr. Sangster was sitting at tea with this lady discussing the things of the faith There was an open window nearby, and uh they began to hear the voice of a town drunk. Town drunk Bumbling down the street, singing with the drunken slur as he staggered. And this widow's face became tense. Her sweet smile became a trembling frown. Finally she burst forth. Why is it, Reverend Sangster, that that wretch is given breath to sing his drunken songs while my dear husband lies in the grave. I am left alone. Sangster could not answer her specific objection. No minister can. But he pointed to her word of God and pointed her to the great mind of God who knows the answer. And then he counseled her to be humbly patient, knowing that the same God who loved the world and gave his only Son for our salvation has given himself to her. And that should be it. Enough for now. That great truth of the love of God leads us directly to the next thought in Isaiah's message of comfort. Comfort, this is so important, the comfort of a covenant relationship. The wonderful love and acceptance of God The commitment from God expressed in the ancient covenant God made with the fathers of these people. It's described here in these terms in verse 11. He that is God of the covenant, he will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom. He's hugging the lamb. And gently lead those that are with young He is not distanced. He's not uncaring. He's not unfeeling. He is a tender shepherd, this God of the covenant. That's our relationship. What is the relationship that God has with those who are outside his covenant who care nothing for him? Described in verse 15: Behold, the nations, he says, are like a drop in the bucket They are counted as dust on the scales, behold he takes up the coastlands like fine dust. Lebanon would not suffice for fuel, nor its beast enough for offering There wouldn't be enough wood to burn to make sacrifices for the nations who are outside of God's covenant who don't care for him. He says in verse 17, All the nations are nothing before him. They are accounted by him as less than nothing and empty. Those outside the covenant cannot do enough to please God. Nothing they do can make it happen. His covenant is offended, we see in the next bit, by idolatry. And this is always our problem. People of God, it is always our problem. Look, here's what he says in verse eighteen To whom then will you liken God? You Israelites, you Jews who are so worried about the future to whom will you liken God, or what likeness will you compare him with? And then he makes the parody an idol. And he says this about it. A craftsman casts it. You can see the gold being poured into the mold. And a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts it with silver chains, this idol. He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not ride. If you can't afford gold and silver for your idol, you make one out of wood. He seeks out a skillful craftsman a nice carver to set up an idol that will not move. God is offended by idolatry. And you know what? Idolatry is not just something of the ancient days, not just something of m gold and metal and wood and so forth images. Anything that we place as ultimate in our lives, anything that competes with God as being ultimate is an ultimate. Idol, whether it's a bad thing or a good thing, whether it's some sin that we cherish, or whether it's some good thing that we make ultimate Money or pleasure or a job or anything that we make ultimate is an idol. And here's what he says: He's making fun of idols. He makes fun of our idols. He makes fun of Judah's idols. But then he says, you've got to remember this, folks. You've got to remember God's covenant in verse 27. Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord? God is gone. He doesn't pay attention to me anymore. Why do you say my way is hidden from the Lord? My right is disregarded by my God. And he says it to Jacob and to Israel. Who are these people? Those are just terms for God's people, Jacob and Israel. He's reminding them of his unconditional, unfailing love for the fathers, Jacob and Israel With whom he made that covenant? That shepherd that carries the lambs in his bosom. God is saying to these people People who are worried about the future. Why do you say, O heirs of my everlasting promises, why do you say, my way is hidden from the Lord? My cause is disregarded by my God Here's the application I want to bring home to you in this picture. This is the covenant that extends to you and me today. It is ratified in the blood of Jesus Christ. Because the promise made to Jacob, the promise made to Israel, the promise made before to Abraham Was that God would send a Savior? God would send the seed of the woman who would destroy the serpent's head and who would free us from all this and give us eternal life. So God reminds us of this covenant as he did them then, that in the face of our human humility, our frailty, our weakness, our temporality And in the face of his divine power and exaltation, he has loved us with an everlasting love. He has bound us up in his covenant in Jesus Christ. And because of that, friends, nothing in all creation is able to separate us from the love of God in Jesus Christ. Christ, who is the old word surety, the surety, the guaranteer of the covenant. This is an old comfort, familiar to us, words of comfort. And we should love to hear it week by week, Sunday by Sunday, at the Lord's table, week by week. That God has loved us and has given us His Son. He has fulfilled His covenant. And though we are temporal and weak, God is powerful and great. That's the message. That's the message of salvation. That's the message of Advent. That's the message that we're nurtured by and helped by all year long, not just at Christmas time. He counsels his people. At the end of this chapter, he says to them, says to these people, have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might, he increases strength. Then he says, comparison here, even youths, these young men, these strong kids these days, even youths shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted. But they who wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Those who trust in the Lord Will gain his strength, gain his eternity, gain his power in union with Christ, our Redeemer, our Savior. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you and praise you that we have a covenant-making God. And in the face of our human humility, our weakness, our frailty, we have a great and powerful God, but not a God distant, but a God who came down. Who became one of us, and who has saved us by his covenant love, by his death on the cross, by his resurrection, he has given us his very righteousness. And has made us his own. Help us to grow strong in him, to run and not faint. To be lifted up on the wings of eagles. We pray in Christ. Amen.