Hebrews twelve, one through eleven. Please picture what's being described here Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely. And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted. In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not lightly regard the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him, for the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom the Father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the father of spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as seems best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. For the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceable fruit, or the peaceful fruit of righteousness. For those who have been trained by it. The word of the Lord, thanks be to God. So the uh the thing, the sermon tonight that I have titled Common Wrath and Uncommon Mercy or Grace. Have you ever heard of common wrath? I doubt if anyone has. I I really don't know that I've ever heard of that as a the name of a topic, common wrath. But it would seem logical that common wrath is the counterpoint to common grace, and many of us have heard of common grace. Common grace is God's providential care in creation God's sustaining care for his creation called Divine Providence is grace common to us all. The Bible says, for instance, that God, through the Son, upholds the universe by the word of his power in Hebrews chapter 1 and in John chapter 1. So the fact that God upholds the universe, that it doesn't fall apart or collapse or fly off into a thousand different directions is God's common grace. Everybody gets to experience it and know it. Even if they don't recognize it, it's common to us all. God's gracious provision for his creatures is seen in giving of the seasons. At the beginning of this service, we say something about Seed time and harvest, nighttime and darkness, winter and summer. So the ongoing flow of seasons and the ongoing gifts of seasons. Are part of God's common grace. And everybody gets to enjoy this, whether they're a Christian or not, whether they even believe in God or not, they get to enjoy these common blessings. It is his providential common grace, Jesus reminds his hearers, that makes the sun shine or rise on the evil and the good. And sends rain on the just and the unjust. That's in Matthew 5, 45. So that's common grace. It's shared by everybody, whether they know it or accept it or understand it or not. We also see evidence of God's common grace in the establishment of various structures within human society. At the foundational level, God has ordained a family unit and even pagan parents. typically know that they should nurture their children. That's common grace. Common grace also provides a restraint of sin. In the Bible, Paul teaches that civil authorities have been given or instituted by God in Romans 13 to maintain order and punish wrongdoing. So we may see on the news all kinds of disorder and trouble and riots occasionally in places, but it doesn't happen all the time, does it? There's order and peace most of the time. Most of the time you can go into the store and you might forget to lock your car and you come back and it's still there. Nothing's been taken. That's common common grace through the civil authorities that that tend to keep evil down. You wouldn't try that in every neighborhood because not every neighborhood has these civil authorities working this way. But it's a restraint of sin. And even in man's conscience, common grace, the Apostle Paul says that when unbelieving Gentiles, who do not have the law, do by nature what the law requires, they are a law to themselves. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or excuse them. Romans chapter 2. So common grace works in the conscience of everybody, whether they're a Christian or not. And it brings a sense of order and peace. and restrains evil from being as bad as it would be otherwise. And then we can also see common grace in many other ways. Providential blessings to mankind, human advancements that come through unredeemed people, scientists Chemists that work on medicines, scientists that learn how to do wonderful medical procedures to fix people's hearts and remove remove tumors from their brains and things like that. These are done by non-Christians, aren't they? As well as Christians. That's providential blessings of common grace to people and other technological advancements that improve the lives of both the redeemed and the unredeemed are seen as the gifts of common grace. So in summary, common grace is seen in God's continuing care for his creation, his restraining human society from becoming altogether intolerable and ungovernable is making it possible for us to live together in a generally orderly and cooperative manner and in maintaining man's conscience, his sense of right and wrong behavior. And that is sometimes better and sometimes less, as we know. So I've explained about common grace, but the topic is common wrath. Where do I get that? Well, I get it right from Psalm 90. Because Psalm 90 talks about wrath. It seems kind of incongruous to us as we read it. In the morning it flourishes and fades. This is verse 6. Verse 7, for we are brought to an end by your anger, it says. By your wrath we are dismayed. This is a the Psalm of Moses, and he's extolling God that he says we are Brought to an end by your anger, by your wrath, we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence, for all our days pass away under your Wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. And then he says, seventy, or even by reason of strength, eighty, and then verse eleven, Who considers the power of your anger and your wrath according to the fear of you? So there's probably something called common wrath too. And what it means here for us is that in this common wrath idea, when people get sick or accidents happen, um And things go badly, cars break down, Sam. It's not because you did something wrong, particularly. It's because we live in a world that's cursed. And in this cursed world, God's wrath is expressed through trouble. It's not a focused wrath. It's not against you personally necessarily, although God can discipline us as sons and it can be a personal thing there. But there's this general trouble in the world that's described here in Psalm 90, and I think it can be called common wrath. Because it's experienced by people who who do good things and people who do bad things. experienced by believers and unbelievers. This is written to believers, the people of Israel. So common wrath, I think, in counterpart to common grace, explains the hardness of life. Why is life so hard? Why are there so many difficulties in life? because of this common wrath. Because God said to Adam and Eve, In the day you eat of it, you will surely die. Death came as a result. And then he told Eve, In bearing children you will be increased in pain. And then he said to Adam, You will eat of the earth by the sweat of your brow. Blood, sweat, and tears. So that's common wrath. And it happens to everybody. Things happen under common wrath What does common wrath teach us? It teaches us about the hardness of life. Secondly, it teaches us to seek wisdom. It's not just, there it is. Tough luck. It teaches us something. It teaches us to seek wisdom, to know our Creator's loving kindness. Which is uncommon mercy. Verse 12, 13, 14, and 15. Teach us to number our days. That we may get a heart of wisdom. We're supposed to learn something in the course of our life through the blessings and through the troubles. And then he says verse 13, return, O Lord, how long? Have pity on your servants. Moses is praying. He's saying, Lord, please, I need your help in this struggle of life. And then he says, verse 14, satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love. And I've told you this so many times before, but that's that wonderful word in Hebrew, chesed, which means covenant mercy. It's not common to everybody. That covenant mercy is uncommon mercy. It's not common to people who reject God. It's not common to unbelievers. It's covenant mercy, it's steadfast love. And so he's saying, in the midst of all the troubles of the world that we all experience, Satisfy us, your people, in the morning with your chesed, your steadfast love, your covenant mercies. That we may rejoice and be glad all our days, even in the troubles. We can be glad, you see. We can give thanks through the troubles Make us glad, he says, for as many days as you have afflicted us, and make and for as many years as we have seen evil, well it's going to be a lot more than just the number of days that we've lived. or the number of years that we've lived. In God's covenant mercies, we are going to live forever. We're going to experience peace and joy and gracious mercy and Just happiness forever in God's goodness, his steadfast love, his faithfulness, which is the gospel promise that was made in the garden. that God would undo the works of the devil. His gospel promise that was made to Abraham that in his seed, his descendant All the nations of the earth will be blessed. And Paul unpacks that in Galatians and says that seed is one person. Not just the descendants of Abraham biologically, but is one person, the Christ. So we see now this this steadfast love here. This uncommon mercy is focused upon Jesus. It's focused upon the gospel. It's focused upon a salvation that's been provided for us. And that definitely teaches us wisdom. And as the last thing I want to say here, it teaches us to live, this all together teaches us to live. For others. Teaches us to live for others, not for ourselves alone, but teaches us to live for others. That is to live with a view to God's future for our generations. Verses 16 and 17. Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the work of our hands. Upon us. Yes, establish the work of our hands, the product of our life. Establish it. Make it shine. Make it last. We want to live not just for ourselves, not just for our own enjoyments or pleasures or troubles or hardships, but we want to live for God's future that He has promised. Live with a view to God's future for our generations. And so that's what common wrath and common grace and uncommon mercy teaches us. to live these ways. I hope that you'll be able to read Psalm 90 as you go forward in in worship and times and ahead and not go, what is that about, that wrath stuff? And your anger and all that. Yes, it's part of that common wrath, but look at the steadfast love, look at the uncommon mercy. And then learn the wisdom of life. And then set your goal on living for others, living for God's glory, living in covenant faithfulness to his gospel promises. Living for the future. At my dad's burial this past Thursday, I read from Revelation 14, verse 13. Where it says, I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write this, blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them. Now that's an epitaph that can be said over someone Who has learned to live for others, who has learned to live for the future, learn to live beyond their own generation for the blessing and the glory of God and the progress of the gospel and the work of God's kingdom They've learned to live beyond just themselves, but they've learned to live for others. And God says they're resting from their labors, and their deeds are following them. They are blessed indeed. May that be what we learn as we walk through life and understand what goes on around us and what God has done for us in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that you do so many good things in this world. And we thank you for the gifts that you pour out on all people everywhere. That the sun shines and the gifts are given to everyone, unbelievers and believers alike. We thank you that you have blessed this world with so many good things And we would pray for a gift of even more good things. But we also recognize that you pour out your anger and wrath against our sins and against the sins of this world and against the troubles. uh the rebellion that has happened in this world. We pray that we might be able to be instrumental personally and as a church and as Christian people. In bringing to bear the good news of the uncommon mercy that is in your covenant love, your steadfast love. That is in Jesus Christ. May we be able to bring that to bear and may it last for many, many generations to come. Help us to be faithful in all these things. Amen