Psalm one o six. Psalm one o six. So recently we had Psalm one o four. And we had previously had Psalm 105, so a little bit out of order, but when we had Psalm 105, it was pure praise. It was a rehearsal of Israel's history, major events where God's people needed God's help. And where he came to their assistance and they praise him and thank him and praise him and thank him. And there wasn't any mention of sin or failure or anything like that in Psalm 105. So Psalm 106 is the dark counterpart of its predecessor, Psalm 105. A shadow is cast by human self-will, as Derek Kidner says, in its long struggle against the light. So this one is replete with not only history but sin. Alexander McLaren observed the keynote of Psalm 105 is remember his mighty deeds. The keynote of Psalm 106 is they forgot his mighty deeds. So let us look at that. First, In the first five verses, we don't have any sin mentioned or anything. We have an individual thanking God and petitioning God for his help. Listen to these words. O praise the Lord, O give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. He's calling on Israel to join him. He says, who can utter the mighty deeds of the Lord or declare all his praise? Blessed are they who observe justice, who do righteousness at all times. And then he says, Remember me, O Lord, when you show favor to your people. Help me when you save them, that I may look upon the prosperity of your chosen ones That I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory in your inheritance. So that's the beginning, that's the opening part It's a join me in praising God, and I want to personally have the joy of praising God, rejoicing in the gladness of the nation And then we dig right in in point number two to history remembered with corporate confession of sin. Verses 6 through 43, big chunk. Here Israel's history is written with a view of showing human sin, even as the perceived The preceding psalm was composed to magnify divine goodness. It is in fact a national confession. I'm quoting Charles Spurgeon, a national confession. And I'm just going to highlight the words of corporate national confession in all these verses. Not all the verses, but in the verses, I will highlight those that directly confess sins. Verse 6 and 7. Both we and our fathers have sinned. We have committed iniquity. We have done wickedness. Our fathers, when they were in Egypt, did not consider your wondrous works. They did not remember the abundance of your steadfast love, but rebelled by the sea at the Red Sea. And you can go back and study that and rehearse it and read it in Exodus, what they did, how they rebelled. We're not going to do that right now, but here's the confession of that rebellion. Move down to verse 13 and 14. They soon forgot his works. They did not wait for his counsel, but they had a wanton craving in the wilderness. and put God to test in the desert. Again, we can go back and read about that. How they craved for uh water and how they craved for meat and a wanton craving. They put God to the test in the desert Then verse 16 through 18 and beyond, when men in the camp were jealous of Moses, this is rebellion against authority. And Aaron, the holy one of the Lord, the earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and covered the company of Abiram. Fire also broke out in their company. The flame burned up the wicked. There's an instance of great confession, of terrible sin, of rebellion against God's leaders. Verse 19 and following. They made a calf in Horeb and worshiped the metal image. They exchanged the glory of God for the image of an ox that eats grass. They forgot God, their Savior, who had done great things in Egypt. Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome deeds by the Red Sea. So there's the instance of making the golden calf and worshiping it Verse 24 and 25. They despised the pleasant land, having no faith in his promise. They murmured in their tents and did not obey the voice of the Lord. So I think this is after they sent the spies into the land and decided not to go for fear. They despised the pleasant land, having no faith in his promises. Then we go down to verses twenty-eight and twenty-nine. Then they yoked themselves to Baal of Peor, and ate sacrifices offered to the dead. They provoked the Lord to anger with their deeds, and a plague broke out among them. False worship, imitating the nations around them. Verse 32-33, they angered him at the waters of Meribah. And it went ill with Moses on their account, for they made his spirit bitter, and he spoke rashly with his lips. Moses did something wrong there, but they were the ones who provoked it. Verse 34 and 35 and so forth. They did not destroy the peoples as the Lord commanded them, but mixed with the nations. And learned to do as they did. They served their idols, which became a snare to them. They sacrificed their sons and daughters to the demons. They poured out innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters. whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan. And the land was polluted with blood, thus that they became unclean by their acts and played the whore in their deeds. This is their failure to conquest the land of Canaan. Take the land and they're mixing with the peoples. Verse 43, many times he delivered them, but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low through their iniquity. So there is that long list of corporate confession of sin that the psalmist is causing us to remember. And then thirdly, a request for corporate absolution in verses 47 and 48. Here it is. Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise. Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting. Let all the people say amen. Praise the Lord. And this is the end of one of the major books of the Psalms, one of the sections of the Psalms. And it ends with this benediction and this final conclusion. But before we get to that, in verse 47, it is, Save us, O Lord our God, gather us from among the nations. It's a request for absolution. So we've had this corporate confession. Now we have this request for corporate absolution. So the topic that I want to open for a bit to you tonight is The corporate nature of corporate worship and corporate confession Corporate worship, as our church understands it, is a time of joyful covenantal renewal, which includes confession of sin, responsive prayers. Corporate song, the preaching of the gospel, and the covenantal climax of communion in the Lord's Supper. J. E. Eubanks writing on this topic says this believers typically have a strong grasp of individual culpability. And are usually grateful for the opportunity in worship to confess. They know that Christ atoned for their sins once for all on the cross. They also acknowledge that the ongoing presence of sin has consequences, not just for them, but for those around them and their community. The regular confession of sins then is a good thing for the soul. And while private confession will suffice More public confession, made among God's gathered people, binds believers in the fellowship of the cross as members of one body. End of that quote. When it comes to the collective worship of the collective ownership Of other persons' sins and participation in corporate confession, many people wrestle with this idea. Several pastors have heard from curious congregants, hey, I didn't actually commit those sins. Why do I need to confess them? When you could take that in our weekly corporate confession of sin, you could say, well, I don't know that I did that particular thing this week. Implicitly, they're asking, is there legitimacy to the idea that sins committed by others or institutions are my responsibility? Is it important for me to confess corporate sins? Christians do need to confess corporate sins. The psalmist here leads the nation of Israel in a prayer for blessing of the people But he says in verse 6, and this is the epitome: both we and our fathers have sinned, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedness. This is similar to Jeremiah, recording what the Lord said to him. He mentioned the lasting effects of the sins of we and our fathers. This is Jeremiah 3, verse 25. And he instructed the people that they should acknowledge both their own wickedness and that of the fathers. Jeremiah 14, 20. When Isaiah pronounced his woes upon beholding the glory of the Lord, when he saw the glory of the Lord in the temple He was not only concerned about his own unclean lips, but he said that he lived in the midst of a people of unclean lips. He's confessing the sins of others. He also bore a prophecy warning that the Lord would repay both your iniquities and the Father's iniquities together. This is Isaiah 65, verses 6 and 7. And most of the prophet's words in Ezekiel 20 focused on the judgment that was Israel's due to the sin and unfaithfulness of who? Its ancestors. Its ancestors. Nehemiah, too, spent nearly an entire chapter linking the spiritual condition of Israel in his day to the sins and covenant breaking of its fathers. This is Nehemiah chapter nine. Before taking upon himself and his whole generation the burden of confessing this guilt and petitioning God to forgive it. And grant its grace. This brings out a larger point. A huge sense of the identity that the Jews had as the covenant people of God was directly tied to their sense of of ancestry and connection with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, they were called by name Israel. For the children of Israel. Precisely because God had given Jacob a new name, and they were his descendants. Their entrance into the covenant was dependent to a degree on this connection. Naturally, they would understand that their connection to the rest of God's covenant people, be they contemporaries or those long dead, also affected their relationship. To God Himself. Now, the first time I personally experienced corporate confession of sin in a church service, I did not understand it. It didn't make sense to me. I did not understand anything, personally, other than individual sin and individual conversion. How could a whole bunch of people sincerely confess together the sins of the body, especially historical sins? And I later came to see the corporate nature of the church in Old and New Testaments, and I realized that corporate confession is biblical. In it we pray for personal sin, for the sins of our local church. Our local community, our nation, and the world. Because we are a nation, as Peter tells us, a nation of Priest. 1 Peter 2, 9. You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. When it says you are a priesthood That means you are to pray. So I'm going to apply it this way. When we gather as the church, as a royal priesthood, we are to pray for the whole world. And we do. And it's not just incidental. We do pray for the salvation of the whole world. We pray for the progress of the whole church. We pray for the unity of the church everywhere. And we should, because we're part of that whole. And we are priests. We are a nation. We're gathered priests of God to intercede for this world. This isn't in my notes, but I dare say that if the Church of Jesus Christ didn't pray for peace and order and dignity and some good things in this world, this world would go to hell. And I mean that in the sense of moral degradation and chaos everywhere. We are salt and light in this decaying generation. And our prayers hold this world up and keep it from complete collapse. We are a nation of priests. So we are to confess our sins, the sins of the people of God, the sins of the nations, sins all around us. We are to confess them and to intercede for them as priests. Many churches have put aside the idea of corporate confession, but when they do, they lose something vital. Corporate confession strikes a blow against self-righteousness. We can judge ourselves pretty well and think we're okay and we don't need to confess much. We need to blow against that. Corporate confession brings us to a place of humbling ourselves before God as we say what we know to be true of ourselves collectively. It reminds us that we are not better than others, and that it is only grace, an alien righteousness. Which makes us what we are. God remembers in the covenant of Christ's blood not to treat us as our sins deserved. Corporate confession of sin would only bring despair were it not for our knowledge of God's faithfulness to his covenant promise. His forgiveness and his mercy. You see, it's dangerous to only dwell on ourselves and our sin if we do not also remember that God delights in forgiving us. Leviticus 16, the Day of Atonement, is the context of the church gathered for worship. Confession of sin was part of the worship instituted by God for our brothers and sisters who were looking ahead by faith to the coming Messiah who would once and for all atone for their sins. 2 Chronicles 6, Solomon praying corporately before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the assembly confesses sins. Ezra 9 and 10. Ezra and the people confessed their sin together before the house of God. Nehemiah 9. The people of Israel corporately made confession and worshiped the Lord their God. it says. Acts chapter 2, verse 42. The prayers that were gathered there in the church. Would have included confessions of sin corporately as the church after Pentecost gathered together for worship. Where would they get that pattern of confessing sins together? From the Old Testament. It was already established by the time the new church, the New Testament church was formed. And in Revelation chapter 2, Jesus sending a letter to the church in Ephesus. Commands them to corporately remember or confess where they had failed, and corporately to return to their first love. It seems clear to the apostles and to others that the corporate connection is relevant. Consider how many times when called upon to give testimony before civil and religious leaders. Peter, John, and Paul referred to Israel's history, connecting those ties to the guilt and sin of the present day. Eventually demonstrating that whether they were present for the trials and crucifixion of Christ or not, members of the Sanhedrin were guilty of executing Jesus the Messiah. Or look at how Stephen, prior to being stoned, spoke of inheritance of the patriarchy. The guilt of our fathers, he says, for rejecting Moses and their participation in worship and taking possession of the land. as described in Joshua. Finally, he accused them, saying, As your fathers did, so do you. Acts chapter seven, verse fifteen. Perhaps the clearest and most straightforward biblical example is found with Ezra. While he was not one of the well-known Old Testament figures, Ezra played a key role in re-establishing the people of Israel, the remnant that would set the stage for the New Testament in the promised land. Ezra was from the priestly family of Levi and was recognized by Jew and Gentile alike as being a righteous and upright man. He oversaw the initial rebuilding of the temple and brought the law of God back to the people, calling them to hear and heed what God wanted them to know and to be. But unlike many prominent leaders in Bible times, there is no indication in Scripture that Ezra was a man especially marked by his sinfulness. He was, of course, a victim of our fall and our struggles, but from what we know he was not proud like Moses. Or an adulterer like David, or rash and headstrong like Peter, or haunted by a torrid past like Paul, after calling on Israel to return to the Lord For he had restored them to the land of promise that would be theirs. And after declaring the law of God to them, after he had specifically called on them to be set apart as God intended. Ezra received this report. Quote, The people of Israel and the priests and the Levites have not separated themselves from the people of the lands with their abominations. From the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebuzites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites. For they have taken some of their daughters to be wives for themselves. and for their sons, so that the holy race is mixed itself with the peoples of the lands. And in this faithfulness to the hand of the officials and the chief men Ezra was foremost. How did Ezra respond to this report? He prayed in confession for the sins of the people of Israel. Listen to what he prayed. Oh my God, I am ashamed, and I blush to lift my eyes to you. My God, for our iniquities have risen higher than our heads, and our guilt has mounted up to the heavens. From the days of our fathers to this day we have been in great guilt. And for our iniquities, our kings and our priests have been given into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plundering, and to utter shame, as it is today. But now for a brief moment, favor has been shown by the Lord our God to leave us a remnant and to give us a secure hold within his holy place. that our God may brighten our eyes and grant us a little reviving in our slavery. For we are slaves Yet our God has not forsaken us in our slavery, but has extended to us his steadfast love before the kings of Persia to grant some reviving, to set up the house of our God, to repair its ruins. And to give us protection in Judea and Jerusalem. And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken your commandments. He says this. We have forsaken your commandments, which you commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, the land that you were entering to take possession of it. is a land impure with impurity of the peoples of the lands, with their abominations that they have filled it from end to end, with their uncleanness. Therefore do not give your daughters to their sons, neither take their daughters for your sons, and never seek their peace or prosperity, that you may be strong and eat of the good land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children for And after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and for our great guilt, seeing that you our God have punished us less than our iniquities deserved And have given us such a remnant as this. Shall we break your commandments again and intermarry with the peoples who practice these abominations? Would you not be angry with us until you consume us, so that there should be no remnant nor any escape? O Lord, the God of Israel, you were just For we are left a remnant that has escaped, as it is today. Behold, we are before you in our guilt, for none can stand before you because of this Ezra 9, 6 through 15. How many times did Ezra pray? They, they Those Israelites, those people that came back, they have done this. How often did he cast blame for their corporate guilt on his fellow Israelites? As he had every right to do. Not once. Instead, again and again, he prayed, I am ashamed, I blush. Our iniquities have risen, we have been in great guilt, and so on. Ezra claimed for himself the guilt of his fellow Israelites, past, present, and he prayed accordingly. Because it was not merely individual sin. There was corporate sin present among the people. Ezra knew this and took it up as his own, even though he was not directly were individually guilty of this sin. In fact, he had been one of them calling out against it. So this is evident, not just in reflecting on biblical examples or in the words of Peter and John, but also in the confessional documents of our church. Our larger catechism, for example, question asked regarding the exemplary petition that Jesus offered in the Lord's Prayer. What do we pray for in the fifth petition? The answer: in the fifth petition. Which is forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Acknowledging it says that we And all others are guilty, both of original and actual sin, and thereby become debtors to the justice of God. And that neither we nor any other creature can make the least satisfaction for that death. We pray for ourselves and others. That God of His free grace would, through the obedience and satisfaction of Christ, apprehended and applied by faith, acquit us both from the guilt and punishment of sin. Accept us in His beloved. Continue His favor and grace to us. Pardon our daily failings. And fill us with peace and joy in giving us more and more assurance of forgiveness. Which we are rather emboldened to ask and encouraged to expect when we have this testimony in ourselves, that we from the heart forgive others their offenses. We pray for ourselves and others, it says. That is what the church does when it offers corporate confession for corporate sins. Be they sins of the church. Or of her members, be they sins of institutions that we as citizens are a part of now, or of our civil government Or of our spiritual forebearers. And I'm scrolling back to a couple of examples in history that I think bear this out. If I can get back to it. Yes. Christians do need to confess corporate sins for at least a few reasons. Our participation may not be active or direct, but often we are complicit, at least in simply turning a blind eye. Think about it. This was true of Christians who failed to protest the mistreatment of slaves in the 19th century. It may be true of Christians who turned a blind eye to the Nazi treatment of Jews and others in World War II. It may be true of Christians who failed to effectively protest legal abortion, especially since 1973. We may have more inclination toward such sins than we are ready to admit or even aware of. And our confession is good for our soul's nurture. When we confess, we find solidarity with our brothers and sisters in Christ who do have a direct guilt with such sins. As we are members all together of the same body, even though it's spread out in history. Scripture promises that sins of our forefathers are visited on us Which means, in some way, we bear the burden of such sins. So I think those are reasons why we should. Gladly confess corporate sins as well as individual sins, not merely in the little prayer that we have on Sunday morning. But in our personal prayers, as we think of those who have gone before us, as we think of the errors of the church As we think of the errors of the Jews, the errors of the Israelites, the failures that are endemic to us all, we should confess our sins. And then as a nation of priests, a kingdom of priests, intercede for our whole world, for the Church of Christ and our whole world. That God would be gracious to spare it, and that He would be gracious to send the light, that He would be gracious to bring His healing gospel. everywhere. And that is why Psalm 106 is for you and me. Let us use it. Amen. Lord, indeed, we thank you that you are gracious to us. We have sinned. We have failed. We have turned the blind eye. And looked the other way, and rested in our own personal comforts while sins have been committed all around us and we have not cared. Help us to take personal responsibility where it is our personal responsibility to take. But even when it is far from us, When it is spread out in history or through the wide church around the world, help us to intercede for and be willing to confess the sins. That we share in in your church. And help us to turn to you for your grace, knowing that you readily forgive those who turn to you through Christ. We pray in his name. Amen.