What are these verses in Hebrews 3, 1 through 6? That's what we're going to look at tonight. What are we considering? What are these verses? Well, I say the preacher because I think Paul wrote it, but we definitely know whoever wrote it was preaching a sermon, so I'm gonna call him the preacher. The preacher gives an exposition here of the superiority of Christ to Moses, as well as the new covenant, and he does this as a ground for his following exhortation to hold fast. So in one sense, tonight's sermon is the exposition or the exegetical grounds for next week's sermon when we look at the longer exhortation and the means and motives to it. As I mentioned, the sort of text that is the basis of it is that passage I read in Numbers 12, 7 to you about Moses being faithful, and he expounds that to the people and in comparison uh with Christ. So the preacher here gives an exposition of the superiority of Christ and the new covenant as a ground for his following exhortation to hold fast. You may raise the question real quick, why would uh he have to give uh an exposition for the superiority of Christ to Moses when he already proved that Jesus is superior to the angels You know, isn't de facto the angels, aren't they more superior than Moses? And the answer to that question is maybe, but to these readers, no. For Jews There was nobody on earth greater than Moses. And I'm just kind of remembering some comments I came across some various commentaries. I looked at this. If we examine the writings of the rabbis and Jews at this time, Moses was almost held in godlike veneration And he was considered to be greater even than the angels. So it is necessary for the preacher not only to deal with Jesus being superior to the angels, but even to Moses to help this congregation. to continue to hold fast to their confession of Jesus Christ. So it's not a pointless exposition And the point that our author, the preacher, is making to us is that the new covenant in Jesus Christ has superseded the old. And that the access to God, which his people enjoy now under the mediation of Christ, is far greater than it was under the mediation of Moses. So we'll look at that. And so then we must ever consider Jesus so that we may hold on to him, and by holding on to him, so remain the household of God. That's what we'll be looking at tonight. There's uh four parts to the sermon. We're just or four parts to this text, and so we're just gonna walk through these verses together. The first part Verses 1 and 2 introduce the comparison between Jesus and Moses. And verse 3 asserts that Jesus is superior to Moses. Verses 4 through 6, the first part of verse 6 explain this assertion, and finally the very last part of verse 6 gives the relevance of this for the congregation. So let's look at verses 1 and 2. How they introduce to us the comparison between Jesus and Moses. He starts off his sermon with this part with a word therefore, telling you that what we're about to read comes from what he just said. And I think the best way to sum up what he just said is going back to chapter 2, verse 9. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus. Crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for every one. And then he spent the next nine or so verses meditating on that grace of God in the death of Jesus, how he has redeemed us, released us from Satan's hold and our captivity How he has satisfied for our sins before God as the high priest, how he is our brother, as he's done this in our flesh, and now has risen as the exalted Lord, as the founder and leader of our salvation, bringing us to that same Glory. And he calls the people holy brothers. Holy because he already said up there in verse 11 of chapter 2, for he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. So it is right to call the Christian congregation holy because the Christian congregation has been consecrated or set apart to God by the death of Jesus Christ. And in their union and relationship with Him, they are God's holy, dedicated people. And He also calls them brothers, and this isn't just an idle term. Holy is not an idle term Brothers isn't a nice idle term, as he then says after that in verses twelve, thirteen, and fourteen, from all those places in the Old Testament, where we have on the lips of Jesus, I will tell your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation I will sing your praise. Behold, I and the children God has given me. So when he calls them holy brothers, he's saying, You brothers of the Lord Jesus Christ. You who have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and have been redeemed by Him, His brethren. And obviously not if they're brothers with Jesus, they are brothers with one another, the house and family of God. And then he says, You who share in a heavenly calling, but why do they share in a heavenly calling? Because God has brought Jesus to perfection through sufferings, He's brought him to glory, and now He is bringing them to glory, to share in that same heavenly calling. We looked at that this morning in the Ascension. That God is calling us to his own kingdom and his own glory. He's calling us from heaven As the gospel has gone forth from the risen Christ through the power of his Spirit throughout this world, so it's a call that originates from heaven And it is also a call to heaven. God has you you might think of that great parable Jesus gave of the prodigal son, right? God is calling us from the pig sty in mass to his home in heaven with them. And they share in this heavenly calling because they are believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. For you have been called to glory. And he tells them that they need to consider Jesus. I'm sure you go through your day and you consider lots of things. You might ask yourself, what have I been considering today? What are the things that I think upon and consider? Consider is more than just a moment's reflection. It's to sit down and really ponder and to think through something and to weigh it and to go over it. And he is telling this congregation to consider Jesus. But notice what he says about Jesus. He calls Jesus the apostle. Now that means Jesus is the one that God sent to them. Who spoke his message to them of salvation, which we read back in chapter two? How shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord. The Father sent Jesus. He's the sent one. He's come with all the authority of the Father to tell to us the things that He's seen, to reveal to us the message of our great salvation. So he is our apostle. He's our high priest. He is the one who represents us before God. He's the one who has made us satisfaction for our sins and through whose ministry we can draw near to God. And he says that he is the apostle and the high priest of our confession. Let me stop here. I want to say a little bit of a word about confession. I'm teaching a profession of faith class. A confession of faith is something that if you're an a communicate member in this church you've done, you know what a confession is. What does he mean when the when the preacher says he is the apostle and high priest of our confession? What does this word confession mean? Is it just uh again an idle word Or does it have significance and meaning for this congregation? Does it have significance and meaning for us who confess? Well, at its very basic meaning, the word confession means to say the same thing. That's what the word means in its etymology, homologia, means to say the same thing. I've been teaching to the profession of faith class, and if you've gone to a new member's class, I like to hold up a Bible and say, and ask them, who's speaking in this book? God, right? God speaks in this book. And then I'd like to hold up this one, representing the backport of our confession, and ask, now who's speaking in this one? Man. Who's he speaking to? Back to God. And he better be saying the same thing, right? God speaks here, and in our confession of faith we say back to God the same thing he said. As God said Jesus is his son, our confession of faith better say, He's your son As j as God said you can only be saved by his blood, we better say we can only be saved by his blood and through faith, by your grace. You get the point, right? Confession means to say the same thing. It's to be in agreement with God. But it has even a more significant meaning. There's something I learned about it in its sort of Secular meaning, which is also borne out in the practice of the church. In Socratic dialogue, if you are a student of Socrates and you talk to him and you tried to get to truth, It indicates consent to what is found to be valid. Now, of course, what is found to be valid for them, what is rational, what is reasonable, what we can get back to. But what is valid for the Christian. What are we consent to? What's valid for us is what God has borne witness to and testimony to and has written down for us. In Socratic dialogue, confession indicates consent to what is found to be valid, followed by the appropriate resolve and action. Theoretical assent is not enough. When we confess our faith, theoretical assent is not enough And not the fullness of what God requires, but also the appropriate resolve and action. If you confess that God is truly God that Jesus is truly his son and truly your Lord, then obviously the appropriate resolve will be, I will have no other gods but you. And I will have no other lords but you, and I will take action upon that confession, and I will live like you are the only God, and I will worship you, and I will serve you, and I will call upon your name. Further, hear what it means here, and this I'm driving at this point because he's dealing with this very hard reality in this congregation. Of many of them are playing fast and loose with their confession, and it looks like they may lead the faith. And he's warning them against that. Here's what uh one Scholar says about this word, confession means taking signs. And confession of Christ means confession of the risen and exalted Lord set side by side with The one God, as you read in 1 Corinthians 8. 6. He goes on to say some wonderful things, how proclamation and teaching are forms of confessing and witnessing. Proclamation and teaching, they start from an event in history. If you listen this morning's sermon or we started from an event in history, the ascension of Christ. Which they proclaim and interpret. That event was proclaimed to you this morning and was interpreted for you for its meaning. And they carry with them a commitment and a claim. And they integrate those who accept them into final fellowship with God. When we confess our faith, that comes with a commitment and acclaim, and through that we enjoy fellowship with God. So he is telling them You all made a confession of faith at some point in your life. You need to consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of that confession, which he once confessed before men And what's he telling him you need to consider? Now here's an area where I think I will interpret a little bit differently than as it's printed in your ESV Bible. It's it can be translated as it was. He he could just be saying, the uh uh the preacher could just be saying, consider Jesus generally His exhortation could just be, consider Jesus the apostle and the high priest in a general fashion. And that's a legitimate interpretation. I think he's saying something more specific to his point. I think what he's saying is, consider Jesus the apostle and priest of our confession and Cross out the word who and replace it the word that. Consider that he was faithful to him. And what he's really saying is, here's what I want you to consider about Jesus, not him generally But consider this thing about him, his faithfulness, because everything in our Christian life rests upon Jesus' being faithful. And so he's calling to him. Consider that Jesus was faithful. Consider that Jesus was faithful to him who appointed him. That would be his father. Consider Jesus that he was faithful to him who appointed him. And here's the comparison, just as Moses also was faithful in all of God's house. And let me just make it clear to you and apply it what the significance is for us that Jesus was faithful, w why he is calling them to consider this. Hear this uh quote Because Jesus is a faithful high priest in the service of God, Christians have the right to approach and can openly acknowledge their faith. Which is the basis of an unshakable hold. It's because Jesus is faithful faithful in his service to God, and because he's a faithful high priest, that we can draw near to God, acknowledge before God our faith in Jesus Christ Which is the basis of our unshakable hope, our faith in his faithfulness that he has achieved for us. what he said he achieved for us. He has accomplished for us the work of our redemption and salvation. He has brought in that everlasting righteousness. So the faithfulness of Jesus is not a small thing to consider, but our salvation rests upon it, that Jesus is a faithful high priest. So that introduces us to the comparison in verses 1 through 2. But now in verse 3, he here asserts for us the superiority that Jesus has to Moses. First he just compares them. He says Moses was faithful. Jesus was faithful. But here he begins to contrast them and assert that Jesus was superior. Verse 3 reads, For Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses. As much more glory as the build of a house has more honor than the house itself. If you the word for there in what this verse is is giving us a reason or How do we know, let me put it this way, how do we know Jesus was faithful? Answer, Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses. How do we know Jesus isn't faithful? Because he never would have been exalted to God's right hand if he would have been a sinner and an unfaithful servant to God, right? And so that's why I think verse 3 is not only asserting the superiority, but also making the claim that Consider his faithfulness, and here's how we know he was faithful. He has been counted worthy of more glory. I read to you back there in chapter two, verse nine. Crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death That she had been appointed to. So our Lord Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses because our Lord Jesus has been faithful to God in his service that he was appointed to perform. And you ask the question, well, how much more worthy of glory is Jesus than Moses? And answer, as much more glory as the builder of a house has more honor than the house itself Now I have to confess that generally when I go and look at a house or a castle or some great monument, I stop at praising the monument and I never Google who made it. and thank him and praise him and give him greater glory for it. But think about it, right? Think about, I don't know, what's the last building you went and saw and marveled at it? Did those rocks put themselves together? They're beautiful how they put together, right? My parents just got back from the Napa Valley on a work trip that my dad's company went on and they went to Some castello, something. This guy, I don't know the fortune he spent recreating a medieval castle right there in California. He imported tons of bricks, hand chiseled in the fashion they did. I'm sure it's marvelous But did those bricks put themselves in that way? Who's the craftsman that did it? Who's the mind that saw that and Put him there so that not only the integrity and structure and its purpose and function, but its beauty, right? Clearly clearly that builder should be far more praised than the building. No, if you're like me, right, you often just print the building and you don't think of the builder. And that makes perfect sense, right? It's it this is this is really a just a self-evident truth, what's known as a truism. As soon as you stop and think, you're going, oh, so this is how much more glorious Jesus is? Because anybody, if you just walk them through what I just walked you through, would go, yeah, obviously. The builder is deserving of more glory than the building. And he's making the point, well now you can begin to understand congregation right How much more glory Jesus has than Moses. Now, notice his tact here. He doesn't denigrate Moses to this people to exalt Christ. He's talking to Jewish people. This was a point, this is a tricky point, right? Because Moses is way up here. And he says, we can leave Moses way up here. He's got glory. You read Numbers twelve, seven. God said, Look how I treat my faithful service Moses. I come to him and I talk mouth to mouth. Because he's a faithful servant. Now you could go a few more chapters later in Numbers and read about how he was unfaithful and therefore couldn't bring the people in, but he doesn't even bring that up. Let's leave Moses right here where God puts him But I'm going to tell you where God's put Jesus. And He's put him up here, right? Verse 4, uh as I said, verses four and six Explain to us this assertion. Verse 4 in your Bible probably is in parentheses. It's not a parenthetical comment. It is needed to help explain and clarify what he's saying. He g begins with another truism, right? Every house is built by someone. How many of you uh moved into your house and it just built itself, right? You know, nobody. Everybody here, you can find your builder. He made your house, right? But then he says the builder of all things is God. Why has he moved all of a sudden to the builder of all things being God? And of course you get the point, right? Let's not stop. I'll just this isn't the point he's making, but it's the point that we can make. Let us never stop praising the beauty of creation. the the wisdom of God in his providence, even in the works of recreation, without recognizing right in as we think about our own lives, right? Or the house of God. I love that line in Psalm what 147. You build up what is he bind up the hearts of your broken people, he's like gathering back into his house, right? The builder of this house is God. We should always be praising God or and giving him glory, no matter how great the house looks. But what's his point? How does he go? Why does he end with God? And his point is simply this, and I'll I'll just quote another author because he nails it He's saying that Jesus is worthy of more glory than Moses in the same measure as God has more honor than the universe he created. Jesus is worthy of more glory than Moses in the same measure as God has more honor than the universe he created. Again, that's one of those truism, self-es evident things. The universe is marvelous and wonderful, but God has much more honor than the universe He created, and in that same measure That's how much more glory Jesus has than Moses. Let's go on to verse 5. In verse 5, he says to us, and Moses was faithful in all of God's house as a servant. He is continuing here. Showing Jesus' superiority to testify to the things that would have spoken later, but Christ is faithful to God's house as a son What is he saying here? He says, Moses was faithful and heard in God's house, but Christ is faithful over God's house. So Moses, and the house is referring here not to the temple or tabernacle, but the household. We should be translating this as household over the people, over the congregation. from which God dwelt amongst. Moses was faithful as a servant in that household, and Jesus is faithful over the household. He is the son. Moses was faithful as a servant And Jesus was faithful as a son. And he's already talked to us about what it means to be God's son, the radiance and glory of God. Exact imprint of his nature, and on and on he goes. That the Lord Jesus served as a son in the house and Moses as a servant. Now if you and I were living in a household and we were fellow servants We could go to Moses, right? We know Moses has God's ear, but Moses has God's ear as a servant, even though he's exalted. But how much closer could we be to God? How much more access could he have to if we had the Son, if we could go to the Sun? And the son could bring us to the father versus the servant as we begin to understand what he's driving at that Jesus and being over God's house and his faithfulness provides God's people greater access than Moses brought the people in the covenant that he was the mediator of. Moses also, as he says here, to testify to the things that were to be spoken later, if you read the gospel accounts or As Jesus himself born witness, particularly in John's Gospel, when he said, You all read Moses, thinking that in Moses is found eternal life And you don't know that Moses testified about me, and you're not coming to me to get eternal life And so as great as Moses did, what the author is saying here is he's really kind of on the same level that he said the angels were. Back in chapter 1, verse 14, are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation? He's saying Moses in his own day was serving you. The revelation that God gave to Moses and the things he spoke were a witness and a testimony To you saints who are to inherit salvation through Jesus Christ. Moses' word was not the final word Jesus is our apostle. See, if you say Moses is your apostle, which he was, God said to him, you're not living with finality. But if you say Jesus is my apostle, and you hold fast to the teaching and revelation of Jesus Then you have the final word of God. And then finally and lastly, he gives the relevance for the congregation. He's gone through this exposition about Moses. He showed to them the greater glory of Christ and his superiority over Moses and God's house. I already told you he's doing this because he wants these people to hold on to Christ. He wants them to stay in the new covenant. He wants to enjoy the free access and closer access to God that they are enjoying and not go back to Moses And then he gives you the relevance in that final part of verse six. And then he says, And we are his house. We are God's house. We are God's household. We are his family. If indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in hope. Our confidence Our free access to God, our boldness of faith before God is what this is dealing with, is tied to our confession of Jesus as high priest. That's why he's saying you need to hold fast to your confession of Jesus as high priest. Because if you let go of Jesus, then you turn from Jesus. You will not have any confidence and boldness to go in before God. The word uh translated here is confidence And it's a good translation error boldness, has the basic meaning of uh frankness How many of you have ever been a new member on a team? Maybe you were a junior officer, and you're before all the senior officers You're generally sort of quiet and reserved, aren't you? But at some point in your time of them and relationship, you get to that place where you can speak frankly and Boldly, right? Or maybe the difference is with you're out with a certain group of friends or people, but then when you come back home and you're a family, you're just you and you feel the full freedom of speech, right? And just confidence. And that's what he's saying here. And he's telling us here's one of the marks of being a Christian. Here's one of the marks of being a member of God's household. that confidence to be able to go before God and pray and speak to Him. I remember and I I don't remember where I read it, I just remember reading it. Somebody was recounting a story of them praying and inviting some non-Christians to it. It's probably a home Bible study. And one of these uh non-believers m said they were so impressed by the personalness and boldness of their prayers in the sense that you can just go talk that plainly to God You can speak to God about these things? And the answer is yes. Because through the ministry of Christ as our high priest and advocate, Redeemer who sent the Spirit into us, we cry to God, Abba Father. We say, Daddy. And so we can surely tell Daddy the things that we need and are struggling with. And that's what he means by Christian confidence. And he's saying if you let go of Christ, you will not have that. Nobody but Christ and faith in Christ can you have that kind of confidence and boldness to go before God Also what he says is tied to uh our Christian confession of Christ is our boasting, our rejoicing and hope This is tied to our confession of Christ as the apostle, right? Jesus has come and spoken to us about that great salvation which we can hope in and boast in. I I'm always um challenged by James in verse 9 in chapter 1 when he says, let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation. So imagine in James's congregation at that time, people got tired of the poor pauper coming in and saying how rich he is in Christ because they ain't got nothing here but he believes his gospel and he's very wealthy and he rejoices in it. Do we rejoice in our hope? Do we have something that we boast in? When is the last time you boasted about what you're going to be? See, I think this gets to the point where rubber meets the road for us. Whether we're really resting on the finished work of Christ is if you're boasting in what's yours, not because you did anything Because of what Jesus did. And you're glad for it and you want it. And he's saying if you depart from Christ There goes your joy, there goes your rejoicing and what he's done. And so he says, Hold fast I've uh uh I've gone on a fair bit, so I'm not gonna go uh further with uh these warnings. We'll go with it next time on um as we get into it the reality of these warnings And we'll continue looking at this if you hold fast, and we'll pick up the next time with the if you hold fast, and as you if you're aware in the debates Between Arminians and Reformed about what's the reality, these are these real warnings, are these hyper Pathetical warnings, it's important teaching, and I don't want to try to give it to you in a few minutes when you've already had a lot of stuff, so we'll pick up there uh next time. But here's where I want to uh leave you I read an article this week on this passage, and these scholars are arguing for the theme of this letter to be this. The migrant camp of God's redeemed people. The migrant camp of God's Redeemed people. But I would give you that to meditate as the household of God, as chapter two said, we have been redeemed by Christ, just as much as God redeemed his people through Moses. God was faithful Moses was faithful and God redeemed him. Jesus was faithful, has redeemed us. We're now out, if you want to say, in the wilderness. That's sort of the background of numbers here for these warnings and exhortations to this congregation as we're being brought to our promised rest, which is what chapter four dwells on a lot. And the reason I bring this up is that I want that to sink into our mindsets, that we are a diaspora people We're in place. We are here in this world. We're American citizens. God may call you and be give you a visa somewhere else. So you have a place here, but you're not home And therefore we're a migrant people, we're the migrant camp of God's redeemed people because he is bringing us to that promised rest. And I just love this idea because it so binds and ties us together as a people with an identity. Because one of the things we're all going to be challenged with as we go through the book of Hebrews together is the corporate responsibility to care for each other that nobody falls short of God's grace. And so we need to really have in our mindset as God's people that we are his migrant camp, of his redeemed people. The Church of Jesus Christ is that migrant camp. That God is leading through our risen Savior through the trials and testings of this life, bringing us to our promised rest. Congregation, you are The household of God. Hold fast to your confidence and your boasting in hope