So we are looking at this passage, and this is the resurrected Jesus now appearing to his disciples, to his followers, his little group. And uh he's giving a very, very brief debrief. Lots happened in the past couple days. So if you guys know your Bible, a lot a lot happening is uh he he was crucified on the cross. He was put to death. He rose again from the dead. This has never happened in the history of mankind, right? And so he's showing himself alive again to his group of followers. And so there there needs to be a debriefing. Should there not be? And so the way that he is able to summarize everything that's happened is he calls it the law of Moses, the prophets, and the psalm. But basically what he's saying is all of the Old Testament. All of the Old Testament, hey guys, it was leading to a very, very specific promise. Now, through the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, that promise has now been fulfilled. And from now on, this promise is going to be the promise that saves all nations and all peoples. That's the way that he's able to summarize everything that's happened. That's the way that he's able to summarize the entire scripture. And so This is a summarization of the gospel, the good news, of what we are holding on to each and every day of our lives. Now, as he is giving this summary, he uses a very, very particular word. Now, if I told you to go back and look at these three verses and told you to find a very particular word, there's a lot of important uh What I call Christianese. There's a lot of Christian words there that we could pick apart and say, that one's important. And that one's important. And that one's important. But there's a very particular word that if you look at these three verses in the Greek that Jesus uses, that's very, very important. And that's what I wanted to point out today. The word that he uses is in Greek dei, dei, day. And what it means is must. It's absolutely necessary. It has to happen. Must. It's this word day. Now, there's other words in Greek that's used in the New Testament that signify the same understanding of necessity or must. For instance, there's another word, kre Cray is another word that denotes must, but it's according to that situation. If you were to use the Greek word kray, what it means is It's necessary due to the circumstances. It's very practical wisdom. It's the best action for this particular situation. That's what cray means. Dei means something different. Day is used in the New Testament over 100 times, and each time it's used, it's for a very, very specific purpose. What's happening when the word day is used, it's denoting something that is absolute. It must happen. And the reason why it must happen is because it's something binding, like a promise. And it's something that is proper. It's the right thing. It's the moral necessity. It has to happen because it's the right thing. And it has to happen because it's inevitable. It's by divine mandate. It's because it's God's absolute plan that this must happen. These are the times the word day is used. In each case, day signals is something that must happen. By the very nature of the gospel. And that's going to be the running theme throughout this sermon today. So hold on to that. It's something that must happen by the very nature of the gospel. And so we're looking at this short section of three, four verses. Oh, four verses, sorry. It was four verses. I kept saying three already, right? And it's this word day is used twice. Twice. The first time it's used is in verse 44. So let's look at that verse again using the word day. Then he said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you He's saying, hey, remember those three years where I was sharing everything with you guys? This is what it actually meant. That everything written about me in the law of Moses And the prophets and the psalms they must be fulfilled. So she's saying All of that in the Old Testament, right? Well, because there's no New Testament yet. All of the scriptures, all the law, the Moses, the prophets, the Psalms, all of that was written about me, and it absolutely had to happen. It must be fulfilled. Also, let's go back a little bit and dig a little bit deeper. The law of Moses, this is the law that God gave to his chosen people. And then the prophets and the Psalms, it's all of these different narratives that show how uh faithful God's people were in keeping with God's law. And, you know, if you haven't looked at your Old Testament lately Spoiler alert, they're not very good at it. Right? And so he's going through this law of Moses, and Jesus keeps saying it had to be fulfilled. It had to have been followed. What is this law of Moses? See, the law of Moses was this covenant between God and his chosen people. You see, there's a very distinct understanding of position, that God is the creator and we are his creation. And so God creates this covenant where He says, I will be your God and you will be my people. And in order to have this relationship between creator and creation, he gives us these laws This is the way that we are supposed to relate to a spiritual God. And so, when Jesus describes these laws, which word does he use? Did he use Kray Or did he use day? I already gave it away, right? It's day. They must be fulfilled. It is by a binding obligation. That's what a covenant is And so when we hear this word obligation, immediately what comes to mind is uh Some ruthless dictator and exploitation of his subjects, right? That's our understanding of obligation. Oh man, I have uh our our children, we're obligated to do something for our parents and it's like, oh, this ruthless dictator of a parent, right? Make me clean my room, make me do this, make me do my homework, oh, this obligation. It's not this kind of obligation that we have to God You see, God gave us these very laws to keep us and save us from our sins. See, sin is what separates us from God. Sin is what quenches the Spirit And when sin entered, when did sin enter? Sin entered when we chose autonomy over God. And the moment we did that, now it's up to me to define my own joy, my peace. my success. It's up to me to uh realize my own joy and peace and success. And the moment this happens, now look what it's done to the self. We have these existential crises, right? Confusion, anxiety, and stress. We don't, you know, it it looks like in the year 2025 we don't even know what gender we are anymore. And we have this this craziness and confusion and uh this list of mental disorders And at the core of it, the crux of it, we're dealing with this deep-seated guilt and shame and regret. This is what God was trying to keep us from. And if that's what it's doing to the self, what is it doing to us? It's leading to war, exp exploitation, crime. You guys read the news, right? This was not a great week Not a great week at all. And so as a pastor, I had multiple people asking me, well, what do you think? Well, what do you think? Well, what I think, where do you think this sermon came from? You see, God gave us these very, very particular laws for a very, very particular purpose. We were never meant to decide for ourselves what is good. Because the moment that happens, what hap w what has it led to? It's killing me. And it's killing us We are obligated to follow God's law. This is a covenantal necessity It's not just practical. It's not cray. It's not a circumstantial option. Well, you know, I think this is the best option for this situation. I think I could profit the most if I choose to follow God's law. I think by following God's law, it's going to be the path of least resistance. That is not the way that we are supposed to be approaching God and the laws that He gave us. See, in Acts 5. 29, the apostles say, we they must obey God rather than men. So what are the apostles saying here? Are they saying, hey, you know what? It's better or advisable to follow God's law. Are they using the word pray? Absolutely not. What the apostles are trying to get to is we must absolutely follow God's law because it's his divine mandate. We must follow this at any cost. They're not just choosing the most practical course. Yet this is something that I think in the year 2025 and our age and our generation and our society It's very difficult to fully fathom the sacredness of God's Word. I mean, how many times have you guys read Uh 2 Samuel 6, where you come across Uzzah, when they put the Ark of the Covenant on the back of the cart and they're taking it and it hits this bump And the Ark of the Covenant looks like it's about to fall off the end of the cart. And Uzzah reaches out with his hand and he catches the Ark of the Covenant. And he does this good thing He does this holy thing. He saved God's Ark of the Covenant. And for that, God puts him to death. Why? Because God said, don't ever touch it. And so we sit there and we read the story and we're like, what's going on, God? Why'd you kill him? He was doing a good thing. Yeah, you said don't touch it, but I mean look at his intent. And we completely miss out on God's word that must be followed 100%. And if if I were to go into explaining why, that's a completely different sermon, right? But we look at Moses. Moses is told to speak to the rock so that it could flow water. But he strikes the rock. And by doing so, God says, nope, you don't get to enter the promised land. That this journey of 40 years, you don't get to see the end of it. You don't get to enter in. That's what's the big difference what's the big deal, God? Instead of speaking to the rock, he he's he struck the rock And it's such a small, minor detail that he didn't follow God's law. But according to God and his judgment, he's saying, no, that is not something that I can just let go. There's a sacredness to God's law that we lose hold of so often The understanding of the first usage of the word day is that it expresses our binding obligation under God's absolute authority, his covenant. The gospel must be applied to my life each and every day. It's the only way, because the only other option is sin. And God's way must be done, no matter what the cost is. And so our Christian life that we live out inside of our fields day to day, whether it's our workplace, whether it's our school, whether it's in our family Our Christian life is not merely advice-based, but it's very much command-based upon God's absolute word. It's grounded in God's absolute sovereign word. And so the use of day, the gospel, the nature of the gospel right now, reflects God's non-negotiable will. It shows the believer's obligation to live in obedience. This is not habitual. Well, this is just what I come to do, so every Sunday I just magically wake up at the same time, put on the same clothes, and go through the same it's not habitual and it's not out of pragmatism It's not just, yeah, I guess that's the right way. It's an absolute obedience to God's absolute word. The gospel tells us that the law must be fulfilled day, 100%. You must be perfect all the time, forever Yeah, no one says amen to that, right? Do you guys see what's happening by the very nature of the gospel right now? The very nature of the gospel should be convicting you It should be convicting you. And so I look out and I see multiple pairs of eyes right now, kind of thinking, great I came to church to be strengthened and, you know, like receive some sort of encouragement. What hope do I possibly have to ever achieve this? Well, let me answer that for you. You don't. You don't. Yet Jesus says that this must be fulfilled Jesus says it must be fulfilled, but you can't, and I can't, and we can't, and because he knows that, he fulfills it for us. And this is where the second usage of day comes in. I don't know if you guys spotted it because it's a different word in English, but it's found in verse 46. And Jesus said to them, Thus it is written that the Christ they should suffer, and on the third day rise from the dead So in this very short section, the use the the word day is used twice. Once to denote the absolute necessity of covenant fulfillment, and secondly, it's used to show the necessity of Christ's suffering and resurrection as the fulfillment of the law, of the covenant. Isn't that really cool? Now, what does that mean for us? The redemptive work of Christ happens under the unbreakable must of God's eternal decree And this is found multiple times in the New Testament. John 12, 34. The Son of Man, day must be lifted up. John 20, verse 9. They did not yet understand that it was Day necessary for Jesus to rise from the dead. Mark 8, 31, Luke 9, 22, Matthew 16, 21, the Son of Man, day must suffer many things. Jesus repeatedly uses day to denote what must occur to him because it's according to God's plan. This is God's redemptive plan. Christ's suffering, his death, his resurrection, and his ascension were not optional, but these were central to God's redemptive design. You guys see that happening? Why? It's the sin, the death, the destruction that we introduced into this world. You know. It only gets worse. And this is the fundamental characteristic of sin. If you leave it alone on its own, it's never going to get better. It's always going to get worse. And if you want proof of that, just read the news of the past week again. This is what sin absolutely does. There's no escape. There's nothing that we can do to ever resolve this sin. There's nothing that we can do to ever escape from this pattern of sin. Because none of us, nobody can fulfill that covenant. Therefore, somebody has to come. Somebody has to pay the price of all of that sin. It must happen by the very nature of the gospel day. And so Jesus comes Jesus comes and he fulfills the law perfectly. He doesn't sin. So because he doesn't sin, he's not under the law of sin Yet he chooses to pay the price of that sin on our behalf, even though we don't deserve it. And so what do we call that? There's that Christian East word. That's grace, guys. That's a grace. And to show us that he has completely defeated sin and death, he rose again from the dead. The second usage of day, it shows us the grace and mercy of our Savior Jesus Christ. It's what Christ must do on our behalf. The Son of Man must suffer and die. We can't do it, so Christ did it for us. So we look at these two usages of the word day And it reveals the very nature of the gospel. The gospel, it convicts us. It convicts us of our sin. It shows us exactly who we are. And so, you know, if we're walking around feeling like we're all that, like I'm a Come on, guys. I mean, like, we're we're good people, right? We like look at this liturgy that we go through on Sundays. We gotta be good people. We're holy people. We're righteous people And whenever we're feeling that, the nature of the gospel tells you, remember who you are. You were lost in your sin. And it convicts us of our sin. But at the very same moment, the nature of the gospel comforts us by the grace and mercy of Jesus Christ. And this is what the gospel does in our daily life. If this sermon is reaching you in some way where it's convicting you of your own pattern of sin, You know, you might be thinking to yourself, you know, there's this pattern of sin that I just can't break free from. There's this This addiction or obsession or lifestyle habit or thought process that it just seems like I can't escape from. If the gospel today is convicting you of that kind of sin. That's what drives us to true repentance. True repentance. Repentance, it means turning away from, right? Meaning, I despise this sin. I see the death and destruction and chaos that my sins are causing. And I don't want to do that anymore. I don't want to be that kind of person anymore. And I want to turn away from it. That's true repentance as we come to Jesus Christ. Not, hey, Jesus Can you kind of take care of this thing for me? Great, I'm gonna be over here doing my own thing. That's not repentance, that's manipulation. That's manipulating Jesus. Right? A true repentance A heartfelt hatred of my sin where we don't want it anymore. And when we bring it to Jesus Christ, what does he do? He meets us with the comfort of his grace and his mercy. Give it to God today. Give it to God. A true heartfelt repentance. And see what He does with it. This is the submissiveness. This is the obedience that God calls us to. And remember we've been talking about there's a other part of the gospel. If you're walking around in your daily life Really comfortable thinking you're all that and no, I'm kind of free from my patterns of sin, and I'm just very comfortable in the grace and mercy of Jesus. There's a couple more verses that I just wanted to point out to you. Where the word day is used actually. John 4, it says that Jesus had to. had to pass through Samaria, and later on down in the end of the chapter, he had to meet the Samaritan woman at the well. Which is amaz I was just talking with Aaron right before his service and we were talking about oh wow this is like the woman at the well for Jesus it wasn't just a this just happened to happen Hey, you know what? I'm kind of thirsty, so I'm going to go by the well. John 4 explicitly states that it had to happen day. Why is that? And Acts chapter 9, this is Paul's conversion story, right? And after Jesus appears to Paul and he's blinded. Verse six it says, but get up and enter the city, and it will be told you what you they must do. And so we ultimately know what was Paul's mission, his God-given mission. It was to go to the Gentiles. Paul had to go to the Gentile day. The reason why I bring this up as we conclude this sermon is what is your call? What is your obligation, your must, your day? For this week, for this year, for this season in your life, what is it that God is calling us to do? And it's not something that It's you know just a choice, not something where I I think this might be the right way, but this is my God-given purpose. In my field, in my school, in my workplace, what is it that God absolutely wants of me? And as we continue to discover that inside of the Holy Spirit, will you obey? Not out of pragmatism, not this option benefits me the most, not because the circumstances forced us to do it, not because other men have compelled us to do it but out of a complete faith in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I bless you guys in Jesus' name that throughout this next one week Through your walk of faith, that you continue to be convicted of your sins, but finding your comfort inside of the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ And this is how we continue to walk our Christian life in our day-to-day.