The first reading is from Exodus 3, verses 7 through 22. Then the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. And have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. I know their sufferings, and I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up out of the land to a good and broad land, a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites and the Hittites The Amorites, the Perizites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. And now, behold, the city of the people of Israel has come to me, and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppressed them. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. But Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children out of Israel children of Israel out of Egypt? He said, But I will be with you, and this shall be the sign that you for you that I have sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain. Then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask, What is his name? What shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, Say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent me to you. God also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel: the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abram, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say to them, The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, I have observed you and what has been done to you in Egypt. And I promise that I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites and the Hittites, the Amorites and the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, a land flowing with milk and honey And they will listen to your voice, and you and the elders of Israel shall go to the king of Egypt and say to him: The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. And now please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go unless compelled by a mighty hand. So I will stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all the wonders that I will do in it. After that he will let you go. And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and when you go, you shall not go empty. But each woman shall ask of her neighbor. And any woman who lives in her house for silver and gold jewelry and for clothing, you shall put them on your sons and on your daughters, so shall you plunder the Egyptians. Reading of Hebrews thirteen one through six. Hebrews thirteen beginning at verse one Let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares Remember those who are in prison as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you are also in the body. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous Keep your life free from the love of money, and be content with what you have. For he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. So we can confidently say, the Lord is my helper, I will not fear. What can man do to me? And then please turn to the Gospel of John, where we have the Lord Jesus conversing with the Jews of his day. John 8, 45 through 59. In the middle of the conversation, Jesus says, But because I tell you the truth, you do not believe in me Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. The Jews answered him. Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my father, and you dishonor me. Yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died, as did the prophets. Yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died, and the prophets died? Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say He is our God. But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I did not know him, I would be a liar, like you. But I do know him, and I keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. The word of the Lord, thanks be to God. Well, Lord, you inspire these words to be recorded by your Holy Spirit through the instrumentality of men. They are flawless, and yet we are flawed. So illumine our hearts and minds by your Spirit that we may understand your word in all its depth And apprehending your glory, lay our lives at your feet. Amen. We live in an age of self-esteem Self-esteem is a constant mantra, a constant practice, a constant worry. And this is especially true in the case of children. Children are told that they are great, that they are, quote, the best, that they are special. No one is supposed to feel inadequate in any way. Of course, this is not realistic. At the outdoor high school graduation of Wellesley High School in Massachusetts in 2012 Teacher David McCullough sparked a bit of controversy in his speech there. Here is some of what he said. Listen. He said to the students, commencement is life's great ceremonial beginning with its own attendant and highly appropriate symbolism. Fitting, for example, for this auspicious rite of passage is where we find ourselves this afternoon, the venue. Normally I avoid cliches like a plague and wouldn't touch them with a 10-foot pole, but here we are on a literal level playing field. It was an outdoor graduation. That matters, he says. That says something. And your ceremonial costume, shapeless, uniform, one size fits all, whether male or female, tall or short, scholar or slacker. Spray Tanned Prom Queen or Intergalactic Xbox Assassin, each of you is dressed, you'll notice, exactly the same. And your diploma, but for your name, exactly the same. All of this is as it should be, because none of you is special You were not special. You were not exceptional. Contrary to what your soccer trophy suggests Your glowing seventh grade report card, despite every assurance of a certain corpulent purple dinosaur. Or that nice Mr. Rogers and your Aunt Sylvia, no matter how often your mother has swooped in to save you, you're nothing special. Yes, you've been pampered, cosseted, doted upon, helmeted, bubble wrapped. Yes, capable adults with other things to do have held you, kissed you, fed you, wiped your mouth, wiped your bottom, trained you, taught you, tutored you. coached you, listened to you, counseled you, encouraged you, consoled you, encouraged you again. You've been nudged, cajoled, wheedled, and implored. You have been fetid and fond over and called sweetie pie. Yes, you have. And certainly we've been to your games, your plays, your recitals, your science fairs. Smiles ignite when you walk into a room and hundreds gasp with delight at your every tweet And now you've conquered high school, and indisputably here we have all gathered for you the pride and joy of this fine community, but do not get the idea you're anything special because you're not Across this country, no fewer than 3. 2 million seniors are graduating about now, and more than 37,000 high schools. 37,000 valedictorians, 37,000 class presidents, 92,000 harmonizing altos, 340,000 swaggering jocks But why limit ourselves to high school? After all, you're leaving it. So think about this. Even if you're one in a million on a planet of 6. 8 billion, that means you're there are nearly 7,000 people just like you. He went on to challenge them to do something worthwhile instead of thinking the world owed them something because of how special they are. Now, men and women, boys and girls, we may have too high a view of ourselves, and it's unwarranted Or we may have too low a view of ourselves. Either one can be crippling. So we need to have a right framework for thinking about ourselves. And here at Moses, at the burning bush, we see these things turn to Exodus 3, and I'm going to begin again at verse 7, just to remind you of the context. Here's Moses at the burning bush. The Lord said, I have surely seen the afflection of my people who are in Egypt and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. I know their sufferings. I have come down, God says to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up out of that land to a good and broad land, land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, the Jebuzites And now, behold, the cry of the people of Israel has come up to me, and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppressed them. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh. Oh boy Come, I will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. And when Moses heard those words, come, I will send you to Pharaoh. I think his heart sank. I think he began to say, oh no. I don't feel up to it. I don't feel very special just now. So in verse 11 But Moses said to God, who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? Think about it now. Moses is remembering where he is. Where is he? He's in Midian. He's not in Egypt. And he's not in Canaan. He's in Midian. He's not with his own Hebrew people. Why not? Because 40 years earlier, he took vengeance, he did a just act, he killed an oppressive Egyptian, and he had to run for his life. What happened in the past when he tried to deliver his own people, who he expected, would welcome him and say, Yes, we're glad you're here. Lead us out. They rejected him. And now he's being sent to Pharaoh, back to Pharaoh, and Pharaoh and Egypt is at its zenith in world history. It is the most powerful nation on earth at this point. And these people are quite accustomed to having Hebrew slaves doing all the really hard work around there. And he knows that the task announced by God is ridiculously impossible. And so instead of answering God with a, well, after all, I am special. Well, you picked the right man, Lord. I am omnicompetent. My parents told me so. My teachers have always held me in highest regard. I am special. He doesn't say that. He says, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? Who am I? Now, we know that Moses actually is special, isn't he? He was specially born. He was specially preserved from death in the Nile River. He was raised as a Hebrew for a while and given a fine Egyptian education. We know that. And he understood himself as God's special deliverer. But his first attempt, as we have already said, was a colossal failure. And now he feels quite inadequate. Do you ever feel inadequate? Again, we can have too high a view of ourselves, which is unwarranted, or too Too low a view of ourselves because of our frailty and our failures and our past. And both can be crippling. And God gives just the right and realistic view. And that comes in the next verses, verse 12. And God said, But I will be with you. And this shall be the sign for you that I have sent you when you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain. Well, that was a good start. I will be with you. That is the answer, isn't it? That's the answer. That's the antidote for our inadequacy. God will be with us. But then just listen to what God says at that particular moment. This shall be the sign for you that I have sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain. Moses listening to this, probably saying First, I have to go back to Egypt, risk my life, hoping that no one remembers what happened long ago. Then he has to confront the most powerful man in the world with God's word, let my people go Then, after we've gotten out of there, then I'll know that you've been with me. No, God helps him more in verse 13. But then Moses said to God, what if I come to the people of Israel and they say and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? And God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, Say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent me to you. The God. God also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel, the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say to them, The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac and Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, I have observed you and what has been done to you in Egypt, and I promise that I will bring you up out of Egypt, out of the affliction of Egypt, to the land, and there's the list of places, a land flowing with milk and honey. And then verse 18, and they will listen to your voice this time. And you and the elders of Israel shall go to the king of Egypt. So God is basically unpacking for him and saying, It's not just that you'll know I was with you when we get out. He says, I'll be with you and this will happen and that will happen and they'll listen to you this time and there'll be plagues and there'll be signs And the king won't want to let you go, but I will be with you, and I will deliver you. Therefore, Moses, you are adequate. Not in yourself, but because I am with you. The God of your fathers, that's who it is, the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. Who's that? As we said last week, that is the God of creation, the God who created everything, spoke it into existence by his powerful word. It is the God who is the covenant cutter, who cut the animals and laid them half over half, and walked down the path himself and swore that he would die himself. If this is not kept in full. He swore in his own life. And he is the same God who promised to an old man and an old lady who had no kids and innumerable descendants. And guess what? That's already been noted as having begun to happen in great abundance as God has blessed the population of the Hebrews in Egypt. They're populating like rabbits, as I said. And God says, and not only all that, but when you come out, I'm going to do an act of justice. I'm going to plunder the Egyptians. You're going to plunder the Egyptians. I'm going to tell you to borrow or take or receive from all the women jewelry and riches and clothing And you're going to plunder them because you're going to leave with it. You're going to get your back wages for all the times when you were slaves. This is the I am who makes this promise to Abraham at this burning bush in Midian 40 years after he tried the first time. And he gives his name here. That's an important thing too. When when he tells who he is, he says I am. It's the I am who will be with you. And the word Lord in our Bibles, when it's spelled, by the way, in the Old Testament, when it's spelled with all caps, The word Lord has behind it the Hebrew word which we try to pronounce. We don't know exactly how to pronounce it, but we try to pronounce it Yahweh. It's Y-H-W-H. It's connected with with the verb ya-ha. I know I got it wrong. The verb ha-ya. It's easy to get that wrong. the verb haya, which is the verb to be. So it's connected with that. And what God is saying is, I am who I am I'm not going to, I can't begin to describe myself. I am who I am. I am being itself. And it also has a future tense. I will be, who I will be, or what I will be. And what that means as God is explaining it to Moses is not some esoteric thing where God is defining his being against his substance or his essence or something like that. That's not what Abraham, that's not what Moses needed to hear. What he was saying to Moses is, I am who I am. I promise you that I'm the God of your fathers, the God who cuts covenant, the God who keeps promises. And you will see more. I will be who I will be. As you follow me, as this unfolds, you will see more of me. You will see more of me by observing my doings. And then we end with those last phrases, you will go out with plunder, justice, making things right, punishing wrong, repayings for slave labor. And that's what we end up with. I am, will be with you, is what God says to frail, inadequate feeling Moses. I am will be with you. And that's what makes you special. Moses and brothers and sisters and young people, children, that's what makes you special. God is with you. God has promised to be with you. That's what makes you special. Now roll the scene forward, 1400 years or so, and we see Jesus talking with the Jews. And in John John chapter 8, verse 21, he says, I am going away, and you will seek me And you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. So the Jews said, will he kill himself? Since he says, where I am, you cannot come? And he said to them, you are from below, I am from above, you are of this world, I am from not of this world. Then verse 24, listen to this. I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He. In John, we have a number of these I am sayings. And here's one of them. It's not readily seen in English grammar, but there it is. Unless you believe that I am he, I am who We'll get it a little clearer later. You will die in your sins. So they said to him, Who are you? They said to him, Who are you? Then we skip down to verse 48. And the Jews, as I read earlier, answered him, Are we not right in saying you have a Samaritan and a demon? And Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me, yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. Truly I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have a demon. And here's what they're gonna con Here's the way they're gonna scheme this. Abraham died as did the prophets, yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. He says, hey, look, the best prophets we ever had, the most important patriarchs that ever existed died. And you said, and you, Jesus, are saying to us that if you believe in me and keep my word, you won't die? Are you greater than our father Abraham who died and the prophets who died? Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus is going to get to the answer. Jesus answered, if I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God. But you have not known him. I know him. And if I were to say I didn't know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him and I keep his word. Your father, and this is another time where Jesus Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. Just fathom that. Jesus is saying, your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. What is that about? And he saw it, Jesus says, and was glad. How could Abraham see Jesus' day? Abraham lived 2,000 years BC So the Jews said to him, and they're calculating these things, you're not 50 years old, and have you seen Abraham? And Jesus said, Amen, amen. I say to you, before Abraham was, and here it is again, I am. Before Abraham was, I am. It's that word from that verb for existence. He doesn't say, before Abraham existed, I existed, he uses the divine name that God gave to Moses at the burning bush. He says, before Abraham existed, I am. So they picked up, they got it. They finally got it. They picked up stones to throw at him. He needs to be stoned to death because he's blaspheming. He's claiming to be Yahweh. Jesus is the I am. Jesus is the I am. And if his name is on you and you love him and trust him and follow him, he is with you. And that makes you special. All the time, even in your weaknesses and frailty and failure, because Jesus is with you. You are indeed special. I'm not special in and of myself. I'm not worthy. I am indisp I'm certainly not indispensable. I'm very dispensable. And you, if Jesus is with you, then I am is with you and has promised you great things. And it doesn't matter so much that you are inadequate In fact, the Apostle Paul teaches us that knowing our inadequacy is actually an advantage. In 2 Corinthians 12, 10, he says, For the sake of Christ, then I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong. And in quoting Jeremiah 9, Paul also says in 1 Corinthians 1, But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are nothing To bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God. And because of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom. Where do you get your wisdom? Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God. Righteousness. Where do you get your righteousness? Do you have it in yourself? Because of your great obedience and your perfect thoughts and deeds? No. Because of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption, so that as it is written, and this is from Jeremiah 9, let no one who boasts Boasts in himself. Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. So here it is, and I'm almost finished. Much is nothing without God. No matter how smart you are, no matter how rich you are, no matter how advantages you have, much is nothing without God. And the other side of that is also wonderful. Little is much with God. Children, youth, old people. Little is much with God. You're not special In and of yourselves, but you are the special object of God's redeeming love. You are the special object of God's amazing, life-giving power You are the special object of God's sin-defeating, death-destroying, sinner-saving power. Christ came to save sinners. Who are you? Nobody's special. But God has promised to be with you and never to leave you or forsake you. I am is with you. And that makes you somebody special. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we praise you and thank you that you use frail human beings. Sinners, objects of your love and grace, objects of your choice, of your sovereign saving power, and you make us adequate by your presence with us. Forgive us for our doubts. Forgive us for trying in our flesh. Help us to trust you more. Amen.