Please turn to Joshua three. We'll read the chapter. Joshua three. Then Joshua rose early in the morning and they set out from Shiddem. And they came to the Jordan, he and all the people of Israel, and lodged there before they passed over. At the end of three days, the officers went through the camp and commanded the people. As soon as you see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God being carried by the Levitical priests, then you shall set out from your place and follow it. You and it, about two thousand cubits in length. Do not come near it, in order that you may know the way you shall go, for you have not passed this way before. Then Joshua said to the people, Consecrate yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. And Joshua said to the priest, Take up the Ark of the Covenant and pass on before the people. So they took up the Ark of the Covenant and went before the people. The Lord said to Joshua, Today I will begin to exalt you in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. And as for you, command the priests who bear the Ark of the Covenant. When you come to the brink of the waters of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan. And Joshua said to the people of Israel, Come here and listen to the words of the Lord your God. And Joshua said, Here is how you shall know that the living God is among you, and that he will without fail drive out from before you. The Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, the Gergeshites, the Amorites, and the Jebuzites. Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth is passing over before you have Now therefore, take twelve men from the tribes of Israel, from each tribe a man. And when the soles of the feet of the priests bearing the ark of the Lord, the Lord of all the earth, shall rest in the waters of the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off from flowing and the waters coming down from above shall stand in one heap. So when the people set out from their tents to pass over the Jordan with the priests bearing the Ark of the Covenant before the people, And as soon as those bearing the ark had come as far as the Jordan, and the feet of the priests bearing the ark were dipped in the brink of the water, now the Jordan overflows all its banks throughout the time of harvest. The waters coming down from above stood and rose up in a heap very far away at Adam, the city that is beside Zarathan, and those flowing down toward the Sea of the Araba, the Salt Sea, were completely cut off. and the people passing over opposite Jericho, and the people passed over opposite Jericho. Now the priest bearing the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firmly on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan. And all Israel was passing over on dry ground until all the nation finished passing over the Jordan. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Psalm 144. Please respond. Praise be to the Lord my rock. He is my loving God and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer. O Lord, what is man that you care for him, the Son of Man that you think of him? The two days are like the each shadow. Part your heavens, O Lord, and come down. Touch the mountains so that they smoke. Scatter the ends, shear arrows from high. Reach down your hand from on high. Deliver me and rescue me from the mighty waters. The hands of the foreigners, whose mouths are low-like, whose right hands are receivable. I will sing a new song to you, O God, on the ten-stringed lyre. I will make music to you. Deliver me and rescue me from the hands of foreigners whose mouth Then our sons in their youth will be like well-nurtured plants. And our owners will be like Our barns will be filled with every kind of provision. Our sheep will increase by the thousands by Tens of thousands in our heels are often will draw heavy roads. There will be no breaching of walls, no going into captivity, no cry of distress in our streets. Blessed are the people of whom the Sister. Blessed are the people whom God is the Lord. Amen. All right, Hebrews eleven, twenty-three, through thirty-one. Hebrews eleven, twenty-three through thirty-one. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents because they saw that the child was beautiful, and they were not afraid of the king's edict. By faith, Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God than to enjoy the fleeting pleasures of sin. He considered the reproach of Christ greater wealth than the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking for the reward. By faith he left Egypt, not being afraid of the anger of the king, for he endured as seeing him who was invisible. By faith he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that the destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them. By faith, the people crossed the Red Sea as on dry land, but the Egyptians, when they attempted to do the same, were drowned. By faith, the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days. By faith, Rahab the prostitute, did not perish with those who were disobedient, because she had given a friendly welcome to the spot. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Pray together. Lord, we pray now that you will bless this portion of this narrative of your redemptive work in the world in days long ago. And help us to relate it to your redemptive work in the world today. And in the days ahead. We pray for your help now in Jesus' name. Amen. In Luke chapter 24, We have the story of the resurrection and how Jesus was raised from the dead, and how in the evening of resurrection morning, or re-resurrection morning, and then there was evening, in the evening He met a couple of his disciples, they're not named, on the road to a little town just outside of Jerusalem called Emmaus. He met them, and as he was talking with them, they were very depressed, and they were, oh, it's all bad news. They hadn't heard that Jesus had been raised from the dead. And he He explained to them that Christ had to suffer and Christ had to die and Christ had to be raised from the dead. And uh he had they had heard the rumors of the resurrection, but they just simply hadn't seen him and didn't know that it was true. And then he opened, it says, he opened the scriptures to them. And begin explaining in all the portions of the Old Testament how He was the fulfillment of it. And so we now can understand and expect that as we read narratives like this one in Joshua, That we can see Christ. Because he said all the Old Testament, all the stories, all the narratives were about him. Now they weren't directly about him, but they were indirectly about him. So we're going to see today how this narrative of crossing the Jordan River is really about Christ and about you. Alright? Listen carefully. So we first see the Ark. The Ark. Now we've had the great stories of the Raiders of the Lost Ark long ago. And how they're looking for this magic ark, and if they find it, they can do great things, and everybody's seeking it, and it's crazy. There's caves and snakes and all kinds of stuff. Because of the lost ark. That had to be found. Well, this is the Ark they're talking about. It doesn't that the movie is not reality. This is the reality. What about the Ark Well, it says that Joshua rose early in the morning and they set out from this place, Shitim, and they came to the Jordan. Now that's a very low place on the earth, way below sea level, and then there's a little plain down there Which is a few miles wide, and then there's the Jordan River. And it overflows its banks on this flat place, this plain, when it's uh harvest time when the rains have come in the mountains and and the waters coming down from the mountains melted down, it floods the plain often. And so they came to the Jordan, he and all the people of Israel, and they lodged there before they passed over. At the end of three days, the officers went through the camp and commanded the people. what they said. As soon as you see the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God being carried by the Levitical priests, then you shall set out from your place and follow it. Yet there shall be a distance between you and it, about two thousand cubits in length. Do not come near it, in order that you may know the way you should go, for you have not passed this way before. Then Joshua said to the people, consecrate yourselves. What did that mean? It meant clean yourselves up, get ready Get yourself spiritually and physically prepared. Don't be unclean in any way. For the Lord will do wonders among you. And Joshua said to the priest, Take up the Ark of the Covenant. Put those poles in those loops. And lift it up. Don't touch it. Take up the Ark of the Covenant and pass on before, in front of the people. So they took up the Ark of the Covenant and went before the people. Now note these things. The people were not allowed to get near it. The priests, the Levitical priests weren't allowed to touch it. They had to put these poles through to carry it. No one was allowed to touch it. But the people weren't even allowed to get near it. They were to be 2,000 cubits away from it, no closer than that. How much is that? Well, I did a calculation and found out that it's about a half mile. About a half mile. You couldn't get closer than a half mile. Because it's God's holy ark. His presence is localized there. There is such a thing. God is everywhere, but there is such a thing as his localized, promised presence. And he had designated that he would be in the midst of his people, in the tabernacle, and the Ark of the Covenant was kept in the tabernacle. He dwelt in the midst of his people, and yet in a holy place where he His presence was localized. And that is depicted by these cherubim on top, these angels. Cherubim are the holy angels that guard the very thing. throne of God in heaven. And so these depictions of Cherubim depict that God is holy and that He is guarding His presence with His people. And it's also, as I told the children, like a footstool. It's a box. It's a beautiful box, but people would know it back then as they see this thing. You know, that looks like the footstool of one of these ancient Near Eastern kings. And so we find out a little bit later in Isaiah 66. Here's what it says, thus says the Lord. Heaven is my throne. That's where God's sitting, right? And earth is my footstep So the whole earth is his footstool, but then his localized presence is here. And he's saying, I'm among you, and here's how I'll show you that I'm among you. Here's my footstool. You can expect my feet to be here. Okay? And then he says in Isaiah 6, he says, What is this house that you would build for me, and what is the place of my rest? All these things have been made by my hands, declares the Lord. But this is the one to whom I will look, he who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. God wants his people To be aware of him and his presence, his localized presence, and tremble at his word. Fear yet love at the very same time. Because earth is my footstool and I am locally present. Wherever I tell you, I will be locally present. So be careful about it. And we have to think back for a moment. The tabernacle in which this ark was dwelling as they moved for 40 years, this tabernacle was a little replica of Eden. In the tabernacle, as you read the details of the tabernacle, there were engravings of beautiful tapestries, because it was a tent, and these engravings were of palm trees. and lush foliage and fruit. What was that depicting? It was memorializing what had happened In the Garden of Eden, how God had created everything for Adam and Eve. And God met with them daily and dwelt with them, and they could eat all the fruit of all the trees of the garden except one And so the tabernacle with the ark in the midst of it was this little replica of Eden, where God dwelt with Adam and Eve. It's also at the very same time a replica of heaven, because God is saying, heaven is my throne, really. I dwell with you, but heaven is my throne. So this is the real tabernacle in heaven. And that's what the writers of Hebrews tell them. And so even this land of Canaan, God owns the whole earth. He says, I'm going to localize my presence with my people in this land which I am giving them. Canaan was to be a sort of recreation. of Eden. You know what the descriptions are about Canaan, right? It's a high desert, lots of rocks and stuff like that. Little creeks that don't flow most of the time. That's the way it is today. But what was it then? A land flowing with milk and honey, pastures and green grasses and cows so fat because they have such lush pastures and Stuff to eat that they get really big. That was the way Canaan was back then. And even climatological studies have proven that that was the way it was. back then. Climate change is nothing new. So what's inside this Ark of the Covenant, kids? What's inside the Ark? Adults? Well, the Covenant Treaty. When kings would make a treaty with a people, he would write out the treaty covenant. And he would keep a copy for himself, for his own records, and he would give them a copy. And then he would say, I'm going to do this for you, and you're going to do this for me. And God, the great king, the greatest king ever, had made a treaty with his people at Mount Sinai, had he not? And he had given them a Copy of his law, the ten words is the embodiment of that copy of the law. And there were two copies then placed in this box, this Ark of the Covenant. To remind them that he was the God who had made covenant with them, who would promise great things to them. And so he's going with them symbolically as he keeps this in the box. And then what else? There was Aaron's old dead walking stick. Well, that's no good, is it? What's that for? Well, it proves something. It proves something long before. That God gives life to the dead. Do you want to know that God gives life to the dead? dead? Do you realize that even if you're a child, you're only going to live maybe 80, 90, 100 years? And And that's it. But God gives life to the dead. Back in Numbers 17, you can turn there if you like. Number 17, we see about this old dead walking stick and what God was doing with it. Number 17, 1 through 8, I'll read it when you can listen or follow along. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the people of Israel and get from them staff. Now let me stop. Here. The people of Israel have been wandering around in the wilderness for a while and they are sick of it. And they don't trust their leaders, and they're grumbling and complaining, and God is really mad at them for their grumbling and complaining and not believing. After he's delivered them from Egypt, he has really had it with them. And they're grumbling and complaining. He's about ready to wipe them out. He's guessed that way several times So here's what he says, speak to the people of Israel and get from them staffs, one for each father's house, from all their chiefs, according to their father's houses, twelve. So you're going to get twelve sticks, walking sticks. Write each man's name on his staff, and write Aaron's name on the staff of Levi. For there shall be one staff for the head of each father's house. Then you shall deposit them in the tent of meeting. That's that tabernacle, that Eden, that paradise replica. Deposits them in the tent of meeting before the testimony where I meet with you. Verse 5. And the staff of the man whom I choose shall staff. Sprout. Thus I will make to cease from me the grumblings of the people of Israel which they grumble against you. Moses spoke to the people of Israel and all their chiefs, gave them his staff, one for each chief according to their father's houses, twelve staffs. And the staff of Aaron was among their staves, and Moses deposited the staffs before the Lord in the tent of the testimony. Verse 8. On the next day, Moses went into the tent of testimony, and behold, the staff of Aaron, for the house of Levi had sprouted and put forth buds. Not just that. Produced blossoms, and it bore ripe almonds. Now that's a miracle, is it not? God brings life from the dead, and God is saying, This is my man, you better keep your mouth shut. You better stop your grumbling. You better believe and you better follow, because this is my man. Listen to him. Right? He's got the the the staff that budded and bore ripe on Almonds and bloomed and all that. So put this one in the box to remind my people that I'm with them, that I give life to the dead. And then one more thing, put in the box A jar of manna. And let's look where that is in Exodus chapter 16. Exodus 16. Beginning at verse 33. Just three verses here. Two verses, really. Verse 33 of Exodus sixteen. And Moses said to Aaron, Take a jar. And put an omer of manna in it. And place it before the Lord to be kept throughout your generations. Now just let me remind you that this manna stuff Um it was good for one day. It had a shelf life of one day. Remember that? And uh so they would get some, everybody had enough, they would eat it, and it was uh it was gone. And then uh They could collect twice as much on Friday, so they didn't have to pick up any on Saturday, which was Sabbath And it wouldn't spoil. But if they tried to keep too much, they tried to pick a whole lot more and keep it, it would spoil. It would breed worms. Right? And yet this jar here doesn't do that. It's kept perpetually in this jar. And they did not have um canning devices. They didn't have any any pressure cookers and ball jars and all kinds of stuff like that to keep it. But God kept it, didn't he? So, verse 33, and Moses said to Aaron, Take a jar and put an omer of manna in it, and place it before the Lord to be kept throughout your generations. Long term, no shelf life expiring. As the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron placed it before the testimony to be kept. The people of Israel ate the manna forty years when Till they came to the habitable land. That's Canaan. That's paradise. They ate manna till they came to the border of the land of Canaan. And then it stopped. So keep this as a remembrance that God is sustaining. God will sustain you. And brothers and sisters, we have something today. First of all, we when we get to heaven, we will have paradise. We will have uh bodies that never wear out. We will have uh feast of the Lamb of God, the wedding feast, we will have joy and and things that will never, ever fail. Ever. But even now, we still have God's sustaining grace. First of all, we have the gift of the Holy Spirit who remains with us. But we also have something else. We have the promise of God's outward and ordinary means. We call them in theology, means of grace. That is the preaching of the Word of God and the sacrament. God says, I am here with you. I give myself to you, body and blood of Christ. I am present with you. He's always present everywhere. But no, I'm present here with you on this day, the first day of the week With you in assembly at the table, I give myself to you in this localized, wonderful presence. I will sustain you. And that's why we eat and drink At this table. Because we believe that God keeps his word, that he sustains his people, until we finally cross over into heaven. Where we won't need these sustaining things anymore, but we'll have his very direct, immediate presence with us Now, second thing is the endorsement. We've got the ark. Next, we're going to get to the endorsement. Verses 7 through 13. The Lord said to Joshua, today I begin to exalt you in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. And as for you, command the priests who bear the Ark of the Covenant, quote, When you come to the brink of the waters of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan. So you've got to imagine this. He tells them when you get to the Jordan, you go right down into the middle of it and you stop. What? That's scary. This is a deep river And it's harvest time and it's overflowing its banks already. What do you mean by that? Verse 9, and Joshua said to the people of Israel, Come here and listen to the words of the Lord your God. And Joshua said, Here is how you shall know That the living God is among you, and that he will without fail drive out before you the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, the Gergeshites, the Amorites, and the Jebuzites Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth is passing over before you into the Jordan. What? How can that be? It's flood time. Now, therefore, take twelve men from the tribes of Israel, from each tribe a man, and when the soles of the feet of the priest bearing the ark of the Lord, the Lord of all the earth, shall rest in the waters of the Jordan. The waters of the Jordan shall be cut off from flowing. And the waters coming down from above shall stand up in one heap. I'm going to endorse you. Today I will begin to exalt you in the sight of all Israel. And then he tells them to do this. And Joshua gives the command, and the people are listening now. He really is our leader. Moses was our leader. Now this Joshua is our leader. But what does it remind you of? If we draw lines from here to the future, what kind of lines will we arrive at? How about this? Matthew 17, 1 through 8. Listen to this. After six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John his brother and led them up a high mountain. And he was transfigured before them. And his face shone like the sun. Who did that happen to? Moses. And his Clothes became white as light, and behold, there appeared to them Moses, Elijah, talking with them. And Peter said to Jesus, Lord, It is good that we are here. If you wish, I will make three tents here, one for you and one for Moses, and one for Elijah. Not a good idea. And he was still speaking when a behold a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, Here's the endorsement. Listen. This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. Listen to Joshua. Follow Joshua in the promised land. And here later, much later, listen to my son, my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. God glorifies Joshua here As the people obey what God commands Joshua to do, and Joshua does it. And yet we see in a greater way that Jesus, who led us into the Promised Land, Is being prefigured here. And then we get to the actual crossing, crossing from death to life Verse 14. So when the people set out from their tents to pass over the Jordan, with the priests bearing the Ark of the Covenant before the people half mile in front, remember? As soon as those bearing the ark had come as far as the Jordan, and the feet of the priests bearing the ark were dipped in the brink of the water, And then the parenthesis, now the Jordan overflows all its banks throughout the time of harvest. So it's flood time. Verse 16, the waters coming down from above stood up. and rose up in a heap very far away at Adam, the city that is beside Zarathon. And those flowing down toward the sea of the Erabah, the Salt Sea, were completely cut off. So the water didn't just kind of part ways like the Red Sea, but no, it stops up here and then the water goes on down and there's a wide area to cross. Okay And the people passed over opposite Jericho. Verse 17. Now the priests bearing the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firmly on dry ground. In the midst of the Jordan, and all Israel was passing over on dry ground. Does that not remind you of passing through the Red Sea on dry ground? See how this all works? Until all the nation finished passing over the Jordan. Well, that's interesting. What a miracle. Fantastic indeed. But is there a deeper understanding that we now understand from a Christ-centered point of view? Yes, there is. As the crossing of this Jordan River is a recapitulation of the crossing of the Red Sea, it is also a type of your inheritance. Your adoption, your justification, your future dwelling in heaven as God with man in heaven Crossing from death to life, death in Egypt, death in the wilderness for 40 years. They buried a lot of people, dug a lot of graves, didn't they? Crossing from death to life. So this is really one story that keeps being embellished and developed in history. It keeps being repeated and embellished and made bigger and stronger and clearer in history. That's what Jesus was saying when he said, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them that it was all about him. And so in John 5, 24, we have these words which really ring in your ears. Verily, verily, I say unto you. He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life, not may have, hopes to have, whatever, has everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation, but is in thy life I love this. Crossed over. Crossed over. Some of the modern versions say Passover. I don't like that as much. Crossed over from death unto life. Just like crossing the Red Sea. Just like crossing the Jordan, just like crossing from this life here to heaven Crossed over from death to life. But he says this is already a reality. Hath already crossed over, hath everlasting life now by faith. Faith. Then he says in verse uh twenty-five of John five, Verily, verily I say unto you, the hour is coming and now is when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live. So you see how it all kind of comes to Crossing the Jordan, crossing from death to life by faith in Christ, and at the end of our lives crossing into heaven, into the very presence of God. To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord until He raises our bodies and makes them completely new. That reminded me, because I love hymns, you know me. Reminded me of a hymn. It's not in our book, but I grew up knowing it. I'll quote you some of the stances here. On Jordan's stormy banks I stand and cast a wistful eye. To Canaan's fair and happy land, where my possessions lie. I am bound for the promised land. I am bound for the promised land. Oh, who will come and go with me? I am bound for the promised land. And then o'er all those wide extended plains shines one eternal day. There God the sun forever rains and scatters night away. No chilling winds or poisonous breath can reach that healthful shore. Sickness and sorrow, pain and death are felt and feared no more. When shall I reach that happy place, hopeful waiting, and be forever blessed? When shall I see my Father's face and in his bosom rest? Beautiful hymn putting these things together for us. I am bound for the promised land. Oh, who will come and go with me? We invite everyone around us. If you're not telling your friends, your acquaintances, the people you party with, if you're not telling them about Jesus, you're not much of a friend. Oh, who will come and go with me to the promised land? I am bound for the promised land. Don't let them die in the wilderness. Don't let them die in the desert of sin and death and hell. Invite them. Oh, come and go with me. I am Bound for the promised land. We have this great present reality you see before us that we We see here in this narrative, this crossing. And now Paul says in Colossians 1, we are giving thanks to the Father of light who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us, there's that crossing again, to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. There it is. Redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Leaving Egypt, leaving the wilderness, crossing into Canaan. So, indeed, this is a parable of your redemption. God wants you, brothers and sisters, children. He wants you in his presence. He is bringing you near by the blood of Christ. He has gone ahead of you through the flood judgment. He has stood in the middle of that judgment while you were able to pass by on dry ground. And so we now can confidently say that, as Ephesians 2 says, for through him we have both access in one spirit to the Father. We are no longer strangers and aliens. But we are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the cornerstone God has promised you his presence. He has endorsed Jesus. There is no other name, no other salvation, no other savior And you by faith have already crossed over death. Eternal life has begun for you You have begun eternal life. Heaven is yours. Not maybe, not if you get through purgatory, which is why the reformation needed to happen. were being taught that they had to maybe suffer through purgatory for a few thousand years and then maybe they might make it into paradise. No. It's already happened. You've already crossed from death to life Your sins are all forgiven, past, present, and future. I know that's kind of antinomian, but it's true. We had the salvation already, and yet we wait for it in faith. Amen. Lord, we thank you that you You have given us these powerful images, not just in story, but in reality. And you give us even now These powerful promises of your presence. You promise to be with your gathered people on the Lord's Day. You promise to give yourself to us, body and blood, in the sacrament. You promise that you have already given us eternal life. We pray that you'll help us now, Lord, to be faithful witnesses. To say, oh, who will come and go with me? I am bound for the promised land. Amen.