Please open your Bibles to 1 Samuel, the very first chapter, where we will read verses one through twenty. First Samuel one verses one through twenty. There was a certain man of Ramafaim Zahim. of the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroam, son of Elihu, son of Tohu, son of Zuf, and Ephraite He had two wives. The name of one was Hannah, and the name of the other was Panaya. And Panaya had children, but Hannah had no children Now this man was used to go up this man used to go up year by year from his city to worship and to sacrifice to the Lord of hosts at Shiloh. where the two sons of Eli, Hophani and Phineas, were priests of the Lord. On the day when Elkanah sacrificed, he would give portions to Paniah his wife And to all her sons and daughters, but to Hannah he gave a double portion, because he loved her, though the Lord had closed her womb. And her rival used to provoke her grievously to irritate her because the Lord had closed her womb. So it went on year by year. As often as she went up to the house of the Lord, she used to provoke her. Therefore Hannah wept and would not eat. And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Hannah, why do you weep? And why do you not eat? And why is your heart sad? Am I not more to you than ten sons? After they had eaten and drunk in Shiloh, Hannah rose. Now Eli, the priest, was sitting on the seat beside the doorpost of the Temple of the Lord. She was deeply distressed and prayed to the Lord and wept bitterly. And she vowed a vow and said, O Lord of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your servant, and remember me, and not forget your servant But will give to your servant a son, then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no razor shall touch his head. And she continued praying before the Lord. Eli observed her mouth. Hannah was speaking in her heart, only her lips moved, and her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli took her to be a drunken woman. And Eli said to her, How long will you go on being drunk? Put your wine away from you. But Hannah answered, No, my lord, I am a woman troubled in spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink. But I have been pouring out my soul before the Lord. Do not regard your servant as a worthless woman, for all along I have been speaking out of my great anxiety and vexation. An evil petition that you have made to him. And she said, Let your servant find favor in your eyes. Then the woman went her way and ate, and her face was no longer sad. They rose early in the morning and worshipped before the Lord. Then they went back to their house at Rama. And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife, and the Lord remembered her. And in due time Hannah conceived him and bore a son, and she called his name Samuel, for she said, I have asked for him from the Lord. The word of the Lord. New Testament reading is Luke chapter 1, verses 5 through 26. Think about how this relates to the story from 1 Samuel chapter 1, as you hear the word of the Lord. In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah of the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren. And behold, both were advanced in years. And while he was serving as priest before God, when his division was on duty, according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense. There appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And Zechariah was troubled. When he saw him, he and fell, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great before the Lord. And he must not drink wine or strong drink. And he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. And he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. And the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared. Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years. And the angel answered him, I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news. And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time. And the people were waiting for Zechariah. They were wondering at his delay in the temple. And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them. And they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained mute. And when his time of service was ended, he went home. After these days his wife, Elizabeth, conceived. And for five months she kept herself hidden, saying, Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me to take away my reproach among the people. There ends the reading of God's Word. This is the Word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Or we pray now that as we begin a series in 1 Samuel, as we approach this book of Scripture, That we will understand it according to the purpose for which you inspired it to be written. We pray that it might allow us to enter into the story of your saving grace. individually and corporately. We ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. So here we have the beginning of this story in 1 Samuel. And you read the narrative as we heard it read earlier. And how do you read this story? How do you read this story or other other places in the Bible? How do you do it? Well, you say, I just read it. Well, no. People read the Bible in different ways. Some readers read the Bible, for instance, looking for rules and direction. They think the Bible is a book of rules for living. And you just kind of read it and pick out the rules and then you try to obey them and so forth and so forth. You find the do this, don't do that, and make lists of rules and regulations. For instance, in this particular passage, you might make a rule: do be humble like Hannah, and don't be boasting like Panina, for instance. Some people make rules when they read the scripture like this. Some read it as simply information to be conveyed. A collection of interesting stories from long ago, akin to reading about your ancestors' travels, if you get one of those uh books that tells about all your ancestors and where they came from and so forth and so on. I could do something like that with my own. I learned something about my ancestors a few years ago Uh the Cathys were Ulster Scots that came to America from Ulster, that's Northern Ireland, in 1740, around about that time of They entered at Newcastle, Delaware, and they farmed in Chester County, Pennsylvania. before moving down to the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, where they formed a farm there for a few generations. And later they migrated to the area around Salisbury, North Carolina And settled there permanently, but some branched out into the Western frontier. So what? It's just a story of what happened. They came, they went, they moved here, they lived there, then they moved. So what? It doesn't have any particular meaning. That's just a narration of things that happened. Some people read the Bible like that. Here's a story. This happened, this happened, this happened. And some people read the Bible for doctrines to be gleaned and developed from the text. So someone might take this text and say, let's develop a doctrine of prayer from this text. Hannah prayed out of great need, so the doctrine should be we should pray out of great need. Hannah prayed with tears. So we should all pray with tears. Hannah prayed with her lips moving, if you listen to the narrative. So we should pray with our lips moving. Hannah did not eat while she was fervent in prayer, so prayer should be made while fasting from food. That's that kind of an approach to the Bible. But Jesus tells us not to do those sorts of things. There might be some legitimacy to some of that sometimes, but that's not the main way we should read a text like this. In Luke chapter 24, on the evening of the resurrection, after Some of his disciples were going back to a village called Emmaus. It is recorded in Luke 24 that they were on the road traveling home. They weren't really aware of all that had happened that day, the resurrection day. And Jesus met them on the road, and he told them that the whole Old Testament Was about himself. That's the way we should read this story. It's about Jesus. In Luke 24, verses 44 through 45, then he, Jesus said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you. that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. Did you hear that? Everything in the Old Testament, he's summarized in the Old Testament when he says the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalm is all about himself. And then he says in verse 45, he opened their minds to understand the scriptures. With that in mind, we should go through the whole book of 1 Samuel and beyond Let us look then at the scripture of 1 Samuel 1 and think about how it is all about Jesus Christ. First, let's look at the cast of characters in the story. Elkanah was a man with two wives. Now he was also, we read, from the priestly tribe. He was from that priestly caste of the Levite tribe. But he was a man with two wives. This was not God's design. It's not right to have two wives. It was normal. It happened a lot, but it was not right. He was probably trying to secure his future by doubling up on wives in order to make sure he had children to carry his name. Now, what would be a positive motive for that? Well, faithful Israelites wanted to participate in the future promises of God's covenant And in order to participate, they needed to have children. They wanted to participate in all the grand promises that God had made about the promised land of Canaan. The new ancient homeland that was promised to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And then the Exodus had happened, and Moses had led the Israelites out of Egypt into this. New promised land, or at least nearby. And then later Joshua, the great leader of God's people, led them in to take possession of the promised land. And Elkanah, as I said, was a member of the priestly tribe of the Levites. We're going to see how second that is a little later. So that's who we have here, this man who wants to have children, so he has two wives, and he's a priestly kind of guy. Let's go on to Hannah for a minute so we can understand the story. Hannah, her name means favored one. She was a wife with a loving husband who favored her above his other wife. So much that when it came to passing out the food at the feast, he gave her extra. But, as the text tells us, she was barren. She had no children. And barrenness was a terrible stigma. First, because having multiple children was seen to be a singular blessing of God. And secondly, because she too wanted to have children. So here's this woman. She's favored. Her name is favored, but she has no children. Let's go on to Panina. Her name means fertile. And she was. She was not her husband's favorite, but she did produce children, babies for him. She was proud of herself and used her fertility as a weapon to hurt Hannah, the sister wife. It says in the text, her rival used to provoke her grievously to irritate her. That is, Panina used to Provoke Hannah grievously to irritate her because the Lord had closed Hannah's womb. So it went on year by year. As often as she went up to the house of the Lord, she used to provoke her. Therefore, Hannah wept and would not eat. So this Panina gal, she is using her fertility as a weapon against Hannah. Now, Eli, who is he and what's he about? Eli was priest at the tabernacle in Shiloh along with his sons. A very poor father who failed to restrain his sons in their wickedness and unfaithfulness. He and his sons were indicative. of the spiritual condition of Israel. As someone has said, as the church goes, so goes the nation. And that was certainly evident here. The church, the church of Israel was terrible condition. The priests were terrible. These guys were awful. And let's look at them. Hophni and Phineas. That's the two sons who were priests They were wicked priestly sons of Eli. They corrupted the worship of God, and they were a disgrace to God's name in the sight of the nations. Remember, Israel was to be a light to the world. The nations were to look at Israel and say, wow, what integrity, what wonder. These people live beautifully. They know God. They know how to live. They have good lives. They were to see, the nations were to see Israel. Israel was to be a light to the nations. The nations were to see the glory of God's law, the ethical goodness of this people, and especially they were to see it in the priests. The priests were to be the best representatives of the priest. of the people. But these guys were the exact opposite, as we shall see. And then the final cast, the final person in the cast of characters, is Samuel. the baby boy at the end of the text, who is born to Hannah and Elkanah. His name means asked for. He is the man who will become a forerunner of the king. He will become a reformer in Israel, and he will be a king maker. So that's the cast of characters as we think about this story of God's saving grace. Now let's think about the themes that we see here as we read the story. We see first the vicious cycle. This is a period of the judges when it says everyone did what was right in his own eyes. That's the same period as we studied in the book of Judges. The Israelites would fall into the hands of the enemy. God would let them fall into the hands of the enemy, and let the enemy subjugate them and make them servants and slaves for a while? And then the Israelites would remember who they were, and they would cry out to God, and God would raise up a judge. That's why it's called the period of judging. He would raise up a judge such as Athniel, Ehud, Shamgar, Deborah, Gideon, Tola, Jair, Jephthah, Ibzan, Elon, Abdon, and Samson. You've heard of Samson. This was God's way to restore them for a while, and then they would fall back into it. It was a vicious cycle. And the glorious plan of God for a holy people serving a holy God in a promised holy land was not gaining traction. Like a car stuck in the mud. It was just spinning its wheels. The wheels had in fact come off of the plan. But God had not cancelled the plan This is a vicious cycle, but God hasn't given up. Another theme of this story is barrenness. Barrenness. Hannah's barrenness was not just Hannah's problem. It was Israel's problem too, you see. See, Israel was not making disciples for the future. The people who were being born and being raised in Israel were not disciples. They were in fact corrupt because the priests were corrupt. The nation was corrupt. There were very few faithful people living in those days. The covenant youth were not being instructed and sent into the nation as spiritual leaders. Again, as someone has said, as the church goes, so goes the nation. And the nation was spiritually barren. And we finally see one last theme here: the dawn of hope. When things are darkest, God often sends the light. The birth of Samuel And his parents' thankful dedication of him to the service of God is a remarkable providence. God is sending the light. God is sending a hero, a savior to his people. This is what God has been promising and doing at various times since the darkest days in the Garden of Eden, when Adam and Eve sinned against God. There it was promised. Remember, listen to this: a male child will be born to a woman who will bring deliverance from sin, death, and hell. That was an ancient promise, and this is just another iteration of God doing that. So we read again, just to refresh your thinking, the story. There was a certain man of Ramathaim Zophim of the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Alkanah, the son of Jehoram, the son of Elihu, son of Tohu, son of Zuf an Ephrathite, so he's in that priestly family line. He had two wives. The name of the one was Hannah and the name of the other Panina. And Panina had children. But Hannah had no children. Now this man used to go up year by year from the city to worship and sacrifice to the Lord of hosts at Shiloh were the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, were priests of the Lord. On the day when Elkanah sir sacrificed, he would give portions to Panina his wife, and to all her sons and daughters. But to Hannah he gave a double portion, because he loved her, though the Lord had closed her wound And her rival used to provoke her grievously to irritate her because the Lord had closed her womb. So it went on year by year. As often as she went up to the house of the Lord, she used to provoke her. Therefore Hannah wept and would not eat. And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Hannah, why do you weep? And why do you not eat? And why is your heart sad? Am I not more to you than ten sons? After they had eaten and drunk at Shiloh, Hannah rose. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat beside the doorpost of the temple of the Lord. And she was deeply distressed and prayed to the Lord and wept bitterly. And she vowed a vow and said, O Lord of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your servant. And remember me, and not forget your servant, but will give to your servant a son, then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no razor shall touch his head Ladies and gentlemen, young people, children, Hannah, as you see her make this prayer Hannah obviously had a higher purpose in mind than merely getting even with her sister wife, Panina, or just pleasing her husband by having a baby She had a higher purpose. She was motivated by the Holy Spirit and had a deep desire to see God's covenant promises Material highs. Otherwise, she would never have made such a bargain with God, promising to give up her only baby boy. To serve in the temple from his childhood. Can you imagine that, ladies? Dropping your baby boy, as soon as he's winged, dropping him off at the temple and saying, You get to live here the rest of your life, away from me. Then in verse 12, as she continued praying before the Lord, Eli observed her mouth. Hannah was speaking in her heart, only her lips moved, and her voice was not heard. Then Eli took her to be a drunken woman. And Eli said to her, How long will you go on being drunk? Put away your wine from you. But Hannah answered, No, my lord. I am a woman troubled in spirit, I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I have been pouring out my soul before the Lord Do not regard your servant as a worthless woman, for all along I have been speaking out of my great anxiety and vexation. Eli evidently wasn't accustomed to seeing worshipers fervently in prayer. Maybe people back in those days just came and did the thing and checked the box and went home and forgot it all. So he thinks she's drunk. Verse 17. Then Eli answered, Go in peace. Now that's important. He answered her as the priest, even though he wasn't a very good one. He answered her as the priest with a blessing, a benediction. He said, Go in peace, and the God of Israel grant your petition that you have made to him. And there's a change now. Verse 18. And she said, Let your servant find favor in your eyes. Then the woman went on her way and ate, and her face was no longer sad. Something changed. When Eli gives his benediction, she is changed. God's word of benediction makes all the difference to her. She must have known that God was going to act through the word of God's priest. So then we get to verse 19. They rose early in the morning before the then they went back to their house at Ramah. And Elkanah knew his wife, and the Lord remembered her. That's an important phrase. The Lord remembered her. We have this phrase in several other places in the Old Testament. It is used when God, who never forgets anything, has decided to reactivate. His gracious work for his people. When he's decided to put the wheels back on and get it from the stuck position, Listen to this from Genesis 8. 1. When Noah and all the animals and his family were all in the ark at after the flood, it says in Genesis 8. 1, but God remembered Noah and all the beasts and all the livestock that were with him in the ark, and God made a wind blow over the earth and the waters subsided. See, God remembered and he acts. He remembers. Genesis 9, 16. He says, When the bow is in the clouds, I will see it and remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth. Another example, Genesis 19, verse 29. So it was that when God destroyed the cities of the valley God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of the midst of the overth of the overthrow when he overthrew the cities in which Lot had lived. God remembered Lot, remembered him covenantly, remembered him savingly. And then in Genesis 30, chapter 30, verse 22. This is important because it's very parallel to what we have going on here. It says, then God remembered Rachel, another barren woman. God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her and opened her womb. And one more, just one more. Exodus. At the beginning of Exodus, when God's people had been slaves for 400 years in Egypt. In Exodus chapter 2, beginning at verse 23, during those many days the king of Egypt died, and the people of Israel groaned because of their slavery and cried out for help. Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God, and God heard their groaning, and then and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. God saw the people of Israel, and God knew. So this is another example of God covenantally speaking, remembering his promises. The Lord remembered her, Hannah. And verse 20, and in due time Hannah conceived And bore a son, and she called his name Samuel, for she said, I have asked for him from the Lord. His name means asked for Girls and boys, men and women, this story is not just about how one desperate woman gets her prayer answered. This is the big story that runs through the whole Bible of how God paves the way. He paves the way through human weakness, human failure to bring his kingdom. Isaiah 55 puts it this way. Isaiah 55 verses 8 and 9, for my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your ways. thoughts, God's purposes, God's plans, God's ways of doing things in your life and in this world. Are God's ways, and they're different than our ways. Romans 1133, Paul says something very similar, 1133 of Romans, oh the death. Of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and how inscrutable are his ways. We would do things this way, this way, this way, and then it would all work out just exactly the way we want it to, when we want it to, but God's ways are different. And that's what we see here in this story. Just think of it. Here we see God using an oppressed, obscure young woman who is in a desperate situation, in a contentious family setting. And a corrupt church to quote remember his covenant. In this desperate, broken, barren time of Israel's life God sends a baby to the rescue. A baby. Of all things, a baby And the baby Samuel will be the forerunner of the great king and will point to him and literally say, This is the one the Lord has chosen to be king. We'll see that much later. And Samuel will serve in a way parallel to John the Baptizer, whose mother, by the way, was also barren, as we read in Luke. And whose father, by the way, was also of the priestly tribe. And as Samuel was a forerunner of David, John was the forerunner of David's greater son. In the Gospel of John, it is recorded, John the Baptizer looked at him, Jesus, David's greater son, and said Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. It is He, Jesus, who fills all the offices, not just of king, like David did. but a prophet and priest and king. And he finally completely inaugurates The kingdom of God, the greatest period of covenant blessings that we now enjoy today through the new covenant in his blood. So this is no tale of long ago. To be quickly laid aside when you get more important things going on in your life. No. This is good news of a God who saves his people, and he saves you if you trust in Christ. And cling to him, placing faith in Christ. This is the good news that your life is not futile Your faithfulness to the plan of God matters. You're part of the story of God's grace. You, you, you, and me. God is still at work, even in dark times, and even with desperate and obscure people in terrible circumstances. If you cling to his promises and serve him, your life too is part of the big plan. The great unfolding story of God's kingdom. Trust Him, cling to Him, serve Him, and be part of the big story. As Hannah was, as her husband was, as Samuel was. Amen Lord, we pray indeed that you would make us part of the story. Help us to be faithful to believe your covenant promises. We thank you for these who long ago serve your purposes. We pray that you'll make us faithful servants of yours even now. Help those who Are here today, and those who may listen by internet or on the radio, to trust in Christ alone for salvation and be part of God's great story May our lives matter and count. Preserve the works of our hand, O Lord, we pray. Amen.