As I begin the exposition of this text, Psalm twenty-eight congregation, under the heading Dial one nine one Permit me first a recital of my experiences along the Pennsylvania urn. About that. During my days attending Wheaton College, I spent a lot of time on that road I live in Philadelphia and you know where wheat is Illinois. So I had to transgress transfer my body very eastern post part of the state to the very western part of it. Numerous times I found myself traveling along that particular road, one of the first accomplishments of the federal highway system. I know it's a special part of it because you have to take hold on it. Most of the uh highway system federal highway system is free, but not that one But I think about that that road because I never had an accident, flat tire, or other interruption in my rep repetitious Pennsylvania to Illinois and Illinois to Pennsylvania traveling, thanks be to God. But had such occurred, you know There were those telephones. Know what they are? Situated every half mile. Yes, some 600 of them in the entirety of the Pennsylvania turnpike Every one of them within a brief walking distance or wherever you would find yourself in any spot of trouble. Still Even if that were found to be a necessary aid in my distress, I still had to make it from my car to that phone. And so I had to decide, do I walk backward or forward to get the closest one of those telephones I know some of you are are are unbelieving perhaps almost that they exist, but I I guarantee you that they're hands up if you remember that they were there Oh, there are three hands. Good. They took them all down. What if I were incapacitated somehow or even unconscious? I would have had to wait for someone, hopefully a state trooper, to come to my aid, didn't I? Still that telephone arrangement was better than nothing, wasn't it? Now here we are, 70 years later. And we have a much better plan to get help through folks indeed. On whatever highway they find themselves, or wherever they are for that matter. For one thing we have better tires. Isn't that true? You don't see many people changing tires. But evermore we have cell phones. Especially smart cell phones with A Siri capability Help would pretty quickly be on the way if we had those things seventy years ago And we've progressed beyond that old fashioned nine one one solution Haven't we? And we've got pretty much assurance of assistance whenever we're in trouble. That is, unless we're the victims of some sort of evil or crime To do that, I propose that we take a good look at King David's experience as he relates to it. How it applies to us in Psalm 28, whenever we are in trouble or have need of help and aid. Psalm 28 was the first uttered by David in some time of peril at the hands of evil men, perhaps those who followed his rebellious son Absalom. who became jealous at his father's blessed position as the anointed king under Yahweh Right, right. This rebel drew others with him in seeking to bring down David. A man after God's own heart. Now, as often in Psalms of Intercession, Psalm 28 contains an abrupt note of confident praise. Verses 6 through 8 show that, indicative of the element of assurance that can never be separated from the prayer. That springs from true faith in the living God. So we are confronted here in Psalm 28 by a psalm of two parts A Cry for Help, verses 1 through 5, which we could rename David's 911 call. Or to be more current. And I don't mean it blasphemously. Even David's, hey Yahweh, cry. And a thanksgiving for God's response to that cry in verses 6 through 9. Both parts of the poem have a personal and a corporate section. As we'll see when we go forward. Well, what is the theme of Psalm 28? Well, it says to you, Christian That when you are in need for help, you need both to cry to God for that help. And be assured that he will answer. And you need, secondly, to give humble thanks for his gracious answer in the person of Jesus Christ, your Savior. And so those are the two parts of our exposition of this psalm tonight. The first one, then, David's cry for help, verses 1 through 5. I'll just read a bit of it again. To you, O Lord, I call my rock, be not deaf to me. Lest if you be silent to me, I become like those who go down to the pit. Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy when I cry to you for help. When I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary. Notice then to whom the psalmist turns in his extremity To you, O Yahweh, I call. Yahweh, the great I am, the faithful, covenant-keeping God, who is neither fickle nor untrustworthy. And notice that David lifts up his hands toward God's most holy sanctuary. That's not the tabernacle As a whole, it is the innermost sanctuary, the holy of holies, to which he repairs in prayer. That is the dwelling place of Yahweh with his people on earth. Yahweh dwelt between the cherubim on the mercy seat David needs no priest, but has immediate access to the God of gods, the creator of heaven and earth, and his redeemer. The attitude with which he turns in his need is clearly self-depreciating reverence. Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy, says David. He makes no demand upon God, does he? But asks for mercy alone. And when he argues, Be not deaf to me, lest if you be silent to me I become like those who go down to the pit. This fear does not arise from any lapse of faith. No, David fully recognizes that Yahweh's and his sense of timing may not coincide. The Lord may act as if death to him into a period of trial. As for instance in Psalm 23, even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. This makes me think once more of my own experience with the seeking of help in time of need. That's why I said what I did about the Pennsylvania turn fight. Actually, you know, things have progressed somewhat remarkably, even beyond the age of calling 911. I have around my neck right now an EME. That's an emergency medical device. It looks like this. It has only one button. The way it works is this. The people that made this Know where I am, anywhere in the world, if I have this around my neck. And if I should be in hell, ED for health, of any kind, and I push that button, that's all I have to do. I don't even have to talk to somebody. I'm not pushing the button right now, although they wanna know what's going on, where are you, Tom? Why'd you push the button But they will send aid. I don't have to have a cell phone. I don't even have to have a smartphone. I don't even have to be able to talk Actually, I don't even have to be conscious because somebody might come and see me in that need. It might be my wife who's with me. She knows it's there and she can push the button. An L will immediately be on the way. That's why we paid for it. That's the way it works. So if I lose awareness of my ability to get up from a fall Or experience a seizure. I've had a couple of seizures, but fortunately I've got a drug now that stops that having. Or any bodily incapacity of any sort, all I have to do, or all anybody has to do, is push one button on the device, and help will come. without my needing to explain anything to anybody or even provide any information about my whereabouts. They know where I am. If I can't push the button, then anyone else can do so, as I mentioned. Now there is one catch. What if I'm completely alone and nobody pushes the button? Well, they haven't solved that eventuality as yet. But God, according to Psalm 28, is my absolute EMD. I've got him. He will care for me, that event, even if man's most sophisticated effort Will have proved to be it inadequate for the presentation. So I thank him for cell phone, smartphone. And for the EMD around my neck. But I don't trust it. Now turn our attention to David's specific pride help. The request or the burden of his cry for help is seen to be separation of himself from the wicked and their ultimate reward. And that's why he has so much to say about not being dog dragged off with the wicked, with the workers of evil. He knows what's going to happen to them. And he doesn't have to go with them once God served from going. He beseeches his Lord not to drag him away with all the crowd of guilty men But pleads even more vehemently for a just recompense to be given to such evil doers. Look at verse 4. Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deeds. And then because it is so critical, he repeats his cry. Give them according to the work of their hands, render to them their due reward. Now saying that twice does not betray a sense of vindictiveness in David, but rather it's a demonstration of his love of righteousness. The wicked are without excuse. Listen to verse 5. Because they do not regard the works of the Lord or the work of his hand. The Lord always and only works righteousness. And for that he is to be praised. But the wicked, ignoring God's gracious work Of mercy and pardon attempt to establish their own righteousness by way of their works. But such will yield only condemnation. For Yahweh, David says, will tear them down and build them up no more. Thus far, King David's humble cry for help was to the one who alone can provide for him in his distress. David's 911, David's EME, to the sovereign and covenant Lord is what he has, but it's all that he needs. The Lord Himself was David's rock, and he was not silent as stone. He did deliver him from his son to death. Now I ask you tonight, Christian congregation, beloved attendees to this song, have you sent out your 911 Into God's holy of holies, when you were in need. Your distress was not the opposing threat of a greedy, jealous, and utterly wicked son, as was David's. Threatening to unseat you from your throne, which you didn't have. Your distress was your unconscionable rebellion, wasn't it, against the God who fathered you after his image and called you into a life of perfect obedience to his holy commands. That was your trouble. And your cry must have been a cry for hell, the face of sure and eternal condemnation for transgression, sin, and death Gene and I, I think I mentioned to you, we are right now reading through the Bible together, four chapters today. And we've come now to uh Obadiah, Jordis' book in the Old Testament, that only has one chapter. But Obadiah has the same thing to say as do all the major prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and all the minor prophets. They follow over and again a pattern of repentance, of warning Of continued sinning, of temporal judgments, and then repentance again, followed by warning. continued sinning and temporal judgments over and again. You get the message if you read through those major and minor prophets. All at once. And when you do that, you see how gracious was the great I am to his erring covenant people. He never forgot that he was the EMD for the unfaithful Israelites. And over and over again he forgave them without failure evermore. Until we come to the 400 silent years when there was no prophet. Until John the Baptist, and then Jesus. And then everything becomes out trustworthy and full of unmerited grace. was Yahweh's constant and steadfast for giving mercy to his covenant Because in that state you find yourselves today, dear congregation. Your only call, your only 911 Your only EMD is a cry for mercy like David to the Lord God. And like David, that cry must go up to God's holy of holies. Where is his mercy seat upon the Ark of the Covenant where God may be found? There alone is your help for your need The mercy of God in Jesus Christ, who shed blood alone as atoned for your sin. He is the fulfillment of the covenant of grace. Jesus is the ark of the covenant. He is the mercy seat. This work is the work of God's hands, for it was the Father who delivered him up for you. And anyone who despises that work will be torn down and perished everlastingly. I hope you were listening to this morning's sermon. That's what our pastor was saying. They're going to die, and they're going to go to hell. And there is help available. That's help found Jesus. Jesus that he must take them, even though they vomit him up in our if you send out that nine one one call, you have God's promise that he will answer And will not be silent. Perhaps your repentance will not last scrutiny. I can guarantee you that it won't. Maybe you don't know how to put your many offenses in words. Like David's, yours is not to presume or demand. Yours is to cry out for mercy. And that cry goes beyond any EMD that you think you have. You don't even have to push the button, believer. God knows your heart. That's the first part of the surf of the Psalm. Now the second part, verses 6 and 8. Here we get David's thanksgiving for God's response. Notice the one thing, the only thing that he gives to God. Is grateful thanks and praise. That's all he's got. As he sells elsewhere, what shall I render to the Lord for all his kindness? I will take the cup of salvation and call upon the name of the Lord. The proper response to God's mercy is to take it and receive it. All David can do is cry, blessed be the Lord. That's what worship is, congregation. That's what worship is, Christian. When you have received the mercy of God in Jesus Christ, all you can do is work God does not ask, expect, or receive your service. You cannot serve him. He is a holy God. He dwells between the seraphim in unapproachable light. David knows that, and that's why he sings, The Lord is my strength and my shield, in him my heart trusts. And I am hell. And then he goes one step further, crying. And I want you to hear this. Because a vowel is going to be important. One little single letter. David says, by heart Exults. Exult. E-X. U L T S. That's what we did in the call to worship tonight. Did you notice that? We said to God, at the works of your hands I sing for joy. That's what it is to exult. Not exalt. That's ALP. That's something different. We already said that in the first part of the call to worship. To declare your steadfast love in the morning and your faithfulness by night. You exalt God when you lift him up and tell him that he is what he is. And then you tell him that you exul. That's when you tell to him how that makes you feel. This is a time To lift up, to exalt, praise, and to raise high the name, honor, glory, and power of God. Come to church. Yes. By all means do that. Do that every time. But there is also a time to exult. That means to worship, to be grateful, and to sing that gratitude from the depths of your heart. Believer, you can't womb that up. You can't manufacture it. So please don't try. Rather, listen. Listen to the word of the Lord in Psalm 28 and follow David into the Holy of Holies. Dial 911 and talk to the Lord or lean upon him who is your E. M. And who alone is worthy to receive praise and honor and power. But notice that David also in verse 8 Gives thanks to God for his mercy to others. The Lord is the strength of his people. He is the saving refuge of his anointing. Think about the other members of the congregation and be very happy that they have an ESD. There David threatened to lose his throne to a recalcitant son. And what is he thankful for? That God will not forsake the whole nation. That God is powerful to redeem and deliver his people, Israel. And here he is a prophet, my friends. Here David reaches in his song of thanks beyond his own present day. Because notice how he concludes this Psalm in verse 9. Oh, same me? Oh. O save your people and bless your heritage. Be their shepherd and carry them forever David doesn't want God to lose his sheep. And he says, help them all. David sees the whole church of all time as one. And calls it God's inheritance. That means the church is the Lord's inheritance. Yes, the Christian church is what God gets. Not what they get. The shepherd of the Israel of God will have all his sheep, and not one of them will be lost. Isaiah knew all about it as well as David, and he sang it in almost identical lines in his 40th chapter. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom. And gently lead those who are with God. And in conclusion, notice who is that shepherd Jesus. Jesus is the good shepherd, as he identified himself to his disciples. He is the anointed one, and he alone took refuge in the Father's will, even though that meant silence. Toward his cry for help. In the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus dialed his 911 If it is possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. Jesus, unlike David, did receive silence from his heavenly father. And when the father was silent to Jesus, Jesus did become one who went down to them. He descended into hell. He descended into hell crying out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? His 911 went unanswered. His EMT was broken so that yours could be blessed. The state. God did not leave his soul in hell. He raised him mightily from the dead, and he gave him a name that is above all names. the at the name of Jesus every knee should bow and every tongue confess that he is Lord. Yes, God the Father became the saving refuge of his anointed one, Jesus. The greater David. And Romans 1, 4, and 5 puts it this way: God declared this Jesus to be his son in power according to the Spirit of Holess, by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace. Well there it is, my friends. The Gospel of Psalm 28. God is the saving refuge of his anointing. That means God saves David and every other one of his people for whom he has compassion and tender mercy. Because he is literally the stronghold of salvation. The word is plural in the original. Salvations Because of its intensity, salvations. And that intensity is seen in just this The stronghold is Jesus. The saving refuge that is Jesus. That is mercy, dear Christian. And it is yours. God's sheep in Jesus arm. Nine one one Erd EMT works rescuing and delivering you from error.