Please turn to Isaiah thirty-five, we'll read verses one through ten. The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad, the desert shall rejoice and blossom like the crocus. It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice with joy and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given to it. The majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the Lord, the majesty of our God. Strengthen the weak hands, and make firm the feeble knees. Say to those who have an anxious heart, be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance. With the recompense of God, he will come and save you. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped. Then shall the lame man leap like a deer. and the tongue of the mute sing for joy. For waters break forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert. The burning sand shall become a pool. And the thirsty ground springs of water, in the haunts of jackals where they lie down, the grass shall become reeds and rushes, and a highway shall be there And it shall be called the way of holiness. The unclean shall not pass over it. It shall belong to those who walk on the way. Even if they are fools, they shall not go astray. No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beasts come upon it. They shall not be found there, but the redeemed shall walk there. And the ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads. They shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. This is the word of the Lord. The New Testament reading and the preaching text is the ninth chapter of John. The ninth chapter of John. As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Jesus answered, It was not that this man sinned or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day Night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Having said these things, he spat on the ground and made mud with the saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and said to him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam, which means scent So he went and washed and came back seeing. The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? Some said, It is he. Others said, No, but he is like him. He kept saying, I am the man. So they said to him, Then how were your eyes opened? He answered, The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my sight They said to him, Where is he? He said, I do not know. They brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind. Now it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I washed And I see. Some of the Pharisees said, this man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. So they said again to the blind man. What do you say about him since he opened your eyes? He said, He is a prophet. The Jews did not believe that he had been blind. And had received his sight until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight and asked them, Is this your son who you say was born blind? How then does he now see? His parents answered, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind. But how he now sees, we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him. He is of age. He will speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be the Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. Therefore his parents said, He is of age. Ask him So for the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. He answered, Whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? So you also, do you also want to become his disciples? And they reviled him, saying, You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered, Why, this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone open the eyes of a man born blind? If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. They answered him, You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us? And they cast him out. Jesus heard that they had cast him out. And having found him, they said, he said to him, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe, and he worshiped him Jesus said, for judgment I came into this world that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? And Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say, We see, your guilt remains. This is the word of the Lord. Lord, please illumine now your holy word, that in your light we may see light. And we may worship you. Amen. So as we come to John chapter 9, we are still at the Feast of Tabernacles. Which, as I've told you before, was eight days of camping out in your own backyard to remember the 40 years of camping in the wilderness. At the end of chapter 8, Jesus had barely escaped being stoned to death for evidently claiming to be Yahweh. The God of Abraham, who by definition existed before Abraham. So that's a little bit of review. Let's just pause for a second, and I want to take us on a little caveat. The Pharisees had the right God. They knew his name because they had the scriptures. They knew that his name had been revealed to Moses, as it's recorded in Exodus, and they dared not even pronounce the sacred four letters, the tetragrammaton. As it's called, because they were afraid they might take it in vain by mispronouncing it in some way and break the third commandment. So they were very reverent about the name of God. They knew who God was. Many people today claim to believe in God, but their God is not the God who revealed himself to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Moses. If they are Muslims, and we hear a lot about that these days, if they are Muslims, they will believe in Allah. And many people think that Allah is just another name for Yahweh, Israel's God. This is not the case. Allah, according to the Quran, is a solitary monad who demands absolute submission. That's where the word Islam comes from. means submission. Absolute submission. And Allah may or may not choose to be merciful to anybody in particular. Allah makes no covenant. Allah could never, never come down and join the human race. Contrast to Islam's God. Yahweh, revealed in the Scriptures, is not a solitary monad, but is tripersonal, full of overflowing love and constant communion between the three persons. Yahweh is the covenant-making God who sent his eternal son to come down and take on human flesh in order to keep the covenant and save his loved ones. Very different ideas of God between those two. Now, having said that, I want to say something else. In my recent medical crisis I am thankful to God, the tri-une personal God. I am thankful to God for the ambulance crew For the helicopter pilot and crew, for the emergency cardiac cath lab crew, and for my dear doctor, whose first name is Muhammad Are any of these people Christians? Maybe none of them are Christians. And yet I still thank the true and living God for them and for the gifts that are resident in me. them, for their skills, for their care. And I see in that something we call in theology common grace. Common grace It's the grace of God that makes the world a place that is habitable instead of a constant turmoil. And a constant violence. It gives people gifts to use. That's common grace. It's not saving grace, but it is common grace. We are not to confuse common grace gifts, for which we are thankful, and I'm thankful, for the truth of God in Jesus Christ. The world's religions, every one of them, no matter what it is, the world's religions say, do, do, do, do. Christianity, biblical faith, in Jesus says, done, finished, complete for you on the cross. So there's Yahweh, revealed in the Old Testament, there's Allah in the Quran. And then there's also another one, by the way, a popular idea of God out there in culture, neither Allah or Yahweh. But God, however you conceive him, her it to be. Every person, therefore, is sovereign over their God. And Pastor Timothy Keller has said, they have a God who can never contradict them. So in effect, they are their own God. See, that's the popular idea of God out there. Okay, that caveat is over. Let's go to the text. The Pharisees at least have the right God in mind. Although they have some ideas about God's nature that are wrongheaded. So let's go to the text. Chapter 9, verse 1. He passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? And Jesus answered, It was not this man or his parents that sinned. but that the works of God might be displayed. What they were doing, his disciples were expressing a popular idea that uh either this man sinned prenatally or his parents sinned and that's the cause of his death Born blind. They had a strict idea of cause and effect for every malady in the world. This Jesus rejected. Now, while all human sickness and death are the result of sin, and it may be that some sins are visited by God with particular illnesses There is no regular rule of cause and effect. Jesus rejects that. And it's rejected elsewhere. You look at the Bible, the Old Testament story of Job Job's sufferings demonstrate that God doesn't even disclose his reasons for the sufferings that Job experienced. But one thing is certain. There would be no suffering in the world, no death, if there hadn't been any sin. And that's where we get the origin of suffering in Genesis chapter 3. And after the sin of Adam and Eve, God said to the woman, I will surely multiply your pain. That's suffering. In pain you shall bring forth children. So that's suffering. And then in verse 17, to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and eaten of the tree, of which I commanded you shall not eat. Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it will bring forth for you. And you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face, you shall eat bread, until you turn return to the ground, for dust you are. And to dust you shall return. That's suffering because of sin, general, but not specific. So again, Jesus rejects their two options. And he says, no, this is that the work of God might be displayed in him. Then he goes on to heal the man in the display of God's glory. He says in verse 4, We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. The night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Now, where have we heard that before? He said it in chapter 8. He stood up on the last and great day of the feast, the day when they put those 75-foot menorahs up. in front of the temple, and the glow of the light shined over and illumined the whole city of Jerusalem at night. On that day he said, I am the light of the world. And so he says it again here. I am the light of the world. The light of the world, Jesus, was about to illumine this man's darkness that he had had from birth. So in verse 6 we have it. Having said these things, he spit on the ground and made mud with the saliva. Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud, and he said to him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam, which means sent. He sent him to sent. So he went and washed and came back. Seeing for the first time ever in his life, since he was born, since he was a tiny baby. He now sees things. It must have been an overwhelming experience To now suddenly see things. And then we have this series of interviews. I won't spend a lot of time going through each one, but I want to hit them. The first interview was with the neighbors. Verse 8. The neighbors and those who had been sent to him before as a beggar, that was his job, begging, said, Is this not the man who used to sit and beg? Some said, it is he. Others said, no, but I can't believe it's him. It must be someone loose-like him. He kept saying, I am the man So they said to him, Then how were your eyes opened? And he answered, The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes, and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash. So he went and washed and received my sight. They said to him, Where is he? And he said, I do not know. So that's the neighbors asking him these questions. He told the story, he answered their questions as best he could. The second interview is with the Pharisees. The Pharisees. They brought him to the Pharisees, verse 13, the man who had formerly been blind. And this is important. Now it was a Sabbath day. When Jesus made the mud and opened the eyes. So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight, and he said to them, He put mud on my eyes, and I washed and I see. Some of the Pharisees said, listen carefully, this man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who was a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. So he said again to the blind man, What do you say about him since he has opened your eyes? He said, He is a prophet. Now, one commentator says this, the Pharisees in the days of Jesus had changed the Sabbath into something it was never meant to be. That's obviously true. In their desire to protect and uphold the law, they built a hedge around the keeping of the Sabbath. It's kind of like if you were to have a cliff in your backyard and you put a fence up next to the cliff to keep people from jumping off the cliff or falling off the cliff. But you keep moving the fence further and further back and making it higher and higher. That's kind of what the Pharisees were doing. They were trying to protect even getting close to breaking the law. So they kept making more and more rules. They had written a chapter on um many chapters in fact on what it meant to keep the Sabbath. And I just want to share a few of these with you because they're kind of funny, interesting things. Some of you will like this one. In their teaching, they taught that you should not look in a mirror on the Sabbath, because you might be tempted to pluck out a gray hair. And that would be reaping. Okay? They said that you could only eat an egg which had been laid on the Sabbath if you killed the chicken for Sabbath breaking They said a donkey could be led out of a stable on the Sabbath, but the harness and the saddle had to be placed on him the day before. It would be work to put the harness and saddle on. They said that if the lights were on, candles, when the Sabbath began at sundown, that you could not blow them out, because that would be work. If they had not been lit in time, then you could not light them. You had to stay in the darkness because that would be making a fire. So you couldn't do that. They said that it's unlawful to move furniture on the Sabbath. And there was an exception to do this if you were allowed to move a ladder on the Sabbath, but only if you moved it four steps or less. Um it was, ladies you'll like this, it was unlawful to wear any jewelry or ornaments on the Sabbath since it might be construed as carrying a burden. Yeah Mm-hmm. And uh there's more. Um this one's interesting too. I never heard of anything like this. You were allowed to eat radishes on the Sabbath. But you were warned against dipping them into salt because you might leave them in the salt too long and pickle them, and this was considered Sabbath-breaking. The Pharisees actually had discussions on how long it took to pickle a radish. So, but there's one more that's relevant to the text here. It was fine to spit on a rock On the Sabbath. But you could not spit on the ground because that made mud. And mud was mortar. And that was work. What did Jesus do He spit on the ground and he made mud, didn't he? So here's the third interview Verse 18. The Jews did not believe that he had been born blind and received his sight, so they called his parents and asked them, Is this your son? Is it really your son? Who you say was born blind? They're really skeptical. How then does he now see? His parents answered, we know that this is our son who was born blind, but But how he sees now we do not know, nor do we know how who opened his eyes. Ask him, he's of age He will speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews. They feared the Jews because they'd been threatened that they'd be thrown out of the synagogue if they confessed Jesus to be the Messiah. And so they were already under the throes of political correctness, and you've got to be careful what you say here, even back then. We go to the fourth interview now. This is the seeing healed man, the man who got healed in verse 24. For the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. He answered, whether he's a sinner or not, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see. That phrase is repeated in the great hymn, Amazing Grace. I once was lost, but now I'm found was blind, but now I see. Verse 26, they said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? And he answered them, I told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you want to become his disciples? Hmm, Jesus Jesus is really uh being confessed here by this man a bit He's saying in a sense, I'm his disciple now. I'm following him. Do you want to follow him too? It's sarcasm, but there's some identification with Jesus here as he answers Verse 28, they reviled him. Are you his disciple? But we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered, Why, this is an amazing thing. He's answering back. He's kind of standing up for himself a little bit here This is an amazing thing, he speaks to these authorities. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. You're supposed to know everything, you guys. We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God will listen to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. They answered him, you were born in utter sin. They're taking the cause and effect narrative And throwing it at him. You are a sinner because you were born blind. We know you're a sinner. We're not going to listen to you. And what do they do then at the end? They cast him out They put him out of the synagogue. The synagogue was the place for community, for worship, for belonging. And they make him a heretic and they throw him out of their society, the synagogue. Finally, the fifth, it's not quite finally, but the fifth interview, Jesus and the man. It is the final interview, actually. Verse 35. Jesus heard that they had cast him out. And having found him, said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? That's an interesting question The man has been healed. His eyes have been opened. He's seen things he's never seen before. He's marveling at all this. He's had an encounter with the Pharisees. It's all very confusing. But Jesus now comes to him and says, Do you believe in the Son of Man? That's Jesus' favorite term for himself, by the way, in the New Testament. The man answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? Jesus said to him, You have seen him, recalling the fact of the healing. You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshiped him. That's amazing. This man has come from not knowing to confessing and worshiping. The Savior of the world. John tells us in the 20th chapter of John why he recorded this miracle and all the other miracles. He says there, now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may believe. Have life in his name. The man, born blind, has gradually, step by step, come to embrace Jesus as the Messiah, the Son of Man. God. At first he did not know him except as a man called Jesus, that's what it says in the text, who had anointed his eyes with mud and sent him to the pool called Sent to wash with the result that he saw everything for the first time in his life. And after further interview and a lot more experience seeing, he stated his belief that Jesus was a prophet. That was pretty important because there hadn't been a prophet for 400 years until John came. Perhaps this was the signal of a new era, the era of the Messiah. But then, face to face, talking with Jesus, do you believe in the Son of Man? Again, that phrase, Son of Man, is Jesus' favorite term for himself. It refers not, as it might be supposed, to his humanity, but to his deity. Because he gets that phrase from Daniel chapter 7. Daniel chapter 7 makes it clear what this is. means. Daniel chapter 7 verse 13, Daniel says, I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And then what? He came to the ancient of days, God the Father, and he was presented before him And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. That's what it means to be the Son of Man To have all those things true of you. And so Jesus answered And the man answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him? And Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped me The Jews who had been born with vision, sighted, had been failing to see Jesus. even though they could see him with their eyes, see his signs and wonders, hear his words of covenant promise. They've been failing to see Jesus in their spiritual blindness. They refused to believe that there was a miracle until they could no longer deny the living, walking, talking evidence. And when they could no longer deny the miracle, they denied the Lord Jesus having done it. And they said instead, give glory to God, not Him. Their preconception about their rules and regulations of Sabbath and the purpose of the Sabbath, among other notions, blinded them to believing in Jesus. How about you or others that you know? Do you have notions about the reality of God as he is revealed in the scriptures? Do you have notions about miracles that maybe they didn't really happen? Or do you have notions about God's power to heal and better yet to save humans for all eternity? And raise them up at the final day? Do you have unbiblical notions about those true things? Verse 39 This is important. Jesus said for judgment. The Greek word there is krima. For judgment. Verdict is what it means. For a crisis, for a decision, I came into this world that those who do not see, like the man born blind And other sinners may see. And those who see, who think they've got it all figured out, may become blind. Verse forty, some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them, If you were blind, if you would own your blindness, if you would repent of your blindness, you would have no guilt. But now you say, we see, we get it all figured out. Your guilt remains. John wants his readers, both the original ones and we who are sitting here today, to come to a crisis, to give a verdict, prima. Is Jesus the Messiah? Is He God in human flesh, the world's Savior, or not? If no, your answer is no You have only yourself. You have only your slavery to self. You have no savior. You have no hope. You remain blind. If your verdict is yours. Yes, he is who he says he is. Then like this man, worship him. Amen Lord, we thank you for John's having been inspired to write down these events so that we may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and have life in his name. And Lord help us to be skilled and have compassion and mercy. And gracious, help us to be gracious toward those around us who have false ideas of God, who have distortions of the truth, who make up their own God Help us to be witnesses like this man became a witness, even at the expense of being tossed out of the synagogue. Help us to be witnesses of Jesus Christ. We pray in his name. A none