And now our text for this evening's message, 1 Peter 2, verses 4 through 10. As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious, you yourselves like living stones Are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe, The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. They stumble because they disobeyed the word, as they were destined to do. But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. A people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. This is the word of the Lord. Pools indicate, beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, that more people in the United States don't go to church Than do. Forty percent never attend church at all. And more weren't in a worship service today than were. For tens of millions of our countrymen, Sunday is a day to sleep in. Have a continental brunch at Bob's big boy. And then settle down for seven hours of gridiron confrontation, at least during the fall months. Now, if Christianity were purely an individual matter, if there were no fourth commandment, and if God hadn't given any instructions regarding church attendance Then this behavior described might be okay. But Christians are not isolated individuals who just happen to share a common destiny. They are a corporate body, actually a dwelling place of God. Furthermore, the Sabbath commandment, which sets apart one day in every seven as a day of rest and worship, is still binding. And the Bible does have something to say about church attendance, saying to believers in Christ, let us not give up, meaning together, as some are in the habit of doing But let us encourage one another, and all the more as you see the day approaching. Hebrews 10, 25 And actually I'm very glad that you who probably noticed in your bulletin this morning that the title of tonight's sermon is Don't Go to Church, that you have decided to be disobedient. One of the chief blessings and duties of Christians as members of God's church is corporate worship, going to church. Why ever then, Mr. Tyson, the title of this sermon, Don't Go to Church? Well, there is a sense in which merely going to church This is the point of what we're about as Christians. You don't help people to understand their privileges and responsibilities as church members By merely hammering away at their lack of performance as worship service attendees The Bible insists that you understand church members not so much as people who go to church But as people who are the church. Someone might suggest that such a passage as Psalm 84, a portion of which we read earlier, seems to encourage If not command, church attendance. Doesn't it describe the blessedness of being in, of going to, and of putting first God's temple? Yes, it does. But that is not the same as saying that you believers in Christ are to be in, go to And put first the church worship service. The New Testament counterpart of the Old Testament temple Is not the church worship service at all. It is Jesus Christ Himself. He is the temple of God among us. Thus, Psalm 84, while not dealing directly with the question of church attendance, does underline for you the importance of your union with Jesus Jesus Christ, who is Himself the Word of God, who has become flesh, so that those who are so united to Him have become likewise. The dwelling place of the Lord of hosts. Isn't that mind-boggling? Use of the phrase going to church might betray a view of the church that lacks this biblical perspective. The church is not a building Or even a worship service within a building to which one goes The church is people in union with God through Jesus Christ. You who are members of Christ's body are the church That brings us to our text for tonight's sermon, 1 Peter 1, 4-10. in which this whole point we have been seeking to make thus far is spelled out in clearer fashion. Peter does that by saying, and this is our proposition tonight, you always look for one, I hope. You who are believers in Jesus Christ, the chief cornerstone of the temple of which you yourselves are living stones. Are being built up as God's spiritual dwelling place, in which you are a holy priesthood. That offers up through Jesus Christ spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God. That is, in one long sentence, the point of the whole message tonight. And I want to break that down into three points. First, let us look at one living cornerstone. We read about that cornerstone in verses four, six through eight. Hear them again As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. Then 6 through 8. For it stands in Scripture, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe. But for those who do not believe, The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense. When you visit a world widely known structure that houses a government, a king, or even the tomb of an alleged deity, Such as Washington's Capitol, Britain's Buckingham Palace, Oknaten's Pyramid You might take the time to investigate the cornerstone, if it has one. A cornerstone has multiple designations It shows when and where the building was determined to be built and was built. Who authorized its construction And for what it exists. It points outside itself and is thus the most important material piece of the building Providing relevant data that the visiting observer is glad to get Our text tonight takes us to the very sum and substance of the entirety of divine revelation. By saying this, I mean that the Bible knows of one religion only that deserves to be identified as the true representation and demonstration. Of all that is, why it is, and for what it is. The most basic question that anyone ever has posed Or I believe ever could pose, is clearly this. Why is there anything at all rather than nothing at all? The Bible begins with one Hebrew clause that answers that question. Bereshith Bara Elohim. In the beginning, God created No argumentation or apologetic, no logic or indisputable equation. Just their affirmation. Once there was only God Then there came to be everything else besides him. And he, God, created it all. But that telling and utterly foundational clause of three Hebrew words is just the beginning of the whole of divine scripture. By which God tells you what he, the self-existing and sole deity, has done, and why he has done it. Now allow me to summarize that proposition in a series of sub-propositions. Hear them. He created the heavens and the earth. That is Everything whatsoever that is both material and spiritual besides himself He created human beings, especially in his own image, meaning that they were endowed with living spirits. By which they could exist obedient to his will. But when they failed to do so, they fell, all of them, into an estate of sin, misery. And ultimately, eternal death. He determines to deliver a chosen portion of humanity from that estate by a redeemer Jesus Christ, his eternal son. And by making those saved ones his own possession. His dwelling place. He laid Jesus Christ as the chosen and honored cornerstone of his church by means of his sacrificial death. And resurrection. He divided the whole of humanity into two distinct parts One that, like living stones, are united by faith in that Redeemer, and another that rejecting him Are thus destined to eternal perdition. He designed that portion that he saved to be priests in his spiritual house Offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to him through Jesus Christ. I just ran you through the whole Bible. The sum and substance of all this points to the sole conclusion There is one true religion only, not many houses of worship, all of which are to be granted validity and standing to whoever attach themselves thereunto. I know that saying this is repulsive to our modern, open, and liberal thought processes. Who can say that they alone are right when it comes to such matters? People ought to respect the right of people to commit themselves to whatever religious teaching. And religious practices they prefer. And it is only prejudice and detestable pride that allows anyone to declare that one religion Their religion is the true, the only one. But that is exactly what Christians do. And they do it because of what is affirmed in our text tonight, which says as a message to humanity. From the Almighty and Sovereign God, that there is one religion only that is freed from solely human origination, the Christian religion. Because. Because that religion is the building, the dwelling place of the only God who is there. And he has made sure that his building is unmistakable by erecting it with a cornerstone. That cornerstone is Christ. And that is why the sole religion that is real and true is the Christian religion. Islamic followers consider Jesus Christ to be a prophet. But he is not their cornerstone. Ultra-liberal Protestants consider Jesus Christ to be their moral guide But he is not their cornerstone. Other so-called religions likewise may make room somewhere in their creeds for a solely human person named Jesus of Nazareth. But he is not their cornerstone. The Christian religion alone Stands as the sole religion that knows the true God who has laid his Son Jesus Christ as the living cornerstone. Of his believing church. Well, that's the first point. The second point is the living stones. Read about them in verse 5. Hear it again. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up As a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Now you understand that the cornerstone is not the whole house, is it? It is the most significant and absolutely indispensable stone, to be sure. But the cornerstone does designate, identify, name and serve as the pattern of the multitude of stones that make up the whole structure. This house, the one about whom the Holy Spirit is speaking in the words of Peter's letter, is a spiritual capital S house And not a material structure. Other religions, so-called, have their edifices Their temples, their buildings, that presumably house their deities, and thus are the places where their adherents worship They're gods. But this house, the house of our text tonight, is composed of living stones. Whoever heard of a living stone People chosen by God and built up to be a capital S spiritual house in which He dwells. Yes, God has elected them to be those stones, just as he has chosen his only begotten Son, the resurrected. The living Jesus Christ to be their cornerstone. Thus, in him, they too are living stones Christians live because Christ lives. And the wondrous thing that the Holy Spirit is making here via Peter's letter Is that God does not dwell in a material temple made by man He dwells in a capital S spiritual house in which you believers in Jesus Christ, its chief cornerstone, are being built up as Living stones. Well then, you might ask, for what purpose do those living stones serve? The answer comes to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God Through Jesus Christ. Once more, that word spiritual needs capitalization. The meaning and force of through Jesus Christ, through Jesus Christ. Is key to understanding what is being affirmed here. In view, through Jesus Christ, is not Christ's death Or his imputed righteousness to you who believe in him. His atoning sacrifice is, of course, certainly in the background. And it comes in explicitly later in this passage, verse 24. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree by his wounds. You have been healed. But rather, here in verse 5, the instrumental reference is in view Rather than the sacrificial. It is indeed through Jesus Christ that you offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God. Now this is clear from the grammar employed by Peter. And it's one of those cases, again, where we have to pay attention to the specific and explicit grammar of the language in which the scriptures were originally sent and given us. The Greek preposition dia Translated through. When tied to the genitive, remember nominative, genitive, dative, accusative, abnormal. He went to school. The Greek preposition dia, which when tied to the genitive, that's what we've got here, Jesu Christu. Yields the translation that we have in the ESV, this is the absolutely correct one through. That means by means of. You living stones, by means of Jesus Christ, offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to you. Of God. Jesus is the instrument through whom you do that. And he does that by his Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, you know, is the Spirit of Jesus. It is your connection to Jesus as the living stone, and him who is the living cornerstone that enables you to live all your days. As a useful and God-glorifying member of the Church of God. Your identification with and through Jesus Christ, the chief cornerstone, as He is alive. From the dead gives you life. Yes, you too are a living star. And as resurrected, Jesus has sent the Spirit to the church at Pentecost. And still today, Jesus continues to communicate his spiritual resurrection life to otherwise dead stones. So that they too become living ones. Thus, as parts of the spiritual house, capital S By the work of the Holy Spirit, Christ dwelling in them, are able To offer spiritual capital S, sacrifices of thanksgiving, praise, and joyful obedience. And when do you do that? Of course, in the entirety of your life. Faithful testimony, the full range of worship and service extending throughout your lives. That's how you, these stores, live, my friends. That's how you live as a Christian church. Every day, not just on Sunday, when you go to church. In fact, you don't go to that church. You are it. Keep that in mind every morning when you awake. You may say, ah, it's not Sunday, it's Tuesday. Sunday's that one day in which you do a special thing. You know, you get up and get dressed and go to church. But Tuesday's the day Rather, in which you know who you are, just like Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. All of them. You're living stones Granting acceptable to God sacrifices through Jesus Christ. I hope you get the message. We've talked about the cornerstone. And we talked about the living stones. Now we run into the third point, and you're going to be surprised here. I call it the property owner. Whose building is it? Well, verses 9 and 10. Answer that question. And I'm going to do something that I've never done in all my 52 years of ministry, serving as a preacher of the gospel. I don't think I've ever done this before. I plan to have the entirety of this third point, simply the reading of two verses from the Bible. That's all I'm going to do. So listen up. Verses 9 and 10. But you are a chosen race. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. That you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. Once you were not a people, But now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. That's the property owner, and as I indicated, I don't have anything to say more about this third point. Hearing these two verses will suffice. This paragraph of Holy Scripture is clear and plain as it is, apart from anything I might presume to say. Otherwise, I run the danger of obscuring it. But still, getting back to the point of the title of this message tonight: Don't go to church. Can I go to church? Of course you may. But remember, if there is going to be any going to church, it will have to be really a going to God, the property owner. Remember, therefore, when you do go to church, that such is a privilege you have by God's grace, that there is a purpose for worship And that the property owner, God Almighty, has selected you, an unworthy dead sinner. To come to life, to be his own dwelling place, by virtue of the atoning sacrifice of Jesus So, you don't attend church at all. God attends you. You whom he has chosen to be the church through Jesus Christ. And if you are that by God's grace through faith, then you are that church That's why he salutes you at the outset of every worship service. It's called a salutation. That's where God says, Hi, I'm here. And he grants you his benediction at the end of the worship service. Indeed, that's where he says, goodbye for now, gathered congregation. Indeed, he comes by his Holy Spirit into his dwelling place whenever two or three are gathered together in his name. Are you a family of only two? Well then you are church. Gather in his name Yes, I dare to say it on the basis of this text tonight, and indeed upon the entirety of the Holy Bible, you don't come to church. God has come to the church. His spiritual house. Isn't that a thought beyond calculation? Father in heaven, we would never have come to these conclusions that we have tonight. If we didn't pay attention to the grammar, the specificity, the sentence structures, the affirmations, the truth set forth of your holy scripture, the word of God. And we have heard that word. And we bless you and thank you for it. In Jesus' name.