According to dictionary, I'm not sure which one it was, I found it on the uh internet, but uh some dictionary, a good one I think, uh, the word selfish is an adjective and it means this. And it's used of a person or an action or a motive. The word selfish. And here's the definition, lacking consideration for others, concerned chiefly with one's own personal profit or pleasure. Then there's a bunch of similar words or related ideas. Here they are. Egos, egotistical Ego-maniacal, inconsiderate, thoughtless, unthinking, uncaring, uncharitable, mean, miserly, grasping, greedy, mercenary, acquisitive, opportunistic And then the informal, looking after number one, it gives. Looking after number one. So no one wants to be thought of or considered selfish, right? That's a terrible list of things, a terrible bunch of stuff to say about anyone or any action of theirs or any motive of theirs Well, we see in the work of Jesus Christ, in the person and work, the life, death, and resurrection, and ascension and coming again of Jesus Christ, we see someone who was not selfish. Never selfish. He came down from heaven's high throne. He took on human flesh. He was born in a stable. And he lived the life of a poor man. And he depended on others, and he was tired, and he was weary, he was not rich. He was not looking out for number one. Yes, I know that God gets glory from these things, and God deserves the glory from his work. But Jesus, in his coming for us, was not selfish. He was seeking our needs, our good in his coming. And so the message of the gospel for us as we follow Jesus isn't just following him on the road to heaven, but it's following him on the road here in life, being like him. The message to us is to give up all worship of idols, which includes self, doesn't it? One of the biggest ones actually. It includes getting from God the strength and the orientation from the gospel to serve people, others, see, not self, but others For God's glory. We're called to serve others for God's glory. And what am I going to get out of it? What am I going to get out of it? What am I going to get out of it? Trust God. to be your great reward in serving others. Not looking for something back, but trust God to be your great reward. So that's what the sermon's about. I'm pretty much over with now. No, I have a little more to say. Someone may say, Ed, that's easy. I don't worship idols. Uh there's no idols in the church. Uh I hope it won't be when I come back. I don't think so. Um I serve people. I I gave someone a ride once when they needed a ride. Um I do the dishes sometimes without even being asked. You know? Um I donate to charities, you know, when you're checking out and they say, Would you like to donate a dollar to such and such? I always say yeah, sure. So it's hey, I'm not selfish, right? And I trust Jesus as my savior, he's my reward, I'm going to heaven, I want to go to heaven. That's my reward Well, what we need here isn't just a superficial look at this. We need to have a full, well-developed dimension of serving God. And serving others and not being selfish because Christ, our Savior, is not selfish. So we need to see how we can learn to give up all worship of idols, including self. how we can serve people for God's glory and how we can trust God to truly be our great reward. And Paul helps us here as we do these things. He gives a list of spiritual gifts in verses 4 through 8. What are spiritual gifts? Is that just some kind of catchphrase that kind of incorporates whatever thing you happen to like? Or is there something deeper going on here? These spiritual gifts. I think there's something much deeper going on here. And someone has well-defined spiritual gifts as special abilities to do certain kinds of service. In the kingdom of God. We're not talking about your job at work, but special abilities to do certain kinds of service in the kingdom of God with, listen, with the result. That God's blessings uniquely come upon the servant and the one who receives the service. So this gift thing that God does is empowered by the Holy Spirit so that it's unusually effective. When it's done, it's done with the Spirit's help. Not just, yeah, I've got a talent, I've got a gift, I'll use it. But no, it's something that God gives you, and He also gives you His Spirit to go with it so that it's especially uniquely effective and you get blessed and those who are served get blessed. That's what a spiritual gift is. And God has distributed these gifts. Each person who is in Christ has some of these gifts. Some have more, some have fewer. But everyone has some gift to serve the Lord with. Everyone through he calls to his fellowship in Jesus Christ has a spiritual gift. So you, you have spiritual gift. Every one of you. Young people, you've got to be thinking about this. What is my gift going to be? What is God calling me to do? How am I specially blessed when I do certain things? I need to be discerning that and thinking about it. Now, just because you have these gifts doesn't guarantee that you will use them. That's why Paul is saying, if you have these gifts, use them. If he preaches, let him preach. If he teaches, let him teach. If he serves, let him serve. If he gives, let him give. Because these are the things that God uniquely gives to you to do. Now, as sinners, we get in the way of that, don't we? Because our primary object of worship is me and mine and what I'm going to get out of it and all that. I've already said that. And we have to give that up because we are the people of Christ. He has saved us and called us and gifted us. So Paul urges us in 1 and 2 of verses 1 and 2 of chapter 12 to Make a spiritual sacrifice, which is our spiritual worship. Go up on the altar and offer yourself as a sacrifice And then he tells us how we can make that sacrifice. He says, by having a changed mind, a transformed mind, a renewed mind, a God-shaped mind. Then we'll be ready to serve God. And now he moves on to these gifts. And before he gets to the gifts, in verse 3 he says, don't think of yourself more highly than you ought to. What he means by that is get it clearly in mind that you were a condemned criminal, you are a sinner, you deserve damnation, but Jesus took your place. So you need to think soberly about who you are in him and what you have to do in him and the gifts that come from him to be used for others. So in the midst of this talk about spiritual gifts, we have to take a little caveat here because It's important to get a grip on some of these gifts. In other places in the Bible, you'll see these lists of gifts. And sometimes there'll be gifts like Miracle working. And there will be gifts like speaking in tongues and doing wondrous signs and deeds, you know, miracles of certain kinds. And that's not in this list, but what about that? You know, before we go to the list that we have before us today, what about those other ones? What about them? What we understand from our perspective is that there were permanent gifts, and that's what we're going to talk about in a minute. But there were also special gifts for a particular time. In the early days after Jesus went back to heaven, his apostles that he appointed were given some great gifts of miracles and and speaking in tongues and interpretation of tongues, and we believe those were temporary gifts for the period of time From Jesus' ascension until the beginning of the writing of Scripture, we believe those were temporary signs. And let me tell you why we believe that, because this is just an excursus, and then we'll get to the real stuff. In 2 Corinthians 12, 12, the Apostle Paul specifically identifies these sign gifts, the ones that we don't have anymore. as those belonging to an apostle, he says about himself, truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience, in signs and wonders and mighty deeds. What we have from that is the miraculous sign gifts, including tongues and the interpretation of tongues and the power to heal on contact, and these miracles were temporary. These were the signs of an apostle. And in Hebrews chapter 2, the writer of Hebrews describes those sign gifts as well, but he describes them here as in the past tense, not in the present tense. He says As the apostles were preaching the gospel, God was bearing them witness with signs and wonders and with diverse miracles and gifts of the Holy Spirit. He's looking back on that time. And saying that was what was going on back then when the apostles were doing those things. In Mark chapter 16, We have a statement that the apostles went forth and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the word with signs following. So we can say miraculous gifts attended the works of the apostles so that people would know that they were from God, that the truth that they were preaching is the real truth, the solid, you can count on it, truth. These signs and wonders were done by the Holy Spirit in order to confirm this is the real message. These guys have it. But the sign gifts which are delineated in Rome in 1 Corinthians 12 were written, were delineated there when Paul wrote his first epistle to the Corinthians around the year A. D. 54. The book of Romans, which we're studying today, was written four years later. It is intriguing that Paul's list of spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians is unlike his list of gifts in Romans. None of the miraculous signs, gifts are mentioned in the latter. However, much they were a part of the list in 1 Corinthians a few years earlier. In the book of Ephesians, which is written around 63, so some more years later, Paul talks about spiritual gifts there in chapter 4, and again, he does not include the sign gifts And in Peter's letter, written around A. D. 66, he doesn't mention the sign gifts in his section on spiritual gifts in the fourth chapter. So we conclude that there were these temporary gifts, these miracles, these, you know, I would love to have that gift of healing and go over to St. Mary's Hospital and go from room to room and just heal people. Or do other miracles like that. But that was temporary. Now, what are the permanent, continuing gifts of the Holy Spirit that we need to consider today? And we're going to look at the text here. What are they? First of all, the permanent gifts include prophecy and preaching. It's always going to be needed. Prophecy and preaching are the same thing. Always going to be needed until Christ comes. Lord's Day by Lord's Day. And in various other places, the preaching of the Word of God is most necessary. It will not become unnecessary. Proclamation, telling forth of God's word will always be necessary until Christ comes It is for the edification of the church so that we get more oriented toward the truth. We understand ourselves and the world better and better. By hearing the preaching of God's word. It's also for evangelization. The young man that's going to preach here on the September 3rd regularly goes over to the inner harbor and preaches on the street to people with a bunch of other people He does that as evangelization. People need to hear the gospel. There are various ways and places to do that. So, preaching is always going to be needed. Divinely empowered, when the Holy Spirit is upon a man in his preaching, he will be blessed, and those who hear him will be blessed uniquely. And that's what a call to the ministry is. It's a call to the ministry of preaching. So this is what Paul says. If he has the gift of preaching, Let him preach. Put him to the preaching task. And now we go to the next one. Serving. Serving. And the Greek word that stands behind this word is diakona, which is Which is the word from which we get our term deacons. Okay? In Acts chapter 6, they decided that it was wrong for the ministers that were preaching and teaching to give up The preaching, in order to take care of these administrative functions, these waiting on tables in this case, and so they appointed deacons, servants to do this work. I think we can see the spirit of deacons, even around this church building, where things are taken care of, where things are groomed and kept nice and and put away and all that. That's the spirit of diaconal work. That's that's the special gift. When people enjoy it, when it's not just, oh I gotta help with that 'cause I'll b otherwise I'll look stupid. No, I want to do it. I love to help. It's my thing. I love to serve. They are spiritually blessed, and those who receive that service are also spiritually blessed. This is for anybody. Anybody have these gifts of of doing this. And it also includes when it's a formal office, the the office of deacon, which we desperately need here It is it is showing people how to take care of their things, teaching people how to repair their car instead of spending a lot of money on it. Teaching them how to maintain their house or their vehicle or their car. If you know how that stuff works, then you can help others do it. Showing people how to be good stewards of the money that God gives them Helping them to make a budget and live within that budget. That's part of this kind of diaconal ministry that God has given to His people. And it also involves showing mercy to others. Having a heart of mercy. Not just, well, too bad for you. You don't have enough, so too bad for you. It's no, I I will have mercy. I will help you. I will reach out to you and give to you in love. And so Paul says: if you have this gift, this permanent, ongoing gift that's going to be needed until Christ comes, do it. Let him serve, Paul says. And then there's also teaching. Now that's a little different than preaching. Teaching is systematic training. Preaching is urgent, has to be done, but teaching points to a more ongoing process. Someone who thinks through a curriculum. We need to go from here to here to here to here to here to here. to get what we need instilled in those who are learning. The teaching is a systematic training Ongoing process. It can be done in a seminary. Someone who has the gift of teacher can be appointed to preach and teach in a seminary. Someone who's Teaching in Sunday school classes, someone who leads individual Bible studies might have this gift of teaching so that when they lead the teaching of that Bible study, they are blessed And God's people are blessed. If someone has the gift of teaching, let them teach. Now Paul says, by the way, that he has both those gifts. He doesn't say he has a lot of gifts, but he says, I have both those gifts, because in 2 Timothy, he says, I am appointed a preacher and a teacher. So they're not the same thing. He says, I got both those gifts, and so I'm using them. And if you have those, you should use them. Elders need to have at least the gift of teaching so that they can think through systematically what does this congregation need? How can we make that happen? That's the gift of teaching. And it needs a high level of accountability. Okay, so you say, well, I'm not a preacher, and I'm not a teacher. And I'm not a deacon, although the whole deacon thing spreads out much wider than just the office of deacon. How about this one? Is this maybe your gift? Encouragement. Encouragement. Preaching proclaims the truth. Teaching systematizes the truth. Serving puts truth into action, but encouragement is helping people when they're struggling with life, with the issues, the difficulties of life I think that's what the Stephen Ministry, which is done in many churches, is all about. It's encouraging people. And we're going to have our own version of that, Christian caregiving, starting up in a few weeks on Monday evenings. It involves informal, or even sometimes formal, biblical counsel, encouraging people. In what way? To obey Christ, to love Christ, to do what they ought to do, and encouraging them to turn away from sin and stop it. And obey Christ. Encouraging them when they succeed and encouraging them to get up and go again when they fail. Encouragement. is very, very important. In the New Testament, other words that relate to this word encouragement are exhort And advise and comfort. All those things come together under the rubric of encouragement. Including in 1 Thessalonians 5, the Apostle Paul says, warn the unruly, encourage the faint-hearted, support the weak. That's all under that gift of encouragement. Someone who says, for instance, to you, let me encourage you, sister. To take your eyes off of your problem right now. Don't be so absorbed in your problem. Focus upon the Lord. He knows all about your problem. He is your hope. He will not leave you an orphan. God is in control. God's victory is guaranteed. God will deliver. And people say that when when you don't think that can happen. You just don't feel it. It doesn't go with what you're feeling right now. And someone says, let me encourage you. And it's been I've I've received that. Haven't you? When somebody said, Ed, you're focused on your problems way too much. You're absorbed in your problems. You need to be encouraged to trust God. And I think, yeah, okay, okay, I'll keep trying. But just the encouragement to not cave in, not give up, but keep trusting God. That's what encouragement is When your heart is moved to encourage, if you have the spiritual gift of encouragement, do it. Speak the word. Say the thing that needs to be said. Bless the kid who plays the piano. Encourage. You have the gift of encouragement. Okay, one more. No, there's more than one more, but the next one. Contributing to the needs of others. Oh, we hope we have a lot of those. All of us, you see, folks, are called to give. We're all called to give proportionately to what God has given to us. We're all called to share our earthly possessions in the work of the kingdom of God, and that is spiritual work. But then this gift is the gift of liberality beyond what everybody's called to do. Someone might say, you know, I'm not called to give. Yes, you are. But this is the gift of liberality in giving. over and above. And it is the gift to give liberally and with simplicity and without any ulterior motive You know, the Pharisees were were great at going out on the street corners and getting a coin and dropping it into a bucket and having trumpets blow so everybody could see their good works. The spiritual gift of generosity in this case is I'm not seeking anything back. I'm not expecting repayment. I don't want recognition. I'll even give in secret. So that I don't have to worry about getting that recognition back. This is the gift of God. When people have liberality in their giving And it is a refreshing thing because in our society, God is not praised, and money is often God. People worship mammon rather than God, and they they hold on tight to everything they have. And when God's word comes into them and when God's Spirit is upon them, and they give liberally, it is a sign of the kingdom of God at work in people's lives. So if you have this gift, use it. Be liberal. Give. Next one, leadership. Leadership. Now, this is management in general, but it's management of the kingdom of God and the things belonging to the kingdom of God. It's having the special spirit-given ability to coordinate, to have a big picture and know what needs to be done and have it all understood well. And motivate others to fit into the big picture. That's this gift of leadership. Hey everybody, let's do this. Would you do that? Would you do the other thing? Would you take care of this? Like the picture of the county fair. You know, everybody pitching in to get the whole thing done. It's that gift of leadership, inspiring others with a vision. If we all pitch in, we can accomplish this. Won't that be great for the Lord? The vision of leadership. If someone has the gift of leadership, let them lead. Bless them in their leadership. Encourage them in their leadership. If you have that gift, don't let it go fallow. Number seven, this is the last one. But it's a really good one. Showing mercy, Paul says. Showing mercy. That is having a heart that pities others That is compassionate for the poor. Doesn't just say, you must be a miserable person to be in the state you're in. I'm glad I'm not you. But no, it identifies with them and cares about their situation and wants to truly help them in their need. This is the mercy that is shown to the downtrodden. It is the mercy that is shown to people who've gotten themselves in trouble, even in jail. And you go and you love them, and you speak kind words to them, and you offer them hope, that is showing mercy. People who are homeless, people who are destitute. I know it takes a great deal of wisdom to truly help people who are in these things. But first you have to have this, many of you have to have this gift of mercy. A heart that really does want to help. A heart that's not haughty and proud, but a heart that's touched by Jesus, that's been shaped by what He did, coming down and giving up everything for us. That's the mercy of God that comes in and touches you and makes you like Jesus Jesus said, quoting Isaiah 61 when he was in his hometown, he said, I have come to set at liberty those who are bruised. And that's this gift of mercy. He had all of these gifts, by the way, didn't he? Yes, he did. And it's the special ability, these gifts are the special ability to do these things cheerfully to enjoy doing these things and be blessed in doing them. I've heard people talk about visiting a sick person. And they come back from the visit, and instead of being drained by the visit, they are invigorated and filled with joy because of the visit that they made. Others are moved and blessed and invigorated by other uses of the gifts that God gives. Whatever your gift is. Try to understand what it is and then do it cheerfully, as the Apostle Paul said. So you need to think, and you need to pray, and you need to ask God to show you And maybe you need to try some of these out so that you can say, well, I tried that and that really wasn't my gift, but I tried this other one and this one definitely is. You need to get that. And if you do, you will be blessed, and others will be blessed, and the kingdom of God will prosper and grow. Because you'll be serving God's people for God's glory. The one thing that will keep you from doing this is what we started with. Selfishness, self-protection, self-aggrandizement, self-worship, Or maybe using the gifts to ingratiate others to yourself, or using the gifts to gain attention for yourself, or power for yourself. Or even love for yourself. I want people to love me, so I'm going to do things that make them love me. Or using your gifts out of envy or strife. Paul says some people were serving God's purposes, but they were doing it for the wrong motivations, envy and strife. And even when Jesus was about to be crucified, as it's recorded in the Gospels in John 21, two of his disciples were bet were trying to decide Who gets to sit on the right hand and who gets to sit on the left hand side in the kingdom? They weren't thinking right about the gifts. When God spoke to Abraham, the great spiritual forefather of us And Abraham was wandering around. God had said, I'm giving you this whole land. Everything that you see, everything that you everywhere you've been is going to be yours. And he was not finding it to feel like it was working out very well. He was getting in trouble here, getting in trouble there, and wandering from this place to that place. Things were not going very well for good old Abraham. But in Genesis 15, God said to him, as he made that covenant, as he cut that covenant, he said, do not fear Abraham. Do not be afraid. I am your shield, your very great reward. Our very great reward must be God. And that's how we will avoid those things that I just mentioned, uh, self-seeking things, in the use of our gifts. Let God be your reward. If you will serve God and use the spiritual gifts He gives to you, then you are on the altar. You're offering your life as a living sacrifice. You're being shaped in your heart and mind by Christ. And he will bless you in the use of your gifts. Let us pray. Oh God, by your grace, we are your people. Formed in weakness. We are clay pots, and yet there's treasure inside. Your strength is made perfect in our weakness. So give us grace to serve you as we serve others and be our very great reward as we trust you. Trust in you, Amen.