Please open your Bibles to the book of Genesis, chapter 18, where we'll read verses 1 through 15. Genesis 18, verses 1 through 15 And the Lord appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre as he sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day. He lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing in front of him. When he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them and bowed himself to the earth and said, O Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant. Let a little water be brought and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree, while I bring a morsel of bread, that you may refresh yourselves, and after that you may pass on, since you have come to your servant. So they said, Do as you have said. And Abraham went quickly into the tent to Sarah and said, Quick, three seas of seas of flour, knead it, and make cakes And Abraham ran to the herd and took a calf, tender and good, and gave it to the young man, who prepared it quickly. Then he took curds and milk and the calf that he had prepared. And set it before them. And he stood by them under the tree while they ate. They said to him, Where is Sarah, your wife? And he said, She is in the tent. The Lord said, I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah your wife shall have a son. And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him. him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in years. The way of women had ceased to be with Sarah. So Sarah laughed to herself, saying, After I am worn out and my Lord is old, shall I have pleasure? The Lord said to Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh and say, Shall I indeed bear a child now that I am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? At the appointed time I will return to you about this time next year, and Sarah shall have a son. But Sarah denied it, saying, I did not laugh, for she was afraid He said, No, but you did laugh. The word of the Lord, thanks be to God. Now turn to John chapter 6. This is the preaching portion, and then we'll read something that I believe is parallel from Matthew 26, but first John I'm not reading the whole section, but a portion 6, 52 through 59, perhaps the most salient section, most controversial section John 6, 52 through 59. The Jews then disputed amongst themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him, as the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father. So whoever feeds on me He also will live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. Then turn to Matthew 26, 26 through 28. 8. 26, beginning at verse 26. Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it and broke it, he gave it to his disciples and said Take eat, this is my body. Then he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, Drink of it all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sin. sins. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for inspiring these words to be written down, for giving them to your church to be read in assemblies. Where your spirit is present, where your people are gathered in your name, where you have promised to meet and teach and heal and help us. So help us today by your word. In Jesus' name, amen. In the larger setting of John's Gospel And elsewhere, Jesus is presented as the Lamb of God, the Passover Lamb. In John 1:29. It was recorded the next day he saw Jesus coming to him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. The Lamb of God. Now, what's that referring to? It's referring to a Passover lamb who died and was eaten in faith by the Israelites, and as a result, the death angel passed over them. And John was saying, Jesus is the Lamb. And if we eat him in faith, we are now passed over and will be passed over in the final judgment. So that's the first presentation. The second one, Jesus is also presented in the scriptures, but in John here, as the new Moses. Now that's Passover connected as well. The new Moses, with whom we must be in union. The people had to stay with Moses. They had to be in union with Moses if they desired and wished to enter Canaan with Moses. Moses. And Jesus is the leader of the exodus from slavery and sin and death. And this is accomplished, this salvation in Jesus is accomplished through union. With Jesus. And Paul says in 1 Corinthians 10, to he says this, and you have to think about it, we were, he's saying it to the Israelites, we were all baptized into Moses. Union, you see. Baptized into Moses, in the cloud and in the sea. As they followed Moses through the wilderness, the cloud and the sea, all that they were in union with Moses. And this union is set forth in the New Testament in terms of baptism. Being united to somebody means that you go with them where they go What happens to them happens to you. Their life is your life. Their fortunes are your fortunes. That's why Paul can say in Romans 6, concerning us who believe Do you not know that all who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried. Union. With him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. In other words, we're in union with him in resurrection, in walking in new life, too Then he says this, for if we have been united, see there's the word, with him in his death, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him. In union with him we were crucified. In order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would know no longer be enslaved to sin. In union with Christ, we're not slaves to sin. That's what we Paul's saying. Union, union, union. Don't forget that word. And then thirdly, Jesus is presented here in this gospel as well as many other places As the bridegroom and his people the bride. This is parallel to the Old Testament, where Yahweh has a wife named Israel. And they are in union together, covenant union. And then finally, and we're coming to it now, Jesus is presented as a host at a feast, and strangely enough, as the food at the feast. You see, eating is also a strong symbol of union. While we eat comes into us and is metabolized and becomes a part of us, we're united with food, and food is united with us, and it produces energy and life. And Jesus teaches here that he is in union with us. We are to be in union with him if we want to. To have life. And it's also, there's another aspect of this. When you eat with someone, it's a symbol of fellowship, of friendship, of communion, of being united together in purpose and life when you eat with someone. Especially in biblical times, it's so important in the biblical times that people ate together and shared together. That's what we read about from the Old Testament. Where the Lord, in the person of three individuals, appeared to Abraham, and then Abraham made a meal and they ate together. You see. Union, communion, fellowship, strong stuff here. And in Revelation 3. 20, a very famous passage that many people know. Behold, I stand at the door and knock, Jesus says. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him. Union. And he will be with me. Union, communion. It's all there. Now, as you keep these ideas in mind, these important ideas of union. Now let's look at the passage. The passage before us in John chapter 6. Now I'm skipping over the part where Jesus walked on the water and came through. I'll take that up later. But we're right up to the place Where Jesus has fed 5,000 men and many, many other women and children. And here in verse 25 of chapter 6, he proclaims himself This is union again. He proclaims himself as the bread and drink of life. Given by the Father to sustain his people through their earthly pilgrimage. Think of that journey to Canaan Now listen, here it is. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? Jesus answered, truly, truly, that's that emphatic, Amen, Amen. I say to you, you are seeking me, not for the right reasons, not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of loaves And then he instructs them, do not work for food that perishes, but for food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal. They don't understand this. So then in verse 28, they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? And Jesus answered them, and please remember this. This is the work of God that you believe in Him whom He has sent. Because John everywhere teaches that we come into union with Christ by believing into him. That's how we come into union with them. So they say, they don't get it. They say in verse 30, What sign will you do that we may see it and believe you? What work will you perform? And he's already done things like this And then they give him a clue what they want. Our fathers ate manna in the wilderness, as it is written. He gave them bread from heaven to eat. Jesus said to them. Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. And again, they don't get it. Sir, give us this bread always. Then Jesus says to them, verse 35, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and who believes in me will never thirst. There's where belief and eating, the bread, fellowship, union, faith all come together. But then he says this in verse 36, but I said to you that you have seen me, and yet you do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but to do the will of Him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up at the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that every one who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up. At the last day. Now there's a lot of wonderful doctrine here. Having fed these five thousand, Jesus reflected on this miraculous feeding of the Israelites by Yahweh in the desert. And then he asserts here that he fulfills this event in his person and work. In summary, we could put it this way. He's saying God gave Moses as the leader of the Exodus. But now God has set his seal on me, Jesus. He has set his seal of approval on me. I'm the leader of the Exodus. And he reminds them, if the Israelites had not been given food and water in the desert, what would have happened to them? They would have died. And he's saying about himself: if you don't have me as your food and drink, you'll die. Because I'm the one God sent, I'm the endorsed leader. God has set his seal of approval on me. They want signs. Verse 30. They said to him, Then what sign will you do that we may see and believe? What work will you perform? And they give him another example of what they want. Bread. Our fathers ate manna in the wilderness, as it is written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. Jesus He gets kind of nitpicky here and corrects them. He says, no. Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses. You're talking about Moses as the great leader. No, not Moses who give you bread from heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven. He's setting them straight. Then he says, and this is that doctrine again, for the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. I still don't get it. Verse 34, Sir, give us this bread always. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. Then he goes on to say that this bread is for eternal life. He says it over and over and over again. And he expresses these terms in terms of the sovereignty of God. He says in the next few verses, all that the Father gives me will come to me. So that's an expression of divine sovereignty. How are people saved? How do people believe in Christ? It is a gift of the Father. It's not their own will. It's not their own ability to believe. It is the gift of the Father. But it's also expressed here that whoever believes in me Whoever believes. So there's a human side to this as well. There's human responsibility and sovereign election, both taught here. This coming to him is equivalent to believing in him in verse 37. Those who believe will not be cast out from the Father, but the Father will receive them and the Father will preserve them. And as a result, those will who believe in him will have eternal life and persevere in faith, and none will be lost. And at the last day they will all be raised in union with Christ from the dead. That's the first section of teaching. Here in this wonderful passage. The second section is verses 41 through 47, where Jesus then clarifies and underlines again that he has received through faith Which is a gift of God. Faith, which is a gift of God. Verses 41. The Jews grumbled about him, because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven And by the way, this is so parallel to what happened in the wilderness with Moses. What did the people do in the wilderness when they didn't get what they wanted? They grumbled. Remember? They did. And now he says, the Jews grumbled about him because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among yourselves. So it's interesting what's going on here. Verse 44, he says to them, No one can come to me. Unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up at the last day. He says, it is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father except he who is from God. He has seen the Father. And then another, truly, truly, you've got to mark these truly trulys. Verse 47, truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has each. eternal life. So again, we're we're putting these things together. We are saved by union with Christ. Union with Christ is by faith. It is by believing into him. It is by coming into his life, coming into his death Joining him in resurrection, walking and living with him, eating him, having him come into us and metabolize and energize us, eating him is one of these wonderful metaphors and symbols of how God works in us. But then to make the point utterly clear, he gets really crass. And this is where I want you to focus most, in verses 48 through 59. He's instructing the Jews here, and he says, in essence, they have to eat his death. They have to eat his death. If they want to live, they have to eat his death. I am the bread of life, he says. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is not My flesh. The Jews then disputed amongst themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh? And Jesus gets very, very explicit now. Jesus said to them in verse 53, Truly, truly, I say to you Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man, he's adding something now, and drink his blood, you have no life in you Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day, for my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him, as the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, whoever feeds on me will also live because of me This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread of the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. What is Jesus doing here? He's referring to his death on the cross in the most explicit, gross terms. The cross is the great goal of his life and ministry. The purpose of incarnation, Christmas Is atonement cross. This death of Jesus on the cross, his fully human flesh dying on the cross cannot be toned down. One of my teachers, Dr. Letham, said the deliberate word of sharks in the Greek here, flesh. Shifts the content of what was being said away from a purely mental and spiritual hearing and believing in the direction of a physical chewing and swallowing. These are the equivalents of the words Jesus spoke at the Last Supper, which we read from Matthew 26. This was absolutely scandalous, by the way. How can this man give us his flesh to eat in John six fifty-two And the contempt of the Jewish audience is clear. This is shock and revulsion. They refer, they come to understand him as teaching cannibalism. If Jesus Himself is the bread of life and comes, life comes from eating his flesh, this means cannibalism to them. Now, think about that for a moment. To drink blood, the Old Testament law was forbidden It was forbidden before the flood and forbidden after the flood. Even in eating an animal's flesh, the blood was to be drained before the meat could be eaten. Leviticus chapter 3 and Deuteronomy chapter 12. And still less was human blood ever acceptable to be consumed in any way. And yet, as Dr. Lutham says, Jesus makes no attempt to tone his language down or explain it by the merely figurative. On the contrary, he intensifies it. Instead of backing off and pointing out that his hearers had misinterpreted him, he boldly underlines what he has said. They had understood him only too well, and their reaction was rational. The eating and drinking, Jesus insists, is very physical indeed. And in verse 54 This is important. There's a remarkable change of verb. Until now, Jesus has used the Greek verb thago, which just means to eat. They ate in the wilderness. They ate manna. Fago. Okay? Now he switches to the word trogo Trogo, which is crude and vulgar. It's a word meaning to chew, to gnaw, to bite audibly. That's what Jesus now said. He uses this verb exclusively throughout the rest of the discussion. By choosing it, he draws attention to the physical process of chewing and swallowing and the sounds that go with it, far from appeasing his opponents. He challenges them head-on with these words. And they recognize this as a hard saying. What does it mean It is obvious that Jesus is not advocating real-life cannibalism. But neither can this language be emptied of its raw force. So shot what shall we do with it? Here's the point. Here's the summit of all this teaching. Think of this. Christ is God who has come to feed and nourish his people. God's nourishment for us is found in Jesus, and particularly in the death of Jesus. Body and blood, which he introduces in this last section. Body and blood. Before it was just body. Eat my flesh. But now it's body and blood. When he introduces this, it's code for death. Flesh and blood are separated at death. When a human dies, the blood stops being circulated and stops nourishing the tissue, the flesh, and separates from it. That's true. And Jesus is saying, unless you eat and drink the death of Jesus, you will die. The death of Jesus is what saves you. You are fed, you are nourished, you are saved, you are preserved by the death of Jesus. In union with the death of Jesus, you died, and in union with the resurrection of Jesus, you lived. The incarnation was absolutely necessary, but incarnation does not save you. The death of God incarnate saves you because his death made atonement. So now when you eat the bread at this table and drink the cup of wine, you are Remembering and eating and internalizing the fact that He died for you. You are receiving His death into yourself, your food for forgiveness. Your atoning sacrifice. You are receiving his flesh and blood for union with God, for peace with God, for justification. He died a death that saves all who receive him. His own disciples might have dismissed this episode as simply kind of bizarre speech that Jesus was using to foil the Jews who were trying to get him caught up or something. They might have thought that until until what? Until the night in which he was betrayed, the Passover Eve There, he reiterated what he had said to the Jews here in Galilee. He restated the need for literal, perpetual eating and drinking his body and blood by faith. There he reinforced the repetitive nature of remembering and appropriating the saving death of Jesus by eating the Lord's Supper in faith until he comes. I read it for you again. Matthew 26. Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples and said, Take eat, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, Drink of it all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. We appropriate his saving death as we eat and drink by faith. Christ is to us the bread of life as we feed on him in the communion supper, as we eat his flesh and drink his blood, not cannibalism. But real receiving by faith. Here are the two things that are inseparable, like two sides of the same coin. Believing on the one hand and eating and drinking on the other. They're both necessary. Both go together. The communions That we celebrate here weekly is not some magical rite that automatically conveys the grace of God We know that because the wilderness generation, who were baptized into Moses, who ate and drank at the hand of Christ, fell short, and many of Jesus' hearers also did not believe. So without faith, we cannot eat the true bread and receive eternal life. But we cannot eat the Lord's Supper aright apart from faith. Christ is still the bread of life in the Lord's Supper. Jesus does not teach magic, but neither does he purvey some sort of idealized spiritual salvation divorced from the flesh. Eating and drinking go together with faith. They are two sides of the same coin. And so to us, as a gathered congregation, To anyone who calls themselves a Christian, the Lord's Supper is central. It's the Sina qua non, without which there is no. It is central. While eating with faith profits us nothing, so faith without the eating is incomplete and barren. Without the Lord's suffering, you see, we in effect deny the reality of Christ's humanity and death and our own human bodily resurrection in the future at the last day. In the Lord's Supper, through faith we eat Christ's flesh and drink his blood, and so are nourished in body and soul unto everlasting life, as I say practically every Sunday. Now this may sound wow, Ed, I don't get this. This is that sounds kind of weird. It's Catholicy and and yet, you know, is this really reformed doctrine? I don't I don't know, you know Look at the front of the worship folder if you want to follow along. Stephen Sharnock, famous English Puritan Presbyterian, says this. And he capsulizes what I have tried to say in this sermon very well. Listen, divine goodness is eminent in the sacraments he hath affixed to his covenant, especially the Lord's Supper. As he gave himself in his son, so he gives his son in the sacrament. He does not only give himself as a sacrifice upon the cross for the expiation of our crimes But at the feast upon the table for the nourishment of our souls in the one he has given to be offered in this He gives himself to be partaken of. With all the fruits of his death, under the image of the sacramental signs, every believer doth eat the flesh and drink the blood of the great mediator of the covenant. The words of Christ, this is my body and this is my blood, are true to the end of the world. This is the most delicious viand of heaven, the most exquisite, dainty food God can feed us With. The delight of the deity, the admiration of the angels. A feast with God is great, but a feast on God is greater. Under those signs, that body is presented, that which was conceived by the Spirit, inhabited by the Godhead, bruised by the Father to be our food. As well as our propitiation is presented to us on the table. That blood which satisfied justice, washed away our guilt upon the cross, and pleads for our persons at the throne of grace. That blood, which silenced the curse, pacified heaven, and purged earth, is given to us for our refreshment. Brothers and sisters, on the authority of Christ, I tell you, you must eat and drink Christ's saving death by faith. as you eat the Lord's Supper. Because your own life condemns you. And your own death will never atone. You must eat his life and his death if you will have life. On the authority of Christ, I tell you. He offers himself to you as the one who died for you when you eat and drink by faith. And in union with him, he will preserve you, body and soul, unto you. to everlasting life. Believe this. It's the Word of God. Amen. Lord, such awesome teaching Help us to appropriate it and help us to be faithful to your table, not forsaking the assembly and the table, but coming to What you have provided for us and eating and drinking by faith and being nourished and strengthened. Help us, Lord. In Jesus' name, amen.