Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father In the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ, and for sprinkling with his blood. May grace and peace be multiplied to you Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, as was necessary, you have been grieved by various trials So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire May be bound to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him You love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory Obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Let's pray. Father, we ask you that your word may become real, powerful, and life-changing for us, for our minds and bodies, for our souls and spirits That we will live for you, that we will love you, and they will be testimonies of your grace and goodness in sending Jesus into this world to be the Savior of your people You have chosen from everlasting to everlasting for your glory and honor. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ You've all felt strange at one time or another. Under certain circumstances it might be said that you felt very strange indeed Remember the time you first attended a dance? You have danced some, haven't you? You know, some of us way back then, when people danced with rather than at each other. And you didn't know any more about what made a fox trot than a bug jitter. Sometimes the strangeness was only temporary The ice melted rather rapidly at the college freshman get-together after you volunteered to fall backwards blindfolded into the waiting arms of people whose names you had not yet even begun to sort out. Strangeness But there have been other occasions when the strangeness not only didn't disappear, but it actually grew more marked with the passage of time. Perhaps you're pausing briefly and silently in thanksgiving to God before diving into your microwaved roast beef sandwich at the office lunchroom? And you're the only one doing that. The praying, that is, not the eating. Perhaps it's been more serious. And outright confrontation has been unavoidable. Maybe you created a hung jury because of your moral convictions. Actually, I've never been on a jury. But were you a solitary voice at that labor union meeting, calling for obedience to God Yes, belonging to God through Jesus Christ will not only make you appear strange to others at times, but more importantly will make you be strange It's inevitable. And has been, you can count on it. Your obedience to God's law and God's ways has been and always will be odious. To the people of this fallen world of men. We found out this morning what's involved in being obedient to and avoiding sins against the ninth commandment. And it took our pastor about eight minutes To read the description and the list of those ways from our larger catechism. That meant a lot to me I've been thinking about it all afternoon. Do you remember the argument that Haman advanced to King Xerxes in support of his recommendation that a decree be issued to wipe out all the Jews in Persia? You can find it in Esther chapter 3, in these words: There is a certain people dispersed and scattered among the peoples in all the providences of the kingdom who keep themselves separate. Their customs are different from those of all other people, and they do not obey the king's laws. It is not in the king's best interest to tolerate them Yes, the strangeness of God's people in the eyes of the children of this world is sometimes not tolerated. Consequently, there is the temptation to appear less strange, to fit in. To blend chameleon-like with the colors of world culture. How about you? Are you at home in this world Or must you confess not only to a feeling, but more to an actuality of strangeness? Alienation when it comes to your fitting in with the lifestyle and thinking of this world in which you pursue your life as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, if that's true of you, then I have glorious news for you tonight. Did you know that a whole book of the Bible is addressed particularly and personally to you? Yes, and it's not only addressed to you, but it contains some very practical direction for you as you face that situation of feeling and being strange here. And especially as you face the temptation to do something dishonoring to your Lord and Savior in order to appear not so strange to others. Aren't you anxious to listen to such a book? To such a message? I know I am, and I hope you are too. It's the book of 1 Peter. Actually, I have about six commentaries on 1 Peter in my library. I don't think there's another book of the Bible that has so many separate commentaries. People have been interested in this letter from Peter to the church And it's written by that apostle of the Lord Jesus, specifically for Christians who find themselves in the midst of all sorts of trials And suffering because of their commitment to the Savior. They are looked upon as being equally as freakish As those Jews in Esther's day about whom we just read, who don't act like folks ought to act. Or at least don't talk like act like folks do act. The subtle difference is sometimes lost or misplaced. And people don't genuinely and generally consider that interesting, that ethnicity Or being cute. But they do sometimes. But oh, that special kind of difference, that different mess That causes some people to walk, you know, also straight. They don't compromise ever, those Christians. They march to a different drummer. Why can't they be more normal? The Holy Spirit knows that this is happening. And he moved Peter to write this letter, this book of the New Testament, for Christians facing this problem, then and now. And his salutation to them all is this: Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion. So, listen up, you elect exiles, you strange folks. Your Lord has a word for you here in this precious book Listen up for the voice of your Lord and Savior. He himself knows what it is to be thought strange. He himself experienced alienation far beyond anything that you or I could imagine, let alone go through. And he is in a position help you. So listen. Here's our proposition tonight from 1 Peter 1, 1 and 2. You who are believers in Jesus Christ, being elect strangers, are actually blessed in that position. And I have three points. And the first one is this. Believers in Jesus Christ are strangers Peter addresses his letter to the elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. The word diaspora or dispersion in our English refers to Jewish people who had been scattered by their ancient enemies throughout the ancient world. particularly in the providences of what is modern day Turkey. The fact that he refers to his readers as elect exiles of the Dispersions suggests that he is writing to Jewish Christians. In fact, it would be easy to read elect exiles of the dispersion as meaning simply Jewish Christians. They are elect. They are sojourners in a foreign land, and they are dispersed Jews. But in the context of the whole epistle, we must see that Peter is making a more specific reference. The dispersion referred to those Jews who lived outside of Palestine. Since God had promised the land of Palestine to Israel, any Jew who lived outside of Palestine was considered an exile They were dispersed abroad and were waiting to be restored to home, to the land. But you must realize that Peter has Gentile believers also in his mind as he addresses this letter. For you'll remember that the book of Acts tells us that people from these very districts mentioned here in our text were present on the day of Pentecost. And Peter knows that many Gentiles in those places had also come to know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. In verse 14 of this first chapter, which we didn't read, he calls those Gentile believers to not be conformed to the passions of their former ignorance. They're not Jews, they're Gentiles. And again in verse 10 of chapter 2, he refers to them as people who once were not a people of God. And you know that's not Jews, that's Gentiles. So Peter groups Jews and Gentile believers in Christ as sharing alike a common strangeness. Whether Jew or Gentile, they were different because they had been delivered from the kingdom of this world, from the kingdom of darkness. Into the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ, the kingdom of life and light. And it made them stand out. It rendered them strange. They did not belong to this world, which was passing away. Their citizenship was in heaven, from which they expected to receive their Savior one day. Peter calls them exiles The word means literally somebody who lives alongside others as a temporary only resident. Like Abraham, who said to the Canaanites from whom he had to buy at full price a burial price for his deceased wife Sarah. I am a stranger and a sojourner with you. Also, like Peter's fellow apostle Paul, who announced our citizenship Is in heaven. Like all the Hebrews, like all the heroes, I should say, of faith in Hebrews chapter 11 About whom it is said that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. Now, these Jewish Christians of our text were not at home in Palestine. Not very modern-day Turkey. But that's where the problem starts for Peter's readers. They would think, and maybe even say, Messiah has come He has accomplished his work. We know him. We believe him. We trust him. And yet we are still in exile. What's going on? We have not been restored to the land. That was not supposed to happen. The prophets said That when Messiah came, the kingdom of God would be established and the age of blessing and life would begin. Now, how come we are still being persecuted abroad Election and exile don't seem to fit together. If we are the chosen people of God and Messiah has come, then we should not be in exile anymore But Peter reminds them of who they are in Christ. They are elect according to the will of God. But at the same time, neither were their Gentile brethren home as yet, though they were in their own home country. And even hometowns. Neither are you here tonight, at home as yet, in Southern Maryland. Whether in St. Mary's County or across the bridge. Not at home yet. Wherever you live. If you are a believer in Jesus, then you are a stranger here Just like they were there. So you ought not to get too comfortable or sink your roots in too One of these days, the whole church is moving, moving home. Now you have a job to do in this foreign country in the meantime. To press upon its citizens their mortal plight as strangers to God. Let me say to anyone tonight who has been thinking so far during this sermon, what's he talking about? For I feel quite comfortable in my life. If you've been thinking that way, then let me ask you a question. How would you describe your relationship to God? Are you a stranger to him? How often and how earnestly do you cry out to him daily in prayer and praise? And does he know the one who so cries out to him? Yes, being a stranger to God is a far more serious matter than being a stranger to the world Once David wrote a psalm in which he cried out, Hear my prayer, O Lord. Listen to my cry for help. Be not deaf to my weeping, for I dwell with you as an alien. A stranger, as all my fathers were. Look away from me that I may rejoice again before I depart and end no more. What did he mean by those strange words? Well, he meant that unless God's righteous anger would be turned away from him before he died That he would continue a stranger to God and be lost forever. And he was the king. Of a nation on this earth. As such, he was anything but a stranger on the earth. Everyone knew David, and everyone, well, almost everyone respected and looked up to him, except his enemies. But David had a far greater concern than how comfortable he was here on earth. He was concerned about his eternal destiny. He was concerned that when he would die, that he would be shown a friend, yes, an acquaintance of God And even more importantly, that God would be his friend, not a stranger to him. So he sought God's favor and friendship and said, But now, Lord, what do I look for? My hope is in you. Save me from all my transgressions. And that's what you need. Consider this message from God carefully Coming to Christ means coming under Peter's salutation, elect exiles of the dispersion. Following Christ means forsaking the world. Pleading Jesus shed blood as a payment for your sins means turning away from those sins, hating them. And endeavoring by God's strength to fight against continuing. That will make you strange. Strange to the world, which is bound by sin, and wants to do the things that it wants to do Satan, sin, and themselves in their fallen nature. Maybe you are strange sometimes, even to some extended family members. If they don't know the Lord Jesus. You may have some relatives who know you very well And might give you a bit of static over what they might term your religion, your church bag. You are a stranger. Yes, but not a stranger to God. See, my dear Christian brothers and sisters, there's a word for you here, and it's this. Could it be that you sometimes feel too much at home here Are you too comfortably adjusted to this world, so much so that you can't see yourself in this designation, elect exiles of the dispersion, but you're there If you're saved. Yes, I know that you are called to be this worldly in service and witness. Yes. God doesn't want you in a monastery. But you are called to be otherworldly in your aims, your behavior, and your commitment. But now secondly, believers in Jesus Christ are elect strangers, elect exiles. Peter writes to these exiles as chosen for this by all three persons of the Blessed Trinity. Let's read verse 2a again. According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ, and for sprinkling with his blood. If you are a believer and thus a stranger, an exile in the world, God has chosen you for that. He has picked you out to be different. You never would have been so. But God wanted a special people for himself. So he chose you. And made you special, and ordained you to be part of a holy nation for himself And without election for us there would be no hope. That God wants you, that God wants you, is your hope. As a believer in Jesus Christ, give praise to the Father in heaven for the divine initiative in your spirit. Remember, you are chosen not in yourself or because of yourself, but in spite of yourself. And you are chosen in Christ. All this has been applied to you by the sanctifying work of the third person of the divine trinity, the Holy Spirit The sense of these things requires grateful devotion to the Savior, doesn't it? Chosen as you are, according to the foreknowledge Of God the Father, foreknowledge, predestination. The word know means love, often in the Bible You only, the Bible says, for God, you only of all the families of the earth have I known. You think that God didn't know there was any other people than Christians No, it means God says of Israel that although I know about the other nations, but I savingly loved you, Israel, and you, Christian Church. A man knows his wife, in biblical terminology, when he loves her. Yes, including physically. So foreknowledge here in our text means no doubt love beforehand. The idea that God elected those whom he loved before they did anything at all, let alone doing something that pleased him. God has revealed this wonderful truth for Bible readers to wonder and not argue about. Elect, exiles, people who have been called out by the grace and love of God. To what end? For obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood. The picture here is likely of Israel at Sinai, where we read, Moses took the book of the covenant and read it to the people. They responded, We will do everything the Lord has said. We will obey. Moses then took the blood, sprinkled it on the people, and said This is the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you, in accordance with all these words. There it was, an elect nation there at Sinai, sprinkled, obedient. Now says Peter, you are an elect church, sprinkled, and obedient. Friends again of God, obedient to Him, forgiven by Him. Maybe I should reverse that Forgiven by him, obedient to him. And thus in that identity, you are strangers in the world, but elect strangers Are you strangers, you believers in Southern Maryland? Remember, the three persons of the Godhead are with you. Chosen by the Father, sanctified by the Spirit, sprinkled by the Son's blood. Unworthy, you have been called for this privilege of being different, of being strange, yet strangers in the world. The same is true of you, as it was to those to whom Peter wrote. The words of our text. The way you take persecution today is perhaps the chief badge of your strangeness as you fill up the sufferings of Christ. Now, there is, of course, a wrong way to be strange, to seek it. But the strangeness of Peter's message is an effect, not a goal. The goal is obedience to Jesus Christ and sprinkling by his blood. When that goal is sought, a strangeness will develop inevitably A strangeness, strangeness in the world. And you won't have to seek it. It will come to you anyway And it may very well come as social suffering. But a second way to be strange is to seek to leave the world altogether. You've already seen that this is not the Lord's will. He wants you in the world, but not of the world. Your strangeness stems from the otherworldly source of your faith, God Himself. His Holy Spirit, His sovereign intervention, makes you strange. And now finally, believers in Jesus Christ Huh, or blessed as elect strangers. Listen with grateful hearts as the Apostle Peter pronounces As a representative of the Almighty and ever-blessed God, this ringing and sure-to-be accomplished benediction. Verse 2b May grace and peace be multiplied to you. You do understand, don't you, that those powerful words are not a prayer. Either a prayer of Peter's or even a prayer of yours. These words are a declaration. They are a benediction. They affirm not what is wanted from God, but rather what God has given and will give. Grace and peace. A good name for a church, huh? Not just some grace and peace, mind you, but multiplied grace and peace. And not grace and peace believed to be available, but grace and peace given to the elect exiles. And that little word may does not denote a pleading request. As Orphan Oliver, remember him Holding his empty porridge bowl, please, sir, may I have some more? That kind not that kind of made It is a powerful and unsought donation for which no price is offered. God says with his may I do it. I do it. Now. That means that you believers in Jesus here tonight, as well as Peter's readers then. Possess these blessings of grace. And your citizenship is already in heaven You have everlasting life. Now, not shall have have Thus, your status today in Southern Maryland is that of a pilgrim, an exile, a stranger here. An ambassador who mingles but remembers from whence you come, who's homesick But knows whose you are. Yes, you may be scorned and even maligned, as Peter later writes in chapter 4. But what does that matter? You have God's grace and truth. And those two are sufficient for you. Praise God. You don't have to hide or cover up your strangeness. Be a Jesus freak. In the best sense of the word, Jesus Christ, elect. Yes, Jesus, we do thank you. We thank you, Holy Spirit, and God our Father in heaven. For these great and marvelous and wonderful things. Grasped together tonight as we are sitting here, we are grateful to you beyond measure. And thankful that we are not strangers to you. You greeted us already when we came in here and said, hello, I'm with you Thank you that you're in a moment going to say goodbye. Not forever, and not even for a moment, but goodbye as a congregation gathered together to go back into this world And be strange for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen