The reading is first only Psalm thirteen to the choirmaster, a psalm of David. How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Consider and answer me, O Lord my God. Light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. Lest my enemies say, I have prevailed over him. Lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken But I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord, because He has dealt bountifully with me Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit. This psalm, of course, starts in discouragement, in despair, like many others. And David finishes in a place of trust, joy, and encouragement. First we consider David's despair in verse 1. The question in this Psalm is repeated no less than four times, how long, O Lord? And then goes on, will you forget me forever? So you can see the theme of his inquiry here. How long will you hide your face from me? You know, the blessing of Numbers chapter six is the Lord bless you and keep you, the Lord make his face to shine upon you, the Lord lift up his countenance unto you, and be gracious unto you and give you peace. The face of God is God's blessing. God looking at you with pleasure and joy, and not with rejection. So he says, How long will you hide your face from me? You can see why he uses that expression. It seems that every child of God is asked this question at one time or another. And that every follower of God has felt neglected by God at times. Or at least they have waited a long time for God to do what needed to be done. If you have never found occasion to use the language of this sort, it will happen to you. Here's what Spurgeon says. If the reader has never yet found occasion to use the language of this brief ode, he will do so ere long if he be a man after the Lord's own heart Those that God loves, He allows to go through these things. How long is the critical question? Often we faint under the simple lengths of our trials. When will it finally be over? We feel we could endure almost anything if we knew when it would come to an end. Yet sometimes we are tried under problems that make us cry out, how long? And then will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? Pain in David's heart came from a sense that God had forgotten him, and that God was distancing himself from David. No doubt David had faced terrible circumstances, but had faced them more bravely when he sensed the presence of God with him, right? Yet now, feeling distant from God, it didn't take much for David to fall into despair. The final and complete absence of God is hell. Where God says, depart from me, ye cursed. This is worse than everlasting fire. To be punished from the presence of the Lord is the hell of hells. Second Thessalonians one, seven through nine says When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God. And on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, they will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction. Listen to this, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might. So that is the essence of hell, to be away from the presence of the Lord. Well, God did not forget David. And God did not hide his face from David, but David felt like it. When we have such strong feelings, then the feelings can create their own reality. David felt God had forgotten him and felt God was hiding. So in a sense it was true according to feelings, not according to fact. There is a balance in life when it comes to feelings. Some people feel ignored. Some people ignore feelings and think that feelings should have nothing to do with their relationship with God. It should all just be a matter of in their head, the facts only, but no feelings do matter. This is an extreme to go that way because God has given us feelings as an expression of being in His image, which we explored a few weeks ago. We can feel anger, love, care, sorrow, and many other feelings because God feels those feelings In this sense, feelings are a gift from God and a sign that we are made in His image. On the other hand, some live and are ruled by their feelings. They believe whatever reality their feelings present to them is reality itself. And the problem with that is that though we have feelings, because we are made in the image of God, our feelings are affected by our fallenness. We can't trust our feelings because of this. In this sense, it was all right for David to feel these feelings, and good to take them to God. But he should never accept the reality of feelings as reality Then we get to verse two, David's despair with himself and others. David's despair with himself and have sorrow in my heart daily. How long will my enemy be exalted over me? No wonder David was discouraged. Taking counsel in your own soul, in his own soul, had led him to sorrow in his heart daily. You get stuck with yourself. And the same old tapes keep playing over and over in your head, tapes of despair. When you're discouraged and depressed, the answer is not to look inside yourself, but to look to the Lord. Someone has said, thinking about our troubles is hard work. Trouble is often like a pill God wants us just to swallow, but we make it worse by keeping it in our mouths and chewing it. Yuck. It was perhaps Augustine of Hippo who first coined the phrase Incurvatus in se, a Latin phrase. Incurbatus in say. And Martin Luther took up that phrase and expounded on this in his lectures on Romans. And described in Curbitus in Say as our nature by the corruption of our first sin being so deeply curved in on itself. That's what the phrase is. means, curved in on itself that it only bends the best gifts of God toward itself and enjoys them, as is plain in the works righteousness of Hippocrates hypocrites, or rather even uses God Himself in order to attain these gifts, but it also fails to realize that it so wickedly Curvedly and viciously seeks all things, even God, for its own sake. Curved in on yourself. And then the next phrase, how long will my enemy be exalted over me? This mentions the third way that David was depressed. David didn't want to lose in any area. He was attacked and see his enemy exalted over him. First, he didn't want to lose in his relationship with God. God, second within himself, and third with regard to his enemies. This was not purely a selfish desire. David knew that he was the Lord's anointed. And he had a special calling to lead God's people. He was to be the king and was the king. In this sense, David's enemies were the Lord's enemies. And the enemies over the people of God. James Montgomery Boyce lists several sources of spiritual depression. One, he says, may be your temperament, one may be temperamentally inclined to depression. We don't know if that was David's case. It might have been. Illness. Can drain the physical strength and lead to depression. When you've been sick a long time, when you don't feel good can lead to depression. Exhaustion can also leave one quite open to depression and the feeling of abandonment. You're really tired, then you go to bed. And you say, Lord, I'll deal with this tomorrow. And you wake up the next day, hopefully refreshed and ready to take it on. Boyce says, the letdown after some great effort, some big project, some big, in my case, some big service like lessons in Carol's. Or Easter morning or something like that. You work so hard, you put everything into it, and it's over, and then boom, you feel depressed. The letdown after some great effort fueled by coming down off of an adrenaline high can often lead to depression We are psycho and somatic beings, soul and body, and they interact with each other and affect each other And we must take note of that. And then the other one is pressure from spiritual and natural enemies can push us toward depression Spiritual enemies, the world, the flesh, and the devil, especially the devil, and natural enemies Sometimes there are real natural enemies, people that oppose you and are against you and trouble you, and you worry about it, and you can become depressed. So now we get to verse 3. David prays for his relationship with God. He says, consider and answer me. O Lord my God, light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. He used the Hebrew method of repetition to show emphasis. Consider and answer me, O Lord my God, light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. He was crying out desperately to God, asking the Lord to hear him in this repetition. Now, one commentator said God often waits until our prayers are desperate, until he hears us. The cause of the powerlessness of much of our prayer is betrayed by its lack of desperation. This is what this author says said. Too often we almost pray with the attitude of wanting God to care about things we really don't care about too much. Not very desperate. if that's our prayer. Desperate prayer has power not because in itself it persuades a reluctant God. Instead, it demonstrates that our heart cares passionately about the things that God cares about, fulfilling Jesus' promise. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, you see. Our desires are in sync with God's desires, and it shall be done for you. John 15. Verse seven Consider and answer me. And then enlighten my eyes David had the wisdom to know that though he felt powerful feelings, he wasn't seeing reality. He knew that his eyes were blinded by it. His vision was clouded and dark, and so he cried out to God, Enlighten my eyes. The Apostle Paul knew the importance of having our eyes enlightened by the Lord. This is what he prayed for the Christians. Quote That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of of his inheritance in the saints, and what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe according to the working of his mighty power. Ephesians 1, 17 through 19. Paul prays that we will have a vision, an enlightened eye. understand and get in sync with and perceive the great things that God has for his people. And then David says, Lest I sleep the sleep of death. If we're not enlightened by God, we will surely fall asleep. And often spiritual sleep leads to the feeling of spiritual death. Paul may have had this verse in mind when he wrote of our need for the light of Jesus. Awake you who sleep, arise from the dead, and Christ will give you light. Ephesians 5:14 So fourthly, now we come to verse 4, and David prays for victory over his enemies. So we've so far considered victories are enemies within. Now he considers enemies without. Lest my enemies say, I have prevailed over him. Lest my foes rejoice, because I am shaken. David knew one of the worst parts about losing to anyone is hearing them boast after they have defeated you. Imagining what they're saying behind your back. Imagining what people are discussing about you and your failure. He did not want his enemy to rejoice when he was brought low. And we don't either. So David prayed for victory over his enemies. And then we finally get to verse 5. But I have trusted in your mercy. David, after his prayer, came to the place of confidence. He'd gone through the trouble of working through and thinking through and praying for enlightenment and not accepting the feelings that he was feeling. And he came to the place of confidence and trust. He said, I have trusted in your mercy. He says this in the past tense. That's pretty confident, isn't it? I have trusted in your mercy. It is as if David remembered that he really did trust God. And it cleared away the fog from his sleepy eyes. And God enlightened his eyes Now, as I was thinking about this, and you know me, I think about hymns an awful lot. They just come to mind. And some of them I grew up with, and we don't sing them here. But this is one of those. Um but you might know it. When upon life's billows you are tempest tossed, when you are discouraged, think All is lost. Count your many blessings, name them one by one, and it will surprise you what the Lord has done And then the refrain after that, the second stanza, are you ever burdened with a load of care? Does the cross seem heavy you are called to bear? Count your many blessings. Every doubt will fly. And you will be singing as the days go by. That's what David did, isn't it? He is thankful and trusts in God and then in his steadfast love. And we've talked about that phrase. many times here what the steadfast love of the Lord means. It means his covenant promised, covenant mercies, his irreversible covenant mercies. At this place of discouragement, David could not trust in God's justice or God's law or God's holiness. Those things might condemn him because his feelings had made him not see clearly, but he could always trust in God's covenant, love. When you can't trust anything else, trust in God's covenant love, his steadfast love. William Gernall, one of the Puritans, commented this way. He begins his prayer as if he thought God would never give him a kind look again. But by the time he had exercised himself a little in duty, his distemper wears off, the mists scatter, and his faith breaks out as the sun in its strength And we see that sun breaking out in the last phrases of five and six. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord, because he has dealt bountifully with me. Now David was still in the realm of feelings, but now it's the feelings of rejoicing He directed his feelings instead of having his feelings direct him, he says, I shall, I shall rejoice He told his heart to get busy rejoicing. He counseled himself to rejoice. What's he rejoicing in? in your salvation, the salvation that God provides. He couldn't rejoice in anything else. But he could rejoice in the salvation that God gave. This is the solid ground for every believer. If you are saved, you can rejoice. And you can tell your heart to start rejoicing. Get out of it. Pick yourself up and rejoice in the Lord. And then he says something that's therapeutic, I think. I will sing to the Lord. Not just rejoicing in my heart, rejoicing in my mind, but do something. I will sing to the Lord David knew that rejoicing is wonderfully expressed in singing. I'm very sorry for people who don't sing. Even if you don't sing well, sing. He would sing to the Lord, singing to the Lord to express his joy and increase his joy, because singing brings it home. There's not half enough singing in the world. This is Spurgeon. There's not half enough singing in the world. He says, I remember a servant who used to sing while she was at the washtub. Her mistress said to her, Why, Jane, how is it that you're always singing? She said, It keeps the bad thoughts away. So David moved from being depressed and feeling abandoned by God to singing for joy. The fact that we feel abandoned itself means that we really know God is there, the absence of God, in a sense. To be abandoned, you need somebody to be abandoned by. Because we are Christians, we have been taught by God in the Scriptures, we know that God still loves us and will be faithful to us regardless of our feelings. And then he gives the final reason, because he has dealt bountifully with me. As David thought about it, as he counseled his soul, as he sang. He had good reason to rejoice and sing, because God had been good to him. That goes back to the countermany blessings. If we will only think about it, every person on this earth has reason to rejoice. Because in some way God has been good to everyone. He's been good to everyone in common grace, but to us of eternal life. Who are heirs of new heaven and earth, we have more to sing about. So what a transition In this little psalm. In the beginning of the Psalm, David was overwhelmed by his feelings and believed that God had forgotten him and was hiding from him. He had trouble with God, with himself, and with others. Yet now he saw how God had dealt bountifully with him. Because his eyes were enlightened, David could now see God's goodness, and what a change of perspective that was. Before God will enlighten our eyes, your eyes, you must agree with God that you don't see everything As you should. You need to realize that your feelings are not giving you full and accurate information sometimes. But if you will do this and cry out to the Lord, he will enlighten your eyes and bring you from a place of despair to a place of trust and joy and confidence. John Bunyan in Pilgrim's Progress said this in times of trouble The Lord would, with one scripture or another, strengthen me against all, insomuch that I have often said, Were it lawful I could pray for greater trouble for the greater comfort's sake. Well, I'm not sure if I want to pray for greater trouble, for greater comfort, but I can understand his prayer. point. May we learn the lessons that David learned and put them into practice. Particularly Letting God direct our hearts and lift us up and cause us to sing for joy. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that we may sing for joy, even in the darkest night, because you are with us. Your steadfast love surrounds us. Help us not to fall victim or prey to our own feelings, or even to real troubles that we deal with in body or in enemy, or whatever it may be. But help us to keep the proper perspective that your face is ever shining on us and that you have given us all things. We bless you, we praise you, we worship you. In Jesus' name, Amen