Numbers fourteen, verse one. Then all the congregation raised a loud cry, and the people wept that night. And all the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron. The whole congregation said to them, Would that we had died in the land of Egypt. Or would that we had died in this wilderness? Why is the Lord bringing us into this land to fall by the sword Our wives and our little ones will become a prey. Would it not be better for us to go back to Egypt? And they said to one another, Let us choose a leader and go back to Egypt. This is the word of the Lord. Our New Testament reading is 1 Corinthians chapter 10, the first five verses. For I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud. And all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. The word of the Lord. This morning we're going to be looking at a passage in Hebrews chapter 3 to halfway through Hebrews chapter 4. It's kind of a long text. Before we dive into it though, you can turn there now, but before we dive into it, I want to take a minute to quickly outline the preceding passages. So we'll be starting in Hebrews chapter 3, verse 12. and reading to 4. 13. But first, the book of Hebrews begins by identifying Christ as the ultimate revelation of God to his people. In chapters one through three, the writer of Hebrews shows how Christ is a superior messenger than the angels, than the prophets, and even than Moses. More superior to Moses, concluding that while Moses was a servant in God's house, Christ was God's son, is God's son, and heir to God's house. The writer finishes this section of the text by asserting that it is the persevering church that is God's house. He says, and we are his house if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our hope. So that brings us then to the passage that we're going to be reading today. From here, the writer is going to launch into an exposition or an explanation of a portion of Psalm 95, and this is where we're going to spend most of our time. I typically like to break passages up into outlines, but I think this one makes more sense if we just kind of read through it and follow the argument that the writer is making. So let's start in verse 12 and we'll read to Verse 19 right now. Listen closely, this is the word of God. Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God. But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called to day, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. As it is said, today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion. For who were those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not all those who left Egypt? led by Moses? And with whom was he provoked for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned whose bodies fell in the wilderness? And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient. So we see that they were unable to enter because of unbelief. So in this text, the writer of Hebrews is recounting the failures of Israel after leaving Egypt and their failure to enter the promised land. And he does this by citing a portion of Psalm 95. And concluding that their failure was a failure of belief, one of unbelief. That is Israel disobeyed and refused to enter the promised land because they did not believe the promise that God would give them that. land. Because of their unbelief, the people of Israel spent forty years in exile, wandering in the desert, being shown day after day during that time. that uh God's providence, the manna, the quail, the water from the rock, all of these things kept and preserved them alive, and yet still they grumbled and did not believe after all of these Things. And as a result of their disobedient stubbornness, Israel was condemned to suffer in the wilderness and not enter the promised land. And so the writer of Hebrews uses this example as an encouragement to us not to allow sin to creep in and harden our hearts. But rather he exhorts us to hold fast to our confession, and encourages us to exhort one another not to be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. But what does it mean to exhort somebody? Um it's an interesting word. It's uh the definition says it means To strongly warn, to encourage, to urge, or to advise. And what's interesting is that the word for exhort here is used in another pretty famous Bible passage when Christ is telling his disciples that he's going to send a comforter to them. The word that he uses there for comforter is the same word as this word exhort in Hebrews. It's a different form of it, but it's the same word. So he uses the word comforter as exhorter. Because I'm not licensed to preach or an ordained minister, what I'm doing right now, this message I'm giving you, is called an exhortation. And so my job today with you will be to encourage you, to warn you, and to comfort you with the words of Scripture And in that spirit, let me echo the words of the writer of Hebrews, be careful, keep a close eye on your hearts, so that you are not deceived like Israel when they doubted God. You might think that that sounds kind of silly. Maybe you've seen God work in providential ways in your life. Maybe you've been freed from a a great sin that was besetting you for many years and you were enslaved to it and now you've been delivered from it. Or maybe you were born into the Christian faith as a covenant child, you were baptized and you never really strayed very far, and you think, how in the world could unbelief possibly creep in in my life when I've seen so many things so many great works of God. How could unbelief really creep in after all of that? But consider the position of the Israelites. These were the same people who were enslaved in Egypt. They saw with their own eyes as God crippled the Egyptian kingdom, making a mockery of its gods. It was these same Israelites who saw Pharaoh so overcome by God's power that not only did he free the slaves, but he gave them riches to take with them when they left. These Israelites, after they left Egypt, and Pharaoh and his armies chased after them, watched as God delivered them through the Red Sea as though on dry ground. And watched as Pharaoh and all of his armies were consumed in that very same sea. And after having been a witness to all of these mighty acts of God, As they're waiting at the foot of Mount Sinai to receive the law of God, they fall into idolatry and worship a golden calf at the foot of God's holy mountain. After this, when they finally reach the promised land and send in spies, they're so overcome with fear and unbelief that they disobey God and rather than take the land that He has promised. They're cursed to wander for forty years in the desert. And their grumbling and unbelief still continues. As our New Testament reading told us, 1 Corinthians chapter 10, God was not pleased with the Israelites, and because of their disobedience, they died in the desert and never entered the promised land. So what I want to offer as a warning is never think that because at some time pre Previously in your life, you witnessed the mighty work of God, that sin and unbelief cannot creep in and harden your heart. Instead, continue to be like those who believed and obeyed and enter into God's rest. There's a fatal error that we make When we think so highly of our own faith and our the evidence of our own obedience, that we start to put our faith in our faith or put our faith in our obedience. And instead of trusting Christ, really we trust ourselves. But the error is that even a very weak faith that holds on to Christ saves, because it's not the faith that saves you, it's Christ who saves you. So hold tightly to him. And but that brings us to a question. What sets apart those who were brought out of Israel and entered into the promised land and those who died in the wilderness? It was was a disobedience Obedience, yes. But is that the root of the problem? So let's look back at the text and we'll just look at the first two verses of chapter four of Hebrews, which will provide a little insight into this. So Hebrews chapter 4, verses 1 and 2. Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands Let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. For good news came to us just as to them. But the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with with those who listened. So the disobedient Israelites who died in the desert received the same gospel message just as you and I have. But the distinction between them and those who enter into God's rest is that they are not united by faith to Christ. So the same gospel message can be preached to the same visible covenant community, and some will fall away in disobedience. And unbelief, and others will hear the message, and because they are united by faith to Christ, through the Spirit that gospel will reach into their hearts, be effectual, calling them to faith and to a life of faith. So the question is, which are you? Is your faith living? Is it active? Is it growing? Is it receiving the good news of the gospel and resting in it? Or is it scoffing inwardly when you hear the claims of Christ's deity and power and work? Do you simply marvel like the Israelites did at the powerful acts of God before quickly turning to idolatry in your heart? Consider these things carefully. Because the writer tells you, and I am compelled to tell you, by his words, if you are not united to Christ by faith, you will not enter God's rest. But I don't want you to despair in this. Those who have truly been united to Christ by faith can never be cut off. Don't sit in fear thinking, looking back on your faith and thinking, is it enough? Is it enough? Instead, put your faith in Christ. Trust that He is great enough to save evil Let's continue in chapter four, verses three and following. Although his works were finished from the foundation of the world. For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way, and God rested on the seventh day from all his And again in this passage he said, They shall not enter my rest. Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly received the good news failed to enter because because of disobedience, again he appoints a certain day, today, saying, Through David, so long afterward, in the words already quoted, Today if you hear his voice, do not harden For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day later on. people of God. For whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his So here the writer's making a kind of complex argument, and I'm going to try and summarize it to make it a little bit easier to understand. First, God gave the seventh day as a type of the eternal rest offered to his people. Second, Israel failed to obtain that promise because of unbelief and therefore did not enter God's rest. Third, though Joshua led the people of Israel into the promised land, this was not the ultimate rest of which God spoke, because much later on David speaks of a day in Psalm 9 95, when people will enter God's rest. Therefore, the promise of entering God's rest still remains available to those who do not hearken. Not in a typological sense, like the promised land in Israel, but in a real ultimate sense. We will rest from our works just as God rested from His So the question comes up, when did God rest from his works? The writer of Hebrews references the typological seventh day of creation, which points But we know that the seventh day of creation can't be the day that is being ultimately talked about here, because later on David writes of a future Day, which he calls today. So there is a future day in which God rested from all of his works. Consider the opening lines of the book of Hebrews. This is Hebrews 1, verses 1 through 3. You can turn there if you'd like, but I'm just going to go ahead. Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed The heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature Now this sitting down at the right hand of God was to signify. So that is, after facing the humiliation of being made man, taking on the form of a servant, suffering under Pontius Pilate, being being crucified, killed, buried, and rising again on the third day, that is the first day of the week. He sat down, ascended into heaven and sat down to signify his rest from all of his work. And so in the New Covenant era, though we have not yet, in the fullest sense, entered God's rest, we meet together weekly on the first day of the week. To exhort one another, to sing praises, to take part in the Lord's Supper as a foretaste of the rest that we will enjoy by our union with Christ in his death, burial. Because this is the day on which Christ rested from all of his works. And one day, when we all rest from our works in this light. If we hold fast to our confession of Christ, we will enter his rest with him. Let's read the next couple of verses to verse 13 in Hebrews. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. Obedience. For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. Heart, and no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. So as we conclude this passage, looking back over the text, we see the continual failures of Israel To enter God's rest, the failure of Joshua to provide rest in the promised land. However, the writer of Hebrews builds upon that foundation to assure us of Christ's success. In his death, burial, and resurrection, by which he unites us to him by faith and gives us access to God's rest. in the way that none of the previous leaders of Israel could. And so we are exhorted to strive to enter that rest. not by vain comparisons to one another or by legalistic law keeping, but instead by turning to the living and active Word of God. And like James says, looking into the the Word of God like a mirror which a man Man sees his face, and instead of turning away from it and forgetting the image that he saw and returning to the deceitfulness of sin, we become both hearers and doers of the word. When we find ourselves looking into God's Word, having been granted the power and desire to obey and believe through Christ's Word. So in closing, let me offer you this exhortation. When you recognize sin and unbelief rising up in your hearts, return to the words of Scripture. Take hold of the promises offered to you and put your trust in Christ, and you will enter God's rest. If you find yourself overcome by doubt, don't look inward to yourself, to the strength of your own faith, or the evidence of your own over Obedience, but rather look upward to Christ, who has by his work conquered sin, death, and heaven. and offers a place for us with him in his rest from all his works. Do this So that on the final day, when you stand before the throne of God and give an account for this life, you will not be cut off from God like Israel. was cut off from God's rest. But rather, you will stand with confidence in the presence of God because of the righteousness of Christ, which has been freely granted to you. Let's pray. Father, we come before you in the name of your Son, and we thank you that you have given us this opportunity. I pray that we will not be like the Israelites who turned away in disbelief and disobedience But instead that we will obey and trust in Christ so that we can enter your rest on the last day. In Christ's name. Amen.