Our theme this morning is examples for us. You can see from the sermon title. And I imagine everybody in here has uh had somebody say to them, uh When you grow up, or be like that person, right? Or don't be like that person, right? We've all had somebody Point somebody else out to us as an example of what not to do or of what to do. Or maybe you've been that example of what to do, hopefully, and at times maybe that example of what not to do Uh William Perkins, if you know William Perkins, 16th century uh Puritan in England, uh he was the town drunk in Cambridge. And a mother was walking her young child and saw him and uh warned the child, if you continue in your naughty ways, you'll be like Mr. Perkins. And uh we don't know. Hopefully the child heeded that warning and wasn't like him. In another way we hope he was because uh Mr. Perkins overheard that. God used that to smite his heart And his conscience, and he became godly Mr. Perkins, heavenly Mr. Perkins as he was known, and was one of the great Puritans and Reformers uh in England. So both an example of what not to do and at the same time by God's grace What to do. How wonderful. So we're going to start with 1 Corinthians 10. We have an example here of what not to do. And our Savior, when we look there, gives an example of what to do. So First Corinthians ten is an example of what not to do. We know it's an example of what not to do because if you look at verse six Paul says, Now these things took place as examples for us that we might not do something, right? So it's an example of what not to do. These happened so that we would not do something. And again there, if you look at uh verse eleven He repeats himself. Now these things happen to them as an example, but they're written down for our instruction or another way to translate it for our admonition, for our warning. Now you don't warn people of something to do, you warn people of something not to do. So This uh little these verses, 1 Corinthians 10 1-13, are an example for the church of what not to do. Well let's ask ourselves the question, well what well what uh well I don't know if I should do who did it first or what was done. We'll start with who did it. Right, who done it Who are the people who did whatever we're not supposed to do? Well, that's where Paul starts, as you look there in verses 1 to 4. Paul says that there are fathers. Now he means by that obviously Israel, but he's talking to many Gentiles and he's saying, Oh, don't think you get out of this either. You're you're just as much their children as he's about to make it clear to them. And we might say, as as Paul uses the language here, The the people who did it were our Christian forefathers. Because Paul said Christ was there ministering to them. You won't read about a baptism in the Old Testament. But Paul says a baptism happened. You won't read about a Lord's Supper and eating the same food, but Paul says they had their Lord's Supper like us. So we might say Paul is talking about our fathers. Therefore, we're in the relation of children. So already binding us to these people. Paul says that under the cloud they all passed through the sea, they were baptized into Moses, who he was baptized. Baptized, we're baptized into the Lord Jesus Christ. We're baptized in the name of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. We have a relationship with God that He's established with us in Christ according to His covenant. We recognize Jesus as the one appointed mediator of the Lord and authority given to him and we acknowledge it. That was Moses. They were baptized into Moses They passed under God's cloud, they passed under the sea, they left Egypt behind them, and they're now in a new life with God. These same people, Paul goes on to say, also ate the same spiritual food. Now you might think, of course they did. They all ate the same food. They were together. Paul's not talking about they ate the same food. The relationship is they ate the same food we ate. He calls it a spiritual food. What does he mean by spiritual food? It means food that comes from the Spirit, miraculously provided. They didn't go out and cultivate this from a field and plant crops in the wilderness But God gave them manna every day. Every day, a special act of His creation in giving manna to them in a miraculous, supernatural way to provide for His people. They ate that food They drank the same spiritual drink. We re you read in in Numbers about the rock being struck on several times and gushing water and open for his people. to drink. Now of course he's using language that sounds like uh in the Christian church of our communion celebration as we eat and feed upon the body of Christ and the blood of Christ Paul then says, and he identifies what they were drinking. They were drinking from a spiritual rock that followed them, and he identifies that rock as Christ. He's making it very clear. The people that we are not to follow are in many ways like us. Baptized Have a communion service nourished by Christ. Christ is present with them, and Christ is nourishing them. And you might think, those are the people who want to be like. Paul says, well, ordinarily, yes, but not on this case. And you say, well, why not? Why don't we want to be like these people? What happened? Look at verse 5. But most of them God was not pleased. That's what happened. They displeased God. You say, well, what does that mean to displease God? Very generally, it means not walk according to his will. To not trust his promises, to not rely on his grace, to not call upon his name, to persist in sin, to put him to test, to do all these things that Paul says not to do Uh we read from Psalm seventy-eight, which commemorates a lot of this. I'll read to you from Psalm uh seventy-eight verse eight to sort of fill this out In verse 5 in Psalm 78, we're told that God established a testimony in his church. Why do we read from the scriptures weekly together? Did man appoint the scriptures to be read or did God? God did. He inspired them. His word he appointed to be read to his people And on this occasion he says, so that an upcoming generation won't be like the godless generation of their fathers, but they might hear of God's mighty works. They might walk in God's lost. They might put their hope and trust in Him. And that they should not be like their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation. A generation whose heart was not steadfast, whose spirit was not faithful to God We could also turn to Psalm 95. We've been looking at that in the evening in Hebrews. Psalm 95 is a commentary on The wilderness generation is what we're looking at here. Hear what God says in uh verse ten of Psalm ninety five for forty years I loathed that generation And said, they are people who go astray in their heart and they've not known my ways. That's what it means to displease God, to be stubborn. To be rebellious, to never bring your life under his ways, to continually to walk perverse against God, to not submit your whole self to him. Jesus came preaching repentance Jesus came preaching, follow me. And he doesn't mean in one area of your life. He means the whole area of your life. He doesn't mean repent of little peccadillos, right? Little sins. He means your whole life needs a radical about face. In every area of your life, you need to submit to God and serve Him, walk in His ways, and trust in the provision of His grace. And these people, time and time again refuse not to. We see Paul goes on very generally and says, here's what they did in verse 6. They desired evil. They lusted after evil. They were men of evil cravings or several ways you can say what they're saying. They wanted evil things. You might think wanting quail and food's good. There's nothing wrong with wanting that. But wanting it so badly. You murmur and grumble. You become so hardened in your heart, you lose sight that you're not Pharaoh's bondman anymore. You're being brought to your own homeland that's flowing with milk and honey. And yet you're grumbling because you don't eat the same fish and leeks and onions. You don't have the ready provisions in the exact same way you had when you were slaves. Gotta be very careful about the desires of our hearts, beloved. Very careful about the things we want. Right? So the Prophet said, protect your heart. Out of it comes the issues of life. It's not wrong, right, to want relationships. It's not wrong to want goods. It's not wrong to want rude and physicians. It's not wrong to want these things. But they lead you to murmur, grumble, complain. Lead you to justify yourself in sin, which is what these people are doing. Lead you to walk away from God, then they're wrong. And you need to watch out They were idolaters, they made a golden calf, they ate before it, they worshiped it, they indulged in sexual immorality. Moses came down to hear song, saw them dancing, and they were naked. It was God's people. Right back into pagan idolatrous ways. And he had miraculously, wonderfully delivered them. It's a terrible thing when Christians fall back into pagan idolatrous ways. And put Christ to test. Think about that. The great confession of the Christian church is Jesus is Lord, Yahweh. Yahweh, we know he's carrying for those people. Christ is Yahweh. They put him, it was Christ. You know, I think one of the things that's helpful about looking at this passage is um Marcion was a heretic uh in the first and going in the second century Who said the God of the Old Testament was a vengeful, nasty God, nothing like the God and Father of Jesus Christ, therefore we're going to get rid of the Old Testament in the Christian church, and we're just going to have a cut-down version of only the Gospel of Luke, some of Paul's letters, because everything else is so Jewish. I think sometimes we can be practical Marcionites when we think Jesus is so loving, forgiving, kind, who would deny it? But so we can then excuse ourselves and sin, right? No, it's the same God. Christ was there ministering to those people, and Christ is there ministering to you. It's the same Lord God. So let's not be practical, right? Marcionites. They grumbled, they put him to test, testing his power. You know, I I've talked to people and I and talked to somebody who was living in a in a in a uh Or in a wrong relationship with a boyfriend. And I wanted to give them, you know, the benefit of the doubt, but you know, right? People are lonely. They want to be together and they want that And this woman would say over and over me, I'll never deny Jesus. I'm going, you're denying his power. We stunned that in Psalm 78. Did you hear that? They denied his saving power God knows you are lonely and have needs, but don't fall into sin. That's not the answer to get it. He loves you, but you're more than just a relationship. You're more than just a marriage. You're more than these things. You're a child of God. We see we've got to look for the future, and that's what Jesus is going to talk a lot about. We're in preparation here This isn't the whole of it, beloved. This is not the whole of your life. This is a part of this is a beginning of training grounds, testing, proving, seeing of what's to come, and can you handle what's to come That's the big thing about it, right? So many people think I was just reading it uh in a magazine article this week, right? Why does God care so much about it? We just, you know, we who we Meet with and and what seem to people these little sins that we don't go to church on the Lord's day, we don't do these things. No, no, that's missing the point It's showing yourself to be a person untrustworthy that God can't do anything with, because you're just the person who goes, ha la la la la and won't get in line and won't uh and will live for yourself and you'll make your world mur miserable. That's the big picture. Because he made us to be his children. He made us to entrust us with great things. And we constantly show Can't more hardly be trusted or not. That's the issue. That's what God's doing with the people in the wilderness. That's what God's doing with us in our lives Together as members of Grace and Peace and members of this church. There's always the future. The future. We we live with the future. Discipleship matters, it has a future orientation. But why does Paul want us to know this? Well, he wants to shake these people out of their false security. Paul had written already to them, you read about this in chapter 5, verse 9 in a letter before 1 Corinthians telling them, and I'll read it to you. He already told these people, look what he says I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people, not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy, he's talking about Christians, or the greedy and swindlers or idolaters, since you need to go out of this world. Paul's already addressed this with them. And yet they're finding ways because they're baptized, they think they're safe. Because they eat the Lord's Supper, they think they're safe, they have a wrong view of the sacraments, and because they have correct theological doctrine. There's only one God, Paul. We know there's only one God. These idols are nothing. So we're not going to the temples. to eat this food, to worship the God, 'cause you know he's not there. It's just good fun. It's social and the food's good. And we lust after it and we're gonna find theological reasons to justify ourselves in our sins. And Paul's trying to sweep All that away. Make it very clear. You are on treacherous ground when you begin justifying sins because of your privileges as Christians. That's why he's making it very clear. Your forefathers were Christians too, and they shared in your privileges. But look what happened to them Because that's what Paul's trying to do. He's trying to get some of these people rid of their false security. Because Paul's argument in this is since we were meant to learn from all this, right? This is part of inspired scripture. Most of this comes from Numbers, but some of it from Exodus. God inspired this to be an inspired lesson to us. And Paul's saying, we were meant to learn from this not to be like them Not to be men of evil cravings. So Paul's saying, don't be right, or you're going to share in their same faith. Paul is absolutely certain if a if somebody persists in that, right? We know one saved, always saved, and who would deny that? But a saved person isn't going to persist in sin. Saved person is going to heed these warnings and repent and come out of that. And there's mercy and grace. And if you're if you're that person today who Justifying the circles of people you're with, justifying the way you spend your time, justifying the things you do in these sins of idolatry, fornication, grumbling and complaining because you don't have what you want in life Repent, has mercy and grace, but trust your God, who saved you. He knows your needs. He's watching out for you. So well, what are we to do? Well Paul says there in verse twelve, let anyone think he stands, take heed lest he fall. Pilgrim's progress is full of allegories, right? It's a big allegory. And you meet all these people along your path. I know Bunyan didn't name this guy. I'm going to name this person Mr. Unshakable Paul saying, Mr. Unshakable, you who think you'll never fall wrongly because you are baptized and you faithfully eat the Lord's Supper and you have correct theological knowledge and you think you're fine because you're a Christian. And you can run how you want to do as you please. That's Mr. Unshakable. Let that person watch out Take heed. You are near destruction. You're going to fall. So don't any of us justify sins, beloved. We know the wilderness of this world is tested, but never at any age of life, at any stage of life. Justify sin. Whatever you find yourself in, if it's tempting you to sin, you know it's immediately wrong. Back out of it and don't persist in it. God never puts you in a situation that you might sin. Puts you in a situation that he might try your heart. He might grow you. He might test you. He never puts you in a situation to sin. Don't challenge the authority of Christ writing as apostles. That's what these people are doing. He wrote clear word. Don't challenge God's clear word. And what it tells you to do and how to live. And I trust as disciples we read it because we want to do it. And so we know what God says. Don't challenge the Word of God. Try to do theological gymnastics to excuse yourself and sin. Here's another thing we can do. Let us watch the prayer. I think watch is really the watchword of the ages, beloved. Jesus says watch, stay awake. And it's usually referred to in the idea of what happens at night. Often bad things, right? Well you're children of the light. So watching means cutting out sin and immorality. But notice what Peter says in 1 Peter 4 7. What's the goal of watching? Why are we watching? We might be a people who continue in prayer. If if your prayer life is pretty slippery and non-existent You need to watch. If you don't have private prayer, personal prayer for yourself, you don't have private family prayers, if you don't if you skip on the public corporate prayers, right We watch on the prayer because it's that nearness to God, trusting in him, pouring our hearts out to him, seeking his will, filling with his spirit. It's that watching the prayer. That's going to keep us from being Mr. Unshakable. So often, so much of the problem of the wilderness generation too is they kept looking back, right? That was their problem. They weren't looking ahead. Paul says in first, or excuse me, in Philippians 3. 13, right? Here's one thing I do. I forget what's behind, and I strive towards what's ahead. Brother, I hope you've all turned your back on this world. It's pomp, its glory, its vanity, even its riches. They're of good use, and Jesus is going to talk about that, but you can't keep them Hope you turn back on wanting the fame and the glory and the name and the liking of this world. And what he means is this godless world that's turned against God and said, I'm not going to be a part of that I'm striving towards what's ahead. The consummate kingdom of God's glory. And that's the way of the cross. Obedience to Christ. We need to continue to leave that behind. Strive towards what's ahead. And finally, to help us not be this, one of my favorite verses, personally very helpful to me, is 2 Corinthians 5, 6 through 10. Paul talks about We've got this earthly tabernacle. We know when he died, we got the heavenly one. Talks about being away from the Lord, which is being here, being present with the Lord and being with him. He says, therefore, in whatever we do, we make it our aim to please God. Me give you maybe some practical help with that. A a place to start. I remember being a young Christian and I had to call my after I came down kind of that that high where you could just praise God all day and that was the only thing you're happy to do, but then you realize, okay, I actually live here still and you gotta go to work and there's things to do and kind of settle back in. I called my uncle and I said What do I do? What do I read now as a Christian? What do I what do I watch? How do I spend my time? And my uncle gave me this word, well, what's edifying, Damon? I thought, wow, I've never asked myself that question in my life. What's edifying? And then they came across this verse and said, here's what I'm going to do. If I am not happy to invite Jesus along with what I'm doing, I'm probably not seeking to please him. I would just encourage you to start there. What I've found is I've I've broadened out, but that forces you to ask yourself, why am I doing what I'm doing? Instead of just getting swept along with either well we've always done it this way or that's just what people are doing and never examine what you're actually doing. Because Paul says we're being very intentional to make it a place that even the Make it uh our aim to please the Lord. Why? Because we're all going to have to give an account to him one day. Please the Lord. And it will be a great account if you're going, Lord, you go every day I've tried to please you. But if we're not living that way, might not be a reckoning day we want to be a part of. It's difficult, beloved, to do this, but Paul has a great word for us. No temptations overtake you, it's not common to man. What he means by it. All your enticements to sin are not superhuman. What he means that they're bearable. God's great word of encouragement here in verse 13, which everybody knows, God's faithful, not that he be tempted upon your ability Temptation also provide the way of escape and made it endure it. All that's to say is you can endure your temptation. And so endure those enticements. to sin. See the problem with with this congregation or some of them, they were looking for a way into sin and not a way out of sin. And how many times is it like that when we think, oh, this is unbearable? And we find a way into it, not a way out of it. God's promise there'll be a way out. God said, I your God who's brought you out to the wilderness, right? Your God who's brought you to Himself in Christ, your God who's feeding you and nourishing you in Christ until you come to cross that finish line is faithful. He did not bring this people out to the wilderness to destroy them. That was not his intent. That was their sinful rebellion. What happened to them, and God made examples out of them for us. God is faithful. He does not bring you and put you in these positions that you'll fall into sin. You can endure whatever that temptation is, that relationship, that calling, that job, the friendship, the fellowship, whatever it is. You can endure it. You can resist it. You can walk in God's face. It's bearable To say otherwise, Paul's saying, is to call into the veracity and goodness and faithfulness of God. He knows your limit, he knows you, and he'll never put you and test you beyond it. Okay, let's then briefly look at our second example in Luke. So that's one example, what not to do. Can't be a people. We're going to run this waste to win. Who are justifying sins because we're baptized, we've made profession of faith, we've got knowledge, and whatever it is, and the ways we might justify sin If you look at Luke 16, here's an example of what to do. Who's done this? Well, this was, Jesus tells probably a very real account of somebody who was a steward. That should remind us of an important doctrine: stewardship. We may have heard that in the Christian life. We are stewards of all that God's given us. Jesus is the Lord. We're his stewards. He's the Lord. He's running the universe from his throne, and he wants a ran as he wants it And not everybody living against it, and those who persist to live against it will go to their place on that day. But we're to be living as he wants the world run, and he has said something about how we use our finances So this is a a steward, manager of a large estate, uh, who was left there to run it by this absentee landlord, uh and he has apparently not been doing a good job of it and it's caught wind and he's getting fired He's got to give his account so the next guy coming in charge might know who owes what. Uh but he's all of a sudden in a pinch. How am I gonna provide for myself? I don't have the strength to go be a construction worker, right? That's hard work I can't do that. And I'm way too proud and ashamed to go beg, 'cause I used to be this big manager of estate, probably through parties and everybody knowed me in town, and now I'm gonna be the beggar on the street. You get the pinches in, right? What am I gonna do? Now he comes up with a plan. Here's what I'm gonna do. While I still have my master's goods and it's my goods because they were entrusted to him to spend for his master I'll go to the guy who's got a hundred and I'll say write fifty. I'll reduce his bill. He'll be happy. We'll both be happy. And when I'm fired, they'll receive me in their house. They'll show me hospitality. They'll take me in And they'll look after me. These were, by the way, large sums. These weren't little things being forgiven, these are huge debts being reduced. Another guy he went, we don't know how many, but you get the point, kept going to all of his master's debtors and saying. Reduce it. So take me in. So what did this guy do? Well, he did something dishonest, but he was shrewd about it And this was to prepare for his future. Let me pause and make this point here. I'll just quote a commentator because he says it well. There is all the difference in the world between I applaud the dishonest steward because he acted cleverly, which is the case in our parable, versus I applaud the clevered steward because he acted dishonestly. Jesus is not applauding his dishonesty Jesus is is is applauding a dishonest man because he acted cleverly. The point is is cleverness. That's what we're to imitate. The shrewdness, the prudence, the wisdom in our earthly goods in preparing for. our eternal future. That's the point. So what does Jesus want his disciples to know this? Look there at the second part of chapter 8 Or he says, Now the sons of this world are more shrewd in dealing with their own generation than the sons of life. He wants to reprove us. I've always found this passage a great goad. Because if you just look at all the big tycoons, you can imagine, maybe you know your own finances, how much People get sucked in and absorbed with their money and they make all these great schemes. They're building these giant corporations and conglomerates and these huge things. And it's just going to get buried away someday It's all going to come to nothing. Their empires aren't going to last. But you can imagine how shrewd their business dealings were and all their things. Look at the sons of this world. That's the people of this age, the dissentful people, the worldlings. And look how shrewd they are. Now I'm saying, now look at God's children. Look at you children of light, you who belong to the kingdom of light, the coming kingdom. You can learn a lesson here. You need to be as prudent with your resources. You need to be as prudent in what you do with your own funds. Because you also have a accounting day someday too, right? You have to hand in and give an account of how you spent your resources So Jesus tells it to reprove us, but also for our imitation, right? We need to prepare for the future wisely And one of the ways Jesus talks about his disciples is that's how we use our goods, our earthly goods. Part of discipleship is also how we use our earthly goods. He wants us to imitate So what does Jesus say? I find these words so intriguing in verse 9. Here's what I tell you to do. Make friends for yourselves. Make friends for yourselves with what? By means of unrighteous wealth Now let me tell you what it doesn't mean. It doesn't mean go rob a bank and buy friends. That's not what unrighteous wealth means. That's a technical term used by like the come run community and other Jews in that day would just meant uh the riches of this age. This age, because of the fallen age, is called the unrighteous world. Peter says in in 2 Peter 3, we look forward to the new heavens and new earth, wherein there is righteousness. So unrighteous wealth just means the goods of this world. It's a technical term They understood what it means. For us, it just means goods of this world. Make friends for yourselves. Buy these goods. So that when they fail, because they will all fail one day, they may recede you into eternal dwelling. Now before I say a couple of ways that we can do that, let me tell you why Jesus says we should do this We didn't read those verses, but in verses ten through thirteen he gives us really two big reasons. One, they demonstrate your trustworthiness. One who's faithful in little can be faithful in much, one dishonest little is dishonest in much. If you've been faithful in the unrighteous, well Who won't trust you the true riches, right? Beloved, these aren't true riches. I don't care what the biggest, wealthiest person in the world is. They don't prepare for the riches to come because they all fade, they all corrupt, they all go away They are not the true riches. These are not the true riches. And Jesus is saying, if you can't be trusted with these things, you can't be trusted with true wealth and the wealth of the coming kingdom. See, that's how we've got to live in light of the coming kingdom. Part of that is how we're using our wealth here. He also says, Jesus says this also is because it tells you about your ultimate allegiance. No servant can serve two masters. Hate the one, love the other, be devoted to one and the other. You cannot serve God and Maimon, right? Your ultimate allegiance in the life. How you spend your and your wealth and what you do as disciples of Jesus is showing is my allegiance ultimately to God Or is it to mammon? It's really myself. What do I serve? Important things as a disciple to deal with and ask himself as we run well and run the waste, run the race. I think all of us, right, w if we saw if we elected somebody, if we have an elected official, we could even think of our own church, right? We we elect a treasurer, we elect people to manage the funds. Misappropriation of funds is a bad thing, isn't it? Well, Jesus is saying to us, don't misappropriate my sons either. He's the Lord, and we're the stewards. So what are some ways that and also finally what why this matters is because how we use our money actualizes now the kingdom values, right? We do not, let me be clear, Jesus is not talking about buy heaven with goods. He is saying heavenly citizens will do these things with their goods and will spend in a wise way. I think it's a w wonderful picture, isn't it? He's talking primarily about using our goods towards other Christians, because he says they will receive you into the eternal dwellings. How wonderful it will be someday to get there and someone come up to you and say, you don't even know That that um that box you sent over, that Christmas box, of which then they gave a Bible lesson, that brought me to Christ. I'm here because you thought to spend fifty dollars in this cause. Or or whatever. You don't even. I couldn't. You were so kind in your giving that bless my family, we never would have made it through this. Who who who knows what it what it is, but that that's what these things will be the reality of it. And what Jesus is talking about, and maybe one may do, he's not about giving charitably, right? Maybe if you don't have in your budgeting, and if you don't have a budget, I encourage the budget. Have a line item in there that says for charitable giving. We mean sacrificial giving. We mean basically just giving without for payment, without reciprocity. I'm just going to have funds of a God's giving set aside already marked where I know I'm going to give charitably with it Lending, giving, showing hospitality with it. One of the course the ways Jesus encourages is almsgiving, which is relief for the poor Again, I we can do that for others, but the primarily audience he's talking about is other disciples, the Christian Church. You know, if you're a person here who who weekly it makes offerings, that's serving, that's a wise use. It's paying it for it. And in the the money and time and offerings that you give here in this congregation If you're someone who participates in the monthly diachinal offering? Through someone who participates, we've had several special givings that we've had We've had fundraising events for food. We've had some of our own have brought to attention needs of other missionaries, and we've we've given the support to them. These are all different ways that Jesus is talking about, but making a wise use Of our money. Have you ever thought of it? Of course we can go on and on. And one of the things I struggled with in preparing the sermon is I didn't want to launch into a whole thing all do with your money. I just want to remind us And what is to remember how our money has a we're to we're to use it to prepare for the future Would demonstrate that even with wealth and all of its temptation, we can be trusted And it will be right and good then for God to bestow true riches upon you in the life of the world to come and what will be done there Now again I remind you my time in Kentucky was so eye-opening to me to this. All those people were fed, clothed, had a roof over their head. Paul says if we have that, we can be content. And the things that they receive, they are happy to share. Pass along it. Bless others with it. Please don't misunderstand, buy clothes. The thing is just remember if you haven't factored into your accounting, we all have a reckoning day with how we spend our money. We can teach our children now and giving them offerings to bring to the Lord Children have possessions and goods. Part of discipleship even for them as we bring them up. So congregation, uh I know it's hard to be a disciple. I know it's tempting. I know it's difficult. And maybe you feel overwhelmed. And maybe the things I said today you're just like, uh Well let me remind you, Christ is there. Drink from him. You can't live the Christian life without him. Everything I've said today is predicated upon the fact that you do have the Spirit and are drinking from him. Because you can't do these things. That's the whole point. We can't Jesus died, we might have a new life. Start all over, be born again in Him, and live His life as sons and daughters of God, in learning how to be trustworthy to God. So drink from Christ, Amen