Our Old Testament reading this morning will be from the Book of Deuteronomy, chapter ten, verses twelve through eighteen. Deuteronomy ten, verses twelve through eighteen. And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you, but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways, to love him? To serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and to keep the commandments and statutes of the Lord, which I am commanding you to today for your good. Behold, to the Lord your God belong heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth with all that is in it. Yet the Lord set his heart in love on your fathers and chose their offspring after them. You above all peoples, as you are this day. Circumcise, therefore, the foreskin of your heart, and be no longer stubborn. For the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords. the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who is not partial and takes no bribe. He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing. The word of the Lord. Thanks. Be you to God. Our New Testament reading is from Romans chapter 2, and it's the text of the preaching. Romans two seventeen through twenty-nine. Romans two beginning at verse seventeen. But if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in God, and know his will, and approve what is excellent, because you are instructed from the law. And if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness An instructor of the foolish, a teacher of children, having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth. You then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing, do you steal? You who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who boast in the law, dishonor God by breaking the law For as it is written, the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law But if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code and circumcision but break the law. For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God. The flowers fade When the wind of the breath of God blows upon them, but the word of the Lord endures forever. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, as we look at this portion of your word, we pray that we will understand it correctly and then take it to heart. Store it up and practice it in our lives so that we might be to your praise and to your glory, your chosen people, your redeemed people. So help us to hear and help us to obey in Christ's name. Amen. So you've seen the t-shirts I have anyway and the bumper stickers that say something like this. Kiss me, I'm Irish. Or kiss me, I'm Italian, or I'm Spanish. I think I even saw once one that said, kiss me, I'm Lithuanian. And when we lived in the suburban areas of Chicago where there were lots of Dutch people, and I was an intern in a church that was ethnically Dutch. I remember seeing bumper stickers in the parking lot that says, you ain't Dutch, you ain't much. Ethnic pride. It's currently in vogue. But the Jews of Paul's day were more than a little proud, and for good reason Out of all the nations, God had chosen them to be his people and had revealed himself to Moses and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, not the other nations. So they could rightly quote from Deuteronomy 7, verse 6, where God said, For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. Certainly. That is reason for some pride, is it not? And then he had also done more than that. He had given them his law. He didn't give the law to other nations, but he gave them his law As it's recorded in Exodus 34, verses 27 and 28. The Lord said to Moses, write these words. For in accordance with these words, I have made a covenant with you and with Israel. So he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights. He neither ate bread nor drank water, and he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the Ten Commandments. So these things made them feel very, very special indeed. These external things, however, were often used for a substitute. A substitute for loving, obedience. We read about that in Deuteronomy 11. God wanted their hearts He wanted them to circumcise the foreskin of their hearts. He wanted them to love him and have a real relationship, not merely based on external things, but based on the Spirit So we have in verse 17 Paul addressing this problem. With the boast of the Jewish man. Verse 17, but if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in God and know his will and approve what is excellent, because you are instructed from the law. And if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish teacher of children having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth. This was the boast of every Jew in Paul's day, it seems. Their possession of the law was their boast. Their being marked out by God as his chosen people was their boast. They were extremely proud and confident in the fact that God had given his holy law to them as a nation. And even here in Jesus' day, far removed from the time when God first gave it to Moses, in Jesus' day, they had been punished, that is, Israel had been punished. It had been divided and then punished by exile. And then the Jews had been in exile for 70 years in Babylon. And even now, when Jesus was speaking and Paul was writing They were living under the thumb of the Romans. So they didn't have quite as much to boast about, but they still had the law, the embodiment of knowledge and truth. They believed this continued to confirm their status as a especially chosen people, and thus assured them of their salvation. Although the Jew should gratefully receive the law as a gift from God, Paul here shows that mere possession of the law justifies how many people? No one, no one will be justified merely by having possession of the law. And that is the first point Paul is making it very clear that those who teach, those who know, must actually live in loving obedience. They will not be justified by mere possession of law. And so that we get to next is the indictment against the Jewish man, where he brings it right out in verses 21 through 24. You then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing, do you steal? You who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who boast in the law, dishonor God by breaking the law, for as it is written, the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. It comes down to this principle. You have the law, but do you keep it? You can see how others break the law. It's easy sometimes, isn't it, to see how others are sinning. But do you also break it? Much of the rabbinic Judaism of Paul's day interpreted the law so that they thought they were completely justified by the law. Jesus in his Sermon on the Mount exposed the error of such interpretations. I'll give you just a few examples. He said in Matthew 5, verse 17 and following, Do you not do not think I have come to abolish the law or the prophets? I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not one iota that's a small little dash Not one dot, that's the the markings for how do you pronounce the word. Not one iota, not one dot will pass from the law until all is accomplished. He came to accomplish everything. Therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does them, see that's the emphasis, whoever does them and teaches them will be called Great in the kingdom of heaven. Then he says, For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom. kingdom of heaven. And then he got some of the laws of the day, some of the misapprehension of the law of God. He said, for instance, in verse 21, You have heard that it was said, you shall not murder And whoever murders will be liable to judgment. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment, and whoever insults his brother will be liable to the counsel. And whoever says, You fool will be liable to the hell of fire. Wow, that's harsh. Jesus is applying the law. And say it matters what you do with the law, how you treat the law, and how you obey the law, and not just whether you have it or not. And then about oaths. And down in verse 33. Again, you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely. But you shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn. But I say to you, do not take an oath at all, either by heaven or For it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. And do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black But simply let your yes be yes and your no be no. Anything more than this comes from evil. And then on the topic of the treatment of enemies, enemies, he says in verse forty-three of that You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Now that's not what the law said, but that was the way the rabbis were twisting it. So you have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. So that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? He's saying, let your obedience to the law with regard to the people around you make a real difference. God applies this law both to our actions and our attitudes, you see. Sometimes we only want our attitudes evaluated, not our actions. Sometimes we only want our actions evaluated, not our attitudes. But God will hold us accountable for both motives and actions. So he says about this phrase, you who abore idols, do you rob temples? What's that about? Well, of course, the Jew after the exile in particular abhorred idolatry, never wanted anything more to do with idolatry, in the outward form at least. But it was okay to use your business practices unscrupulously in support of the business of idle temples to make a buck, you see. So he's saying you're using your business practices to rob temples, in a sense, even though you wouldn't have anything to do with idolatry on the outside. And he says, because of these sorts of things, this lack of comporting between what you know and what you do. The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, he quotes from the Old Testament there The Gentiles looking at the Jew, seeing the way he speaks and what he says and what he believes, and then seeing the way he actually acts. Could swear against the name of God because of what he could see in the outward lack of obedience. We've seen some of this occasionally when a Christian Who's in business exercises unscrupulous business practices and Is known by either his colleagues or even known by being guilty of breaking a law and being caught in it. The name of God is dragged through the mud. And it often also happens in the way Christians treat each other. Those who claim to be brothers and sisters but take advantage wrongly of one another. drag the name of God through the mud in the eyes of one another. And thirdly, there's only three points, so we're the third point now, the irrelevance of mere Circumcision. See, that was the the real big boast of the Jew. This is my identity badge. This is who I am. I've been marked out. the irrelevance of mere circumcision. And Paul says, for circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law. Paul recognizes that a Jew may protest at what he's saying and say that his salvation is based on the fact that he is a descendant of Abraham, after all, a member of the chosen people. Special people. And that is proven by circumcision. Paul rightly answers that this cannot be. Your righteousness. This is not definitive with regard to your justification. Now that was a big deal in the day. Because the Jew believed that his circumcision, along with having the law, guaranteed his salvation. Pure and simple. According to the rabbis, a Jew might be punished in the world to come, kind of a purgatory, I suppose, but never be finally lost because he would be identified. As a covenant member, and therefore couldn't be lost. The commentator Barclay says in Paul's day some rabbis taught that Abraham sat at the entrance of hell and made certain that none of his circumcised descendants would go there Some rabbis also taught that God would judge the Gentiles with one measure and the Jews with another, and that finally all Israelites would have part in the world to come. Paul is saying no. Circumcision or baptism or any other ritual in and of itself doesn't save anyone. These things always point to salvation by faith, cleansing by faith, being marked out as God's special people by faith, but they are not the thing itself. In the ancient world, the Egyptians also circumcised their boys, but it did not make them followers of the true God, obviously. Even in Abraham's day, Ishmael The first son, the son of the flesh, was circumcised, but it did not make him a final member, a true spiritual member of the covenant. Circumcision and baptism in our day might be compared to what a label on a can does. If the outer label doesn't match what's on the inside, then it's going to be a surprise, isn't it? If there are carrots inside the can and you put a label that says peas, When you open the can and pour it out, well, you'll get peas, even though the label says carrots. God can change. God alone can change what's on the inside of the can. And circumcision in the Old Testament and baptism in the New points to Points toward promises and points toward a cleansing and a changing power of God, a heart-changing power of God, an obedience-rendering power of God. And even the law of Moses, which we read from Deuteronomy, said that very same thing. God said Therefore, since I want a relationship with you, therefore circumcise the foreskin of your heart and be not stiff-necked any longer. Deuteronomy 12, or 10, 16. So if a man who is uncircumcised, Paul says, keeps the precepts of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? He's saying, hey, Gentiles could do this too. Hypothetically, if a Gentile were to keep the righteous requirements of the law, even though he didn't have it, as a gift from God. And even though he didn't have circumcision as a mark from God, he would still be saved if he kept The precepts of the law of God, which were written on his heart. But Morris, Leon Morris says that that is a very big if. Because nobody ever has or ever will keep the law of God, Jew or Gentile. So whether you're thinking of a Jew or a Gentile, Paul says, no one lives up to his or her name. Who what's your name? The Gentile's name is Image of God with the law written on the heart. That is his identity And the Jews' name is Israel of God, with the law written on the heart, plus circumcision, plus the written code of the Scripture, plus the tabernacle and temple, plus the sacrifices, the priesthood, the glory. And a story. But whoever you are, whether Gentile or Jew, you must live up to your name. You must live up to your name. That brings me to this story, which is told by preachers. I first heard it from D. James Kennedy. The story about Alexander the Great, one of the world's greatest warriors. His army conquered most of the known world in its time. And in Alexander's army, there was a young teenage boy who was handsome and strong and skilled at fighting. But it seems that during a fierce battle, the boy became frightened and hid himself in a cave. And when he was found, he was immediately brought before Alexander for judgment. Alexander, seeing that the boy was terrified and in fear for his wife, took compassion on him and asked him, Son, what is your name? The young man answered back, Alexander, with a quiet reply. Upon hearing this, Alexander the Great said, What did you say? The boy then raised his voice and strongly shouted, Alexander! Once again Alexander the Great sternly said, Boy, what is your name? The young lad responded once again, this time with a sheepish voice, and said, Alexander, sir. Then, upon hearing this, the great conqueror exploded in anger, picked up his sword, raised it over the boy's head, and said, Change your ways or change your name. Upon remembering this story, I couldn't help but wonder if Christ thinks the same about you and me. You wear the name of Christ by being called a Christian. The Jew wore the name of chosen Israel by God's grace as well. But do you conduct yourself in a manner worthy of being called a follower of Christ? Twenty-one times in the Gospels Jesus says, follow me, and he doesn't just mean walk alongside. He means do as I do. Learn from me, obey me, follow me. He sets forth the idea that we need to become like him. That's what a follower did. And Paul says about such a person who actually obeys that his praise will not be from man. See, the Jew was looking for praise from man. But his praise will be from God. Do you want God's praise? Do you want God's well done, good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of your Lord? Do you want God's praise? Praise. All outward signs of religion may earn us praise from men. But We want praise from God at the last day. The evidence of your belonging to God is not contained merely in outward signs. And it is not assured because of your covenant heritage, young people. The indelible evidence is found in the work of God in your heart, which shows itself in fruit. The fruit of faith which produces obedience. The Apostle Paul teaches in Ephesians 4:15, saying, We are to grow up. We are to grow up in all aspects into him who is the head, even Christ. Discipleship, obedience, loving relationship From the heart. In conclusion, it's a great advantage to be born into the covenant people of God and thereby to hear and receive the truth about God, the gospel of Christ. A great advantage, young people. Godly heritage and identity as a covenant member is a great advantage. Moral teaching In this world of moral chaos is a great advantage. You don't have to make all the mistakes that everybody else makes. Now the truth that leads to repentance and salvation and eternal life is indeed a great advantage to have that truth. It's a great advantage to be a baptized person, to be marked by God with the sign of the covenant. And by that you were reminded Again and again that Christ has called you his own and named you and offers to you his grace, his salvation, his cleansing. You were distinguished from those outside the people of God. But these advantages and opportunities are not by themselves salvation. They point the way to salvation, but they are not sufficient. Instead, the Apostle Paul says: if anyone is in Christ, new creation. True faith. God given new life producing faith must bear the fruit of loving obedience to God. New creation. So what are your privileges today? Great privileges. Just the fact that you're here today means you are the recipient of great, great privileges. What is your name today? Is it Christian? What is the nature of your faith? Is it loving obedience versus mere externalism? Loving obedience. Amen. Lord, we thank you and praise you that the Apostle Paul was willing to call out the friends and colleagues and family members of his day. Showing them that externalism would not do it, but that they actually needed to have a relationship with you. We thank you for all our privileges, but we pray that you will make us inwardly heirs of the covenant. People who love you and are drawn to Christ. We pray in his name. Amen.