Beloved, I'm going to read the epistle reading. When we get to the sermon, it says two verses in Ephesians. So let's just turn to the Gospel of Mark instead. So I'll read them to you in the sermon. They go with the sermon. Let's go to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 9, beginning at verse 14. The Gospel of Jesus Christ, according as Mark wrote it, there's one gospel, four evangelists. Mark chapter 9, beginning of verse 14, and we'll read through to verse 29 Mark 9, beginning with verse 14, hear the word of the Lord. And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and scribes arguing with them And immediately all the crowd, when they saw him, were greatly amazed and ran up to him and greeted him. And he asked them, What are you arguing about with him? And someone from the crowd answered him, Teacher, I brought my son to you, for he has a spirit that makes him mute. And whenever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid. So I asked your disciples to cast it out, and they were not able. And they answered them, O faithless generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring unto me. And they brought the boy to him. And when the spirit saw him, immediately it convulsed the boy, and he fell on the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth. And Jesus asked his father, How long has this been happening to him? And he said, From childhood, and it has often cast him into fire and into water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us. And Jesus said to him, if you can All things are possible for one who believes. Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, I believe. Help my unbelief. And when Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again. And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out And the boy was like a corpse, so that most of them said he is dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him and arose, and he arose. And when he had entered the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could we not cast it out? And he said to them, This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer. This is the word of the Lord. Congregation, it is my grateful privilege again to rise up into this pulpit And address you, the saints of God, from the Word of God, and in the name of God. Let's seek our God together and ask his help then. Let us pray. Almighty God and Heavenly Father, it is of you to give men light. We are all born in terrible blindness and darkness. And we ask now, Heavenly Father, even with regenerate hearts and seeing, we know that our ears are still hard and our hearts are still hard. And we need your grace, and we need the continual ministry of our Savior Jesus Christ through His Word and by the power of His Spirit. to reshape our wills and to fill our minds with the knowledge of Christ. And so do that this morning we pray That all might know that you are God alone, you alone do these things, and you alone are man's Savior, and that you alone might get all the glory. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. I remind you, beloved, where we were at last week. Jesus walking down the mountain after his figure had been changed into what he will look like in the resurrection. And when he returns to earth again, and the kingdom comes with power. And he was coming down the mountain and had a discussion with his disciples. And we saw in that discussion the importance of knowing biblical fundamentals And the chief biblical fundamentals being the meaning of the cross of Jesus Christ and of his resurrection. Because without that, you can be no preacher of the gospel. Because you don't understand the nature of the kingdom. You don't know that Jesus came once In the likeness of sinful flesh, to take sin away, even to take flesh away We rise with spiritual bodies. Fleshly bodies are corrupt and weak and can't inherit the kingdom of God. And so Jesus came once to take all that away. And he resurrected and entered into the kingdom of God. And he's coming again to bring the kingdom of God with power and to raise us all bodily in the spirit So unless you understand the nature of the cross and why Christ came, less you understand the nature of the resurrection and what that means for you and the world, then Jesus would say, don't yet preach. Like he told his disciples, keep quiet about this until the resurrection. So learn these things and then preach these things. We saw in that discussion the importance of interpreting Scripture rightly. That it can actually be an abuse of church power. To set aside certain doctrines that are unfavorable to the ears of men that they don't want to hear And to pick the ones that men want to hear, like a glorious coming of the Messiah and a glorious return of Elijah, and leaving no room in your view of end times for anything like a cross And two thousand years of the history of the power of Christ and his church, bearing the cross on earth, but wanting it all now, and worldly power and worldly seats And we also learn the wonderful truth of what it means then and what it looks like to have a mind of Christ. To have a mind of Christ is to be taught by Christ. And you get that by walking with Christ as these men walk with Christ. By keeping with the fellowship of Christ by his word and spirit in this life, Christ is imparting to you his mind, meaning he is teaching you. That you might know God's mind. You might know truly the events that take place in your day and the things that are come. You know the future, beloved. Because God has freely told you these things. As we come back to the gospel this morning, there's a bit of a contrast to all this. There's a transfiguration which we just left of Jesus pictured and what he'll be in glory and when he returns. Up on a mountain, right? And now he's descending back down to the valley, and we meet another case of the tyranny of Satan. and of evil spirits over men. We come back into the world of sin and misery here. After going up for a moment to the mountain of transfiguration and the presence of God and the voice of God, back down to a world of sin and misery. But what's the good news? Christ is still with us in this world of sin and misery. He is with these men. We're going to see three things. We're have, well, four things. I've got four lessons. It's not a three-point sermon. It's a four-point sermon. I've got four things that we're going to look at in this passage. We're going to look at failure. We're going to look at frustration. And we're going to look at faithlessness. And the final one will be a picture of the cross and resurrection out of this boy's healing. But failure. Failure in ministry, failure in the Christian life, failure in serving God in Christ. We're going to look at that first. We're going to look at frustrations. The frustrations involved in making disciples. And we're going to look at faithlessness. And the one who can help our unbelief. And then we'll end on this picture of the cross and resurrection So the first thing, beloved, we're going to look at is the disciples' failure. We're introduced to their failure, verses 14 through 18, kind of laying out to us the context. We see there in the end of verse 18, it ends with these words, and they were not able. Now they should have been able. Because Jesus, probably a year before this time, after he had been rejected by the Pharisees and scribes in Galilee Went up on a mountain before and picked out twelve men, reconstituting Israel, and at that time giving them authority to cast out evil spirits and to preach the gospel in his name. Then he sent them out some months later to actually do it, and they did it. They cast out many demons, the Bible says. And yet we read right here, it says, they were not able. But if you go down to verse 28 and in verse 29, they asked Jesus about this. Jesus goes into a house after all this, and privately they come to him, and they ask him this question: why could we not cast it out? Why couldn't we get this demon to go out of this boy? We've done it before. And Jesus said to them, This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer Do you see the problem, then, beloved? It's implied, then, what did they not do? Pray. Maybe they thought, Jesus has given me authority and power. I don't need God I don't have to rely on God anymore. He set me up to be self-sufficient. I'm out of his house, not under his roof. Now that might be true and right in earthly fatherhood and good as we send our children out to be married, not in God's house, and definitely not in this life. Jesus doesn't give us gifts and authorities to be independent of God. Because what does he condemn them of? Oh, faithless generation. He lumps them right in with all the unbelievers who've been soundly rejecting him and says, you're acting no better than them. Not relying on God and not trusting God because you won't pray. Notice the context, too, of this verse. Spiritual warfare. Are you going to go up against the evil spirits? Man might be able to strap a sword on his leg and get on a horse or get in a tank or learn how to fly an aircraft and drop bombs That's fleshly strength, and we're pretty good at it. Are you going to resist Satan without prayer? Are you going to overcome the evil spirits without Prayer? Are you gonna fight against the lies and deceit in our nation and our churches and our homes? Tear them down. You're gonna go at it without prayer. You don't need God for this Do you wake up every day, beloved, thinking, ah, there's no spirits to fight today, we vanquish them all? Are you any different than the unbelievers around you who don't care at all about God and don't and don't need Him and His support? Don't think that He cares for them Now you might think I'm speaking harshly to you, so I'll moderate my tone. But I was told by a seasoned pastor, when you're preaching from a passage, your tone should be the tone of the passage. And Jesus is pretty frustrated at these men, and we're going to look at that in a minute. John Knox, how many of you know the reformer John Knox? Man God raised up. Reformed the church in Scotland. Remember, I I think so don't quote me here. I should have just hopped off Google, right? So easy, I could have checked it out. But I think it was Bloody Mary said she was more afraid of that man's prayers than all the armies of Scotland. Because what does prayer get involved, beloved? God. And surely we don't want to leave God out of it. A man who is dependent upon the power and provi a woman I use men and humankind, so We forget we seem to forget that, but we hold the male headship here in the Bible in the church. So when we say men, we include our women here, but men and women A praying person depending on the power and the provision of God, that's a mighty person. You know what John Knox said about himself in the Reformation? God has given his spirit to poor men. That's what happened. God gave his spirit to poor men, and the church was reformed. He doesn't take any glory for himself. Have you learned, beloved, what the last words of the Lord's Prayer mean? How does it end? For yours, you or mine is the glory and the kingdom and the power? Things happen because I'm in charge? Things happen because I have the power, things happen for me to get the glory Or things happen because God reigns, and they'll only happen because He reigns. They can only happen because He has the power. He is the Almighty One. And they're only going to happen that He gets the glory. That's how Jesus taught us to pray. So it seems that if we're not going to pray, then maybe we want it to happen because we're so in charge. And we want our wills done. And we think we have the strength because maybe we want our name to be known in the church. It'll be fun and joyful to go to heaven and meet probably thousands of John Calvins, right? That maybe we just didn't know about. It's great. Read Christian biographies. But you're all empowered by the Spirit, and you can all do mighty things, and you're all important. Let me uh give you this. Here's now the time that I'll read to you from Ephesians. Ephesians 3, 20 and 21. Now, Pastor Tyson is going through Ephesians in the evening, and I wish we could read these first three chapters because you'll really get the impact of these verses, but nonetheless. Ephesians three twenty. Now to him who is able to do far less Far more abundantly than all that we ask Four thing. Do you know that you already asked too little by just asking? You might think you're asking a lot of God. No. You haven't asked enough. You can't ask enough. You can never out-ask him and outthink him in what he can do. That's the great truth taught us here And how does this happen, it says? It's no surprise. God is able to do this according to the power at work within us. You know that spirit that raised you from the dead? Or do you think you converted yourself? All you have to do is look at yourself and say, Well, if God can raise me from the dead surely impossible. Then why do I limit in what I think he can do now? So you have the old proof in yourself if you're a believer that you ask too little. The disciples failed, Jesus says, because they thought being in the kingdom meant we don't have to humbly depend upon God as sons of God. Do you remember what Jesus praying at Lazarus' tomb said? Father, I'm praying out loud for their sake. But I know you always gave me what I asked. Jesus didn't perform a single miracle without the spirit of prayer and conscious dependence upon the power of God. So if you do anything in the name of Christ as a Christian, parenting, being a good person at your job, a good steward of your resources, a faithful member in Christ's church, enjoying the communion of saints, sharing with others what you've been given. You're doing that without a conscious dependence upon the power of God in anything. You're condemned as a prayerless man. And you'll fail. And you'll wonder, why do I fail? Do you look at yourself and say, I'm the great failure? You point fingers at others and say it's because of them? Or do you look inward and say it's because I don't pray? I think the Christian life is something I can do on my own strength. Oh, faithless generation. If that's how you're living your life. Because that's no different than the world of unbelievers. Second point. Failure, frustration. Verse nineteen. Jesus' frustration Read there in verse 19. And he answered them, O faithless generation How long are I How long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you Now you and I might think, because generally when you and I get frustrated, there's thin mixed up with it. But I encourage you to open up good, faithful commentaries like I did this week, and they all say the same thing. Jesus is frustrated here. So we can't get around Jesus being frustrated here. Jesus Got frustrated with his disciples. Because his disciples Picked by him, called to be sons of God and live like a son of God and walk in the fellowship with the Son of God, are after Almost three years, really no different than the rest of the unbelievers. Because you would think, right, beloved, that spending time with the Lord Jesus Christ like they did. Spending time like you do, being brought up under the means of grace and the ministry. Remember, this is Christ's ministry to you. I'm just some silly man. These are Christ's ordinances. This is his ordinance, the pulpit. That's his ordinance, the table. His ordinance is a session to watch over your lives to keep you in the discipline of holiness. Admonishing you, rebuking you, censoring you. That's his love for you. That's his being with you. And after all that time, well, how long has it been? Are you any different than the world? Because you would think being with Jesus, you would learn to trust in God. You think this is the one place Where men don't get together and boast in the flesh, but do what verse 21 said in Ephesians 3. To God be the glory. Because he's my help. He's my refuge. He's my strength. But why is he frustrated? Is it because he doesn't love these men, or is it because he loves these men? Who do you get most frustrated at? Those you really don't care anything about, and it doesn't matter to you how they live their lives? Really indifferent? Or the people you love so much that you want to see do so well. The latter, right? It's because Jesus is not going to give up on these men that he's not going to ignore their faults. Let me quote the help meet that God prepared for me. This is my wife. Jesus is here giving a stern rebuke and not a scornful dismissal. And they obviously understood his love for them and understood he's not giving up on them because they just follow him right back into the house and ask him, Teacher. Why couldn't we do this? And if you think it's strange and that maybe Jesus is the only one that should do this, and maybe Christians should never behave like this. 'Cause it's too risky, 'cause we don't have the spirit enough, or maybe Well the Apostle Paul still acted like this. Hebrews five, verse eleven About this, we have much to say, and it is hard to explain, since you have become dull of hearing. Should any of us ever become dull of hearing? For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. A very similar rebuke. Now he goes on and continues to instruct them, right? Is he done with them? He says, No, beloved, we think better things of you and we hope for you But it's because Paul loves the churches. He's not going to give up on them and ignore the fact that you ought to be teachers and you still need talk because you're dull of hearing. And Jesus is saying the same thing to these men. Because they should have been doing this. His reputation, the gospel's reputation. The power of Christ that's on the line, the authority of Christ. What do the scribes do at this failure? What does the world do when the church fails? Ministers defame because they're utterly prayerless and godless. They hover right and they make a heyday out of it. The scribes show up and they're entering some argument, probably arguing Yeah, your lack of power here shows the lack of the power of Christ in the gospel, and more than that, it undermines his whole authority as being the one sent by God to whom we're to believe in. So Jesus is saying, your failure is reflecting on me Because, guess what, beloved, you're called in the fellowship of Jesus Christ. Your very words and thoughts and actions show to the world Christ, and you know it. You know the world holds you under a microscope. What are you gonna do? Give up? That's unfair? That's too difficult? Or are you gonna pray? Now, I do know As I started, we often aren't frustrated in a godly way. This is really a point I speak to People in positions of leadership. This is disciple making, right? This is Jesus making disciples and becoming frustrated with his disciples. So this is session with church. This is parents with children Bible studies leaders with other, you know, this so this is becoming frustrated in a godly way as disciple makers or those whom are making disciples. Can we do it? Now I can't give you a perfect answer of when you know your frustration is a godly one, but I can give you, I think, this helpful piece of advice. If those people you're discipling, because right, it just happens in a moment, right? You're not expecting it. Jesus is expecting I can go and do this prediction of the transfiguration to bless them. My house will be okay because they've been with me and I've trained them and I've taught them. They've seen me pray. They should know how these things are being done. I shouldn't have to worry about the ministry while I'm away. And yet that's not what happened. Comes back and the whole ministry is being discredited by his enemies. Found a way in. And he's frustrated, right? These things happen not when you plan for them and want them, and you're frustrated. What check can we give on ourselves and know if our frustration is a godly one? I give you this piece of advice If those people that you are discipling have not been an object of your fervent prayer, I guarantee you you're going to be frustrated in an ungodly way. So if you, elders, are fervently praying for the people and they do whatever they do and they show faithless attitudes and behavior, and you get frustrated, you better check yourself Have I been praying for them? Because if they're not an object of your daily love, then you're going to be frustrated in a wrong way. Jesus was frustrated here, but it didn't come across in a way that they knew he's done with me. In whatever way it came across, they still knew they could come right back to him and ask for his help. Parents, do you frustrated their children? Are they an object of your daily fervent prayer? So I give you that piece of advice. This is my advice. But unless you're praying for them, your frustrations are more than likely going to be ungodly. They're gonna hurt and drive away. And apparently Jesus Jesus didn't do that. I'm sure it smartened them But it still brought them right back to him. There was still his love evident for them in it And they had the confidence to still come back to them. So that's the encouragement to you, beloved. Then pray for those over you. You didn't well you did choose them, you chose them in God, but that's God's ordinance, so pray for them. If you want your elders to be godly frustrated at you, then pray for God to give them the grace to pray Because they're not going away and you're not going away and we can make a big mess of this or we can all do the right thing and pray. And you'll know then But they love you, and you love them. And we'll get along. Third thing. Disciples' failure, Jesus' frustration. And then a distressed man's lack of faith here. Faithlessness. That story is told to us in earnest in verses 19 through 27. Jesus says right after their failure to make it clear, this is another reason why he soundly rebukes them as unbelief, to make it clear, this has nothing to do with my power and authority, this has everything to do with my unbelieving disciples. Bring them to me. I'm going to show there's nothing wrong with my power and authority. Bring them right here. Confidently. Bring the child to me. You came for help, bring him to me. Then he enters into a dialogue with this man. Of course, I'm sure to show that he cares, but I think also to deal with his own heart. He asked him how long this has been going on since he was a child. Now I'm sure, right, that it's been a miserable Parenthood, right? You you get the child and you think before the child comes, right, it's gonna be so wonderful because all you see on TV and places is smiling, happy babies. And you don't read about demon-possessed babies And you don't plan for that in the parenting books that you read. How do I deal with the child possessed of the demon? And you just it's miserable And then that provokes the man to think about all the ways over the years this demon has tried to destroy his son and kill him. And he says to Jesus, if you could do something, please show compassion on us and help us. And Jesus has replied to this man. Some manuscripts read, if you can believe, some read like we do. He sort of just kind of says it back rhetorically, if you can believe, and sets it aside. But the question right isn't if you can do something. What's not on trial is whether Jesus has the power can help. But he tells the man What stands between your child being saved and delivered is your belief All things are possible to the one who believes. Now think about that for a moment, beloved. You are longing to see this child rescued It's probably made you 30 years older than you look. And here is the chance and opportunity right here To have this child saved and delivered out of the tyranny and power of Satan. And what does Jesus do? He puts it all back on your faith. He's saying it's on you. You just have to believe. Think about that. That's sinking in Maybe I should have spent longer time coming up with helpful illustrations for I'm trying to think of something you want more than anything, and you find out the only thing between you and getting the thing you want more than anything is your faith The man says, I do believe. But then he's honest enough, has faith enough to know he doesn't believe. And he does the truly wonderful thing is he turns to the Lord in faith and says, Help my unbelief. So that this child wasn't saved by this man's faith. He was saved by a Savior. And aren't you thankful that you're not saved by your faith? But that you're saved by a Savior. Let me read to you Second Timothy I was praying this week about this passage, beloved, and God answered my prayers and above and beyond I could think when he taught me, oh, this is what this verse means in 2 Timothy chapter 2. Verse 11. The saying is trustworthy, Shimmy, verse 13. If we are faithless He remains faithful. Jesus has been appointed by God to be that man's and Israel's deliverer. and Savior, and he remained faithful. We make an application that's been being made since the Reformation and as a church and the line of a Reformation church and a Protestant church. This is another thing I thought I've been I've been wrestling with this my mind for a while. The Bible talks a lot about you've got to believe, and that seems like an intellectual endeavor, right? You just gotta assent to these truths. But then there's all these other places that say, no, unless you call upon the name of the Lord, you won't be saved. I'm going, how can it be both? How can it be this Faith, there's this intellecting a sin. Yeah, I believe Jesus is true and he's God's Son. He died on the cross for me. I accept all that. What's this calling out to him mean? Because there's a great difference that that man learned. He's been catechized as a boy. He knew God was powerful. He may have given up on God because of the affliction he brought him. We don't know much of his history This man intellectually knew God has the power and greater than demons. But it was at that point in his life that he actually cried out for the Savior to help him. To see my faith is really worthless. Help my unbelief Brethren, you are condemned as an unbeliever if you are not trusting in Jesus to save you. Because do you know what his name means? Yahweh saves. And Martin Luther said, if you're coming to Jesus not to save you, you're taking his name in vain His name is Yahweh Saves. I think this is so wonderful. He puts it on this man's faith. And between his boy being saved and his faith. Help my faith. And Jesus didn't wait for him to have faith, he just saved the boy. Teaching us, now I'm I'm what he's teaching us is the kind of faith we need to have. Not a mere intellectual ascent and understanding these doctrines, but a turning and crying out to Jesus, help me, pull me out of this pit. And not just once. Anytime you get into a pit. We'll go right back to prayer. What do you do when you get in a situation where you fear man and you care more about what they think of you than what God says? Do you stop and say, I'm just going to muscle through this You say, oh God, pull me out of this pit. I can't get myself out of it. Are you trusting in Jesus to save you or yourself to save you? Do the right things. Don't rely on your faith, but rely on Jesus Christ who can save you, who can help your unbelief, who can give you faith Now I said I would end with a fourth thing. So we've looked at failures today. Failures happen in our Christian lives because we're unbelieving, prayerless people. And frustrations happen over godly leadership who's praying for their people because they know that these saints have been called to a high and noble calling They've been called the sons of God. They've been given the power and the authority to write to be sons of God in this life, and they're not living up to it, and that reflects poorly on the Son of God. But more than that, they love them and they want them to be believing. And so rebukes happen. So they need to happen in a way that's loving, and the people know that they love them and they can come back and ask for help. And we've seen faithlessness. Now we're all really faithless if we're not crying out to Jesus for help, because we're just trusting in our faith. Finally, what's the I said there's a fourth thing to see here. Jesus casts this boy, this demon out. He doesn't go without a fight, and he rends this child seriously, and he falls down, and you might think Jesus lost He's dead. Many thought he's dead. But Jesus takes him by the hand and says the boy stands up. That boy that word, maybe you know the name anastasia It's just an English transliteration of the Greek word for resurrection, to stand up again. Jesus just said, don't preach us until the anastasia, the resurrection. So here's a picture, right? The cross looks like Jesus lost. And Satan had his hour. And God's plans were defeated. No. The boy's not dead. Jesus didn't lose. He heals the boy, makes him stand up. Christ didn't lose, but he rose from the dead. I'll say it again. The cross is no loss. A church carrying the cross isn't a weak church. That's a strong church. God has his purposes in persecution. Go back and listen to my exort or preaching on 1 Peter and the purposes for it. But the cross is no loss. Satan, the evil forces, they can rage all they want in this world. They can't do a thing to stop God sowing the gospel seed in your hearts and lives, your weak fleshly bodies sown into this ground to raise gloriously in the kingdom of God when it comes with power in the resurrection I hope you're not hoping in an earthly kingdom and an earthly power and things that fade and go away, but in the one kingdom of God that comes in seed time and harvest. And now's the sowing time and the preaching of the gospel. So we live in that period called realized eschatology. Meaning the resurrection has already been realized in your life if you're a believer. You've already been made new in the new man, and there's something of you in eternity that is in you now that won't go away. But outwardly we look like the same weak people to the world, and we particularly look weak when we carry the cross. But let Satan rage. I should have picked Martin Luther's hymn, A Mighty Fortress of Our God. Let him rage. We have the right man on our side, and he will raise us up. Beloved, you have a Lord Jesus Christ who's with you. In your failures, he's going to teach you. In your failures, he's going to lovingly rebuke you And in your faithlessness, he is going to save you. I commend you to God and to this word of his grace and this Jesus Christ. Which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among all those who are sanctified. Amen. Let's pray. Almighty God and Heavenly Father, thank you for sending Christ once to die for our sins and take the old away Your wrath and anger and curse and displeasure upon men rebelled against you at the instigation of Satan And thank you for raising up Jesus Christ from the dead and inaugurating the new creation in him and pouring out your Holy Spirit and empowering your people to be sons of God in this world and to walk in the fellowship of Jesus Christ. O Lord, forgive us that we are like a faithless generation at times, acting no different than unbelievers, thinking that we can get by without prayer, thinking you must not care for us and think about us, that you don't love us in ways more than we can think or know, that we doubt your power and goodness, but we're sowing to the flesh and not to the spirit We're asking because we want to spend it on our own pleasures and not to serve you. For give us of all these things, and by your spirit, help us here at grace and peace. To live as the sons of God in this world, watching Satan's kingdom fall, seeing his works destroyed, not through the strength of our arm, but the power of our prayers. That you may get all the glory. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen.