Isaiah thirty, we'll read the first eighteen verses. Ah, stubborn children, declares the Lord. Who carry out a plan, but not mine, and who make an alliance, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin. Who set out to go down to Egypt without asking for my direction, to take refuge in the protection of Pharaoh, and to seek shelter in the shadow of Egypt? Therefore shall the protection of Pharaoh turn to your shame, and the shelter in the shadow of Egypt to your humiliation. For though his officials are at Zoan and his envoys reach Hannes, everyone comes to shame through a people that cannot profit them, that brings neither help nor profit, but shame and disgrace. An oracle on the beasts of Nanegeb. Through a land of trouble and anguish, from where come the lioness and the lion, the adder and the flying fiery serpent They carry the riches on the backs of donkeys and their treasures on the humps of camels to a people that cannot profit them. Egypt's help is worthless and empty Therefore I have called her Rahab who sits still. And now go Write it before them on a tablet and inscribe it in a book, that it may be for the time to come as a witness forever. For they are a rebellious people, lying children, children unwilling to hear the instruction of the Lord, who say to the seers, Do not see. And to the prophets, do not prophesy to us what is right, speak to us smooth things, prophesy illusions, leave the way, turn aside from the path, let us hear no more about the Holy One of Israel Therefore, thus says the Holy One of Israel, because you despise this word and trust in oppression and and perverseness and rely on them. Therefore this iniquity shall be to you like a breach in a high wall bulging out and about to collapse, whose breaking comes suddenly in an instant. And its breaking is like that of a potter's vessel that is smashed so ruthlessly that among its fragments not a shard is found with which to take fire from the hearth or to dip up water out of the cistern. For thus says the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, In returning and rest you shall be saved. In quietness and in trust shall be your strength. But you were unwilling, and you said, No, we will flee upon horses, therefore you shall flee away. And we will ride upon swift steeds. Therefore your pursuers shall be swift. A thousand shall flee at the threat of one, at the threat of five you shall flee Till you are left like a flagstaff on the top of a mountain, like a signal on a hill. Therefore, the Lord waits to be gracious to you And therefore he exalts himself to show mercy to you. For the Lord is a God of justice. Blessed are all those who wait for him. This is the word of the Lord. So now we turn to the reading of the preaching text, Revelation three fourteen through twenty two and to the angel of the church in Laodicea write The words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of God's creation. I know your works. You are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot. So because you are lukewarm and neither cold or hot, I will spit you out of my mouth. For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing. Not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich. And white garments, so that you may clothe yourself, and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen. And salve to anoint your eyes, so that you may see. Those whom island, so be zealous and repent. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any one hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me. The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne. As I also conquered and sat down with my father on his throne, he who has an ear to hear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the church. This is the word of the Lord. So this is the second in a little series before we start our long next series, the second in a little series called Famously Misused Bible Verses. The um one last week, does anyone remember what it was from Matthew 7? Judge not, lest you be judged, right? And people will throw that out at you if they think you're criticizing them in any way. Don't judge, can't judge, can't judge. And of course, Jesus did not mean that there should be no discernment or no uh moral evaluations. That's completely And even in the context it was very clear. But we move on to this famously misused Bible verse. And it is verse 20, which has a picture of Jesus. It says, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. So behold means look. So there's the idea of, imagine this. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him. and he with me. Now the problem with this is that it is Depicted here by many people who take this verse and use it for evangelistic purposes as a verse directed to persons, to individuals only. And it is used to say that Jesus is knocking on the heart doors of every single person. out there. Every sinner, every unbeliever, he is constantly outside the door of their life and he's knocking and he's hoping that they'll open the door and let him in. And that's not what's going on here in the context because this is written to a church, not an individual. Now individuals are addressed here. but it's written to a church, particularly the church of Laodicea. It's very clear in the context. To the angel of the church in Laodicea, right. Now, angel could be pastor. I know you don't think of me And I'm not in in the usual nomenclature, I'm not at all. But angel means messenger. So to the messenger, to the one who brings the message of God to that church, to the messenger of the church of Laodicea, right? The words of the Amen, that means the one who's absolutely true. Amen means verity. To the words of the Amen, and then he expounds on it, the faithful and true witness, who's that? The beginning of God's creation, Jesus Christ. That's who is speaking here. And he is writing to the church. The Lord Jesus is writing to the church. He's knocking by words on the door of the church. This is certainly one of the most familiar and frequently quoted verses in the Bible. It is often quoted by evangelists and camp preachers and writers of gospel tracts. Or anyone who wants to lend some urgency to the call of God to unbelievers. In the hands of many preachers and evangelists, the verse paints an attractive and compelling picture of Christ. Pursuing the sinner and needs an immediate response. Someone might say, well, isn't there some truth to that? Well, yes, there is. But is it really misused then if it's used inaccurately to make an important point? The short answer is yes, it is wrong. We should not be so careless and cavalier with Scripture, or think so highly of ourselves that we can impose a new meaning. Even if our meaning is valid, we should not think we should impose a new meaning on the inerrant, sufficient word of God. If the point is worth making, it's worth making from the appropriate text, not something that we impose on a text that seems to fit So is Christ knocking? Is this an accurate interpretation I've already basically said it, but I'll say it again. Is Christ truly at the doorstep of each sinner's heart pleading to come in? And if not, on whose door is the Lord knocking? Well, several cliches have come into regular use in many evangelical churches. Not all of them are accurate or helpful. And one of those cliches is that people constantly speak about asking Jesus into your heart. That everyone should ask Jesus into their heart. And while that phrase may have some vague biblical underpinnings, it doesn't shed much light on what it truly means to repent and believe. If anything, it muddles the sinner's responsibility and salvation and dulls some of the sharp edges of the gospel, which always includes repentance, you see. Repentance. Not just asking Jesus to come in or opening the door and letting Jesus in. So this common misapplication of Revelation 320 has been the main quoted verse in support of asking Jesus in the into one's heart. Jeremiah Johnson says, yes, the mental image of Christ knocking on the door of a sinner's heart is moving, but not accurate. It's a caricature at best. And it comes at a high theological cost. Put simply, Christ is not pleading or begging for sin to let him in. In John chapter 10, verse 27, Jesus says this, listen, about those who do. Have him in their life. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. The sheep who are chosen by Christ know him and they hear his voice and they follow him. They do it voluntarily, but they do it because he has chosen them, because they are his sheep. You see, salvation isn't merely a matter of the Lord getting a foot inside the door of our heart. It is a work of total transformation that starts at a point but goes on throughout our life. Ezekiel 36 is a much better picture of those dry bones in the desert that God says to Ezekiel, can these bones live? And he says, only you know, Lord. And the answer is yes, they can, but only by God's sovereign resurrection power, putting flesh and life into those dry bones. And that is the accurate picture. of salvation, not our deciding to let Jesus in. In the same way, John chapter 11. Lazarus, who's been in the grave for four days and is dead, and they say he stinks by now. Yes, he probably did. Jesus calls him forth and says, Lazarus come forth, and he who was dead came forth bound hand and foot. That is the right picture. And Paul says it in Ephesians chapter 2. This is the picture of our spiritual resurrection. And you were dead. In your trespasses and sins in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world. There's the walking dead for you. According to the Prince of the Power of the air, the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience, then he says in the past tense, Among them we too all formerly, formerly lived in the lusts of our flesh indulged in the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. We were all in that condition, all dead by nature But, he says, but God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us. Made us alive. There's that resurrection. There's that calling forth of the dead. There's that bringing forth life from the dead dry bones. He made us alive. Even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. And then he says, by grace you have been saved. And raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus so that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Then, this is the end of it. For by grace you have been saved. Through faith, that is something we have, it's faith. You have been saved by grace through faith, and that That means faith, saved, the whole thing. That not of yourselves. And then he explains that it is the gift of God. You didn't do it. Lazarus didn't raise himself and come out of the grave. He was raised, and that's why he responded to the gospel. The dry bones didn't compose themselves and put flesh on themselves and then respond to God's call to be alive. They were made alive first and brought out of the desert. So that, he says, finally, not as a result of works, things we do, so that no one may boast. No one may boast. Friends, if I were to get to heaven and I were to be able to go there and say, Lord, I am so thankful that I made the right decision. I am so thankful that I that I figured out the truth. that I that I asked Jesus into my heart. I'm so thankful. Who would I be thanking? Myself But he says, so that no one may boast. It's God's work in us. Now we do respond, yes, but it's God's work in us. that saves us, not ours. So train yourself to think about the gospel in these terms, and you will keep yourself from the influence of Man-centered theology, and the temptation to reinterpret God's Word to suit yourself. So, this is not about how to become a Christian, as it has often been used to teach. But there is, as I've already said, a genuine human response to God's gospel. It comes after God has worked in our hearts. After God has opened our hearts, after God has brought us from death Then, yes, we do respond, and that's what we find in many places in the scriptures. I have a long list of them there in your sermon outlined, but listen to a few of them for me. Acts 2. The apostles are preaching. And when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. So there was something to do. Repent and be baptized. But who cut them to the heart first? The Holy Spirit did. He brought life. He brought response. And then they responded. There is a response, but it's secondary, not primary. Acts 10, and they commanded us to preach to the people and testify. That he is the one appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead. And to him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him See, there is something to do. Believe in him. Receives the forgiveness of sins. And then the famous account of the jailer who was in charge of the prisoners in Philippi and there was this earthquake and this is Acts 16. The jailer is there. He's keeping guard of these prisoners. They're all in chains and everything. Suddenly there's an earthquake and the chains fall off, and the jailer calls for lights and rushes in, and trembling with fear, he falls down before Paul and Silas. Then he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? He's convicted by what God has done, by their singing of psalms, no doubt, but by their By the earthquake and by what God has done here, he is convicted, and he says, What must I do to be saved? And they said, and here is his part to do, believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household. So there is a human response. Paul says in Romans 1: I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes. We do respond by believing. When God opens our heart and gives us that ability to respond. There are many other passages. I'm going to skip down to the end of my list. In 1 Corinthians 1, 21, for since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom It pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. There again is the response called for. There are places in Scripture where it is made clear that your response of faith and belief is due to the sovereign working of God, creating faith in you. Let me give you a couple of those. too, just to make this very clear. In the opening chapter of John's Gospel, John says about Jesus He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, there's their human response. Believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. And then he explains why they believed. Who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. When you're born of God, then you believe. That's what what he's saying. In John chapter 10, Jesus is talking to the Jewish leaders who are all gathered around. John 20 10, 24 through 30. The Jews gathered around him and said, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you're really the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe. So sometimes people don't believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me. But then he gives a theological explanation. Explanation to their unbelief. He says, but you do not believe because you are not my sheep. Some people are God's sheep, and some people are not. You do not believe because you are not my sheep. And then he gives the characteristic of sheep. My sheep hear my voice. And I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and so forth. So it is that way. People are called to believe, but the reason they believe is because they are given as sheep, or given as gifts from the Father to the Son. That's why they believe. And then Ephesians, as I've already mentioned, Ephesians 2, you have been saved through faith, but this is not your doing, it is the gift of God. One more passage which Which puts these things together in one place. It's the end of the list, Matthew 11, 25 through 30. Here in the first part of that passage, we have the sovereign working of God. Listen to it. Jesus is speaking to his Father. He says, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things. What things? The things of the truth. He has hidden these things from the wise and the understanding and revealed them to little children, the simple Yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. See, it's the will of the Father that's in play here. All things had been handed over to me by my Father And no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. There's that sovereign, amazing sovereign working of God. God chooses to reveal the Son to his sheep, to his people. That's why we are saved, brothers and sisters, not as a result of our own doing. Not that we could boast about it. And then the next few verses, three verses comes right after that. He then gives the outward call. The outward call. The inside look at what happens. God chooses. God brings life. God reveals. But now we We have the outward call in verse 28. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy And my burden is light. Come to me, come to me, come to me. Yes, we have a response. But why did we respond in the first place? It was revealed to us by the Father. We were shown the truth. So Revelation 3. 20 is not about Jesus knocking on the individual heart door of every single person out there and hoping that maybe they'll let him in. That's just simply A very sad caricature. Frankly, my dog knows how to knock at my door. He puts his paw up there and taps. And I just can't imagine you know, putting those things in juxtaposition, but there it is. So whose door is it then? Let's look at the real meaning of this text because that's really important for us. Not just Not just criticizing misuses, but what is the real meaning of the text? The door in Revelation 3. 20 is not a vague spiritual metaphor. It is a specific door. The words are directed to a specific group of people. Carelessly to just anyone. Christ's letter to the church at Laodicea is known As the lukewarm church. No offense if your name is Luke. In Revelation 3, the Lord condemns them for their spiritual self-deception and apathy. Christ says, I know your deeds. I know all about you folks. That you are neither hot nor cold. I wish that you were cold or hot versus 15. They didn't openly reject Christ, but they didn't exhibit any real spiritual zeal or authentic love for God and His Word. They professed to know him, yep, I'm a Christian, but had no place for him in their assembly. He wasn't really present with them. They were lost in their self-deception. They risked being spat out of God's mouth altogether. Their only hope, according to verse 19, is to truly repent In the context, Christ was standing at the door of the Laodicean church, eager to re-enter the congregation through the genuine repentance of its members. Jesus is warning about self-sufficiency. We've got it all together. We've made it. Laodicea was, you see, a wealthy banking center. And a very proud place. Laodicea was famous for black wool clothing. I guess they had a particular breed of sheep out there somewhere, and black wool was all the rage. And they also had a medical school, which was famous for exporting eye ointment, which helped people with with eye problems. So he responds to that, those facts about Laodicea, and he says, but you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing. He says, uh-uh Not realizing that you're wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. You think you've got it all made? You've got this fantastic wealth and you've got this black wool and you've got this I set. He says, no, you're wretched, pitiable, poor, blind, and naked. He says, instead, I counsel you to buy from me. Get from me the real thing, gold refined by fire, so that you may be really rich. And white garments, not black ones, I'm wearing black. Oh boy. So that you may clothe yourself, and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen. And I counsel you to get salve to anoint your eyes so that you may see see not the not the kind you have there, but spiritual ointment for your spiritual eyes To repent you and bring you back to me. And then he says, to those whom I love. This is not a beating up the sheep thing I've been warned about that, and I'll warn any other preacher, don't beat the sheep. Steve Doe tells me, don't beat the sheep. If you're unhappy about something, don't beat the sheep. Be careful not to beat the sheep. Yeah, I get it. He says, To those whom I love, I reprove. Reproving is different than beating, isn't it? And I discipline. Discipline is not harsh and mean and punitive. Discipline is out of love. To those whom I love, I reprove and discipline. He says, so be zealous. And repent. Put your act in place and repent. One other thing about the Laodicean Church And I did some research on this uh after after our men's meeting um at the base on Thursday. Mark Bates tells us that the Laodicean church that was just like their water. He says, I know your works, you're neither hot or cold. Would that you were either cold or hot, so that you may, because you were lukewarm, neither hot or cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. Jesus is not saying he wishes that they were spiritually hot or spiritually cold rather than being spiritually lukewarm. Nowhere does God desire his people to have cold hearts. Rather, Jesus explains what he means by being lukewarm in the next verse. What was going on in that discussion? Unlike the mountain towns around that had cold water springs, and the uh other town nearby, which was Hieropolis, that had access to hot springs Laodicea didn't have access to either one. And they had to kind of uh build an aqueduct to bring in their water from the mountains. And by the time the water ran down through the aqueduct in the hot sun It wasn't cold anymore. It was lukewarm. And it was full of sediment. He says, I feel like spitting you out of my mouth. Because you're not one or the other. A lukewarm person is the one who has lost his or her dependence on God. In his arrogance, he believes that he has no need of an ongoing relationship with Christ. I said yes to Jesus once. Isn't that enough? Yes, I prayed the prayer. I'm a member. Isn't that enough? Do I really have to keep on with this stuff? It's like the guy that told his wife when she asked him why he never expressed affection. He said, When we got married, I told you that I love you, and I'll tell you if that ever changes. Not a very good way to go. Christ is knocking at the door of the church. He is saying, church, are you willing to wake up? Are you willing to recognize your need of real vital relationship with me and grow in me? Are you willing, church? He's urging them to repent and have fellowship with him before the night of judgment falls, before their life is over, before it's too late. Repentance means that you realize that sin, which is still in your life, is something that needs to be gotten rid of. And you need to turn your back on it in every shape and form and renounce the world at whatever cost it may cost you. What does it look like if we might have this problem of the Laodicean church here at Grace and Peace? What does it look like? Well, are you rich? I think we are. Are you increased with goods and have need of nothing? Material wealth can lead you to a sort of complacency, my friends. It can lead you to often be away from God's house. Because you have so much money to spend that you have to go spend it somewhere. Away from the preached word and the sacraments, away, indulging yourself, treating yourself. Ultimately away from Christ, not by repudiation, but by neglect, by preference for a rival, love. And even if you're here every Lord's Day, you could still be far from intimacy with Christ. Going through the prayers perfunctorily. No really calling out to Jesus when we say our prayer of confession or our prayers of praise to him in the Lord's Supper. No, really calling out and saying, I love you, I accept you, I receive you, please give yourself to me. No adoration of Christ in your private life or in the public prayers. No dependence upon the Holy Spirit. That's what was wrong with Laodicea. No care for those who are lost and dying without Christ. To those whom I love, Jesus says. I'm not beating you up. To those whom I love, I reprove and discipline. So be zealous and repent. And I want to end in a very positive way. There is much to be gained for this church to turn back to Christ and be renewed in Christ. Christ. There's much to be gained in verse 21. The one who conquers. What's that? Conquers against all of the stumbling blocks and distractions. The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne. As also I conquered, he did conquer. Didn't he? He endured the cross, despising the shame, and is sat down at the right hand of the Father, and sat down with my Father on his throne. Verse 21. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Brothers and sisters Let's not misuse God's word, like verse 20 is sometimes misused. Let's get the gospel right. Let's also hear this message of Jesus to his church. To be warm, no, to be hot with zeal for him, and to overcome renewing our relationship with him constantly, growing in him. Let us repent where we need to repent. Renew our zeal. Amen. Lord, thank you for your truth. Thank you for your call to those whom you love, those whom you have rescued from sin and death, the devil in hell, from the chains, from The dry bones and the grave. You've rescued us. You've raised us up in Christ and given us faith in Him. But we get distracted. Many things come and compete. So please help us to zealously repent. And return to our first love, our Lord Jesus Christ. Forgive us our failings. We come in his name. Amen.