Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the book of Proverbs. We're going to be reading the whole first chapter. Proverbs chapter one. The Proverbs of Solomon, son of David, King of Israel, to know wisdom and instruction, to understand words of insight, to receive instruction in wise dealing, in righteousness, justice. And equity, to give prudence to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the youth. Let the wise hear and increase in learning, and the one who understands obtain guidance. To understand a proverb and a saying, the words of the wise and their riddles. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. Hear, my son, your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching, for they are a graceful garland for your head and pendants for your neck My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. If they say, Come with us, let us lie and wait for blood, let us ambush the innocent without reason Like Sheol, let us swallow them alive, and whole like those who go down to the pit. We shall find all precious goods, we shall find our houses with plunder. Throw in your lot among us we will all have one purse. My son, do not walk in the way with them. Hold back your foot from their paths, for their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood For in vain is a net spread in the sight of any bird, but these men lie in wait for their own blood. They set an ambush for their own lives. Such are the ways of everyone who is greedy for unjust gain. It takes away the life of its possessors. Wisdom cries aloud in the streets. In the markets she raises her voice. At the head of the noisy streets she cries out. At the entrance of the city gate, she speaks How long, O simple ones, will you love being simple? How long will scoffers delight in their scoffing and fools hate knowledge If you turn at my reproof, behold, I will pour out my spirit to you. I will make my words known to you. Because I have called and you refuse to listen, have stretched out my hand, and no one has heeded Because you have ignored all my counsel and would have none of my reproof, I also will laugh at your calamity. I will mock when terror strikes you When terror strikes you like a storm and your calamity comes like a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon you. Then they will call upon me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but will not find me. Because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord, would have none of my counsel, and despised all of my reproof. Therefore they shall eat the fruit of their way. And have their fill of their own devices. For the simple are killed by their turning away, and the complacency of fools destroys them. Whoever listens to me will dwell secure and will be at ease without dread of disaster. This is God's word. Matthew 7, 1 through 6. Jesus says, this is part of the Sermon on the Mount. Judge not that you be not judged. For with the judgment you pronounce, you will be judged. And with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye Or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. Do not give dogs what is holy. And do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you. This is the word of the Lord. Researchers, George Gallup, the famous Gallup poll And Jim Castelli have put the problem squarely. They say this: Americans revere the Bible, but by and large they don't read it. And because they don't read it, they have become a nation of biblical illiterates. How bad is it? Researchers tell us that it's worse than most could imagine. Fewer than half of all adults can name the four Gospels. Many Christians cannot identify more than one or two of the disciples. And according to data from the Barna Research Group, 60% of Americans can't even name five of the ten commandments. No wonder people break the Ten Commandments all the time. They don't know what they are, said George Barna, president of the firm. The bottom line, increasingly, America is biblically illiterate. And that goes on. Some of the statistics are enough to perplex even those aware of the problem. A Barna poll indicated that at least twelve percent of adults believed that Joan of Arc was Noah's wife. Another survey graduating high school seniors revealed that over 50% thought that Sodom and Gemara were husband and wife. And a considerable number of respondents to one poll indicated that the Sermon on the Mount, which we just read from, was preached by Billy Graham. We are in big trouble, they say. And I just saw this this morning. Um, I don't know what whether it's apocryphal or what, but supposedly some minister was invited by members of his congregation. To eat dinner at their home. They wanted to honor the pastor, brought him to dinner. They've got out their best sterling silver. and made a nice meal and he was there. And uh before he left, he took one of the knives, one of the silver knives. And they had put out their big Bible prominently on display, you know, in their in their area there. And he tucked the uh silver knife into the Bible. Well a year later, the woman says, Pastor, last time you were here, a long time ago, we went, we had a knife that went missing. He said, did you look in your Bible. So I guess they don't read the Bible too much. Well, having said all that, this verse, verse 1 of chapter 7 Judge not, that you be not judged, is possibly the most misused text in modern times flowing from that biblical illiteracy. Increasingly, any ethical or moral evaluation that a Christian makes is countered with, well, you know, the Bible says, judge not. As if Jesus meant to tell his people not to make any judgments whatsoever at any time. This is used to shut people down. to create a safe zone, I guess you might call in these days, where no Christian moral talk is allowed, no judgment. This misinterpretation of Jesus' teaching in Matthew 7 is employed by unbelievers and professed Christians also As R. C. Sprohl said, it contributes to the moral and doctrinal anarchy evident in our culture. Friends, Christ is most certainly not forbidding his people to From issuing judgments altogether. The whole section that we call the Sermon on the Mount is teaching a clear distinction. This is important, a clear distinction between true religion and false religion, between hypocrisy and reality. And we are not to stop making judgments about right and wrong. We're not to become morally blind. We're not to become soft sentimentalists. For example, of what I just said, we are not to stop making judgments. Example in verse 6 of the text. Jesus says, do not give dogs what is holy. You mean he calls people dogs, yeah. And do not throw your pearls before pigs. He calls people pigs. In some sense, you see, he's making a moral judgment. Some people are dogs in terms of their morals. And some people are pigs in terms of their morals. And he says, lest they trample them underfoot and turn and attack you. You see, dogs in those days were not the pets of today. Dogs in those days were a mongrel, ugly bunch of dogs that scavenged around the city and ate garbage. And they were horrible and ugly and wild, and they lived in garbage heaps, they were unholy things, and they were not to be fed holy things. What are the holy things he refers to here in this phrase? Well, an Israelite who came to temple to make sacrifice. would present his sacrifice to the Lord and the worshipper would keep part of that sacrifice to take home and eat. A part would go to the priest for his meal. And a part would go to the altar and be consumed and go up in smoke before the Lord The part that went on the altar was for God, and it would be consumed on the altar as an offering. No worshiper or priest was going to take that which was offered and throw it to dogs. It simply was inappropriate that dogs would receive the holy offering that was made to God. In other words, the Lord is saying, look, you'd better be discriminating in your ministry to the disciples. God's word of rebuke, which corrects and trains in righteousness, is important, but some people are not prepared to receive it and respond to God's word. So don't Pass it out to them who are unprepared and going to trample it. They're not ready to receive the precious truth of God. They're going to shred it and tear it instead of receiving it. it rightly. Dogs can't appreciate holy things. Holy things are wasted on them. And Jesus is saying that about these people. Pigs can't appreciate pearls. I mean pearls are really great things, aren't they? They're expensive, but what do pigs want? Grains of barley, not pearls. And they might actually turn and attack you when they realize that you threw some stuff to them and it wasn't good for eating. So, what he's saying in this graphic illustration is that we should judge the motives and spiritual posture of people around us in order to determine if they are actually interested in God's truth or not. or simply out to ridicule it and to ridicule us in the conversation. That would be the turn and attack you part of what he said. Now, if you're going to be able to do that, if you're going to be able to, in talking to people, discern whether they're really interested or not, whether they're, in a sense, dogs and pigs, or whether they're people that really are interested in what you have to say, then you're going to have to make judgments. There must be judgments. So Jesus can't be saying, no judgments And look at verse 15 down further in the text of Matthew 7, verse 15, he says to his disciples, Beware of false prophets, he says. False prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. Now, that's going to require some discernment, is it? Some judgment. If you only perceive things superficially and fail to examine religious claims, he's saying, of the people around you who claim to be religious. then you're never going to know whether there's a wolf under that superficial sheep's clothing. There must be discernment, there must be judgment, or we don't know the false prophets, and we don't know the dogs. And we don't know the swine that we're to avoid. So in this very same passage that people quote back to us, don't judge, don't make any moral evaluations, you can't do that wrongly. Jesus says right here, make judgments, discriminate, evaluate between what is true and false. The individual believer and ultimately even the church as a whole is told to make Matthew 18, told to confront sinning brothers and sisters. And to confront that brother boldly and forthrightly about his sinfulness, that requires judgment. And if it doesn't resolve through that private confrontation, it uh ultimately becomes a public matter of judgment. Judgment as well. The whole church has to know about it. So judgment is not forbidden here at all. In fact, Paul says in Galatians 1: if anyone comes, he says If anyone comes to you, Galatians, and preaches another gospel than the one I preach, Paul, let him be accursed. Now that's religious description. Discrimination, isn't it? Yeah, it is. There must be discernment and there must be judging. John says If anyone comes and talks about Christ other than the Christ of the Bible, don't receive him into your house. Don't even bid him godspeed. Don't even say, have a good day, my friend. You're supposed to be so discerning about false teaching that you don't wish someone well if they're preaching a false gospel, another Christ. Because you're partaking in that evil deed, there must be discernment, there must be judging. And we're told by the Apostle Paul to remove from our midst, that is the church. Those who were sinning as leaven leavens the whole lump in 1 Corinthians five. And he says, Hymenaeus and Alexandria and Alexander were put out of the church because of the corrupt influence they were having. on the church that required judgment on the part of the church. They had to decide, are these guys telling the truth? Are they benefiting? Are they comporting with the gospel or are they doing something Detrimental to the whole church. So we're not to be flabby and soft in this regard in obedience to Scripture. Scripture calls us to make judgments. So what is Jesus talking about? What he's talking about here, what he's warning about, is Making critical and judgmental and condemning and self-righteous claims like that of the Pharisees The Pharisees who were so full of themselves and their own righteousness, they weren't really criticizing people. Because of objective sin measured by God's Word, they were criticizing them because people were falling short of the Phariseic rules and regulations that they had made up Like my false standards of measurement. They were judging people by social standing and by human frailties, they were condemning people. Instead of saying, you know, God is merciful and kind and forgiving, and we need to be that way too, that's the standard of our judgment even then. Then. So the Pharisees were criticizing other people's motives, which they couldn't see or perceive, but they would just read them and then they would criticize them criticize. The Bible forbids hasty judgment. In Proverbs 18, it says, if if one gives an answer before he hears, it is his folly and shame. So we're not to do that sort of thing. The Pharisees were judging superficially. The Bible forbids us from making judgments on less than adequate knowledge and facts. Now I'm certainly. Sometimes guilty of that. I think I know what somebody's doing or what what was their motive and so I make my judgment, but I have learned to stop myself and to say Say, maybe I don't have it right. Maybe there's more to that than I think. The Pharisees were judging superficially. We're not to set up some human standard of our own. and then judge people based on our little codes that we have. We're not to we're not to do that, period. When I was a student in the 1970s, late 1970s, at Moody Bible Institute, there were rules at Moody Bible Institute. You might find these. Interesting, curious, funny. But guys were not allowed to have hair over their ears. You could have it to the middle of your ear, but not Not beyond that. Just no b you know but you know the culture and the norm back then was way over your ears. It was that was the thing to do. So no, we had to have ours just at the top of our ears And we could not wear shirts without a collar. So no knit shirts, even how, no matter how nice they were, no knit shirts, it had to have a collar. in order to be acceptable on the campus. And girls had to have their dress lengths not above the knees. So it had to be you know, and if if you got caught, late young ladies, and your dress link was above the knee, you know, you might be sent back to your dorm to change. But these were not, they were not claiming that these were God's rules. That this was a matter of sin. The only sin involved would be disobeying the house rules that you agreed to obey. But they weren't claiming that the rules came from God or His Word. So that's the different kind Parents have to make rules. Some of the rules that you'd make at home are not from the Bible. They're not from God, but they're house rules. And so, children, you need to obey your parents about the house rules. Because God said to do that, He didn't say what the rules would be, but He said to obey the house rules. Schools have to have rules. Organizations have to have rules. Government agencies have to have rules and regulations. The police have to have rules and regulations to operate But the Pharisees were more than willing to make false and unjust charges according to their rules and call everybody else a sinner. And that was the judgment that Jesus forbids, that kind of judgment, that order of judgment. Often they were These Pharisees were like the leaders of the northern kingdom of Israel, who were excoriated by the prophets. They took bribes and they were unmerciful in their judgments. And not reflecting the fact that God is rich in mercy and kind even to those who do fail. What the Lord is forbidding is officious, hasty, unwarranted, unjust, unmerciful condemnation that is spawned by self-righteous pride. We are not to do that. That's what Jesus is after here. John chapter 5 tells us that judgment belongs to God. And so it's possible for us to literally blaspheme God by usurping his proper place in matters where we are not competent. And Paul in Romans 14 says to them, Who are you that judges another man's servants? To his own master he will stand or fall. So he's saying there, God is able to make that determination, and you're not. Be careful in judging, especially according to human standards. Again, in 1 Corinthians 4, the Apostle Paul reminds, responds to some criticism there in verse 3 when he says about himself, it is a very small thing that I would be judged of you or of men's judgment. He that judges me is the Lord. He's defending his apostleship. And people are criticizing him, and he says, you know what, I'm not going to take that. I stand before God. He is my judge. You may have your ways of judgment, but he is my judge of judge. So let God evaluate my ministry, so the apostle says. And then in James, one more example, James chapter 4, verses 11 and 12. James says, do not speak evil against one another, brothers. There is one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks against the one who judges his brother or speaks against a brother, judges. speaks against the law and judges the law. Let me say that again. I got it mixed up. Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks against God and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge. There is only one lawgiver and judge He who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? So this is James, Jesus' brother, according to the flesh. And he's saying, like my big brother Jesus said, be careful how you judge, be careful to use the right standard, or you'll be standing against the law of God. God. Don't play God. Secondly, be careful about judging because you may have an erroneous view of others which will be turned back on you. That's also in the text. Jesus says in verse 2, for with the judgment you pronounce, it will be judged. And with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. If you dish out judgment against other people, they're likely to say, I'm going to use the same standard on you and see how you feel. Fair. You're going to get just what you give. We should be very careful about judging. There must be no double standard. We should not assume that we are exempt from being judged Unjust judgment will come back as a boomerang. You throw it out and it comes right back at you. Unloving criticism of others will recoil on your own head at the hand of God. So listen carefully. To judge wrongly, by your own standard, is to play God. And it's a serious thing because you will often be biased and not in keeping with God's standard. And you will be easily bribed by your own prejudice. And your own self righteousness. While I was studying for this, I read that in early Greece Whenever they had a very severe case to try, they tried it in the middle of the night without any lights. In the pitch dark, so that there were no faces, so that there would be no prejudice by appearance. Social class, riches or poverty, all they would hear were the words of the case. We're to be very careful not to judge by By prejudice, by social class, by riches or poverty or any other such thing. We have no business trying to play God using our own personal standard. Notice how Jesus rebukes it. It's like a cartoon here almost. You could just kids, if you want to draw a cartoon, please draw this and put it on your sermon notes. paper. He says, why do you see the tiny speck that is in your brother's eye? But do not notice the log, and the word for log there is the main support beam for a house Big one. The log that is in your own eye. Or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye when you've got a log protruding out of your own eye? And then he says to those who would do such a thing, you hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, then you'll see clearly to take the speck out of your brother. Eye. The cartoon is silly, isn't it? A guy with a speck in his eye and he's miserable, but here comes this other guy with a four by eight protruding And he says, let me help you with that. It's just amazing stuff. Usually the people who see everything wrong in someone else's life See absolutely nothing wrong in their own life. As long as you're self-righteous, as long as you're spiritually proud, as long as you set yourself up as a judge, then you won't be able to help someone Else with their own sin. Notice that every situation in the New Testament where Jesus condemns sin, he does not condemn sinners, except one. That is the self-righteous. And there he is blasting sinners and that sin because it is the worst sin of all, because it plays God. And it denies the gospel, it denies the need for redemption, and it says, I am holy. And so the plank that he's describing here is the plank of self- Self-righteousness. It's the beam of self-righteousness. As long as you're self-righteous, you think you're always right, and you never bother dealing with your own sin, then there's no way you're going to be able to help anybody else. You're blind. It is the sin of subtle, self-righteous criticism, and it's a plank. You can't help anybody else. But the truly holy person, the person who is gospel-oriented, who have seen their own sinfulness, their own need, their own weakness, that person who clings to Christ, who says, I need him every hour, every day, every moment, I need his cleansing blood always flowing over my soul. That person Is not trying to pick apart other people. They're so lost in trying to follow Jesus Himself and deal with their own sin that they don't go around picking other people's sins. Out. He says of those who aren't that way, you hypocrite, you phony, you absolutely false person, pretending to be what you're not. Now, here's the danger in the sermon so far. Say, wow, this is serious, serious problem. This judgmental attitude, this thing that Jesus forbids is a serious problem. Issue, a serious problem, I'm afraid I might commit it. Therefore, I'm not gonna make I'm not gonna make any judgments at all. I'm just going to steer clear of making any kind of judgments at all. I just won't have any opinion at all. Because I don't want to make that mistake. No. Again, no. Jesus is not saying stop all discernment. We must make judgments. But how? How will we make those judgments? What is the standard? The right standard? The actual 12-inch foot. What is that standard? It is God's Law, God's word. In order to make right judgments, we must actually know what God thinks. And that's where that problem of biblical illiteracy comes in. In. We must be biblically literate. We must know what God says about things that are all around us, things that we need to discern We have no business failing to judge when God has spoken to an issue as sin or destructive falsehood. We need to judge. Falsehood. I know sometimes people don't like any idea of making any criticism of other religions or other things that go by the name Christian out there. But we must. We must judge by God's word what is false and what is true. And so there are groups, sects, we could call them, that teach a false gospel, and we have to say that's a false gospel. However, nice and upright the people may be It's false. Now, having said that, we don't always have to go around pronouncing on everything. I think that's the part where Jesus talks about casting your pearls before sin. wine. You have pearls, they're real pearls, they're objectively pearls, but some people aren't ready to receive them. And if you go around in public, Out at the store or at work, and you see a sin, you see a sin situation, you hear a sin situation, you don't necessarily have to pop up and say, that is a sin Because you'll be turned upon and trampled and attacked. So he's saying, be careful, discern the sin, yes, but also discern when it's a good time and when it's a good when it's not a good time. And it's not just about your protection, it's about whether they're spiritually ready and willing to receive what God has for them. We don't always have to pronounce on everything. That's what he's talking about when he talks about giving pearls to swine, giving dogs what is holy. Don't go around making moral pronouncements. Even though we see quite a lot of things wrong out in public today. But when you are called upon, that's the other side of that coin. When you are called upon to bear witness to the truth, especially in the context of the Christian Church community You must not fail. And you must not be shut down by somebody who misquotes this verse saying, don't you know the Bible says not to judge? No, the Bible doesn't mean that. The Bible, Jesus is saying, be discerning and be careful. So our prayer has to be somewhere like this. I think this is a good example of a Christian's prayer when we have to make judgments or have to think about the possibility of making judgments. Psalm 51. 10 through 13, where David, the sinner, David, who repented, David said, Create in me a clean heart, O God. He's focused on himself. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, even though I deserve it. And take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit. And here's where the next part is important. Then, after I've dealt with me and my problems, then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. to you. Did you hear that? Create in me a clean heart. Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you There's no way you can teach a transgressor the right way, and there's no way to be used in a sinner coming to God until you have a gospel cleansed heart. And until you understand God's truth as the standard for right judgment, Jesus is not saying we should avoid helping a brother. He's saying get your own act together first. Then you'll be humble and able to help. Paul says in Galatians 6:1, in the same spirit, he says, Restore him in love. Restore a brother in love and meekness and fear, considering yourself, lest you also be tempted. That's the attitude we need. You must judge, not by your own opinions, formed by your own preferences and prejudices, but by God's word and in the spirit of God's mercy and love for sinners. So let us close with prayer, brothers and sisters, as we consider what Jesus is teaching us here today. Father, we thank you that you have been so gracious as to forgive us our many judgments, our many criticisms You have been so much more merciful with us than we are with each other. Lord, help us to follow your instruction and your example, to be tender-hearted and kind and forgiving. Help us to maintain discrimination and discernment, having our senses exercised to know the difference between good and evil, not compromising, standing for the truth And when we find those who go astray, may we restore them in love and meekness, knowing that we too could be in the same situation. Lord, we pray that our fellowship here in this church might be characterized by truth in love, making right judgments as we hold forth the word of life Oh man,