Please open your Bibles to the book of Deuteronomy, where we will read chapter nineteen, verses fifteen through nineteen. Deuteronomy 19, verses 15 through 19. A single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime or for any wrong in connection with any offense that he has committed. Only on the evidence of two witnesses or of three witnesses shall a charge be established. If a malicious witness arises to accuse a person of wrongdoing, Then both parties to the dispute shall appear before the Lord, before the priests and the judges who are in office in those days. The judges shall inquire diligently, and if the witness is false Excuse me. If and if the witness is a false witness and has accused his brother falsely, then you shall do to him as he had meant to do to his brother. So you shall purge the evil from your midst. The word of the Lord. Thank you to God. And the reading from Matthew chapter 18, which contains the text. Matthew 18, 15 through 35. If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, just between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. And if he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the assembly, church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. Truly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done by them, for them, by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am I among them. Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will my brothers sin against me and I forgive him As many as seven times, Jesus said to him, I do not say to you, seven times, but seventy times seven. Therefore, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one of them was brought up to him who owed him 10,000 talents. And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold with his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything. And out of pity for him the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. And seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, Pay what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down and fleed with him. Have patience with me, and I will pay you. He refused and went out and put him in prison until he should pay the debt. When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place. Then his master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. And should you not have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you? And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from the heart. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. And now we pray, O Lord, that as your word has been inspired by your Spirit, you will give your spirit to your people, listening intently. And may we hear what you have to tell us as you inspired it to be so. And may we apply it spiritually to our own lives and situations. May we learn and may we apply to live. In Jesus' name. Amen. The text is another one of these famous Bible passages. And so it's verse 20 of Matthew 18. particularly. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them. People like to quote that. We'll get into the details of that a bit more. But by way of introduction, and I don't want to spoil anyone's wedding memories, please, that's not my purpose. But in the 1960s, so you might be a little older, but In the 1960s, there was a group, a folk group called Peter, Paul, and Mary. And Noel Paul Stukey, the Paul of the Trio. He wrote and sang a lovely wedding song called The Wedding Song. And here are some of the lyrics. He is now to be among you at the calling of your hearts. Rest assured, this troubadour is acting on his part. The union of your spirits here has caused him to remain. For whenever two or more of you are gathered in his name, there is love, there is love. A man shall leave his mother, and a woman leave her home, and they shall travel on to where the two shall be as one. As it was in the beginning, is now until the end. Woman draws her life from man and gives it back again, and there is love, there is love. Well then what's the reason for becoming man and wife? It's love that brings you here or love that brings you life. And if loving is the answer, then who's the giving for? Do you believe in something that you've never seen before? Oh, there's love. There is love. Oh, the marriage of your spirits here has caused him to remain. For whenever two or more of you are gathered in his name, there is love. There is love. That's nice. And I don't want to spoil your wedding memories if that was sung at your wedding. It's a lovely song. But In the context of Matthew chapter 18, there is judgment. There is judgment. Because the context, we just read it, is if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. That's to keep it out of the public eye, to settle accounts. in the smallest possible circle. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. Now where does that come from? The two or three witnesses. Jesus knowing the whole scripture completely having actually written it himself in a in a sense. It's quoting from Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy nineteen, fifteen through nineteen, where there the law is given and it says a single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime or for any wrong in connection with any offence that he has committed. Only on the evidence of two witnesses or three witnesses shall a charge be established. If a malicious witness arises to accuse a person of wrongdoing, then both parties of the dispute shall appear before the Lord, before the priests, and before the judges who are in office in those days The judges shall inquire diligently, and if the witness is a false witness and has accused his brother falsely, then you shall do to him as he had meant to do to his brother. So shall you purge the evil from your midst So that's the context of this two or three gathered in his name thing. And then it goes on in Matthew, if he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a gentile and a tax collector. That's a outsider, right? Truly, verse 18, truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you, if two or three of you agree about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them. Christ is promising in this whole thing to be especially present when two or three witnesses come before the elders of the church To hear a case where a brother or sister has first tried to point out a sin in the behavior of another person, which has caused an offense Which cannot be overlooked as a minor offense. And the offending person has refused to repent, you see. And has been brought before the assembly with a charge against that person, the assembly, the ecclesia, that's the same word as church. They've been brought before the assembly of the elders, the church of the elders, the assembly. The person has brought two or three witnesses along concerning the lack of repentance. of the person who has been charged. And here, in this context, Christ promises to ratify the decision And the censure of the elders when two or three witnesses' testimony is in full agreement with each other, and the unrepentant guilt of the offender has been established. He will then ratify that decision. It's fully established, you see, and he has said, I will ratify it. This is the late stage of church discipline, the rare stage of church discipline I would guess that 95% or more, hopefully a lot more, of the cases that happen in life In church life are resolved without ever getting to this stage that's being described here. How can you resolve whatever is an offense by somebody else? Or perceived offense, or slight, or some other thing. How can you resolve it so that it's 95 or more percent of the time never comes to this late stage? How can you do that? Well I don't often quote him, but Charles Stanley gives some really good advice here. So, how can we overlook an offense? Proverbs nineteen, verse eleven, teaches, a person's wisdom yields patience. It is to one's own glory to overlook an offense. To overlook an offense is to take no action of wrongs done against oneself Just let it go, as it says in the frozen movie. Just refuse to retaliate or seek revenge To let a front go. In a word, just forgive. And you can see that in the first half of this verse in Proverbs. 19. Good sense makes one slow to anger. That's self-control. Someone has offended me. I think they have anyway. And I'm just gonna Let it go. I'm not going to harbor it. I'm not going to store it up and make a list in my mind. I'm just going to let it go. A paraphrase says, sensible people control their temper. So being patient is being slow to anger, and self-control in this sense is a very good virtue to possess It's one of the virtues you find in Galatians chapter 5, 22 through 23, where the list of the fruits of the Spirit is given, right? It's patience, long suffering, being able to let it go Your responses are to be reasonable and measured. You should increasingly grow on your ability to grow to control yourself when angry and overlook offenses whenever possible. Problem is in what we do with anger. James chapter 1, verse 19 and 20 says, everyone should be quick to listen. Slow to speak, and slow to become angry. Because, he says, human anger does not produce the righteousness that God desires Offenses do come. And there are times when anger is called for, but anger should not be your primary or first response in a given situation. Your goal should be to control your expression of anger and whenever possible just overlook it. Third, the Bible calls us not to be easily angered, because God Himself is slow to anger Nahum chapter 1, verse 3. And we should too be those with a slow fuse. This is a product of wisdom and love. Another famous passage quoted at weddings is 1 Corinthians 13, 5. It says, Love is not easily angered. It keeps no record of wrongs. And so to aid us in developing this type of self-control, we can also carefully choose our friends. You've got to choose your friends sometimes. Decide who you're going to associate with. And Proverbs 22 says, do not make friends with a hot-tempered person. Do not easily or do not associate with one who is easily angered. Choose your friends. Because those who are easily angered show a lack of self-control. Fourthly, the scriptures tell us that God read to overlook an offense. In other words, overlooking a wrong done to oneself is a sign of maturity and grace. Forgiving others is worthy of respect. It is a triumph for us to forgive and to take no notice of injuries and offenses. Jesus taught, if your brother or sister sins against you, rebuke them, and if they repent, forgive them. Even if they sin against you seven times in a day and seven times come back and say, I repent, you must forgive them. Of course, God has forgiven our sins for Christ's sake. For us to forgive others for Christ's sake is a glory. A glory. Other Proverbs also express the same theme. Proverbs 17:9 says, Whoever would foster love covers an offense. Proverbs 10 verse 12 says, love covers over all wrongs. We also see this virtue lived out in the story of David. When he refused to retaliate against King Saul, even though King Saul was trying to kill him in 1 Samuel 24. A person's wisdom yields patience. It's to one's glory to overlook an offense Proverbs 19:11, as we said before, stating this verse conversely provides another paraphrase. A person's folly yields impatience. It is to one's shame. To refuse to forgive. So forgiveness is graceful, revenge is disgraceful Overlooking an offense does not negate justice. It doesn't mean you turn a blind eye to sin or pretend that evil doesn't exist. It means you're willing to forgive, especially when the offense is directed toward you. It means you refuse to hold grudges Because, folks, there are many trifling things that could bother you. But by the grace of God, you let them slide. There are other things, not so trifling, things that could harm you, but by the grace of God you determine to forgive. And finally, there are situations that require a quick and decisive response, but by the grace of God, you are slow to anger and even try to stop the wrongdoing. How is this overlooking an offense accomplished? Well, from a human standpoint, purely human standpoint, it's impossible. But God's Spirit is at work in the life of those who are in union by faith with Jesus Christ. Who have learned that He forgave us our sins completely, 100%, even though we sin against Him, not just trifling sins, but great sins, daily, even hourly. And he's the one who taught us to pray, forgive us our debts as we have also forgiven our debtors. So we forgive because we have been forgiven Knowing that all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. In wisdom we know what requires a response. And what does not? In patience, we often turn the other cheek. In love, we choose to overlook insults, slurs, and slights that come our way. But there are situations when the honor of Christ And the good of the offending person and the offended person requires judicial action in order to reclaim the offender or purge them out. as leaven. That's what Matthew eighteen, fifteen through twenty is about. And we have a New Testament epistle example of this actually working out. In 1 Corinthians 5, verses 3 through 13, where some man had committed a terrible sin that was that was infecting the body. It was not something that could be overlooked in love. It was there and it was ugly And so Paul, speaking in verse 3 of 1 Corinthians 5, says this, and going on: For though absent in body he wasn't there, I am present in spirit. And as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. When you are assembled, that's that ecclesia word, that church word again. When you are assembled, he's speaking to the elders in particular. In the name of the Lord Jesus, and my spirit is present with the power of our Lord Jesus, the presence of Jesus, you see. You are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. Let me just interpret that a little bit. He's going to deliver him to Satan who will punish him, harm him. God doesn't want to punish his people, but he will let the devil do it. Deliver him over, and hopefully, this deliverance over to the devil, to be out of the love and care and presence and immediate grace of God will teach the person. to return, repent, and come back, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. The worst that could happen is temporal punishment which would end his life, and yet it might be his spiritual salvation in this case. Then going on in verse 6 of the same passage, 1 Corinthians 5, your boasting is not good. Again I stopped to paraphrase. They were actually probably boasting about the grace of God. Isn't it wonderful that all our sins are forgiven? Let's just boast in it. We had this person in our church who's committing this terrible sin that Jesus forgives everything, doesn't he? Oh, wonderful grace of Jesus. That's a long boast, you see. Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be in new love as you really are unleavened. For Christ our Passover Lamb has been sacrificed Let us therefore celebrate the festival not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. Then he goes on back to the case at hand, verse 9. I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people. Not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world, or the greedy and swindlers are idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world. They're everywhere. But I am now writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother, if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler, not even to eat with such a one. For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? God judges those outside. And this is the last word from the Old Testament, from Deuteronomy, purge the evil person from among you. Purge the evil. He's saying, here's a case that cannot be overlooked. It's gotta be dealt with, and here's how you do it, and that's what's going on here. This is the context. Christ is present and promises in Matthew 18. If two of you agree on earth about anything they ask It will be done for them by my Father in heaven. If two or three of you are gathered in my name, Ecclesia gathered in my name, there am I in your midst. Wow, that is a very, very heavy thing, isn't it? An amazing thing. And so, in the context, again, Peter says, wow, this is really interesting. In verse twenty-one, he came up and said to him, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him? As many as seven times? That was the Old Testament kind of standard for how many times times you should forgive and then after that you clobber them. And Jesus says, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times. So the reverse is also in play. When an offender comes to the offended and asks forgiveness, if the offended person refuses to forgive, what will Christ do to them? What will his judicial action be to them? Not good. And that's why he tells this parable about the kingdom of heaven being compared to a king who wished to settle accounts. And you know what happened? I'm not going to read it again. The king had a servant who owed a lot, and the servant begged for mercy, and the king forgave his huge debt. And then that servant went out and had somebody who owed him a little tiny bit, and he said, Pay me. And he wouldn't do it. And you know the rest of the story, don't you? You read it. The omnipresent Christ will enact a sentence of condemnation, unforgiveness against the one who is willing to not willing to forgive. That's how we ended the story. His master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me, and should you not have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had on you? And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. And then verse thirty five, our final verse So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from the heart. So that's the other side of this story about forgiveness. Now, in nineteen sixties speak, man, that's heavy. And we finally get to just one more bit of passage here that some people have called the prayer of agreement. This is another, I could preach another sermon on this bit, but I'll take it right now. The prayer of agreement. This verse also is used as encouragement that when God that God is with us in tough circumstances, all we need are two or three people in a prayer group agreeing with us about anything and we can get it. It's been called the prayer of agreement. Uses kind of a name it, claim it, idea valid when you can anytime you can get two or three people to agree with you And join you in agreeing in that prayer. In fact, in some churches, you don't even have to say the whole verse. You just say, you know, when two or three are gathered. And everybody knows that means, oh yeah, we can get this. Interestingly, though, this passage doesn't deal with random groups praying together at all. What it really deals with, as we've already said, is the building up of a testimony in the context of church discipline. Again, in the Jewish context, a proper, reliable testimony was critical. This verse was an encouragement to church leaders during tough times of confrontation and church discipline Very little of which is practiced today. And they were saying, in effect, that God would be present with the witnesses as they endeavored to make matters correct and restore a fallen brother or sister. So, friends, the prayer of agreement, if two or three agree on anything, that thing, if you're not in the middle of some sort sort of church discipline, then you're probably taking it out of the context Now, I've dealt with the issues of these bits Having said that, brothers and sisters, prayer is always vital to the Christian life Not whether it's just two or three of us, but all of us or individually. Prayer is vital to the Christian life. We should pray. We should ask God for the things we need and want. If they are holy and good and for his purposes, we should pray. We should pray. We should pray. Nothing wrong with encouraging prayer or prayer meetings. That's not my point. Is God still with us when two or three are gathered, as in Noel Paul Stukey's wedding song? Well, of course he is. I'm not trying to undermine that at all. He is present with us. But he's also with us when it's just you alone. Or when you're with a thousand people in a meeting. Hebrews 13, 5 through 6. The writer says, Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, I will never leave you or forsake you. He's with us. I will never leave you or forsake you. Joshua chapter one, verse five. fearful new leader of God's people to go into the land and conquest the land. Verse 5 God says to him, No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you or forsake you. That's what God said to Joshua. Psalm 37, verse 27 and 28. Turn away from evil and do good, so shall you dwell forever. For the Lord loves justice. He will not forsake his saints. They are preserved forever. He will not forsake. He's with us. He's with us. That promise that people take from Matthew 18. It's true, but let's get the context right. 2 Corinthians 4. We are afflicted, Paul says, in every way, but not crushed. Perplexed but not driven to despair. Persecuted, but not forsaken. Struck down, but not destroyed. God is with his people in good times and in bad times So, my friends, it's this by faith, personal trust in who Christ is and what Christ did, that's what faith is. By faith in Christ. You are in union with Christ. And you can claim the promise that He's with you always, never to leave you, never to forsake you, whether you're alone or whether you're with two or three or whether you're with a thousand. He is with you always, and he hears your prayers. Not just because two or three are gathered and claiming it, but because he hears his prayers of his people. This is an indissoluble union, you see, we have. Even the grave Even not defeat this union. And I think this is a very interesting The souls of believers, listen, are at their death made perfect in holiness. And do immediately pass into glory. I'll stop for a second. To be absent from the body, to be present with the Lord. There's never a break. But then this, and their bodies, still being united to Christ, do rest in their graves till the resurrection. That's even better. We're united with Christ in the grave. We're present with the Lord at our death. The union is absolutely indissoluble. So, my dear friends, he was with you at your wedding. And if you had this wedding folk song sung by Paul Newell Noel Paul Stukey at your wedding nuptials, then great Jesus was there just as he really was and is present when he attended the wedding at the feast, the wedding feast in Cana of Galilee. You see, Jesus For those who were his was with you at your conception and birth, at your baptism In moments of tragedy, in moments of sinful and shameful failure, and in moments of joyful obedience He is with you. He is with you always and will be with you at your dying breath and even in the grave. Thanks be to God, who is with you and forever. Lord, we thank you for these precious truths and promises. That you are with your people and you're with the assembly of the elders in the rare situation where they have to do church discipline And you're with the assembly of the elders when they release someone from the sentence of discipline. And they are restored. We thank you that you promise not to leave those who you have saved by your grace through the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ. We thank you that even when we say goodbye to our loved ones and lay them in the bodies in the ground, You're with those bodies as well, waiting for the resurrection at the last day, for the restoration of all things, for new bodies. And you're with them as they are with you present in heaven, too You have promised not to leave your children. We thank you and praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.