Malachi chapter 3, verses 1 through 12. Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. And the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller's soap. He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver. And he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings and righteousness to the Lord. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord as in the days of old and as in former years. Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely. against those who oppress the hired worker in his wages, the widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner, and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. For I, the Lord, do not change. Therefore, you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed. From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. hosts. But you you say, How shall we return? Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. But you say, How have we robbed you? In your tithes and contributions. You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you. Bring the full tithe into the storehouse that there may be food in my house. And thereby put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need. I will rebuke the devourer for you, so that it will not destroy the fruits of your soil, and your vine in the field shall not fail to bear, says the Lord of hosts. Then all nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight, says the Lord of hosts. The word of the Lord. The reading is 1 Timothy 6, 1 through 10. Let all who are under a yoke as slaves regard their own masters as worthy of all honor. so that the name of God and the teaching may not be reviled. Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers. Rather, they must serve all the better, since those who benefit by their good service are believers and beloved. Teach and urge these things. If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords with godliness. He is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and for quarrels about words which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions. And constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and deprived of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain. Now there is great gain in godliness with contentment. For we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world. That if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation. into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith. and pierced themselves with many pangs. This is the word of the Lord. Well this is, I think, the fifth now in a series of famously Abused Bible passages. And today's famously abused Bible passage is quote, Money is the root of all evil. According to Chris Brown of Financial Peace University, this verse is misquoted all the time as saying: money is the root of all evil. And I actually heard this while I was doing rounds as a chaplain at the hospital on Friday. But it's just not true. It is the love of money that gets us in trouble. Our attitude toward money is the problem, not the money itself. Money is morally neutral. Throughout the Bible, both the poor and wealthy are found who are godly. Job, for instance. Very well could have been the wealthiest person in the world during his time. But the Bible is clear that Job was a godly man. And when he lost everything, God later replaced it double. Sometimes those who were materially blessed, like Job, were also blessed by God with the power to carry out his work through great riches. God clearly does not equate money with evil. But this text, verse 10 of our reading. Has been conflated to money as the root of all evil, and often quoted when some politician or some business person has been caught in some monetary crime. The context of verse 2, Paul begins to talk about money, and he finally gets down to it When we get closer to verse 10. In verse 2, Paul is touching on various aspects of the way money affects relationships. He says there, Christian servants, slaves in those days, should not take advantage of Christian masters by slacking off in their work. Expecting an easy ride because my boss is a Christian. He says in verse 2: Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brothers. See, that's the family relationship in Christ. Rather, they must serve all the better, since those who benefit by their good service are believers and beloved. Do better, not worse, because you have a Christian boss. In those days, there were some 60 million slaves in the Roman Empire. Not exactly like chattel slavery in the United States was, but some slaves held privileged positions Other slaves not so much, and they were treated with great abuse. Paul never called for a violent revolution against the institution of slavery. That would have failed miserably. Yet through the gospel, Paul and the Christian Church, in its mission, did effectively destroy the foundations of slavery. racism, greed, class hatred, and made a civilization without slavery possible The church was a place where slavery was destroyed because it was not uncommon for a master and a slave to go to church together. And even on some occasions for the slave to be an elder in the church. And in that case, the master had to obey the spiritual authority of the slave. You see how that undermines the institution. So he says, after he brings that up, be good in your work Don't take advantage of those who are Christian. He then moves on and says, Teach and urge these things. If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords with godliness, He is puffed up with conceit. I think of that fish that blows itself up in order to look really ugly and scary, you know. I don't know the name of it. Maybe it's a blowfish. Maybe that's it. But he is puffed up with conceit and understands nothing. He has an unhealthy craving for controversy and quarrels about words. Some people just love to fight over every word and every little concept and every theological moment that could be fought over. And he says this produces envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions. Of course, we don't want to say that theology doesn't matter. It does. We need to be right about theology. It's important for the foundation for our life, but some people like to nitpick every little thing, and it causes dissension, slander, evil suspicions. And, he says in verse 5, constant friction among people who are depraved in mind and the deprived of the truth. So Paul is teaching here about how to handle those, he's teaching young Timothy, how to handle those who love to wrangle over minutiae while missing the main point of Scripture, which is always the gospel announcement of the reign of God through the life, death, and resurrection, and ascension of Jesus Christ. Having said that, now he adds this one more thing, which leads back to the money question. He says, imagining, they, those people who are depraved of mind, deprived of the truth, imagining that godliness Is a means of gain. So he says a final characteristic of those who misuse God's truth is that their interest in the things of God is not entirely for the glory of God. They are motivated, at least in part, by a desire for wealth and comfort. We heard this last week, but it is true always that very commonly these days, Christianity is presented on the basis of what you will gain by following Jesus That is, personal success with money, or continual happiness with never a tear A stronger family, if you follow Jesus, your family will be fantastic, never a problem, or a more secure life. Somehow you'll have the charm of God's protection over all the things Of your life if you just follow Jesus. Now, these things that people seek after may be true to some degree, but we must never market the gospel as a product. That will fix every life problem. When the gospel is marketed this way, it makes followers of Jesus who aren't comp aren't prepared for life. They're unprepared for the tough times. After all, if the Jesus product isn't working, we'll just try another brand. Also, this sales approach takes the focus off of Jesus Himself and puts the focus on what Jesus will give us. So we don't love him, we just love the things that we might get. Many have their hearts set on blessings, but not on the one who blesses. So, Paul, while not ignoring the blessings of following Jesus Christ, there are many Paul tells Timothy to proclaim the need to follow Jesus because he is God, first of all, and we owe him everything as our creator. What is right before God and what glorifies Him is the more important thing than whatever benefits we might gain. God wants Christians who are more concerned with what glorifies Him than the corollary benefits of following Him. But while he's on the topic, he says this in verse 6 But godliness With contentment is great gain. We're talking about great gain. Godliness with contentment is great gain. Now, Barclay tells us that the word contentment means self-sufficiency, a frame of mind which was completely independent of all outward things. And which carried the secret of happiness within itself. Contentment never comes from the possession of external things. And then he goes on to say, since contentment and godliness with contentment is great gain, he says, For we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world. He is there using scripture from the Old Testament, Job 121, where Job said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Or he's also perhaps referring to Ecclesiastes five fifteen, where the writer says, As he came from his mother's womb he shall go again, naked as he came and shall take nothing for his toil that may carry away in his hand. Paul knew this kind of contentment We heard it last week in Philippians 4. He says, not that I speak in regard to need, for I have learned in whatever state I am to be content. I know how to be abased, and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I have learned both to be full and to be hungry. Both to abound and to suffer need. And he said, I can do all things. I can live through all that through Christ who strengthens me. One commentator on this First Timothy passage says: material possessions in and of themselves do not corrupt us. Paul could abound in material things, as we just heard, and still keep it all in proper perspective. And you can too. But too many of us fail because of our own materialism and our unspiritual lack of contentment. Contentment, my friends, is essential to the Christian life, and yet it is difficult for many reasons. We can only find contentment when our hearts are rooted in eternal things. And contentment is essential because it shows we are living with an eternal perspective, not just for the here and now. Not merely trying to feather an earthly nest and die with the most possible in our bank account. It is hard to be content because our consumer culture feeds our lack of contentment by rewarding us when we are discontent. And with advertising, and you hear it all the time everywhere. Advertising that tries to make us feel discontent. Oh, here's something I don't have. How can I get it? I'm not content anymore. It's hard to be content because we almost always desire far more than we need. Frederick Gates in nineteen hundred six warned billionaire John D. Rockefeller He said, Mr. Rockefeller, your fortune is rolling up, rolling up like an avalanche. You must keep up with it. You must distribute it faster than it grows. And this is a fantastic warning. If you do not, it will crush you and your children and your children's children. And someone at another time asked the same billionaire how much money would be enough. And he famously answered, just a little more. Well, you say I'm not a billionaire, so I'm not worried about an avalanche of money destroying me. Whether you're a billionaire or barely getting by, or somewhere in between, you could still have the problem of discontentment that Paul is addressing here. He says, this is very simple. He says, verse 8: if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content. So he's telling us that godliness really can bring almost unbelievable contentment. But before it can, we must be transformed by the renewing of our mind. Romans 12, 2, to start putting material things in their proper priority next to spiritual things. How much of a place does shopping and buying have in your life? How does material loss affect your happiness How happy do you get from having material things? Years ago, when I was a pastor in another place, I once knew and ministered to a young woman, we'll call her Jane, not her real name. She had a very good job in the corporate world. She was a talented musician, too Highly skilled in her work, but she suffered from discontentment that sometimes bordered on clinical depression. When she would get down, she would go shopping big time. She would buy diamonds and gold jewelry, not the plated stuff, but the solid stuff. And she would buy expensive designer clothes, not the knockoffs Then she would get mad at herself and depressed when the joy of the things wore off and the bills arrived. I was so thankful that I was not married to her. Material things are often abused, you see, by by those who are trying to fill their needs in their lives, a need to be somebody, a need to feel secure and cared for and valuable and accepted, a need to have excitement. And new things in life. When you try to fulfill these needs with material things, the things will fail you every time. You can only really be secure by a deepening spiritual relationship with the God who made you for himself. So we come to verse nine. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation Into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunged people into ruin and destruction. Those are ominous words. The desire for riches is far more dangerous than the riches themselves. And it's only the poor, it's not only the poor who desire to be rich It's the rich who also want more riches, as we heard from John Rockefeller. In the Bible, by the way, poor does not mean godly and rich ungodly. You've already said that, but I want to underline it Nor is it true the other way around. There are many remarkably godly men in the Bible who were almost unbelievably rich. We've already mentioned Job, but also Abraham, David, and Solomon. But the difference is this. Listen to this. The godly rich have hearts like the psalmist in Psalm 62, verse 10. Where he says, if riches increase, listen, if riches increase, if your stock portfolio goes up, if your house value appreciates, Do not set your heart on them, says the psalmist in Psalm 62, verse 10. And that brings us finally to the text, which has been abused For the love of money, he says, is the root of all kinds of evil. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. The love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. The love of money can motivate Any evil that you can think of on this earth, there is no sin that cannot be committed for the sake of money Murder for money. Theft, obviously. Envy, yes. Hatred, yes. Sexual sin. The pornography industry is a $3 billion revenue industry that creates about $13 billion costs due to the destruction it brings. according to statistics that I found. And so Paul says, people who do this have pierced them through selves through with many sorrows. The word draws an amazing picture of someone stabbing himself over and over. With these sorrows because of this love of money. This is the fate of those who live in the love of money. They are never satisfied and they harm themselves. We sometimes want the opportunity to find out if riches will satisfy us. I'd sure like to try it, you know But we can take the testimony of the saints that the love of money, the seeking after money can never satisfy. We should trust the word of God and the testimony of the saints. Of many in the Bible. Someone has wisely observed that a moving trailer never follows a hearse. Every possession one might hope to take with them to the world beyond has to be left behind. Now, having said that, yesterday I heard a joke Matt Kay told at our men's breakfast, where a man who had considerable money told his wife that if he died He wanted all his money put in his coffin with him and buried. And so at the funeral she wrote a check and put it in the coffin Someone else has said that gold is the precious commodity of earth, but in heaven God paves the streets with it. Not so precious to him, is it? So I want to quote now from a theologian named Jacques Elul, French Reform theologian. You see this in your outline. Joaquill says that the only way to defeat the godlike power that money seeks to impose on our lives is to give it away. Which he calls profaning it. To profane money, like all other powers, is to take away its sacred character. This destroys its power over us. And he says, giving to God is the act of profanation par excellence. Every time I give, I declare that money does not control me. Perpetual generosity is perpetual deification of money Give it away so that it does not destroy you. So I end with this list of things. Give because there are needs There are needs, and we are to be generous in meeting needs. Give because it is a way to advance the gospel. The church, the work of the gospel, missions. Outreach requires money. Give because God commands it. Do not rob God, as we heard from the Old Testament reading, Malachi 3. That he accused the nation of robbing him by not tithing. Give because you have received, and you, my friends, in Christ, have received more than you can ever repay. Give joyfully. God loves what? A cheerful giver. Not a begrudging giver. Oh, I hate to give this away. What will I do without it? No, a cheerful giver. Who open-handedly gives to God out of love for God, gives systematically. 1 Corinthians 16. Says, on the first day of the week, each of you is to put something aside and store it up as he may prosper, so that there will be no collecting when I come. We do collect Paul didn't come every week, you see. But give humbly, give in secret Matthew 6, 2, Jesus says, Thus when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogue and in the streets, they that they may be praised by others He says, Truly I say to you, they have received their reward, just the praise that you give, and your heavenly Father will reward you in heaven And Mark chapter 10, verses 28 through 31, listen to this. This is something to think about for a moment. Peter began to say to him, See, we disciples have left everything and followed you. And Jesus answered, Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house Or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands. That's income producing. For my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold, and you think, oh yes, in heaven, I'll get the hundredfold. No, not in this passage. A hundredfold now. In this time, how did they receive all those things back a hundredfold? I believe it was because they received the family of the church. And then he says, with persecutions. So you can see that it's this time. With persecutions. And then he says, in the age to come, eternal. Eternal life. Not because we earn our salvation by giving. Never. Never. Never. But because we are saved, we give, and we will have eternal life Money, my friends, is not the root of all evil. Having money is a good gift of God. So, work hard. Work hard. Do your best. And if you're in debt because of that consumer mentality, that contentment that drives to borrow, borrow, borrow, get out of debt. And save, plan carefully for the necessities of life. Save and give. Luke 6, 38. Jesus says, give and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over. That's making sure the whole thing's full. And then running over will be put back into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you, said Jesus. In Proverbs 11, verses 24 and 25, it says, one gives freely yet grows all the richer. Another withholds what he should give and only suffers want. Whoever brings blessing will be enriched, and the one who waters will himself be watered. And the Apostle Paul says in 2 Corinthians 9, whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly And whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times you may abound in every good work. That's the testimony of Scripture of Jesus. Of the Proverbs, of the Apostle. And I was speaking with one of our church members yesterday who said, Yes, amen. You can't outgive God. He keeps increasing what you have as you give. We do not give to seek more. We give out of obedience and out of love, out of grace. And God promises that He'll meet all our needs. Loving money is evil. It destroys relationships. That's a testimony of Scripture. It prevents and destroys contentment. Remember, all the money that you have or ever may have really belongs to God. So please, my friends, invest in what is eternal, not in the depreciating commodities of this world And know well that the goal of your life, the goal of your life is to advance the kingdom of God. And so Paul says a little bit later on in this very same epistle: as for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty. nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God who richly provides us with everything to enjoy. They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share, thus storing up treasure for themselves as a good foundation for the future. so that they may take hold of that which is truly life. One of our hymns, not the one we're going to sing next, but one of our hymns Take my life and let it be, has a phrase in it. Take my silver and my gold. Not a mite would I withhold. The love of money is the root of all evil. Money is a good gift of God. Let us give to what God has promised us. Lord, we thank you for this passage of Scripture which teaches about one of the most practical things in all the earth, money. We thank you that you have blessed us here in North America with great riches. We pray that you will help us to be good stewards and content and faithful in In our riches. In Jesus' name, Amen