Please open your Bibles to the book of Genesis, where we will start on Genesis 1 and read verses 26 through 31. And then move to chapter two, verses sixteen to nineteen. Genesis one twenty-six thirty-one and two sixteen to nineteen. Then God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea And over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit. You shall have them for food, and to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food. And it was so. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning, the sixth day. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat. For in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die Then the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper fit for him Now out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens and brought them to man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called, every living creature that was in it that was its name The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. There was a typo in the reading of the Old Testament. It was supposed to be chapter 3 of Genesis. Beginning at verse 17. So that's important. I want you to listen to. We read the part about God creating Adam and Eve, and it was very good, right? And then They fell. They turned away from God and fell into sin. And so we get to chapter 3, verse 17. And it says here, and to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life, and thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you. And you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return We will now read Romans 8, 18 through 23. Romans 8, 18 through 23. We just read about the God creating mankind good and all the creation very good and everything. And then sin. And uh we read about how work became hard. And we're going to read about that in another way here in Romans 8, 18 through 23. The Apostle Paul writes For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility. not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption, and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. Of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the creation, grown inwardly As we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we pray that you will illumine your word as though we'll study it now in Isaiah 57. help us to understand it historically and in keeping with the original meaning and also in keeping with what you have for us to apply it today to our lives and our situations. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. So today we're taking a break from our series in 1 Samuel. We'll return to that shortly, I think. But uh this is going to be yet another installment of that series that I did and Ben uh joined me in doing, which is uh Famously misused Bible passages or Bible verses. Famously misused Bible verses And this one that we're going to focus upon today is from Isaiah 57. So you want to turn to Isaiah 57 and follow along. Isaiah 57 And verse twenty one says verse twenty and twenty one says The wicked are like the troubled sea, which cannot rest. Its waters cast up mire and dirt. And then in verse 21, there is no peace. says my God for the wicked. Now, in her blog about English phrases Barbara Walroff interacts with someone named Susan of Michigan who writes, Is it no rest for the weary? Or no rest for the wicked. I learned it one way, but keep hearing it said the other. I haven't corrected anyone, but it does grate on my ears. Also, do you know the origin of the saying? And then Barbara writes, Dear Susan, actually the original phrase is no peace for the wicked. And it comes from the Bible. It appears twice in the book of Isaiah. This is what the Lord says. If only you had paid attention to my commands. Your peace would have been like a river, your righteousness like the waves of the sea. There is no peace, says the Lord, for the wicked. And the wicked are like the tossing sea which cannot rest, whose waves cast up mire and mud. There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked. And someone else named Randy says it means, this phrase means one's heavy workload or lack of tranquility is due to one's own choices or Insightfully, he writes, or one's sinful life. Maybe you've heard this phrase before around various places. When friends are having to work more than they want to, they may comment, well, and say, you know, you know, there's no rest for the weary. No rest for the weary. Is that the correct citation? It's no rest for the wicked, according to Isaiah 48 and 57. Why, then, do the wicked have no rest as we explore this idea? Why do they have no rest Well, first, if we look at Isaiah 57, we will see that one of the reasons the wicked have no rest, no peace, is that they are slaves. Slaves. Slaves do not get a day off, do they? You remember the Israelites in Egypt. Make more bricks, make more bricks Never stop. You have to keep producing more and more. They were trying a population control scheme there. Didn't work. But uh they are slaves. Slaves don't have a day off. Israel's former 400-year slavery was always part of their identity, their name national identity. They remembered that specifically every year at the Feast of Passover, where they remembered that they were slaves and they eat a bitter herb in that Passover meal to remind them of the bitterness. of having to work all the time, never having the Sabbath off. And they also remember it in their feast of booths, where they go out and camp in the backyard and remember how it was to live in the wilderness. and live in little booths or tents all the time and travel and move from place to place. They remember that they had been slaves and that God redeemed them from that and set them free and gave them the Sabbath to remind them of his goodness. They are not free, though. People are not free. Many people tout their great freedom today. Freedom is all the rage. Free, free, free, free, free. Freedom from oppressive morals. Freedom to choose to end the life of your unborn child. Freedom to cast off your gender. And what we end up with is people who are more enslaved than ever before. Let me give you an illustration. My dog Samson, my golden retriever, is more free when he obeys me and stays where he should than if he were running free all around the neighborhood. A couple of years ago, Samson was over at my mom's in her backyard, and there's a nice fence there. But somehow the gate wasn't completely shut, and after a while, Samson took off. He went through the gate and took off. And some nice passing motorist saw him out in the street looking like he didn't know what to do And this nice lady took him into her car, and because she didn't know where he belonged, she took him to the animal hospital And uh after a while the animal hospital called me because he had a tag on and they said, Your dog is here, and I said, My dog is where? Your dog is here at St. Mary's Veterinary Hospital. I said, oh my goodness. So I went down and I got into the lobby. And I started speaking to the lady at the desk and Samson was in the room behind a door and he heard my voice and he started going nuts. And when he saw me again, he was so happy. To get in the car and be on the leash. You see, freedom. Freedom isn't always freedom. Sometimes it's slavery And it kills you. And so we know that we need God's laws, we need God's moral, we need principles to live to govern us and guide us because the freedom that the world talks about all the time and how wonderful it is is really another form of slavery People are modern slaves these days. They're slaves to habits that must be satiated. Experiences that must be experienced. Achievements that must be achieved, possessions that must be possessed. The wicked have no peace because they are slaves. And then the second reason the wicked have no rest is because they are their gods, are their dependents. Their gods are their dependents, and they must be served. 24-7. You keep serving your God all the time. Their gods are always hungry. Isaiah 57 describes the situation as it was. He says in verse 3 to those who were in this condition, but you draw near. A summons approach the bench, he says. You sons of sorceresses, you offspring of the adulterer and the loose woman. Whom are you mocking? Against whom do you open your mouth wide and stick out your tongue? Are you not the children of transgression, the offspring of deceit? This is very similar to Paul's description in Ephesians 1 that says, by nature we were the children of wrath. Then he describes that slavery. You who burn, verse five, you who burn with lust among the oaks. These people couldn't even go by an oak grove. And see the green, this is live oaks, like we down in the south, you know. They couldn't even go into an oak grove and see the oaks without getting all riled up, burning with lust. Because there were pagan rituals that were conducted under evergreen live oak trees. These people were drawn to these things that they did in these places. And then he says in the rest part of verse 5, who slaughter your children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks. Their gods are hungry. They want to destroy children. Who slaughter your children in the valleys under the clefts of the rock? What that's about. Well, one of the Canaanite gods, uh, the Israelites had come to sadly worship was named Molech. And Molech received children as sacrifices. Molech was not worshipped by any Dead sacrifice, but by living sacrifice of living children. Molech was worshipped by heating this metal statue of Molech. Till it was red hot, and then placing an infant onto the outstretched arms of the statue, while beating drums drowned out the screams of the child until it burned to death. Molech was one of the lovers, this thing described here, of God's people who forsook the Lord, and in their spiritual adultery, Molech demanded their children, their babies. And he says in verse 6, to them you have poured out a drink offering and brought a grain offering Drink offerings and grain offerings were part of the peace offerings that Israelites were to bring toward to God, to Yahweh, to worship him, and yet these people were using those ordained sacrifices to worship. these false gods, these Canaanite deities. And then he says at the end of verse 6, shall I relent for these things? And then he gets into a more detailed description of the treachery of God's people. And their metaphor here of adultery against the marriage covenant that God had made with them by covenant. Here he describes it in verse 7. On the high and lofty mountain you have set your bed. There you went up to offer sacrifice. Behind the door and the doorpost you set up your memorial for deserting me. Just think about that. God's people were to write God's word on the doorposts and frames of their house, and now they're using that idea to write the name of the false gods of Canaanites. You have uncovered your bed, verse 8. You have gone up to it, you have made it wide, and you have made a covenant for yourself with them. You have loved their bed. You have looked on nakedness. You have journeyed to the king, Molech. By the way, in Hebrew it's Melech, and in Canaanite it's Molech, and so they just transpose those and call him the king. You have journeyed to the king with oil and multiplied your perfumes and sent your envoys far off, sent down even to shale. You did not get weary with the length of your way, but you did not say it is hopeless. You found new life for your strength so that you were not faint. And then God examines his people here. He says, Whom did you dread, verse 11? Whom did you dread and fear so that you lied and did not remember? me, did not lay it to heart. Have I not held my peace even for a long time? And do you fear me? I will declare your righteousness, not really righteousness. Righteousness, and your deeds, but they will not profit you. And then he says in verse 13, When you cry out, When you're in trouble, when you need some help, when you cry out, let your collection of idols deliver you. The wind will carry them all off. A breath will take them away. What we see here Is that the false gods that Israel had come to worship were not saviors, were not deliverers. They are always hungry. They must be maintained. The devil is a slave master. Then he gives a contrast here, a hopeful contrast, and he says, But he who takes refuge in me shall possess. The land. Wasn't that the original promise? This is the land that I'm giving you, the land of milk and honey, a land of promise He who takes refuge in me shall possess the land and shall inherit my holy mountain. So we see these beautiful things. God's people had come to worship these gods who were always dependent, who always had to be served, who were always hungry, and for that reason they had no rest. No peace. No peace. But God does promise peace, even here in this passage where He's where he's decrying their their failure, their adultery, their turning away from him, because he talks about what he's going to do when he brings And verses fifteen and following. Listen. Thus says the one who is high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity, not some dumb Idol, whose name is holy, I dwell in the high and holy place, and also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit. To revive the spirit of the lowly, and to revive the heart of the contrite. I will not contend forever, nor will I always be angry, for the spirit would grow faint before me, and the breath of life that I made. Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain, I was angry. I struck him. I hid my face and was angry. But he went on backsliding in the way of his heart. I have seen his ways. Here's the gospel. But I will heal him. I will lead him. I will restore and comfort him and his mourners. creating the fruit of the lips. Peace, peace to the far off and to the near. Where'd you hear that before Ephesians chapter 2, where Paul says, he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near. And he goes on to say, and I will heal him. But here we get to the verse that we're talking about today. But the wicked are like the tossing sea. The wicked like what? The wicked who don't know God, the wicked who worship idols, the wicked who turn away and are slaves. The wicked are like the tossing sea, for it cannot be quiet. Its waters toss up mire and dirt. There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked. The wicked have no peace There's a third reason why the wicked have no peace, no rest, no rest for the wicked, and that is that they have no Sabbath. Now you you've looked with me at rum at uh Isaiah fifty seven, you say I don't see anything about Sabbath in Isaiah fifty-seven, Pastor Ed. No, you don't. You do see it in chapter 56. And you do see it again in chapter 58. And let me read to you verses 13 through 14 of chapter 58. so that you see that this is very much in God's mind when he says these things. He says in verse 13 through 14 of Isaiah 58. If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath and from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight And the holy day of the Lord honorable, if you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly. Then you shall take delight in the Lord, and I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. You see, God does care about giving his people a day off, a day of rest, a day of peace. There is rest for the weary and for the wicked. who turn to Christ, who receive God's Sabbath. But for the urban workforce of the Soviet Union September 29, 1929 was a Sunday like any other, a day of rest after six days of labor. Sunday was the prize at the finish line. A day's holiday where people might see family, attend church, clean their homes. But in the eyes of the Soviet government led by Joseph Stalin, Sundays represented a genuine threat to the whirr and hum of industrial progress One day in seven, after all, the machines sat silent, productivity slumped to zero, and the people retreated to comforts and thoughts contrary to the revolutionary ideal, comforts like family life or religious practice. So on the following Sunday, no such collective pause for breath took place. 80% of the workforce were told to go to work and 20% to stay home. The ordinary seven-day week was replaced by this Nepravyaka meaning continuous work week. It was five days long with days of rest staggered across the week. Now the machines never needed to be idol. They failed. It failed. It failed on virtually every count. Adjustments were made in 1931. The cycle was extended to last six days. After 11 years of trial and error, the project was axed June 1940. Why? Because it did not work. Why not? Well, various Social and economic answers may be given, but the Bible tells us that one day of rest in seven is woven into the very fabric of creation. And is essential for human flourishing The French had tried something like this earlier with their French Revolutionary calendar. It was a calendar created and implemented during the French Revolution and used by the French government for about twelve years. These things last about From late 1793 to 1805. The revolutionary system was designed in part to remove all religious and loyalist influences from the calendar. The calendar was made up of ten days, weeks, the tenth day being a day of rest. More recently, Time Magazine twenty sixteen reports about North Korea. That they were grappling with an intensification of global sanctions over its nuclear weapons program, and North Korea ordered its working population to toil nonstop for 70 days. How would you like that for a week? 70 days in a bid to boost production and demonstrate loyalty. Loyalty, loyalty to the God of government here. Citizens of the authoritarian nation, however, can buy vacation days from the government during the 10-week period. If you pay three Chinese Yuan or half a US dollar, you can officially take one day off Well that doesn't sound like much. It represents twice what the average North Korean earns in a month. Wow. Why are the wicked like the troubled sea without rest or peace? They are slaves to evil masters, evil habits, evil cravings. They are the loyal followers of gods who are their dependents, who must be served. 24-7. Their gods are always hungry, never says. And they have no Sabbath. Their slave masters and dependent gods never give them a day off. God gave man work to do in the Garden of Eden before the fall. God gave man work to do. Work is not part of the curse, believe it or not. It was a blessed work, an opportunity to be creative and to conserve the beautiful creation This work that God gave to Adam was not was delightful, not drudgery. It was wonderful. He thrived on doing his work. But the fall into sin describes in verse 19 of chapter 3 of Genesis, by the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken For you are dust, and to dust you shall return. After the fall, work became hard and drudgery Essentially, those who remain under this curse are living against the grain of the way God created us. All of us need Sabbath rest. But the wicked, as our verse says, are like the tossing sea. It cannot be quiet. Its waters toss up mire and dirt. There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked One commentator said, their minds are restless, being perpetually hurried and tormented with their own lusts and passions, and with the horror of their guilt. and the dreaded divine vengeance due unto them, and ready to come upon them. Well, we don't misuse this phrase, do we? But let me ask you this, are you enjoying God's day off? The day of worshiping Him, the triune Savior, of resting in the finished work of Christ who delivers us from all of our damnation that we have earned. Resting from ordinary labor while trusting Him to meet our daily needs. Give us this day our daily bread, as we say. And I close with this wonderful passage from our Lord Jesus in Matthew 11, verses 28 through 21. thirty, where Jesus says, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you Rest. Take my yoke. Don't throw off all restraint. Don't do your own thing. He says, No. Take my yoke. That's work. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. Here it is again. And you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke, he says, is easy. And my burden is light Amen. Lord, we thank you that delivered by Christ, who died for us, who rose for us Justified by faith in him, we are set free from the weariness, the tossing, the turning of the wicked. We thank you for the Sabbath rest that you give us. Help us to honor that Sabbath rest and thank you and use the days that you give us, all the days of our life. Help us not to live against the grain that you created the world so that there would be one day in seven. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen