Please turn with me in our Bibles to Exodus twenty. We'll read verses eighteen through twenty-one. Exodus twenty. Eighteen through twenty-one. Now when all the people saw the thunder and the flashes of lightning and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking, the people were afraid and trembled. And they stood far off and said to Moses, You speak to us, and we will listen. But do not let God speak to us, lest we die. Moses said to the people, Do not fear, for God has come to test you, that the fear of Him may be before you, that you may not sin. The people stood far off while Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was. The word of the Lord. And then to the reading of Hebrews twelve, eighteen through twenty-nine Hebrews 12, 18. For you have not come to what may be touched. A blazing fire, and darkness, and gloom, and a tempest, and the sound of a trumpet, and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them For they could not endure the order that was given, if even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned. Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I tremble with fear. But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. and to innumerable angels in festal gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who were enrolled in heaven And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant And to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel, see that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven. At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens. This phrase, yet once more, indicates the removal of things that are shaken, that is, the things that have been made, in order that the things that cannot be shaken may remain. Therefore, let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe. For our God is a consuming fire. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, illumine by your word and Holy Spirit what has been read in our hearing and what is to be preached. That these words may go down deep, that the sword of the Spirit may expose False ideas and false practices, and lead us to salvation, which is in Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Well, we have been studying and preaching through the Ten Commandments as part of the larger Exodus series. We began the Ten Commandments in early August of last year and have had some breaks to focus on other things such as Advent. But I want to go back to before the Ten Commandments. There was a sermon before And I want you to remember with me the scene just before the Ten Commandments were given. And that is recorded in Exodus 19. I'm going to read part of that. This is the scene before the giving of the Ten Commandments, and what we heard read just a minute ago was the scene after the Ten Commandments were given. Here's the before. And the Lord said to Moses, this is verse 9 of chapter 19, the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I am coming to you in a thick cloud. Remember that, thick cloud. That the people may hear when I speak to you and may also believe you forever. When Moses told the words of the people to the Lord, the Lord said to Moses, Go to the people and consecrate them today and tomorrow. Paul says two days consecration, two days preparation To be seen before God. And let them wash their garments and be ready for the third day. For on the third day the Lord will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people. And you shall set limits for the people all around, saying, take care not to go up to the mountain or touch the edge of it. Whoever touches the mountain shall be put to death. That's an awesome thing. Don't go near, don't touch, no curiosity seekers. And verse 13: no hand shall touch him, but he shall be stoned or shot. That is the person who touches the mountain. When the trumpet sounds a long blast, they shall come up to the mountain. So Moses went down from the mountain to the people and consecrated the people, and they washed their garments. And he said to the people, Be ready for the third day, do not go near a woman. And then verse sixteen, on the morning of the third day There were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain and a very loud trumpet blast, so that all the people in the camp trembled. Then Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they took their stand at the foot of the mountain. Now Mount Sinai was wrapped in smoke. You have to envision this. Because the Lord had descended on it in fire, the smoke went up like a smoke of a kiln, and the whole mountain trembled greatly, and the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder Moses spoke and God answered him in thunder. So you have to remember these descriptions of this scene. And then in verse 21, the Lord said to Moses, Go down and warn the people lest they break through to the Lord and look, and many of them perish. So again, double, triple warning, warning, warning. Don't come near. No curiosity seekers. This is dangerous And it was after Mo then after is in verse twenty-four, after uh Moses goes up, the Lord sends him back down and says, Go down and come up, bringing Aaron with you, but do not let the priests and the people break through. So Moses went down to the people and told them again. So there's warning after warning after warning. And then Finally, the law was given. That's the Ten Commandments that we've been studying. These awesome Ten Commandments. That lead us, if we look at them deeply and spiritually, and not on a surface way, but if we look at them as they were meant to be taken, they convict us of sin, they show us upshort. We find ourselves condemned under this law. And then here's the scene now after the second point. Imagine yourself as an Israelite standing there after the law has been given. And this is recorded in verse chapter 20, verses 18 through 21, which was read. But I'll read it again. Now when all the people saw the thunder and the flashes of lightning and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking, the people were afraid and trembled, and they stood far off. Not so close here now. Far off. They backed up and said to Moses, You speak to us and we will listen. But do not let God speak to us lest we die. No more curiosity, no more, let's go see this thing, let's go hear God. No, they're afraid. And they back up and say, Moses Please, you be the mediator. We don't want to come near this dangerous situation. Verse 20. Moses said to the people, Do not fear, for God has come to test you, that the fear of him may be before you, that you may not sin. Verse 21. The people stood far off While Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was. So there's the before scene. And there's all this worry about them coming near and touching. But after the law has been given, after they've seen this awesome display, they're afraid. They don't want to come near They back up. No need to warn them to stay away. No more curiosity. They've lost all confidence, you see, because they've listened to God. And they don't want to hear from God anymore. They're afraid they'll die. Philip Graham Riken says about this. So for the first time now, the people heard the Ten Commandments even before they learned them all by heart. The Israelites knew that God was giving them one righteous standard for all of life. He wanted them to obey all of them, all the time, and this terrified them. But then we go back to chapter 198. They had promised back in 1908 When this law was about to be given, they had promised, we'll do whatever God wants. Whatever he says, we will do it. But they soon found out what was included in that. And now they are panicked. They were frightened because of the total demand of God's law. I pause to ask you, would you be frightened if you were one of those Israelites standing there and heard these ten words? Would you be frightened? Or do you think that because you consider yourself a nice person, a good citizen, a decent sort of person, that you would just stand there calmly and say, whatever, sure, whatever. In John Bunyan's famous book, Pilgrim's Progress, he tells of Christians' journey. From the city of destruction to the celestial city. And not long after Christian began his pilgrimage he met a man who informed him that there was a faster way to get to the celestial city and get rid of the burden that was on his back. You remember he had this great big ugly burden, kind of a big old backpack of rocks or something. on his back. And all Christian needed to do, according to this gentleman, was go to go to A gentleman named Legality, who lived in the village of morality. And so this would help him get rid of his burden and be a shortcut Well, Christian went ahead to Mr. Legality and asked the way to morality, and the man answered by pointing to a high mountain. Pilgrim's progress. And then the man said, by that hill you must go. Hill. It's a high mountain, but he says, by that hill you must go. Well, Christian followed the man's directions. Then I'm going to read directly from Pilgrim's Progress. He turned out of his way to go to Mr. Legality's house for help. But behold, when he got now hard by the hill, it seemed so high, and also that the side of it was next to the wayside did hang over so much that Christian was afraid to venture further. Lest the hill should fall on his head. Wherefore he stood still and knew not what to do. And then listen to this. Also, his burden on the back now seemed heavier to him than while he was in the way. There also came flashes of fire out of the hill that made Christian afraid that he should be burned. Here therefore he sweat and did quake with fear. So the little hill is Mount Sinai and all of its terror. And going up Mount Sinai to try to be relieved. try to obey and be relieved of the guilt burden only made the burden heavier for Christian Spurgeon, the famous Charles Haddon Spurgeon, says this: The best of men, you think you're one of the best of men or women? The best of men are men at best And apart from the work of the Holy Spirit and the power of divine grace, hell itself does not contain greater monsters of iniquity than you and I might become. Within the magazine of our hearts, there is powder enough to destroy us in an instance, if omnipotent grace did not prevent. When this is distinctly perceived, we are troubled before the presence of the thrice holy God. Standing before the Lord, we cry with the prophet, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips. This is a true manifestation of God, but it is by no means a cause of comfort to us. So says Spurgeon. And then Spurgeon also says this. It was proper that with great solemnity the law of the Most High should be proclaimed, that Israel might have holy reverence for its commands. This terrible grandeur may also have been intended to suggest to the people the condemning force of the law. Not with sweet sound of harp Nor with the song of angels was the law given, but with an awful voice from amid a terrible burning. Not in itself is the law condemnatory For if there could have been life by any law, it would have been by this law. But by reason of man's sinfulness, the law worketh wrath. And to indicate this, it was made public with accompaniments of fear and death, and battalions of omnipotence marshalled upon the scene, the dread artillery of God, with awful salvos. Adding emphasis to every syllable, the tremendous scene at Sinai was also in some respects a prophecy, if not a rehearsal, he says, of the day of judgment. This is a preview of the Day of Judgment. The day of judgment, the day of doom in the song that we will sing after the sermon. And we need to think about that for a moment. So we've had these pictures, these flashes of lightnings, the trumpet sound that grows louder, the fear, the smoke, the fire, the darkness And you see that all through the Old Testament. Whenever God's judgment is being announced, when God's judgment is being foretold, you'll have earthquaking. You'll have fire, you'll have smoke, you'll have darkness. Remember the darkness that came on the Egyptians? You'll have mountains falling. You'll have loud noises. You'll have fierce storms. All through the Old Testament, and then we see the final judgment described in Revelation chapter 8. And I'm going to read a portion of that. So now listen for those same judgment things in Revelation 8, beginning at verse 5. Then the angel took the censer and filled it with fire from the altar and threw it to the earth, and there were peals of thunder, rumblings, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake. Sound familiar? Now the seven angels who had seven trumpets prepared to blow them. The first angel blew his trumpet, and there followed hail and fire mixed with blood. And these were thrown upon the earth, and a third of the earth was burned up, and a third of the trees were burned up, and all the green grass was burned up The second angel blew his trumpet, and something like a great mountain burning with fire was thrown into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood, and a third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed. And the third angel blew his trumpet, and a great star fell from heaven, blazing like a torch, and it fell on the third of the rivers and the springs of water. And the name of the star is wormwood The third of the waters became wormwood, and many people died from the water because it had been made bitter. The fourth angels blew his trumpet And a third of the sun was struck, and a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of their light might be darkened. There's the darkness. And the third day might be kept from shining, and likewise a third of the night. Finally, then I looked and I heard an eagle crying with a loud voice, and it flew directly overhead Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell on the earth at the blast of the other trumpets that the three angels are about to blow. So there's more to come. Did you hear those same signs and wonders and loud noises and things that will be in the last judgment? That's just a bit of it. So then I ask, as we ponder these things this morning, how can we be saved? Are we any better? How can we be saved? And to that I point to John 3, 16 and 17 Which you probably know by heart. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes into him should not perish. There was a real fear and threat of perishing, you see Whoever believes into him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. And that also leads us to the scripture that was read from the New Testament, Hebrews 12, where the writer says In contrast, he says, you have not come to what may be touched a blazing fire and darkness and gloom and a tempest and the sound of a trumpet and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no messages be spoken to them and so forth But you have come, you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God. Isn't it sound different? And to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels with swords, no. to innumerable angels in festal gathering, party time, and to the assembly of the firstborn who were enrolled in heaven. Yes, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant And to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. What was the blood of Abel about? It was about revenge. The blood of Abel was going to cry out from the ground for vengeance on the wrongdoers. But this blood, this blood of Jesus, speaks a better word. It speaks a word of mercy and of grace and of atonement and of the removal of guilt that was on Christian's back as he made the pilgrimage. So, how do we get from Mount Sinai to Mount Zion? How do we get there? And I want to give you what I think is a very good theological and biblical answer. Listen to the narrative of judgment that happened in the middle of history. It's recorded in Mark and Matthew and Luke, but it's recorded in Mark 15. And listen to it. Here's the judgment They compelled a passerby, Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry his cross. And they brought him to the place called Golgotha, which means the place of a skull. And they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. And they crucified him and divided his garments among them, casting lots for them to decide what each should take. And it was the third hour when they crucified him. And the inscription of the charge against him read, King of the Jews. And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his right and one on his left. And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads, saying, Aha! You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days Save yourself and come down from the cross. And so also the chief priests with the scribes mocked him to one another, saying, He saved others. He cannot save himself Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down from the cross now, that we may see and believe. And those who were crucified him also reviled him. And here's the judgment now. Listen. And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness. That reminiscent Over the whole land until the ninth hour. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, Eloi, Eloi, Lema Sebakhtanai, which means, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That is the essence of the judgment that we all deserve under the law of God. Being forsaken by God, and it fell upon Jesus. And some of the bystanders heard it, saying, Behold, he is calling Elijah. And someone ran and filled a sponge with sour wine and put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink. Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come and take him down, they said mockingly. I add that in. And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last And then it says, and the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The place that marked the holy, holy, holy place of God. The curtain is torn in two so that there's no there's no barrier between God and sinners anymore. God's judgment was coming down One preacher summarizes all this this way. And so the decisive act of the Messiah in the middle of history opens up this new reality. The condemnation, the final judgment has already taken place. And those who believe this gospel are assured here and now that the verdict of the future day has already been announced over the Messiah and over all his people. This is justification by faith in the present time. The covenant has been fulfilled, and there is no condemnation for those who are in Messiah Jesus. That's justification by faith. That's the future judgment brought into the middle of history for you and me who believe in Jesus. The judgment for us is past. And that's what Paul says in Romans chapter 8. As he has talked about all this, he says, what shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge at the judgment? Against God's elect. It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right end of God, who is interceding for us. And there it is. The judgment has already been passed on those who believe in Jesus. In fact, Jesus said that very thing in John chapter 5, verse 24 Truly, truly, amen, amen, he says. I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. So the qualification is, are you in Messiah Jesus? Are you trusting in him as your judgment already passed? Has the final judgment passed for you? Are you in Christ by faith? And that therefore does not mean are you perfect Of course you are not perfect. You are far from perfect. I am far from perfect, as you all know. Are you in Christ by faith, not by keeping the law, because you cannot, although it fills the standard of God's righteousness for us? It is still the pattern we ought to follow. But you cannot keep it perfectly. You will not. You do not trust in that. That is the hill. That is the hill that Pilgrim found to be so daunting, so terrifying. You cannot do it. It is not the question of whether you're better than most people. It's the question of whether you're in Christ by faith. If you are in Christ by faith, the final judgment has already passed for you. It happened in the middle of history upon Jesus. And you are hiding in him. You are sheltered in him if you are in him by faith. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that you have provided a victim. An innocent victim who stood in the place of all those who trust in him by faith. And bore the judgment, all the fire and terror and threatenings and cursing of your holy wrath on the cross. And we pray that you'll help us to live out of the light and glory and grace of what He has done for us. Help us personally and individually to trust in Him. And know that for us the judgment is passed, that there is no condemnation, that there's no one to accuse us before the great tribunal at the end. We pray and thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.