This is the way the traditional service of matrimony begins. Dearly beloved. We are gathered together here in the sight of God and in the face of this company to join together this man and this woman in holy matrimony. which is an honorable estate instituted of God, signifying unto us the mystical union that is betwixt Christ and his church Which holy estate Christ adorned and beautified with his presence and first miracle that he wrought in Cana of Galilee. Very, very famous words used by Anglicans, of course, that's the book of common prayer, but also used by Presbyterians in their books of worship, by Lutherans, by Methodists. And by Baptists, too, because it's very, very beautiful words and very, very biblical words. And these are the words that should give us some pause because They look at this event, this event in Cana of Galilee, and put it together with a very important institution of marriage Our text says, on the third day, there was a wedding in Cana in Galilee. That is the third day being reckoned from the calling of Philip, which was mentioned earlier. This is the common way of counting days in the Bible. The days From Good Friday to the resurrection are calculated the same way, three days, even though they're not all full days, they're partial days So the third day is reckoned from the calling of Philip. And the mother of Jesus was there. Doesn't say Mary. It says the mother of Jesus. Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples. So Jesus and his disciples were invited guests. They didn't just show up. They were invited guests. And weddings were a big deal in that culture. Weddings were a cause for extravagance. Big time spending Large family reunions and large friends gathering, huge crowds, staying together for a very long time. That was the way weddings were done back then Now, I was not acquainted with anything like that. I wasn't acquainted with big weddings until we moved to the East Coast. In the small towns that I was growing up in in the Midwest and other places, in small churches, it was my experience that weddings were rather modest affairs. My sister's wedding, even though it was in Florida, was a modest affair. The weddings that I attended in Minnesota and in Illinois, modest affairs. Uh they were usually held in the bride's church or the church where both went, and there was a reception in the church afterward, you would maybe have um cake and ice cream and things like that. Or if it was a little bit bigger affair, you might have a meal. But then after the meal was over and everybody had hugged and kissed and, you know, wished the couple off to their honeymoon, then they would all go home And that would be the end of it. They might think of them and pray for them, but that was pretty much the beginning and the end all in one day of weddings. Then we moved to Wilmington, Delaware, a big city in the east, you know, relatively big. It's become more famous lately because of a certain person from that place. But we moved to Wilmington, Delaware, where there are lots of country clubs and lots of people that work in in large industries. And it was my first time to ever attend a large wedding, like 300 people. And um there were out in front of the church before the wedding was started limousines That would bring the bride and and the groom and then take them all away at the end to the great uh country club somewhere where there would be a lavish affair that would take place Uh I had never seen anything like that. So that was much bigger than than my experience. Um But The kind of things that we see in the Bible are not just big affairs that have maybe a pre-party and maybe a post-party and a big country club affair. Jewish weddings in the first century included everyone and went on for at least a week. Big deal. Long deal. And during this wedding, which wasn't just a day, uh there were great foods prepared, lots of fatted calves and other such things, lots of food constantly being prepared and eaten, and they're all around, ongoing feasting and music and dancing, which would continue until Well, all these days, and late into the night. And guess what? There would be a lot of wine drunk So we see the plot here, the crisis that develops in this description of the wedding in Canaan. Verse 3: When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. It's a crisis. It's a terrible sociopaux pas, terrible embarrassment. Wine was essential in such events, and you just can't ran out. Sometimes these days a couple might invite, you know, uh 200 people and hope that only 150 actually show up. And order that much food. And how how would it be if suddenly they find out at the last minute that the the extra fifty plus some more are going to show up? You'd have to cut the meat portions in half and add more mashed potatoes, wouldn't you? Yeah. But this is an emergency here in Cana. It's a five-alarm fire. Evidently, the mother of Jesus has some role in the preparations for the marriage or in some She has some capacity here to care about what's happening to this couple, this family that are experiencing this lack of wine. So she knows that Jesus is someone who can get some amazing things done And she believes that a wedding is important enough to ask him to intervene in the situation. She knows that he is the Messiah and expects him to do messianic things. She may have remembered from long ago the words of Gabriel that he would save his people from their sins, that he would be the Christ, his name would be Jesus. She may have recalled the words of Anna and Simeon, the prophetess and the prophet who said about Jesus' great things. Who said that he was for the rising and falling of many, and he was going to fulfill the Abrahamic covenant. So we see here a theological thing going on with what she does. Weddings and feasts, this one too, were signs of hope for the messianic age. That's why you did all this. Not just to show off how much you had or blow money like crazy. It was because weddings and feasts were signs of God's marriage with his people, his unity with his people. His union with his people. And so to see this one fail was important enough for her to do something. Weddings and feasts with plenty of food and plenty of wine were signs of the hope of the messianic age. Let me show that to you. One place, Amos, there's many places in the Old Testament, but Amos chapter 9, I'll read verses 11 through 13. This is talking about the messianic age. In that day I will raise up the booth of David that is fallen. Now what are we talking about here? The kingdom of David, that great promised time When David would rule, and he did rule for a long time, he was the greatest ruler anywhere in the whole region. But now that booth, that household, that that line of David has fallen on very hard times The kingdom is divided. There's trouble everywhere. So in that day, what day? The day of the Messiah, the day of their messianic kingdom, I will raise up the booth of David that has fallen And repair its breaches, and raise up its ruins, and rebuild it as in the days of old. That they may possess the remnant of Edom, that is, destroy their enemies, Edom. And all the nations who are called by my name, declares the Lord who does this He's going to bless the nations who are called by his name, all of them. That's the Abrahamic promise. And then verse 13, behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when, listen to this The plowman shall overtake the reaper. What does that mean? We're not agriculturally minded, but it means this. That there's going to be such a large harvest that you start harvesting and harvesting, and you're harvesting as much as you can on and on and on, and you can't get it all harvested before it's time to plow and plant again. The plowman, the spring guy, shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him who sows the seed. And then it says in beautiful poetic language, the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and all the hills shall flow with it. It's a beautiful picture, isn't it? Abundance of what? Wine. Here's another one. Which I use in calls to worship at times. Isaiah 25, verses 6 through 8. This is a messianic age. On this mountain, that is, on this government, the government of the Messiah, on this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine. Of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He's going to take away the curse, in a sense, here, the darkness. And he will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. That's the messianic age, an age of a feast, an age of abundant wine, well-aged and refined. And there are other sources that describe similar events. There's one non-biblical reference that I'll give you, actually two. About the same time as the fourth gospel was written, the book of Enoch. Enoch, chapter 10, verse 19, is a Jewish apocryphal book. about the same time period, it predicts that in the messianic age, quote, the vine shall yield wine in abundance The vine shall yield wine. When the Messiah comes, what? We have great grape crops. Amazing. And then here's another one. In 2nd Baruch, Chapter 29. Here we see this. The earth shall yield its fruit ten thousandfold. Each vine shall have tenth one thousand branches. You got to calculate this now. Get your calculators out, kids Each vine shall have 1,000 branches, each branch 1,000 clusters, each cluster 1,000 grapes, and each grape about 120 gallons of wine That's a lot of wine in the messianic age. Now that's not the Bible, but it's portraying the same hope, the same future. that the gospel writer and the disciples probably understood some of the very same things and read maybe some of the same literature So now we have the plot tension again with the mother of Jesus, verse 4. And Jesus said to her, Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come. The word woman gunai in Jesus' reply is not a rude way of speaking to her. It's a term of respect. And affection. It is Jesus' normal, according to Liddell, Scott, and Jones, it is Jesus' normal, polite way of addressing women. At the cross, when Jesus is on the cross, he speaks to John and he says, Behold your mother, behold your this woman is your mother. Same thing, same word. It's a term of respect. And uh speaking to her outside the tomb at the resurrection, he says, woman to her again. So But according to scholars, it is unusual for the son to address his mother with this term. The custom in both Aramaic and Greek would be for a son to use a qualifying adjective or title So some have suggested that what's going on here is that it is similar to the British uh he he would have said Malady in British The way Jesus addresses her probably indicates that a new relationship has come. Instead of calling her Malady, he calls her woman. To show that he's not just her boy anymore. He's now the Messiah. He's now entered into his ministry life. So he uses a different term in addressing her. It's kind of funny when my mom used to be here with with us and uh she would call me pastor sometimes. Now I would call her mom all the time. But she would change her her terms based on the relationship. That's what we have maybe going on here. So in verse 5, his mother said to the servants, do whatever he tells you. Do whatever he tells you. So just note this: Jesus has not refused to act. He has simply emphasized the fact that he is no longer or primarily only her son, but he is now the Son of Man, the Messiah. So what happens? There were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding 20 or 30 gallons. Each of the pots held two or three measures. A measure was approximately nine gallons, thus each jar held 18 to 27 gallons, and the total volume of liquid involved was about 108 to 162 gallons Kind of reminds us of of the of the 120 uh gallons of wine produced by one grape in Baruch. So what is this what are these pots about? This this water for purification? We're told in Mark chapter 7 how the Pharisees gathered Some of the scribes had come from Jerusalem, and when they saw that some of his disciples ate with hands that were defiled, that was unwashed, It says, For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands properly, holding to the tradition of the elders. And when they come from the marketplace they do not eat unless they wash And there are many other traditions they observe, such as the washing of cups and pots and copper vessels and dining couches. They washed everything, and it does even mention that they washed feet So you have to have a lot of water to do all this purification in order to uh observe the customs So Jesus says, now, I guess the pots have become empty. They've used them all for all this washing. Somewhere along the way, they've become empty. Jesus said to the servants, fill the jars with water. And they filled them up to the brim. And he said to them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast. So they took it. When the master of the feast tasted the water, now become wine, and did not know where it came from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew, they have an independent witness here, servants knew The master of the feast called the bridegroom and said to him, Everyone else serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. But you have kept the good wine until now. And then we have that last verse. This is the first of his signs Jesus did at Cana in Galilee and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him. Raymond Brown says this about the Gospel of John. In the Gospel of John, one of the many themes of chapters 2 through 4 is the replacement of Jewish institutions and religious views. In chapters five through ten, they're dominated by Jesus' actions and discourses on the occasion of Jewish feasts. And by way of replacing the motif of the feasts. And he writes this in summary of all that. Jesus is the real temple. The spirit he gives will replace the necessity of worshiping at Jerusalem. His doctrine and his flesh and blood will give life in a way that the manna associated with the exodus from Egypt did not. At the Feast of Tabernacles, not the rain-making ceremony, but Jesus himself. Jesus Himself supplies the living water. Not the illumination in the temple court, but Jesus Himself is the real light of the world. And on the feast of dedication, not the temple altar, but Jesus Himself is consecrated by God In view of this consistent theme of replacement, it seems obvious that in introducing Cana as the first of the signs, the series of signs now follow. This is the first one. John the evangelist intends to call attention to the replacement, you see. of the water prescribed for Jewish purification? By the choicest of wine. The replacement is a sign of who Jesus is, namely the one sent by the Father, who is now the only way to the Father. And all previous religious institutions and customs and feasts lose meaning in his presence John does not put primary emphasis on the replacing of the water for Jewish purification or on the change from water to wine. or even on the resulting wine, but John does not focus on Mary and her intercession. Not here. Nor on why she made the request or whether she pursued it further after the initial response. John does not focus on the reaction of the master of the feast or the bridegroom The primary focus, as for in all John's stories, is Jesus as the one sent by the Father to bring salvation to the world. And what shines through is his glory. And the reaction emphasized is that of his disciples when they believed in him. That's the culmination. This is the purpose of the gospel, that you may believe and have life. Life that is abundant. Life that transcends time and present troubles. Life that stretches on into eternity, culminating in the endless feast, described in the book of the Revelation, also by John. What does that feast look like? Here it is. Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude and the roar of many waters, and the like sound of many peals of thunder crying out Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and exalt and give him the glory. Why? For the marriage supper of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. It was granted to her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure, for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. And the angel said to me, Write this Blessed are those who were invited to the marriage supper of a lamb. And he said to me, These are the true words of God. That's Revelation 19, 6 through 9. In in drawing together things here, it would have been an amazing thing to be there, wouldn't it? To have attended that wedding at Cana in Galilee, where Jesus performed this first sign. But I tell you, I tell you on the authority of God that you, you and I are invited to a greater feast, of which all good weddings are a sign. You are invited to the feast set before us in the Lord's Supper on a weekly basis here in this church And you were invited to that supper as a foretaste of the great supper to which you were invited in the final day. And that is told to us in the book of the Revelation. And it's beautifully put in Revelation 22, verse 17. The Spirit and the Bride say, Come. And let him who hears say, come. And let the one who is thirsty come. We are invited. to the greatest wedding ever. And the wine will never run out. The wine of joy, the wine of the messianic kingdom, the wine of abundance. The wine of the government of God on the mountain of God will never end. We are invited, so let us give praise and thanks to the one who said these things and did these things. And points us to a greater event to come. Amen.