Isaiah 53, 1 through 6. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the armor of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hid their faces. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was fierce for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned, every one, to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. And the New Testament reading is the preaching text from Hebrews chapter 2, 1 through 18. Hebrews chapter 2, 1 through 18, as we take a break from Our series in Exodus. Hebrews 2 beginning at verse 1. Therefore we must pay much closer attention To what we have heard, lest we drift away from it. For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable And every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution, how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard, while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles. and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to His will. Now it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere, what is man, that you are mindful of him, or the Son of Man that you care for him You made him a little lower for a while than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet Now, in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death. So that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. For it was fitting that he for whom and by whom all things exist In bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. And again, trust in him And again, behold, I and the children, God has given me. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood He himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil And deliver all those who, through fear of death, were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest In the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Oh Lord, you have inspired these words that we have read From the Old Testament and from the Psalms and from the New Testament, in fact, the whole Bible, you have inspired these words. They are your words. They are the very word of God. They are flawless. And yet we are flawed. We come to these words with our own ideas, our own thoughts, our own situation. And we pray, Lord, that by your Holy Spirit you will illumine these words so that we might not distort them or misuse them, but understand them and apply them and go forth to live to your glory and honor In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, if you were young in the 1990s, or if you wanted to be Check your t-shirt drawer and see if you have a t-shirt emblazoned with the words, no fear. Anybody? No fear? Did you see that when other people were wearing it? No fear t-shirts were very popular in the mid-1990s. The shirts feature existential slogans or quotes that tout the virtues of extreme sports The common themes included in No Fear were no fear of death, no laziness, and contempt for social norms and the law. If you look at some of these old no-fear commercials, they're still available on YouTube. I looked at some and these commercials featured guys in flying pickup trucks On flying motorcycles, dudes with or without helmets doing extremely dangerous things. No fear. And they developed after a while an energy drink to go along with this. No fear began to distribute this energy drink in a partnership with Sobi. The flavors and versions consisted of original, which was grapefruit, sugar-free, motherlode, and bloodshot. No fear is the official energy drink of the World Extreme Cage Fighting Association, a form of mixed martial arts. Well, now that is one kind of no fear. But what Paul here is talking about in Hebrews 2, especially verses 14 and following. Is that fear is a reality. He says, since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things That through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver all those who, through fear of death, were subject to lifelong slavery. What do we see here? We see that fear is a reality. It's an existential reality Because death is a reality. Sorry if that's a downer to you, but got to tell the truth. And we know in our heart of hearts, especially we who are Christians, but even those who are not, know in their heart of hearts That after death there is a judgment. And they fear that judgment. And so a better slogan on a t-shirt, maybe we should make these up and go around wearing them, is yes, fear. But the good news is that Jesus did something about that fear Jesus did something, and Paul says here what it is. He took on human flesh. He became fully human for you and me. Jesus Christ, as Thomas Odin says, and I'll read this, and you might think, wow, I wish you wouldn't say things like that, but You've got to hear some of these things in order to understand the reality of the incarnation, the reality of Jesus taking on human flesh. Here's what Thomas Odin says. The gospels constantly portray Christ as living a thoroughly human, bodily existence. He was conceived in a womb and born when his senses was being taken. He was circumcised when he was an infant. His he grew in stature. He did not come full grown. He got hungry, thirsty, and weary. His body was nourished by ordinary food and rested by ordinary sleep. His spiritual relation to the Father was refreshed by prayer, like us. So he is now fully human. Did you hear that? He is now fully human. It's not that he was fully human and now he has reverted back to some other state of being. He is now fully human human. His body was raised up on the first day and was made immortal. And he ate with his disciples and he digested the food And he touched them and invited them to touch him. He bodily ascended to heaven and is bodily seated at the right hand of the Father. And he will bodily come again. Christ took on flesh because of the fear of death. He did this because you and I became subject to death. We were not created to die. But we read in Genesis 2, 15 through 17. There it says, The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it and keep it, and the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. That's how death came. Now how would you define life and how would you define death? Of course there's There's the ordinary ways of defining biological death is to cease to have bodily functions. Biological life is having bodily functions And so that's the biological kind of definition. But there's a spiritual definition. That's what Genesis is getting at in particular here, as well as the physical There is a spiritual death, which is a separation from fellowship with God, who is the life source of humans. And we saw that in the garden. There was a breakdown of the relationship. There was a separation. There was a hiding and a fear of God. We hid because we were afraid, Adam and Eve said. And what happens to us as beings made in the image of God is we grow cold and alone and separate when we are apart from God. God is described in the Bible as a consuming fire. And if we take that analogy, we We see a fire, and we see coals in that fire, and when one of those coals is separated, what happens? It grows cold. The life-giving source is separated, and so man dies Life defined by ordinary people out there in our community Is the power and freedom to choose and do whatever I wish. That's the ultimate life. Is complete autonomy, complete freedom to do whatever I want. And with that definition, the quality of life is measured by physical strength, for youth in particular, money For those who have the power to earn, and influence for those who have the power to become influential. That is the various, some of the various ways that we define Power. And freedom in that case is lack of restraint, lack of limitations, internal or external. I can do whatever I want. And those who live by those kinds of definitions quite understandably cling to the life that they have, and they hate death. But brothers and sisters in Christ, the biblical ideas of life and death are very different For us in Christ, life is to know God. Life is to have fellowship with God. To be comfortably in God's presence both now and forever. That is life. All the other stuff is add-on, extras. But life is to know God and have fellowship with God and be comfortably in His presence. Death for us is to be separated from God, to be alienated, to be unwelcome now and forever. When people live according to the non-biblical definitions, they fear. They fear the loss of everything that's free and everything that's them and everything that they define as life, they fear because they know it's coming, that they're going to lose it. They fear and fear and fear, even if they wear a t-shirt that says no fear. It's almost like I'm really afraid, therefore I'm going to put this t-shirt on that says no fear And that leads to something else. And that's what we're going to get to now. It's also in the text. It leads to slavery. It leads to slavery. How does the fear of death lead to slavery? Well, let's see how various ways that this can happen. One is the slavery of anger. Slavery of anger. Now, I don't like to pick on babies, but let's think about it for a minute. We start out as infants Each infant gradually comes to discover his power to see, to grasp, and vocalize. With power comes freedom to move, to do. But then, in the midst of a string of happy discoveries of all these powers and these freedoms, somebody says, no, no. Don't touch. Be still. Be quiet. And the child feels what? Anger I've been limited. My freedom is going away. And the child lets you know it. You have killed my fine, you have killed my freedom, you have killed my power, you have curtailed it. Anger is the response, it's a little sort of death, you see If you define death and life and power this way. And as we move toward adulthood, we realize that someday we must all die. All power and freedom will be removed. We may suppress this, but we cannot escape it completely. If we have no sure hope of a life It is a freedom and power after death, then we fear and we're angry about it. And you see that kind of anger in some of these black box recordings. When a jetliner is about to crash into the ground, and you hear what the pilot said in his last moments, cursing, bitterness, raging, anger at the loss of his freedom, his power, his life. And I know that I sometimes feel this way when there's a near-miss in the traffic situation Somebody almost crashes into me. Now what's the answer to all that? The answer is an answer of peace. And we go back to Christ. Christ, the all-powerful Son of God, who existed from all eternity. God of God, light of light, very God of very God, begotten not made, Christ, the perfectly free second person of the eternal Trinity, added a human nature In the incarnation and voluntarily chose limitation common to us, human limitation. God put on flesh Since therefore, the scripture says the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things. He did this so that you might know that death is not the final word. That a life of freedom and power is ahead for all those who were united to him. By faith. And anger and fear need not dominate our lives as we face limits, and we will face limits. As we face setbacks, we may cultivate and have peace. United to Christ. So there's the slavery of anger, but there's another kind of slavery that's very common in our culture. It's the slavery of hedonism. Hedonism, that is rampant pleasure-seeking. Get all you can Get all the pleasure, get all the possessions, go for it, do it. That's another slogan. He who has the most toys wins. Life becomes, therefore, a clamor to get whatever we can of money, of sex, of power, of recognition. And any limitation is seen as a form of death. This is probably the kind of thing that inspired the No Fear t-shirts. Life to such people is a slavery to self. Get, get, get, and only give if it somehow helps you to get more. And the answer to that is the answer Of contentment. Contentment. Being happy with what God has given you here and now. Contentment. The work of Christ in Revelation 117, Jesus says, Fear not, I am the first and the last. And the living one. I died, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and Hades. Jesus said Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you that I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again Jesus promises us there is a great future for us. Great freedom, great power, great wonders of being in His presence, of having a home with Him forever. So we need not cling to everything here and now. And make it our God. We may be content with our gifts and opportunities, limited as they are in this life. We may be content with our possessions, our pleasures, however few or many there may be. Because our Savior promises us new heavens and new earth, in which righteousness dwells. Greater freedom than we can imagine. We will have real human bodies because Christ died for us and he has a real human body and we're united to him and he will raise us up like himself. We will have real human bodies but glorified. Bodies like his. Then and there we will have these bodies, but we will enjoy our bodies in greater measure than ever before For instance, colors will be greater in number and more vivid to our glorified eyes. Tastes, if you like to eat I do. Taste will be much greater. Our our our faculty of taste will be expanded by ten times the tenth power. Maybe. Our ability to smell beautiful smells. I smelled some beautiful smells when I came in this morning. Bread was baking here. Sounds. Do you love music? Do you love the sounds of great sounds? I do. Our ears will be better than they ever were. We get hard of hearing. We get old. But sounds will be better than ever. With this future in view that Christ has provided by becoming one of us, taking on human flesh, and promising to raise it up and promising to give us everything With this in view, we can enjoy life and yet be content with our present moment of limitations. So there's the slavery of anger, and then the slavery of pleasure-seeking, hedonism, and then there's the slavery of rebellion. They're all kind of intertwined, but. But let's take a look at the slavery of rebellion. Our father Adam believed a lie instead of believing God's word. And he rebelled against God. And we are his children in rebellion. We were not made for death. We were made for life. Death is our enemy. Death is unnatural. Death takes our loved ones away, and it takes us away. And the devil uses death to incite us to rebel against God by means of anger and hedonism and so rebellion. I've known a few persons who profess to be Christians and walked for a time with the church, but when illness struck them or struck one of their loved ones They rebelled against God. They turned away and said, if that's the way you're going to play this game, God, I'm out of here. They rightly believed that God is powerful enough to cure illness and prevent tragedy. And because he didn't, they rebelled. Now, there are some theologians, I use the term loosely, they're called open theists, that try to avoid this problem by saying that God is somehow limited And that God is sad when bad things happen, and they just can't be helped, even by God. Well, that is not our understanding of the biblical idea of God. God is sovereign And instead of explaining it away or rebelling, we need to have the perspective of Job. Job chapter 19, where he said, For I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will stand up on the earth. And after my skin has been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh. He's looking for the resurrection. Shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold and not another? I shall be behold Shall see God. You shall see God. There's no need to rebel against God. We don't understand his sovereign ways. We don't understand tragedies and illnesses and sicknesses. But we can trust that God knows what he's doing. And we know that we have a Savior who's been there and done that Verse sixteen of our text, for surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. That he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make repitiation for the sins of the people. For, because he himself has suffered, been there done that He is able to help those who are being tempted. Tempted with fear, tempted with hedonism, tempted with anger, tempted with lack of contentment. Are you tempted to rebel against God? Because things haven't gone the way you wanted them to go. Are you tempted? Some of you have walked very difficult paths. I know some of you have walked difficult paths and are walking them now. Some are struggling with fears and troubles and pain. And the answer, the Christian answer, is submission and trust. And let me just bring a little perspective on this particular text so that you can understand that you're unique you're not unique in your sufferings or troubles. The Hebrew Christians to whom this letter was written were afraid too They were probably among those expelled from Rome by the Emperor Claudius in the year 49 A. D. And they lost their real estate and they lost their livelihood, and they were probably facing persecutions of the Emperor Nero, who is called the Beast. Nero was a depraved, violent, and deviant despot, mad with power, fear, and self-devotion. He murdered his mother and his two wives. Then he took up with a boy who was mysteriously murdered. Nero then took up with another man who was a gladiator. He fancied himself a poet, a musician, and an athlete. He haunted the streets at night as a common mugger. He also considered himself a great architect and had visions of rebuilding Rome. In order to do so, he had Rome burned. Claudius had expelled all the Jews from Rome, so Nero saw the Christians as an easy Easy scapegoat. He blamed the burning on them, which started a fierce persecution. Nero had hundreds of Christians killed by wild beasts as Entertainment. He used burning Christians on poles as lampposts to light the city. Finally, the people of Rome realized that it was Nero who set the fires and they turned on him. You might get a bit of the Hebrews' emotion, therefore, if you were a Christian living in Syria Today, afraid for your life. The Hebrews were therefore in this situation tempted to turn back on Christ as they faced possible death, the writer reveals in a fresh a Christ who through his incarnation, becoming one of us, and through his death and through his resurrection has rendered powerless the devil to terrorize us with fear. Are you terrorized by the devil? Are you angry as you fear and face loss? Chasing after things that are not life? Rebelling against God. Don't do it. Turn afresh to Christ, who became human. To deliver us from death, who lived to show you how to live, and has fully prepared to save you, and knows what it's like to be one of you. and me, human suffering temptation. And as we now move to the remembrance of the cross where he died In this holy supper. Let us be joyful and free from the work of the devil, that death terrorist. Let us each and all together rejoice in his glorified flesh and blood. Which was sacrificed once for all for our salvation. We have this beautiful early creedal statement from 1 Timothy 3 Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness. He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory. Christ therefore has delivered all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. That is the gospel. That is good news that leads us to an everlasting no-fear. Amen. Let us pray together. Heavenly Father, we praise you and thank you for the gift of your Son in human flesh and blood. To save us in life and from the fear of death. As we eat at his table today, we thank you that he gives us the saving health of his body and blood by the power of the Holy Spirit. By these gifts, strengthen us to live life walking with you to the praise of your glory. Amen.