In First Corinthians twelve, Paul begins an argument you see there or a topic that goes on through the rest of twelve, through thirteen, through fourteen, so three chapters about It's translated spiritual gifts. It just says spiritual things. I think it's broader than just gifts. It's talking about a lot of things about the Holy Spirit. Spiritual gifts is a fine translation. But that's his theme The very interesting thing about it is if you're familiar with those verses as they follow through, they really coincide with what Jesus says to you. First note that note of judgment, right? Jesus came speaking plainly and clearly to the people. They had the prophetic word who told them exactly what it was. Who has not read Isaiah 53 and said, Write Jesus Who has eyes to see? Speaking to them in their own tongue, Aramaic. Hebrew when when needed in reading, when he read in the synagogues, God spoke clearly to them And yet they did not know their day of visitation. They would not receive him, but called him a curse, right? And says, Well now these things are hidden from you. You know, Paul says that about tongues In 1 Corinthians 14, when he quotes from the law in Isaiah, the tongues are not for believers, for unbelievers. They're a sign of judgment. And they were definitively given and are no more in effect for several reasons, but one of them was that judgment came on Jerusalem that Jesus was talking about. Tongues are not for this age, and they're not for believers. They were given uh as a prophetic revelatory word before the canon was completed so that all God's people may have that word, but we have it now But they were given as a sign, hidden, because the Jews, even after Jesus was resurrected and wouldn't believe their own countrymen who'd seen him, still refused to believe. And so God spoke to them in signs of judgment. So you see Jesus talking about judgment there. Talking about order. Pretty undecent house of prayer when you've got cattle mowing and a filthy mess they make and the clinging of money. Utterly disorderly. You know, Paul has to go to Corinth too, right, and put the house of God in order there, house of prayer, because it's so undecent in its organization, because they don't understand the Spirit and its gifting out of order. Jesus has to do the same thing. The Lord loves his church. He loves his temple. He loves his house. He cares that it remains a house of prayer for all the nations And all the people to be effectually occupied in its service. But notice where it ends. Then Jesus was teaching there every day. That's where Paul ends, right? Teaching. We now teach because we have the closed canon, the sufficient and errant word of God for all time. I love St. Augustine's word. This is the face of God until we see him face to face right here. This is that face-to-face revelation that we have with God in which Christ and His exalted presence in the Spirit, He's the teacher of us. He's the one who teaches himself to us. And Jesus taught, and Paul says, that's what you need to be occupied of. Yes, they're blessings. We'll say a word about that. They have their purpose, praise God But people need to be clearly, simply taught, even if it's only five words, that they may be edified and built up and no trust. Alright, so that introduces us to the whole thing. We want to look this morning at these passages in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, 1 through 11. Don't have time to look at them exhaustive detail. Believe me, I spent a lot of time studying this week. I'm aware of how big this topic is and how convoluted it is and but how much of it's still a real thing today. Because I imagine when most people go to this text Because of Pentecostalism that's been around for about the last 120 years, because of the charismatic movement that's been around for the last sixty years, all the attention is given to tongues and prophecy and and healings and wondering are they still applicable today? And we miss Many of the other things that the Apostles really dealing with here. This is not going to be a sermon on cessationism Uh though that is the standard of our confession, chapter one, uh Article I, all the former ways in which God did reveal Himself to us have ceased Uh but this will not be a sermon on cessation. I'll point out a few things about it. So this is not going to be dealing about it exhaustively. If you want to know more, come talk to me afterwards, point to some good resources, a minute and help me and God. There's not going to be an exhaustive issue of cessation, but we're going to focus on um how do we know true spirituality? And um how is the Spirit manifest in us today? Those are the things that we're gonna focus on uh this morning. So first let's look at verses uh one through three together and then kind of four through eleven go. If you have your ESV, you see that's how they've broken it down and paragraphs. And the thing I want to uh focus on verses one through three is uh if you're someone here today that's a bit unsure of what it is to be spiritual, right? These verses are for you Then there are other verses in the Bible. You can go to 1 John 4. That's a great place for. But if you're wondering, because of today, you hear these reports, uh, you you maybe you've seen YouTube videos, you read about them, people in these ecstatic states. uh uh led away, carried away, um speaking and you know, and whatever and Unintelligible nonsense and things. Um not a draw, that's just what it sounds like. Um and you're wondering, hey, is the spirit there or just What is it to be spiritual? Am I spiritual? You know, maybe that causes you to think, well, am I spiritual? Well here Paul gives you the great test One definitive way to know, if you are spiritual, but if you are redeemed, if you have been chosen and called in Christ and brought effectually to faith, here's a great way Paul tells us It talks about, centers around how you speak about Jesus. Wait, what do you say about Jesus? See, if you if you are someone who reviles him And hates him and are glad and think he's really dead and glad he was put to death and wish he'd just stayed dead and never have to hear his name again in this world because you want nothing to do with him? Yeah, that's not the spirit of Christ, of the Antichrist You go into an assembly and the people are just carried away. I mean you've ever s we've all been at a in in a good way, maybe you know been at a family functioner gathering or something and We talk about all they got a little bit carried away. What happens? Usually people are shouting over each other, interrupting each other, there's just this excitement, this thing, there's no order. That's not the spirit Paul says. He's saying, that's your pagan past. That you participated in, because though those idols are dumb, because they're not living, they don't answer your prayers and hear them. They were still demons behind them and you have fellowship with them, and it was really a demonic influence that you were under That's not spirituality being carried away out of your mind and just getting a bit excessive. That's not spirituality. So what is it? How can I know I'm one that has God's Holy Spirit given to me by my Redeemer? Do you say from your heart, believing that God raised up Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified in shame Died, rejected, forsaken, and accursed. Do you adore him, honor him, love him, and say, Lord, my Lord. So you can't do that without the Spirit of God. You cannot know Christ as Lord. You cannot give him your ultimate allegiance and loyalty, your worship of him, because Lord means more than just the supreme ruler in the world. It means that it means Yahweh. God, Creator, Law. Where you see people doing that who may not manifest anything else. Who are so simple and not carried away, so squared away, so dress for ties, so sit nice, who don't raise their arms higher than this in the worship service, right? It's Presbyterianism, by the way. There's the spirit. Because it's not about the extremes and ecstatic and being carried away. It's about what does this people say about Jesus? Obviously, not just with their lips, but not without their lips. Paul gives a doctrinal statement as a test for spirituality. Do you confess Jesus? The crucified one as Lord. Because it's utter foolishness to worship someone who's dead and serve them as Lord. is he ain't Lord. The confession that Lord means just that He's Lord He's the reigning, ruling one. He's in control. He's the Lord. He's on the throne. And preaching the gospel is as simple as saying, hey, President Biden's in power Jesus is in power. It's a simple fact as that. That's a statement of the good news. He's raised. He's in power. As clearly as you say, President Biden's in control and power, you know, whatever sits in the present office. So you say Jesus is Lord, he raised He's gone. So if you're someone wrestling and wondering as you live in this and I especially commend it to our children, to all that As you hear this, you see this, maybe you come across this, maybe you go to a camp and you're exposed to this, and you meet other Christians who talk about this and you go on a trip. You wonder what is true spirituality? Do I have the spirit? What do you say about Jesus? Let that be your task. If you say he's Lord and you worship him And you honor him with your life, with your living, with your praise. You bow before him. You're spiritual. Now I hope And pray that's everybody here, right? And I hope I've just said that we're all spiritual, not just some of us. But all of us are spiritual and have the spirit. And that's going to go in then to the next thing I want to focus on for the rest of our time in verses four through eleven. But what I want to focus on in these verses, there's many things there, but what I want to focus on is if you are someone here this morning and you question your value, And your place in the body of Christ, these verses are for you. They're for all of us. But if you're someone really struggling, maybe, and it can even just be at this particular stage in life Maybe you've gotten married, maybe you've gotten a family, maybe you've changed jobs, maybe something else has happened in your life. You've joined a new church, you've left an old one, and you're struggling To find and know your value and place in this local body which you've united with, which is just one of the universal one body of Christ. About the God. Well, these verses are for you. I hope to show that. And secondly, if you're someone who questions your need for the body, these verses are also for you. But what can the body really do for me? How much do I really need the body of Christ? How much do I really need that person next to me, behind me, in front of me? What do I need then? Well these all these verses will also be for you. If you're struggling to know your value and place in Christ's body, this is love. You're struggling with How much I really need to be here and need what this church can give me in my life because I've got this, this, and this, and I'm doing okay, then these verses will also be for you. I'm going to jump ahead because Paul sort of in 4 through 11 here, if I could put it this way, sort of gives us the truth. The theological truth of it all, and then in verses 12 down to 27, sort of then grounds all this for us in the metaphor of the body. So he sort of tells us about the diversity and the workings and naming some of them all, uh that diversity within the unity, and then he puts it all together for us and says, oh by the way, if you if you have a body, which we all do, you know what I'm talking about, because not every one of you does the same thing. And none of you can live without all the other members of your body for the full quality of life that God would give you when He gave you right your body So, first of all, look if you want to look up, just look what Paul says in chapter 12, verse 15. If the foot should say, Because I'm not a hand, I do not belong to the body That would not make it any less part of the body. Okay, maybe um I'll just read you verse eighteen real quick But as it is, God arranged the members in the body, each one of them as he chose. If our foot could speak, it would be quite blasphemous for our foot. book it'd actually be breaking the tenth commandment, coveting being the ear, right? You ever thought about that? If your foot ever complained to God because it wasn't the hand, it'd be coveting If you've ever complained to God because I'm not this person in the church and I don't do that, why? You're still a member of the body. Okay, you're not that part. And maybe now things can change the body as you see there's some fluidity and functionality, maybe because this stage in your life, and this place, and these things, but God put you together. He knows what he's doing, and you're still part of the body. You're still a member. You can't be a Christian and not be a member of the body. Amen. You can't. It's impossible. To be in Christ is to be in Christ, to be a member of his body. To say otherwise is To be wrong. So, whoever you are, you're a member of the body in Christ. Secondly, look at um Verse 21. So let me just again drive it home to you all real quick. You are a member of the body, okay? Every one of you In Christ. Says Jesus is Lord, right? In allowing age-appropriate faith. Are a member of the body. If you're baptized, you are a member of Christ's body Verse 21, look at verse 21. The eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. Or again, uh head to the feet, I have no need of you. Well, I, if that hand stops spooning food into the mouth, your days of seeing aren't going to be very long, are they? Oh, you love being the eye. It's great being the eye. Seeing all the glories that God made and taking all those sights in. It's wonderful being the eye. What a v glorious function to the body. I mean it's pretty awesome to be the eye and you do a lot for the body and I'm really terribly sorry for anybody losing their eyesight or is ever born without it, but God will restore it and He has perfect vision coming for you one day. I without hand can't say I in any functioning sense. You get Paul's point You all matter. Not only are you a member, you all matter I'm very tempted to say, let's all stay together. I'm a member and I matter. I will refrain from saying that. But that's the truth. I'm a member. Praise God. And I matter. Praise God. Alright, well let's go back then to look at our passage in verses four through six. Listen again to what Paul writes. Now he's making an assertion here because they seem to lost sight of the variety and focusing on certain gifts. There are a variety of gifts, but the same spirit. There are varieties of service for the same Lord, and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone. So let me see if I can use the body analogy again to sort of get at what Paul's saying here. He says, foot, you have your gifting, right? Paul says here this word uh in verse uh four gifts, uh the charismata, charisma singular gifts, charismata gifts, you get charismatic from And it means that grace gift. It comes from the Greek word caris, which is everywhere translated in the Bible as either grace or favor. You've been saved by charus through pistis through saints. So Uh charisma or charismatic just means gracious, gifts utterly and entirely free, given by God. Didn't work for him, you you didn't ask for him even, although he does say and praise, so you can't ask, but still sovereignly up to his will to give them As Paul says in verse 11, the spear of the portions, spear and pounds. So foot. It is an act of grace that God made you a foot. And you're part of the same spirit, the same body. Foot, the same spirit who made the eye and made the eye gracious to the eye, made you the foot. It's the same spirit that did it. And both of you. Paul goes on and he says, there's a variety of service, right? But the same Lord. But you have a different service than the eye, but you're serving the same Lord So, foot, you're graciously afoot by the Spirit, Christian, whatever you've received as a gift from God, first being a Christian, that's the chief gift, child of God, second uh whatever else the service, it's the same spirit who's given it. So nobody can feel like they're less. You know, pagan may maybe in the pagan world I don't know the hierarchy of gods and you go to those and maybe well I got my gift from this God, I got my gift from this God, and you could tell they're starting to do those divisions. Well, I was baptized by Paul, I was baptized by Apollos, and they're utterly Just wreaking havoc in the gospel and not getting Christ in one sense. He's saying, it's the same Spirit who's given it. Rejoice! But you're no less valuable than I. The Spirit made you put. The Spirit made you I And you serve the same Lord. Rejoice. You have a different service to perform, but it's the same Lord who needs that service done. How wonderful And look at what then Paul says lastly, but it is the same God who empowers them all and everyone, and all of you. Whoever you are in the body, and whatever gracious gifts you'd receive from the Lord, it is God's effective power in you that you do them. Foot You have the same Almighty power of God moving you to wiggle your toes as the eye does to do whatever the eye does and how it sees. It is God equally working in you to do that service. Isn't that wonderful? The same spirit. You've all received whatever you have from the same spirit. Nobody got it from a lesser spirit. Nobody got it from a greater spirit. You all got it from the same spirit. Nobody serves a lesser Lord. Nobody serves a greater Lord. Nobody serves less the Lord. You all serve the Lord. Nobody has more of God working in them, less of God working in them, a different God working in them. You all have the same God working in you to do. Your God-given and God-called service to Christ. Paul's driving home to his congregation. How wonderful. Alright, we still have some time. Sometimes it feels like time flies by and it's actually going slow. I'm glad it's going slow, because it's still some few more things I want to say. Let's focus for the rest of the time on verse 7. Look at verse 7. It's something of a thesis statement. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. It's a proposition, it's a statement that Paul's making is really kind of unpacking and defending here that to each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. Paul, though, states this But the word there, manifest, right? To manifest something means to take something that's hidden and manifest it. Marker. How do you know how many knew this was here? Nobody knew this was here. I didn't know it was here to live Manifest to us. We see it and we know it. So let me then try to manifest what Paul's saying to us real quick. Let's imagine we're in Corinth. And we gathered on the Lord's Day like today. Now they often did in the evening because many of them were slaves and had to work during the day. So they gather at night. So let's imagine we're at evening service. I would love to see all of you back at evening service this full. This would be glorious. So let's imagine we're at evening service And we gather and we get the call to worship, to hear God's greeting, begin our service, and Now, there's not a whole canon there yet, right? They had the Septuagint. That would have been the Greek translation of the Old Testament. And they might have had maybe Mark, right? Mark wrote his gospel to serve the Church in Rome, so they might have had Mark's gospel. And not, you know, a little unsure of what other New Testament letters they have. They definitely don't have John's prophecy. They don't have revelation. So they're without a completed canon yet. And yet, because God has done what he said he would do through the prophets in Christ and has fulfilled that The Old Testament is no longer in itself sufficient. It's not a statement against the Old Testament saying we would never have a new if the Old Testament was sufficient. I think we all get the logic there, right? So here they are in a state where Old Testament not quite sufficient because there's this new revelation of God, and yet they don't have everything the exalted Christ who's come to his church in the Spirit has to say yet because he hasn't said said it all yet and given it as a final deposit to the church. That's the situation you're in when you're going to church in Quaranth in those days. So how does God address this? Well very wonderfully I don't know how they would have done it, but they would have and should have done it, under the oversight of the session, the shepherds, whoever they set in the congregation, don't know. I think they used to be segregated, men and women, not certain about that. Someone would have probably come up to them and said, Brother I have received from the Spirit this prophecy for the congregation. Can I share it? Okay, yeah, share it. You've done it in the past. We just tested it. It's proved good. Okay. He gives his word to me. I'll say it. We have just seen the Holy Spirit manifest himself to us and giving us that sure revelation of Christ. He was not speaking anything else but Christ and applying it to our situation that we needed. Praise God. that he's given us these prophets before he's completed his word. Maybe another one gets up and he speaks in a completely foreign tongue. And then he prays, oh Holy Spirit, I just you just give me this word. You came upon me and did this. Now will you please give me to interpret it? But maybe he gives that person. Maybe he raises up the other person. And they say, Mr. Elder, I know what they said. Can I speak in the assembly? Yeah, sure, please speak. Here's what he said We all go away and say, wow, he just told us Christ even more fully than we knew because we don't have the completed canon yet. We just have Mark. We don't have the synoptic view. We don't even have John's gospel. We don't have all the word, but we have Christ present with us. Who's ministering his word to us through these revelatory gifts of signs, prophecies? Are you tracking what's happening in Corinth? What's going on in that day And maybe there's someone who's come off the streets, maybe they've heard about this Christ. But man, how could a Jewish Supposed criminal. I mean he was executed by lawful authorities. How can he be this Lord, this Son of God, you say he is? How can he be the Lord of my life and Savior and rescue me from death? How? I don't get it. He died in such weakness and ignominy and let's be honest. You guys aren't exactly the cream of the crop in the Roman Empire either. Paul had to talk about that. Consider your calling, beloved. You aren't exactly the sharpest in the shed And he may be seriously, I'm joking, but he may be seriously wrestling with the faith. And God would know that, the exalted Christ who's present. Someone might get up and say, and maybe this person is someone who at a young age had a cartwheel roll over their foot. Terrible trauma to it, suffered blood clots for the rest of their life, uh, severely hampered. All the dreams were dashed of being the Olympic chief runner he wanted to be. And now he's struggling. Well, if there's a God, I don't want to know him anyways, because he mashed my foot. And he's in the congregation. Maybe God then someone else stands up, goes to the elder, and said I have such a strong sense. Nay, more than that, the Spirit has made it clear, the exalted Christ has made it clear he's going to heal that man and prove to him because he's come seeking a feast Christ. And he goes up to him and says, in the name of Jesus, be healed. He's healed. But church service, right? That is Christ's ministry. Christ, who's done the work of atoning for that man's sin, calling him and bringing him to faith. But beloved, we don't need those gifts anymore because we have them. Let me see if I can apply it to us today. We came to church today. If you look at the end of chapter 12, Paul lists some of these gifts again He asks, are all apostles? Obviously not. Are all prophets? No. Are all teachers? He lists teaching as one of the gifts. But go on and say that Ephesians 4, right? God gave first apostles and prophets and pastors and teachers. How many of you have been, it doesn't even have to be this church, but how many of you have ever been in a worship service And you go away. And you know God spoke to you through that minister by his spirit. Not a special word where he said, I got a new, but He exposited faithfully scripture and you go, that is exactly what I needed to hear. In fact, it might even have been a bit scary, and you wondered, has that person read my diary? Because so fully does it address me in my life and situation. That's the exalted Christ, taking his final word and ministering to you. Paul will call what we generally tend to call the regular offices charisma in Scripture. It's a charismatic gift, the ministry, the settled ministry in the church. Let's imagine the terrible reality when you have someone, let's imagine someone sinned horribly publicly in this system. Caused a big strife. And you have the elders of the church Who come, let's let's say God worked quick, a week later and assembly at the week the emails have been flooding in the pastor's email, the Emails have been flooded into the session. People have been hurt. There's this damage control. And the session's been dealing, trying to deal faithfully from God's word with I'm going to call uh this this individual who so grievously sinned against another publicly. And has brought that person to see the errors of their way, that they are so contrite and willing and humble to then acknowledge their sin before the congregation, ask forgiveness and repent. Do you know the Bible also says gifts of helps and government? Elders, the eldership is a charisma Because the risen, exalted Christ by his Spirit works through these men to do just those things to build the body up. How many have ever seen a situation like that resolve peacefully, fully, wonderfully? Praise God, that's the Spirit manifesting himself, right? I could go on and I know I focused on those, but let's imagine there's an individual who has past skills uh in financial things. Who has taken on a big burden for the church to transfer their financial stuff into a new institute and organize it? Because who doesn't want to get paid, right? What happens when people don't get paid and a church can't function God gives gifts of administration. That's the spirit manifesting itself for the good of the body. So you see me go from kind of extraordinary, special things before the canoe is completed You see me go to what we sort of regularly experience in the church under under the normal ministry and the offices. I could easily talk about the diaconate because gifts of health service, the diaconate is just as much it cares about, but also every member of the body Serves it and manifest the spirit. Alright. Verse 7 I said is what we're focusing on. There's kind of three things in verse 7. There's the recipient, right? Paul says to each. Let me just be real simple. Paul means each member there. He's talking about all who got in power. And the point being is every member ministry is the biblical way. Every member in the Church of Christ involved some way in ministering and serving that with what you have received from the Spirit for its good. That's the biblical way. That's the OPC's way. If you want to look at your former government I don't think I brought it up there with me. Chapter 2, Chapter 3 have these wonderful words where they say, Every member of Christ has been endowed with the Holy Spirit to serve Christ and with Christ in this threefold work. So you want to know if you want to like classify your work as a Christian because beloved this is a call to work. If you've been called to be in part of Christ, you've been called to work. The threefold work we've been called to is worship. How am I involved in helping this body worship? Being here, of course, is a big one. Is there any other thing in which I can help out with it? Let me just make this point to the session which I'm on A big part of this session is going to be on your own is pointing out the needs of the congregation, making sure they're known, making sure ways people can be served and getting them involved in doing that. But also on the same side, uh You can always come and ask how can I serve too? Uh so just so you know. But Session is responsible, so should be doing this. How am I serving in worship? What am I doing? Maybe spend some time today to reevaluate When I come to these worship services, what's my only role? Actively participating? That's a great role. You should be doing it. Is there anything else I might be doing? Is there anything else that needs to be done Second is mutual edification. That's that building each other up through Bible studies and prayers and phone calls and meal train ministries and prayer chain and all those different ways we do it as we think through Every one of us has the spirit to build the body up by word and by deed, by what we say, bringing the scripture to bear on each other's lives, speaking the truth and love, and by deed, what we do with our hands and feet and mouth to bless and serve them. Think to what am I actively doing in building the body of What is my aim and goal I go to fellowship hour? Eat all the good food? It's a pretty decent goal, but just put it down here Talk about the weather? Talk about politics? Hmm. Those can be edifying potentially. Talking about how you doing, brother, in Christ. How's your life going? What's happening? Where are you anxious? Where are you afraid? Where are you sad? Are you praying? Are you in the Bible? Yeah, what kind of talks is that? And I know out there in the forum and all mixing it can be difficult to have real serious private convocations. My office is study is available always. If you need to go in there and have a private conversation, please do it. But also, this isn't the only time as you meet during the week and do other stuff, but you have the spirit to build each other up And the third and last one is evangelism, gospel witness. All of us should be involved in evangelism. And a big one is coming to worship service on the Lord's Day. Beloved, the Jews don't come on the first day of the week and worship God. Because they don't believe the gospel. They don't believe Jesus is the risen Lord. So we worship those who say Jesus is Lord by the Spirit, worship him on the first day of the week, because he's the Lord of the Sabbath. Did you know it's an evangelistic thing to come and worship Jesus on the Lord's day? You're telling the whole world, I believe the good news, and it's true, and it's real. Jesus is Lord. He's risen. That's why we worship on the first day. And the cause there's many other ways Because you kids, discipling, that's that Dutch evangelism, right? Have more babies and bring them up in the covenant and minister to them and pray, but also Uh sharing the good news with colleagues and neighbors, right? All these different ways, right? All of us. Maybe ask ourselves, what am I doing with this church? And evangelism, but also let me then step back and put this before us all. First of all, please commit yourself to the prayer for these work in the church. Because none of us are going to do it, and we're not going to do it effectively, we're not going to do the way God wants us to do it, and we're not going to do it as the weak, sinful creatures we are reliant to depend upon His Holy Spirit, if we're not praying for our worship Praying for our mutual education and praying for evangelism. So maybe just start with prayer Secondly, we see the gift, right? There's the recipient, all of you. The gift is you've been given some way to manifest the Holy Spirit. I'm going to read a few quotes to help you get at this idea of And really get away from this idea of the question isn't, what's my gift? The question should be, how can I minister to another person? Here, uh Dr. Richard Gaffin, uh retired OPC minister, he's also a member of this uh Presbytery still. Hear what he says in his book Um uh Perspectives on Pentecost The way to determine our spiritual gifts is not to ask, what is my thing spiritually? My spiritual specialty. That sets me apart from other believers and gives me a distinguishing niche in the church. Rather, the New Testament on the whole takes a much more functional and situational approach. The question to ask is, what in the situation which God has placed me are the particular opportunities I see for serving other believers in word, in deed? What are the specific needs confronting me that need to be ministered to? Posing and effectively responding to this question will go a long way not only toward discovering But also actually using our spiritual gifts. You see, the question is first to say, where am I at? And what are the needs in the church? And then meet them. And you'll not only discover your gifts, at the same time you'll use your gifts. He goes on in another quote, a different part of the book, but I what I'm trying to do through these is broaden the idea of what we understand to be spiritual gifts. Here's what he says. Any capacity of the believer, someone who says Jesus is Lord, including aptitudes present before conversion. What what were you apt to do before? Did you like music? Did you like sports? Uh we can find a way to sanctify sports as a gift, I suppose, and doing the church. Did you like were you apt at administration? What were you apt at Even before your conversion, brought under the controlling power of God's grace and functioning in his service is a spiritual gift. Spiritual gifts comprise all the ways in which God, by the power of His Spirit, uses Christians as instruments in his service. 1 Corinthians 7 7, I'm still quoting him, is an instructive example of this breath. Celibacy Remaining in the unmarried estate. Or marriage, as the case may be, ought to be and can be a spiritual ministry. Let me pause with a week. Paul says it's a charisma To either be married, it's a charisma to remain celibate. Beloved, you enter into the marriage estate, that's a spiritual gift you can build the church up with. If God calls you to celebrate, that's a spiritual gift to build up the church. And let me say here real quick, let's not be quick. To go to people who are unmarried and presume something's wrong with them. It's not the biblical way. They are still a gift to Christ. Even if somebody they get married and their celibate say to that time, they're a blessing. And if they choose to remain it because God has called them to it, they're still a blessing. And they need to be looked after and cared for. And I just say it because family's good and right. OPC's all about it. We should be all about it. We're also about whomever God puts in his church, and if he calls them the celibacy, supporting them too, and encouraging them and acknowledging the real gifts they get, because I can think of an individual in his celibate state who serves a lot And if he wasn't, would be unable to do it. So praise God. Let me go on. Biblically speaking, charismatic and Christian are synonymous. The Christian life in its Christ's totality is a charismatic life. Christ Church as a whole is the charismatic movement. I read that from Gaffin, Ferguson, Green, several others. And what I really appreciate about Satan this week is Charismatic, beloved, is not a few revelatory gifts that don't happen today and people pretend they happen today. That's not charismatic Christianity. The Church of Jesus Christ is charismatic Christianity If you're a member of Christ, filled with Spirit, say He's Lord. You're charismatic. You're a gift of God's grace to serve up his church, only done by the Spirit who sovereignly puts you where you have including all your life circumstances and taking it all under control under his effectual influences. Praise God. All of Christianity is charismatic. Courage was given to the judges as a spiritual gift of the Old Testament. Strength was given to Samson as a spiritual gift in the Old Testament. Artistic skill is given to those who build the tabernacle in the wilderness and David who built this temple in the By the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament. Ability to govern was given to the 70 elders in Numbers 11. It was a spiritual gift in the Old Testament. Intellect and wisdom is given by the Spirit of God in the Old Testament How useful are those things today? Courage is absolutely needed to be reconciled to somebody. Courage is needed to call out sin. Courage is needed to share the good news of Christ. Let me close uh with this example. When I became my my Christian life, as I know all your Christian life Began when the Spirit brought you to your knees and you said Jesus is Lord and you called upon him, right? Now that can happen different phases and ways, but the the gist of it is if if you don't confess Jesus is Lord and you don't call upon him Examine your heart. If you can actually get to your life and live dependent one day without Jesus, you need to rethink the gospel. My Christian life began when I cried out to Jesus and confessed him as Lord, as he had revealed himself by his spirit to me. But my Christian service in the body and life began When God moved me to Kentucky, and I was wrestling through being called there, and he answered in several prayers, and I won't give you the whole story, but one of them was There was a great need right in front of me. They were starting a new camp, and they needed someone to teach marksmanship. If you know my past, I spent eight years as a scout sniper in the Marine Corps. I thought, hmm, I could teach a few kids a couple things about marksmanship. It was such a joy. Not only did I teach him how to shoot upside down, pop balloons at twenty-five yards, I mean laying on your back and shooting guns at Got to share Christ with them. Hear about what it was like to be in Kentucky in a drug-riddled state and grown by your grandparents because of just the poverty and share Christ with So my my Christian life began and service began with where's the need? Just needing it. Maybe you've gotten to a phase and you wonder, and a lot of things have changed in your life, and you're going, huh, where do I fit in? What's my value? Where's a need? Continue again and keep going on. Have you ever heard that saying? That's the spirit. Beloved, when you see somebody meeting needs. humbly, dependently upon God, without drawing any attention to themselves, you can all say, that's the Spirit