Deuteronomy nineteen, verse fifteen, A single witness shall not suffice against the person for any crime. or for any wrong in connection with any offense that he has committed. Only on the evidence of two witnesses, or three witnesses, shall a charge be established If a malicious witness arises to accuse a person of wrongdoing, then both parties to the dispute shall appear before the Lord, before the priests and the judges who are in office in those days The judges shall inquire diligently, and if the witness is a false witness, and he has accused his brother falsely, then you shall do to him as he had meant to do to his brother So you shall purge the evil from your midst, and the rest shall hear and fear, and shall never again commit any such evil among you. Your eye shall not pity. It shall be life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot. This is the word of the Lord Now here are the reading of God's Word from James, James chapter 4, verses 1 through 10, and then we turn to the text for preaching in Matthew after that. James chapter four, one through ten. What causes quarrels, and what causes fights among you? Is it not this that your passions are at war within you? You desire and you do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions You adulterous people, do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says, He yearns jealously over the spirit that he has made to dwell in us? But he gives grace, more grace. Therefore it says God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be wretched and mourn and weep, let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom Humble yourselves before the Lord, and He will exalt you. And then to Matthew chapter 18, 21 through 35. Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him? As many as seven times? Jesus said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times. Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents. And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold, with his wife and children and all that he had, and payment to be made. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, Have patience with me, and I will repay everything. And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. But when that same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii, and seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, Pay what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down and pleased with him. Have patience with me, and I will pay you. He refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place. Then his master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you? And in anger his master delivered him to the jailers, and so he should pay all his debt. So also, my heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from the heart. This is the word of the Lord. At the outset, I think it's very clear that in the larger context of this passage, Jesus is teaching that a Christian who is sinned against Must forgive the one who sinned against him if he repents. He must forgive if that one repents. He also taught in the preceding verses a personal and then judicial process designed to bring an offender to repentance and forgiveness. We're not going to explore that section today. We'll circle back to it at the end. In the first part of our text today, Peter asks, if there is a limit. To the necessity to forgive repeat offenders. Jesus answered very emphatically and with hyperbole I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times. That's hyperbole. There is no limit. That's the thesis of the sermon this morning. There is no limit to the forgiveness that should be extended Presumably because it should be like the forgiveness of God. In Christ God extends to every believer unlimited forgiveness when we repent. That is made clear in the parable, the illustration that Jesus gives here. So we begin with Peter, Peter being a practical sort of guy. You know, he wants to know what the score is, he wants to know how everything's going to go, he's got to figure it out, he's in control. Peter, being a practical guy, asked Jesus about grudges. When can you hold a grudge against someone who sins and repents? and then sins again and then repents again and then sins again, the same old sin against you. When can you finally write them off and say, I'm done with you That's what the text is telling us. Peter came up to him and said, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him? As many as seven times? Peter thought that the offer of seven was a generous offer. Some of the rabbis said you have to forgive three times. Three is enough. You're done. But Peter's trying to expand on that. Seven. How about seven? Will that do? In response, Jesus tells this parable. that illumines and illustrates the parable. And if you want to take notes, it's first there's the royal treatment. And then the rotten treatment, and then the righteous treatment. Royal, rotten, and righteous. The royal treatment first. Every Christian has been treated this way: the royal treatment. Because sin, our sins, are an unpayable debt Verse 23, therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed 10,000 talents. And since he could not pay his master, ordered him to be sold with his wife and children and all that he had in payment to be made. The only hope for this servant is mercy. And mercy is our only hope. We are not good. We are not good. We have not earned anything, and we need mercy. He uses a legal term for the speech that he's making here, asking for mercy. It's meant to awaken the compassion of the judge. Give me time and I'll pay you what I owe Now, consider the debt in this parable. Commentators list the modern value of 10,000 talents as Something above a $12 million, maybe a lot more than $12 million. A lot of money The figure clearly represents an unpayable debt. Whether it's $12 billion or $12 million, it's unpayable. Back then, the top price for a slave was one talent. This is ten thousand talents. The promise of the servant here, his plea makes no sense. He speaks as if all he needs was a little time and a little patience with With his situation, and if he's given enough time, he'll actually pay off this massive debt. The disciples listening to Jesus would think it's almost funny. What he offers here. Just give me a little time. I'll get a part-time job and I'll pay you the twelve million that I owe. Spurgeon, the great Prince of Preachers, says, Many a poor sinner is very rich in resolutions. The servant debtor thought he only needed patience, but what he really needed was mercy. What he really needed is forgiveness. That's what grace is. Grace is an undeserved favor, undeserved, because we all have a great debt before God. And then we see that grace here in verse 27. Out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him. And forgave him the debt. Released him and forgave him the debt. He was moved with compassion in this parable. And released, that's the word for forgive, by the way, it's release. The master showed mercy prompted by compassion, for giving a debt that obviously could never be repaid. Despite whatever promises you might make, whatever resolutions you might make, however many part-time jobs you might get, you'll never be able to pay it. So this king here, this king Forgave the unpayable debt. But guess what? It costs him to do that. It costs him He's got to give up that debt. He's got to let it go. He has to write it off of his accounts. And he probably doesn't get a tax break for it either. It costs him. And forgiveness always costs something. That brings us to, well, let me ask you this before we move on to the next point. Um are you a repeat offender? Are you have you sinned against God in some way, many ways probably, and then repented and then sinned the same way again and then repented and then sinned the same way again and then repented, have you? Probably many of you have. Probably all of you have. I have. So that brings us to the second point, the rotten treatment. The rotten treatment. This is the rotten treatment of those who refuse to live out the gospel in relation to other sinners. God's people are sometimes, I'm being hyperbolic here, sometimes less gracious than God. In fact, we're almost always less gracious. We are less gracious than God. Again, going back to Peter, Peter wanted to know what the limit was. He wanted to calculate the cost and then grab the the offender by the throat in the parable verse twenty-eight. Then that same servant went out. He found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii And seizing him, you see him grabbing by the collar, he began to choke him, saying, pay what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him he had pleaded before now, his fellow servant's pleading with him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you. He refused, and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt. Anyone hearing this parable would realize that this is rotten treatment. Rotten, unjust, unfair treatment. Now the debt was real in the second case here. The debt was real. It was a hundred denarii. Roughly equal to a hundred days wages. Not an insignificant amount, but almost nothing Almost nothing compared to the debt forgiven by the king of his first servant. About maybe one six hundred thousandth Not much. Have you ever given anybody their rotten treatment? Or are you even now giving someone their rotten treatment? That's the rotten treatment. We're not willing to forgive, even though we receive God's lavish mercy on us every day, every waking hour, every sleeping hour, every breath is mercy. He wake up and see the sun rise in its mercy. If you're giving someone the rotten treatment, if that's your that's your way of dealing with other brothers and sisters in Christ, then you can expect what's next. That's the righteous treatment. The righteous treatment. Verse 31. When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed. And they went out and reported to their master all that had taken place. Then his master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you? And in anger, his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. And then this is the final application by Jesus, the one that has to pierce our hearts So also, my Heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from the heart. Wow. That is a powerful, stark statement. What does this threat mean? We have to have some theology to understand this. We have to understand it in the context of all of the biblical teaching Is Jesus threatening eternal punishment to a believer who fails in this regard in some way or for some time? Well, that would be Not very theological to say so. That would be counter to so much of the gospel teaching that we know from the whole of Scripture about justification by faith, not by perfect performance. So I think what we can see here is Jesus is teaching what can be described as a temporal misery. It's bad. It's not hell, though. It's not eternal damnation for failing to forgive, but it's bad. This temporal misery is described in our Westminster Confession of Faith. Let me just read that for you. It's in chapter 18, paragraph 4. Says this, true believers may have the assurance of their salvation divers ways shaken, diminished, intermitted. As by negligence in preserving of it. And then it says it's by falling into some special sin which woundeth the conscience and grieveth the spirit. I think that failing to forgive falls under that category of negligence in living the gospel. Falling into some special sin, in this case a grudge that will not be removed, which woundeth the conscience Grieveth the Spirit, then it goes on and says, by some sudden or vehement temptation, that temptation to not forgive, to hold on to a grudge. And then it goes on to say, by God's, God's response here, God's withdrawing the light of his countenance. We get that benediction often. In church. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you. The Lord lift up his countenance. Well, this is the withdrawing of that countenance This happens even to such as fear him, and they're allowed to walk in darkness and have no light for a period of time. And then it goes on to say, and that's what we're hoping for today, yet they are never utterly destitute of that seed of God. That's Salvation. That's the faith. That's the it regeneration. That life of faith, that love of Christ and the brethren, that sincerity of heart and conscience of duty, out of which it says, by the operation of the Spirit This assurance, which has been withdrawn for a bit, in due time may be revived, and by which, in the meantime, they are supported from utter despair. So I think what we get here is that Jesus is teaching that when it comes to forgiveness, experience-wise, what you give is what you get. What you give is what you get. If we will not forgive, the blessings of a peaceful assurance of God's favor are withdrawn because we're grieving the Holy Spirit And God removes the shining glow of his wonderful face from shining upon us. Let me point that out in a few passages of Scripture. Ephesians 4. Beginning at verse 30, it says, do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. And then it says in verse 31 what that would maybe look like. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. And the opposite? Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you. There it is. James talks about such things in James chapter 3, verses 6 through 10. The tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining our whole body. Setting on fire the entire course of our life and is set on fire by hell for every kind of beast and bird and reptile and sea creature can be tamed and has been tamed by mankind, but no human can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil full of deadly poison. With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we Curse people who are made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessings and cursings. Now, brothers, these things ought not to be so. And then he talks about in chapter 3, verse 14, but if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth. He's saying there, live according to the gospel. But the wisdom that comes from God, listen to these characteristics, is first of all pure, then peaceable. Gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. That's living the gospel That's giving the royal treatment that you've received. And then that passage that we read from James, what causes quarrels and fights among you, and says Your passions are at war within you. Well passions can be stirred up by grudges, can't they? Anger, hurt But what we really have here, if you put all this together, is that God is seriously jealous about our gospel living and about our forgiving others when they repent. Verse 6 of James 4 says, But he gives more grace. Therefore it says God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, purify your hearts. That's not salvation by works. That's practical Christian living, obedience, thankfulness The blessings of a peaceful assurance of God's favor are withdrawn if you've broken the command to love one another. John chapter 15, this is my commandment that you love one another How? As I have loved you. If you refuse to forgive from the heart, you flunk the test of 1 John 3. 14, which says, We know that we have passed out of death into life Because what? We love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death. So what we get from all this is that there are there are emotional and physical consequences which are described under the terms tormentors and jailers in the parable here. And that would be something like a lack of rest, a lack of peace, a lack of joy. It would be living in bitterness, resent-filled heart and mind and mouth. And contemplating vengeance when we won't forgive. And what happens when we won't forgive is we join the ranks of the offenders by our lack of forgiveness. Now, some of you know who I am. I've some new faces here, and it's wonderful. I was pastor here for 15 years, and uh several years ago, many in fact, uh uh I had some difficult times here. I had some people who were accusing me um of things Some of which were a little true. There's always some truth in some accusations, you know. Some of which were somewhat true, but the worst of them were not true. But uh As time went on, the things of which I was accused were not nearly as bad as the hatred that developed in my heart toward my accusers. Not good. And I went to see a minister. I didn't even know him, but I said, can I talk to you? And I just, I'm not going to tell you who, but um, he said, You've got to forgive. He didn't even ask me all about everything about it. He said, I know what the answer to this is. You've got to forgive. Oh no, that's too hard. What will that cost me? I like this grudge. I'm angry You've got to forgive. And he prayed for me. What do we have to do in response to this? Become practitioners of this royal treatment. Practice the grace by which you have been saved. What does it say in Romans 5. 8? God demonstrates his love for us and that while we were still sinners, still sinners. Christ died for us. And in order to do that, you need to first see yourself in the offender. There are such a so-and-so. Well, guess what? So am I. You're capable of the worst things. Don't think that you're not capable of the worst things. Remember that God alone is holy. God alone is pure. God alone is righteous. And God alone is the judge. Paul says in Romans 12, 19, Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And finally, remember God's grace to you, and be willing to pay the price to forgive others. The price. What's that? It costs you something to forgive others, just like it cost this king to give up that 10,000 talent debt. It cost you something to forgive others. It cost God an awful lot to forgive you and me. Your Savior Jesus was offended. If you've been offended by somebody, well, Jesus was offended. He was humiliated. Let me tell you, when I was going through those troubles, I was humiliated to be dragged before the presbytery. He was stripped, he was beaten, he was spat upon to forgive you. He endured the hellish agony of God's wrath to win your forgiveness. It costs something. And you and I are called to share in his sufferings. That's the cost. To forgive others costs something. Make no mistake about it, these final words of the text. So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from the heart. So circling back to the text before this, if you are offended by someone, we're told what to do. Jesus says If your brother sins against you, if you think he has, go and tell him his fault. Between you and him alone, do not take others that are not a party to the offense Try to get it settled that way first. If he listens to you, you gained your brother. If he really needs forgiveness and he really repents, then you must forgive. You do it. It's all good, and you put it behind you from the heart. Not just legally, but really. How many times? How many times Innumerable times. Too many to count. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. That was uh in the Deuteronomy reading that we had at the beginning. This is a serious, formal proceeding. And if he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. That's the final thing. That's how you deal with Unresolved, unrepentance. And some things don't need that process. Some things you know you just sweep away. Love covers a multitude of sins. It costs you something that it covers. Not everything has to go to trial. Sometimes you just be done with it. But you do forgive. You don't just hold the grudge and then, well, it costs you something. It's Jesus' gospel way It cost him a great price. If you do not do this, you are the loser, and the loss is terrible. Are you willing to obey and live out the gospel? In light of God's mercy to you and me, practice this costly mercy toward others. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that you are so gracious and so kind and so patient with our constant failure toward you. Help us to live out the gospel. Be a community of the forgiven who forgive freely. Help us to pay the price of forgiveness. Because Jesus did for us. In His name. Amen.