Please open your Bibles to the book of Jeremiah. Chapter 31. We'll read verses 31 through 37. Jeremiah 31, verses 31 through 37. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the Lord. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor, and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord. For they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun for the light by day, and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the Lord, then shall the offspring of Israel cease from being a nation before me forever. Thus says the Lord: if the heavens above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth below can be explored, then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done declares the Lord. The word of the Lord. The preaching text, Galatians five 1 through 21. As we pick up and continue in Galatians after the hiatus of my being away for a bit. Galatians 5, beginning at verse 1. This is the inspired and fallible word of God written from the pen of the Apostle Paul. For freedom Christ has set us free. Stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery Look, I, Paul, say to you, if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ. You would be justified by the law. You have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love. You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion is not from him who calls you. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view than mine. And the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty, whoever he is. But if our brothers still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case, the offense of the cross has been removed. I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves. For you were called to freedom, brothers, only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh. But through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word: you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other. To keep you from doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity Strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these I warn you as I warned you before that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, you have caused these words of the apostle written to a particular church long ago to be written down for our benefit So help us to understand them that way and to receive them that way today by the same Holy Spirit. We pray in His name. Amen. The actual text is verses 13 through 26. So after Paul has made his initial statement again. And before he gets to the fruit of the Spirit, we're going to look at these verses. Paul has been laboring. Working very hard to impress upon the Galatians the crucial importance of not returning to Jewish practices as part of being a follower of Jesus. He has stressed that Jesus has fulfilled the ceremonial holiness code aspects of the law, and that it is therefore an insult to grace to return to them. It's like saying, Jesus' death on the cross, his cleansing blood received by faith are not enough. And each disciple must complete the unfinished work by observing the holiness code. So he begins in verses 13 through 15. And we de see describe their liberty versus return to the ceremonial law, which has expired Our Westminster Confession of Faith describes this aspect of the law, the expired aspect, when it says in chapter 19 Section 3. Besides this law, that is the moral law, commonly called moral, God was pleased to give the people of Israel as a church under age, a childish church. Ceremonial laws containing several typical ordinances, partly of worship, prefiguring Christ, his graces, actions, sufferings, and benefits and partly holding forth divers instructions of moral duties, all of which ceremonial laws are now abrogated, done away Under the new covenant. Here are the verses then where Paul talks about the freedom from that holiness code. He says, For you were called to freedom. Brothers, only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you were not consumed by one another. Again, Paul has made the point over and over: the Christian life is a life of freedom. The Galatian false teachers were seeking to be justified and sanctified by observing aspects of the ceremonial law, which began by the initiation of circumcision. They were opposed to this freedom. They saw the list of do's and don'ts in the Holiness Code as a method for being a super Christian They considered Paul's doctrine of salvation by grace through faith alone as a doctrine that would inevitably lead to abuse, lead to a license to sin. The admonition to not return to this ceremonial law is similar to what Paul said to the Colossians in chapter 2, verses 20 through 23. He says, With Christ you died to the elemental spirits of the world. Why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit to regulations? Do not handle, do not taste, do not touch, referring to things that all perish as they are used. According to human precepts and teachings, he says, they indeed have an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body But listen to this, he says, but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. Did you hear that? Such expired laws are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. But on the other hand, Paul knew that there's also a danger in abusing liberty. He's advocating liberty, but he knows there's a danger in abusing liberty, so he quickly adds. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. Again, the great fear of the legalist was that liberty would be used as an opportunity for the flesh, the idea that people would just go out and sin willfully Then they would say to God, I'm covered by the death of Jesus, and then go on doing whatever they want to do again and again and again. I suppose they were thinking of something like diplomatic immunity, you know, where you can park anywhere you want and just throw the ticket away because you've got a free pass. But remember who Paul is writing to here. He's writing to people called brothers. These are those who are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus, Galatians 3. 26. These are those who were baptized into Christ and have put on Christ, Galatians 3. 27. These are the ones who have been called to this freedom. They have been set free, and now the question is, how will they use their freedom? Clearly, it is possible to use freedom as an opportunity for the flesh. You can take the glorious freedom that Jesus has given you and spin it and use it as a way of pleasing yourself. In sinful ways. And in this context, you can use it at the expense of others. Paul has this in mind. He's talking about people using their freedom to trample on the toes of others, to hurt others. That's a wrong-headed liberty. It's easy if you don't know otherwise to think that liberty is the right to sin. That's the way our people around us these days think of liberty. Just the right to do anything you want. That's liberty. But Paul is not advocating that. The liberty Paul advances is the liberty of the Spirit given desire and ability to do what we Should do before God and in relation to others. To do what we should do, not just whatever our sinful desires might lead us to do He says, but through love serve one another. This is the cure for using liberty as an occasion for the flesh. So now Paul has introduced that word flesh. It's important for us to understand what he's going to talk about here, the contrast between flesh and spirit. So we need to get some definitions in mind. There are two Greek words that can refer to our physical bodies. One is soma, and the other is sarks. SOMA and SARX. Paul is using the word sarks here. But he's not referring to the physical body. He is referring to the sinful fallen nature which is united to Adam by nature. How can you tell the difference between whether Paul is using Sarks as just referring to the body or whether it's referring to the sinful nature? Here's how you can tell by context. Whenever you find a passage where flesh, sarks, and spirit are being contrasted, you know that he's using flesh to refer to the sinful nature. I'll give you one example in the famous passage where Jesus is encountered by Nicodemus in John chapter 3, where Nicodemus came to him at night. It says there, this man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs unless God is with him. And Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. And then he makes this contrast, that which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. There they are put in opposition to one another. He's clearly talking about the flesh, not of the body, but of the sinful nature, of the Adamic nature, the nature we got from our first father Adam. So, what it means is this: you and I are fallen beings. We are sinners. And you are redeemed and justified and forgiven all your sins. But as long as you live, you will battle the flesh. When we sang those two verses of He Still Loves Me, we sang some of that theological content. You are not saved by works. You are saved by grace, but you still have some of the human Fallen nature, the Sarks clinging to you. If you don't have Christ at all, if you're not united to Christ by faith at all, then you're 100% Sarks flesh. But if you are saved, you're united to Christ, you have forgiveness, but you still have some of this sarks, this flesh clinging to you against your new will. When I was a boy, we were out driving in the country, my my mom and dad, and my sister and I, in our 1957 Chevy. And we were out driving around, I don't know why, but we were out in the country on a dirt road and my dad saw some skunk kittens crossing the road. Cute little skunk kittens. And uh some of them had gone all the way across and others were afraid because now there was a car coming and they didn't know what to do and their mom had already gone across the road, I guess. So my dad got out of the car and he went to help the kittens cross the road. Um he helped each one across the road, but guess what? The last one he picked them up by their tails. The last one sprayed him. And as a result, my mom would not let him into the car. He had to ride on the front hood and she rolled the windows up. And she made him throw away his clothes. She wouldn't even launder them And made him wash off in the yard with a hose and soap multiple times. She did let him into the house because he was her husband. Even though he stunk for days. My friends, our sin nature, our socks, sarks, clings to us. After we've been saved, it clings to us against our new will. Paul was not referring to the physical body, which is created good. from the Garden of Eden, but he's referring to the remaining sinful nature that hangs around like a bad odor and cannot be easily washed off. Martin Luther says about this, the desires of the flesh. He says, I do not deny that the lusts of the flesh include carnal lusts. But it takes in more. It takes in all the corrupt desires with which believers are more or less infected, such as pride, hatred, covetousness, impatience. Jesus said in John chapter 6, verse 63, again contrasting spirit and sarks, he said, It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh, Sarks, is no help at all. You see, the flesh, even for us, the flesh expects others to conform to you and doesn't care much about others. But when you, as he advocates here, through love serve one another in the spirit, you begin to conquer the flesh. This is exactly the pattern, I should say, set by our Lord Jesus. Jesus had more liberty than anyone who ever walked this earth. And yet he used his liberty to do what? To love others by serving others. In Mark 10, verse 45, it says, He came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. So Paul says, the whole law. If you want to fulfill the law, that's your goal. Go ahead. The whole law is fulfilled in one word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. And then he says, but beware. Lest you be consumed by one another. That's the opposite. Here Paul is sarcastically addressing the legalists, I think, and saying, you want to keep the law? You're such interested in keeping the law? Keep this one. Love one another. Luther says, if you want to know how you ought to love your neighbor, ask yourself how much you love yourself. If you were to get in trouble or danger, you would be glad to have the help of others. You do not need any book of instructions to teach you how to love yourself. So love your neighbor as yourself, and you will fulfill the law. If not, he says, you may end up biting and devouring one another. When I read that phrase again. I thought of the 1997 incident where boxer Mike Tyson, no relation to these Tysons, I'm sure, achieved notoriety. In one of the most bizarre fights of the century, after he bit off part of Evander Holyfield's ear, Tyson was disqualified from the match and lost his boxing license for a while The phrase, bite and devour one another, reminds us of a pack of wild animals. That's how Christians can act when they use their liberty, not true liberty, but false liberty, as a platform to promote selfishness. If you want to see some action, put two selfish people together. Selfish people will eventually be consumed by one another. So now point two. The opposite of all this is affirmed. Use your liberty to walk in holy living, verse 16 and so forth He says, But I say walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Simply put, if you walk by the Spirit, instead of trying to live by the law, you will naturally not gratify the desires of the flesh. Again, the theory of the legalist is that walking in the Spirit gives license to sin, and that only legalism can keep us holy. But remember what Paul taught about the purpose of the ceremonial law. It was our schoolmaster, he says. That's the guy that walked around the class with a stick. To lead us to Christ, Christ who is the fulfillment, who is the goal, who is the end, the purpose of the law. And so now in union with Christ, to walk by the Spirit first means that the Holy Spirit lives in you. Isn't that what Jesus promised in John 16? I will send the Comforter, and he will be in you. And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin, righteousness, and judgment. He will speak moral truth within your soul. Second, it means that you will be open and sensitive to the influence of this Holy Spirit that's in you. And third, it means you will pattern your life after the influence of the Holy Spirit. You can tell if someone walks by the Spirit because they become a lot like Jesus. Jesus told us that it was the mission of the Holy Spirit to promote him, to promote his character in his people. When someone walks by the Spirit, they listen to what the Holy Spirit says, and he guides them into the path and nature of Jesus. James Montgomery Boyce says, life by the Spirit is neither legalism nor license, nor a middle way between them. It is a life of faith and love that is above all these false ways. Another result of walking by the Spirit is, he says, you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. There is no way anyone can continually fulfill the desires of the flesh if they're walking by the Spirit. The two simply don't go together. The Holy Spirit doesn't move in you to gratify your fallen desires and passions, but teaches you about Jesus and guides you in the way of Jesus So this, my friends, this is the key to righteous living. Not a list of do's and don'ts. but to be walking in the Spirit, not living under the domination of an expired holiness code. Walking in the Spirit is the prescription, but it doesn't come easily There is a battle going on inside the Christian. The battle is between the flesh and the spirit. He says they are opposed to each other. They are in constant conflict. When the flesh is winning the inside battle, then you do not do the things that you wish to do. You don't live the way you want to. You live under the flesh instead of under the spirit. Again, as I said before, when Paul uses the term flesh, he doesn't mean our physical nature. He's referring to the fallen nature that continues to exist, which is trained in rebellion by the old nature, shaped by the world and influenced by the devil. Even though the old man was crucified with Christ and in principle is dead, Romans 6. 6, its influence lives on. And it will battle against our new nature until we experience final deliverance in a glorified body. He says in verse 18, but if you were led by the Spirit, you were not under the law. The foil to the flesh is not found in the law, but in the Spirit. If you're led by the Spirit, you're not under the law. You don't need to be because you fulfill the will of God through the inner influence of the Holy Spirit instead of the outer influence of the expired ceremonial code. The Spirit effectively writes the moral law of God on your heart, inside of you. And this is the work that was described in Jeremiah 31 as the work of the new covenant. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. The inner influence is far more effective than the outer influence. That takes us to our third point: examples of the works of the flesh that walking in the Spirit helps you overcome. I'm not going to read that whole passage 19 through 21 because I'm going to take it apart bit by bit. There are four categories, I think. There are sensual sins. There are religious sins, there are interpersonal sins, and there are social sins. First, the sensual sins. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness. These are the sensual sins relating to sex. There is ample evidence to show that the sexual life of the Greco-Roman world at the time of the New Testament was complete chaos, a lot like today. Such evidence has come not from Christian writers, but from pagans who were disgusted with the unspeakable sexual immorality. One by one, then adultery is violating the marriage covenant by sexual immorality. Adultery is sin, and those guilty of it should confess their sin and repent of it instead of excusing it. The Holy Spirit never leads anyone into adultery. Fornication is the ancient Greek word pornea. It speaks of sexual immorality in the broader sense. Pornaeus started out meaning the use of a prostitute, but by Paul's day it was used for a wide variety of sexual sins. Sex before and sex outside of marriage is fornication. The Holy Spirit never leads anyone into fornication. Uncleanness Is another broad word referring to sexual impropriety in general. It covers many sexual sins that are not actual intercourse or even interaction with another person, such as pornography. Uncleanness also covers impure speech. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into uncleanness. Lewdness The idea is ready to sin at any time, lewdness. It speaks of someone who flaunts their immorality, throwing off all restraint, having no sense of shame or propriety or embarrassment. Lewdness can be thought of as public or open uncleanness. A person may be unclean and hide his sin, but it does not become licentious until he shocks public decency. says Lightfoot. We live in an incredibly lewd culture. Just think of the parades The gay pride parades in particular, but also the things that people wear at the beach. I'm aware of that from my recent travels. Lewdness. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into lewdness. Idolatry. These are the second set, the religious sins, idolatry and sorcery. They are sins of worship. They remind us that it isn't only tragic to worship the wrong God or seek the wrong spiritual power, it is also sinful to do so. Idolatry is the worship of any God except the Lord God revealed to us in the Bible and in the person of Jesus Christ. When people, no matter how religious they may be, serve a God of their own opinion or their own creation, they reject the true and living God. And that is sin. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into idolatry. Sorcery is a service and worship of occult and spiritual powers apart from the true God. It also has another dimension revealed by the word sorcery in the original language, which is pharmacia. Which is translated pharmacy. It means drugs. It means the illicit use of drugs that cause hallucinations or psycho uh psycho troubling that goes on that leads people to open their mind and heart to false spirits, wrong spirits. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into sorcery or getting high on drugs. Then there's Hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envies, and murders. These are people's sins People's sins. They're sins that primarily express themselves in how we treat others. It's important because God cares about our sexual and moral purity, but He also cares about the purity of our religion and our worship. And he also cares very much about how we treat others. The fact that Paul uses more words to describe these sins shows how important They are. So we quickly go through them. Hatred is an attitude of the heart. Expresses itself in actions such as contentions and outbursts of wrath. Hatred is the inner motivation for the ill treatment of others, just as love is the inner motivation for the kind and good treatment of others. Laws can be passed to punish evil that persons do against each other, but no law can be passed against hatred, which motivates those acts. Contentions is the next one, the most commonly translated strife. In Romans 13 and in 1 Corinthians 3, it simply speaks of a combative, an argumentative spirit, someone who just loves to get in argument and fight. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into contentions. Then jealousies translates the ancient word zealous. That is sometimes used in the positive sense for being zealous for something good, but in this context, it means the desire to have what someone else has, a wrong desire for what is not yours. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into such jealousies. Outbursts of wrath translates the Greek word thumos that speaks of a certain sudden flash of anger. Not a settled state of anger. It describes someone who was given to losing their temper. Over and over. You get to be afraid of them because you know if you say one thing or look at them the wrong way, they will blow up at you Unable to control their anger. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into outbursts of wrath. Selfish ambitions expresses the heart of a person whose first question is always, what's in it for me? To be sure, the Holy Spirit never led anyone into selfish ambitions. And dissensions translates the ancient Greek word, which means standing apart. Dissension describes a society where the members fly apart instead of coming together. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into dissensions. Divisions is the next one. Can be thought of as hardened dissensions. There is all the difference in the world between believing that we are right and believing that everyone else is wrong. Unshakable conviction is a Christian virtue, but unyielding intolerance is a sin that leads to divisions. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into such divisions in the body of Christ. Envy. Envy doesn't so much want what someone else has as in jealousies, but is bitter just because someone else has something that we don't have. That's envy. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into envy. Murders I don't have to describe that, do I? The Holy Spirit never led anyone into murders. Drunkenness is described as one of the works of the flesh. And while Christians may differ as to whether a Christian can drink alcohol, the scriptures definitely forbid drunkenness. And don't think this only means falling down drunk. It's being impaired, my friends. Being impaired in any way by drink. It's a sin. As well as drinking with the intention of becoming impaired. Ephesians 5:18 describes drunkenness and dissipation, which means wastefulness. Getting drunk is a waste And Holy Spirit never led anyone into drunkenness. And then the Holy Spirit never led anyone into rivalries. Rivalries is simply having, not just simply having a party and having a good time, but it is Revelries, I should say, not rivalries, revelries, is not just having a party and having a good time. It means unrestrained partying where participants act disgracefully. Barclay says it describes the kind of revelry which lowers a man's self and is a nuisance to others. And then he says, because he can't say everything, he says, and the like, and the like. This demonstrates that Paul understands that this list, long as it is, is not exhaustive. These are not the only works of the flesh. It isn't as if you could find just this list. And if you could do all the things or not do all the things on this list, you would be free of it. No, there's more after that. And the like. The Holy Spirit never led anyone into things like these. So now the fourth point. The danger and destiny of those who live in the works of the flesh. He says, I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. This shows that Paul often instructed Christians in how they should live. And this wasn't the only time that he's done this. Paul knew that we are saved by God's grace and Jesus' work alone, not by what we have done, are doing, or promised to do But he also knew that those who are saved by God's grace have a high moral obligation to fulfill. Not to earn our salvation, but in gratitude for the salvation and in simple consistency with who we are united to Jesus. He says, I warn you as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. The word there practice, those who practice such things. Will not inherit the kingdom of God. What's at stake here? The kingdom of God Which describes the place where God rules and where his benefits are realized. It's heaven. What it means is that those who are in the habit, practice, of such sins will not go to heaven. They will be separated, as Jesus taught in Matthew 25, 31 through 48, where the sheep and the goats are separated, and then their character is described as the evidence of such separation. In verse Matthew 26, verse 46, he says, and these will go away into eternal punishment. But the righteous into eternal life. Who are the people in danger here? Those who practice such things This means more than someone who has committed adultery, you may have committed adultery, or fornication, or sorcery, or drunkenness. But this speaks of those who continue on and on in these sins, ignoring the voice of the Holy Spirit telling them to stop. The tense of the verb, which is the present tense, indicates a habitual continuation in fleshly sins rather than an isolated lapse The point is that those who continually practice such sins give evidence of having never received God's Spirit. Practice represents a present participle, people doing such things, it can be translated. Habitual practice rather than an isolated lapse. These will not inherit the kingdom of God. The strength and certainty of Paul in this verse is striking. Paul may sound rigid or even harsh, but he is consistent with the biblical idea of conversion. When you come to Jesus to have your sins forgiven, He always changes your life. It doesn't happen all at once. And the work will never be perfected on this side of eternity. You'll still have some of the odor. Of the flesh clinging to you. But there will be real substantial change As Charles Spurgeon put it, the grace that does not change my life will not save my soul. The idea isn't that a Christian could never commit these sins, but that they can never stay in these sins. So I ask you as application today: will you inherit the kingdom of God? You must receive Christ, who fulfilled the law and who gives you the Holy Spirit If you do, or if you have done, you will begin a life of true liberty, and yet a life of moral struggle led by the Holy Spirit And you will not practice the works of the sinful nature. And when you fall and commit one of them, you will repent. Turn away from sin because it is disgusting to God. You will repent. And you will return to Christ and stand in the liberty of Christ and persevere until you are with Christ in glory. Judge yourself today. Will you inherit the kingdom of God Amen. Lord, we pray that as we have heard these words of the apostle teaching the grace of God again and again, teaching the freedom, the liberty. with which we have been set free, and telling us that the rules and regulations of the expired code will not make us holy May we live in the power of the Holy Spirit. May we repent of the sins of the flesh which cling to us against our will. May we bring glory to your name, the name we bear, the name that we bear in baptism, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. May we live to the glory of that name as we live our lives. Amen