Swirling around this event, this critical event in history, the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ, are a lot of questions. We all have questions. One of the big questions is why? What is happening here? Why is it happening? What's the purpose of this sacrifice of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? What does it mean to me? Those are just a few of the questions that are out there. And I'd like to take some time this morning to think about answering some of those questions. And I'd like to do it under the title of the sermon, From Suffering Sacrifice to Victory From suffering, sacrifice to victory. And I'd like to see the text in two uh basic topics. One the suffering and the sacrifice, and two the victory. And I'd like to have you think with me during the sermon about the fact But not even with the death of Jesus Christ imminent. Not even with that death Is our Lord prevented from saving the lost? So let me set the stage. And I know this is familiar with many of you. But it's still good to look at what was happening. We find in verse 27 that There was a group of people attending to the sacrifice of Christ with some degree of mourning and sadness. And along with the Lord Jesus, there were two criminals, all of whom were to be put to death. And this, of course, Is in fulfillment of Scripture. Isaiah chapter 53, that familiar passage in the Old Testament in verse 12. Tells us that Christ would be numbered with the transgressors. In the opinion of many in Jerusalem, Jesus is simply a criminal. And he deserves a criminal's death. And as the Lord is led out to be crucified, there is much physical suffering that he endured. I didn't read about that, but you can read earlier in that chapter and see some of the physical things he endured. And there was considerable anguish of spirit on the part of the Lord, knowing the fact that many people who he had come to save have such a low opinion of him. Imagine a creator about to be destroyed by the very people he created Our blessed Saviour Jesus, the Son of God The doer of a multitude of miracles, the curer of diseases, the healer of infirmities, the one who casts out demons, the one who even raised the dead Why did the people hate him so? What did he do that was worthy of death? They relentlessly pursued Christ's death throughout his three years of ministry. And that relentless pursuit witnesses to the total depravity of man's hearts. On the one hand, while at the same time confirming how much we need Christ's salvation But now that he's about to be crucified, how can Jesus save anybody? In the line of the familiar phrase, our Lord is dead man walking. And so when they came to Calvary, there they crucified him. And the criminals along with them, one on the right and the other on the left. Such torture leading up to this cross. Scourging, a crown of thorns, his body wrecked with pain, spat upon Even forced to carry his own cross. And that's just a beginning of the physical suffering the Lord endured at the hands of sinful men. You all understand that crucifixion was a specialty of the Romans. They now join the Jews in rejecting the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Not only the Jews want Jesus dead, but the Romans are willing accomplices in putting him to death. They could care less about this so-called Jewish Messiah. The Jews hated Jesus with malice. The Romans dealt with him out of ignorance and indifference, and for purely political reasons. But both people, both groups of people, Jew and Gentile, are at the cross, killing Jesus. That's an abbreviation for all mankind. All men are here. We find another fulfillment of scripture from Psalm chapter 22, verse 18 Where it says in verse 34 of this Luke passage, that they divided his garments and cast lots. I don't know if you can imagine it, but imagine how Jesus must have felt as they take, as they strip away his garments. Every shred of his human dignity is removed from him. He is left as the Son of God naked. And you have to ask the question, why would God let this happen? There was an interesting thought that came to me this morning, and sometimes when you get an interesting thought, it may not be the wisest thing to share it. But I'm I'm gonna throw it out and and let you think about it. The Bible makes a point about the fact that God has dealt with man in two different representatives. There is the first representative, Adam. And there is the second representative, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you remember that after Adam sinned, Or before Adam sinned, he was naked. And he wasn't ashamed But after he sinned, he immediately put on clothing. And now it's an odd thing, but here you have a bit of a reversal of that. The second Adam at the cross is closed, but then he's naked. And it's as if God is saying, he is a righteous man, but he must bear the curse of Adam for all men. Think about it. It's an interesting thought. The people stood looking on, the people who had come out to see this spectacle. And it's if They were looking at this whole scene as a form of entertainment. They had come out to witness the crucifixion. The rulers in verse 35 are pictured as, first of all, sneering at Christ and saying He saved others. Let him save himself if he is the Christ, the chosen one. I want you to remember this thing about Those who are speaking to Christ, first the rulers. If he is the Christ, let him say themselves. Remember that. Keep that in your mind. It says that when they said that, they sneered at Christ. That particular word is only used here and in one other place in the New Testament. It's also used in Luke chapter 16, and it once again refers to the Pharisees and the rulers of the Jews, sneering at Christ because he said, No man can serve two masters. An interesting thing is also brought up by the tense of the verb. And I don't want to get awfully technical here, but it's a tense that isn't used very much, and it's one that conveys something that happened in the past. that has continuing reality in the present. And so it's as if we could say, from the use of the tense, That sneering at Christ was something the rulers always did. They always were sneering at Christ for whatever he tried to do, whatever action he did, whatever raising of the dead, whatever healing of the miracles, they always mocked and sneered it in some way. Maybe not vocalizing it, but in their heart they were doing so This intense sneering and scorning of Christ on their part comes to a head when they say, save yourself if you are the Christ. That, my friends, is a complete misunderstanding of who Jesus is and what Jesus came to do. He came to save us sinners. He came to save you and me. He did not come to save himself. If he had listened, if he had saved himself, he could not be your Messiah, because he used his messianic powers for his own benefit. Keep that thought in your mind. The rulers are asking Jesus, take care of yourself before anybody else. That is not how Jesus operates. And thank God it is not. Christ, you see, is laser focused upon his death, for on his death And he's laser focused because he is willing to obey the word of God regarding that death. There is an interesting verse in Isaiah 57, verse 15, that I'd like to share with you about Jesus' ministry. Thus says the high and lofty one who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place. With him who has a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble and to revive the heart of the contrite ones. That text is saying that God will dwell with a certain group of people, with those who are humble, with those who have a contrite heart. God will be pleased to dwell with them. And that is precisely what Christ's death is going to accomplish. The great I am of all of history, the High and Holy One, desires to live with you. A former sinner redeemed by his blood. No man can write this script. Now, again, the Jews sneered at Christ, but that wasn't enough. The Romans had their two cents In verse 37, they say to Jesus, if you are the King of the Jews, yep, save yourself. And because they are here representative of all men, we see that all men are gathered together to taunt Jesus and to reject. his ministry and to get him to do something that would disqualify him as the Lord's Messiah. namely to use his messianic power and his messianic identity in such a way that would only think about himself and not about his sinful people. Then, verse thirty-nine, one of the two criminals who was hanged Says he blasphemed Jesus. If you are the Christ, save yourself. This criminal joins the chorus. If you are the Christ, save yourself. He questions his mission. All these people at the foot of the cross, the Jews, the Romans, the criminal, everybody Everybody, if everybody was there, if you were there, you would think, why doesn't he save himself? No one, you see, without God's revelation Can understand who Christ is or why Christ's cross I told you to remember that phrase. If you are the Christ, save yourself. Three times it or a close variation occurs in this brief text. Once from the Jews, once from the Romans, once from the criminal. Maybe some of you are tracking with me at this point. Because there is another time In the history of Jesus' life, when someone came to him with the words, if you are the Son of God, Command these stones to become red. If you are the Son of God Cast yourself off, for it is written, the angels will give charge of you lest you strike your foot. If you are the Son of God, bow down and worship me. You see, at the beginning of Christ's ministry Who's there trying to stop him? Trying to deflect him from saving you? It's Satan. And now he's back again. At the last moment, the very pinnacle of Christ's suffering. The devil is working through these three groups to get Jesus to abandon the cross and to live for himself. I think that's rather amazing. I think it's amazing that our Savior, under this excruciating physical and mental pain, remains committed. To God's word, to have a people who will love Him and will serve Him and will rejoice in his saving work for them, recognizing they can't save themselves. They need the grace of God. No one, you see, in this world looks at the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ and considers it Anything less than a mistake. And even worse than that, they consider Christ to be a fool. Everyone by nature looks at the cross of Christ with some contempt. Remember, we read 1 Corinthians 1 verse 18. Christ, the power and wisdom of God, for the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. Well, that's the suffering part. Now the victory As our Savior is there on the cross, we have the responses of the two criminals. We've heard the one. Now we're about to hear the other one. And the other one responds to the first criminal who says, if you are the Son of God, save yourself. And this other criminal says this. The other, answering, rebuked him, saying, Do you not even fear God? Seeing you're under the same condemnation. We indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds. But this man has done nothing. Nothing wrong. And then he turned to Jesus and he said, Lord, Remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus said to him Assuredly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. Christ humiliated, mocked, scorned, rejected, hated, vilified, beaten, naked, bleeding Suffering to die in the most gruesome way imaginable. This Savior is seen by the world, by everyone in the world, by nature. as enduring utter foolishness. Everyone, everyone, everyone, except this criminal On the cross. He sees something different. How did this criminal say what he said? There's only one answer to that The grace of God opened his eyes and enabled him to see. It was only by God's electing grace that this criminal at the last minute of his life Turn to Jesus. And I want you to take note of the four things that he said about Jesus. First of all, this is his profession of faith. Because Jesus Lord were master. Then by inference, he says that Christ has a kingdom. Remember me when you come into your kingdom. And also by inference, he says, Christ is the king. Remember me, when you come into your kingdom. And the topper of it all, he believes that Jesus lives beyond death. This is really a confession of faith. And he is greeted by our Savior. A former sinner hears the words of eternal life. Today, today, you will be with me. In paradise, I will be pleased to dwell with you, you sin former sinful thief. Who has a broken spirit and a contrite heart, that I will dwell with you forever. So, Christian, what should you say about Christ's death? What do you think about his death? I believe, and I hope you do too, that Christ's death is not foolishness. It's not a mistake, and Jesus is not a failure. And that's only because God is a myiox to embrace the foolishness of God, which is wiser than the wisdom of men. This is the good news from the most unlikely place, the cross itself. Christ saves another sinner from sin, because nothing sways him from completing the Father's mission. Not Satan's temptation, not even his excruciating pain and death, can pause for one second the saving work of Jesus. It is his blood shed for you, wherein God saves repentant sinners. And in Christ's death, the wonder of eternal life is given to one man with a broken spirit and a contrite heart. The cross. Foolishness Never. It is the display of the infinite, extravagant mercy of God poured out upon sinners. This man will soon enjoy the greatest blessing of all, dwelling with Christ in the everlasting kingdom of God. Why the suffering of Jesus upon the cross? Answer: Because the blood of the final Lamb of God must be shed. For the remission of sin, for all those God has appointed to eternal life. Or as Hebrews puts it Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. How many of you have read C. S. Lewis's Gnarnia Tales? How many of you remember in the line and the witch and the wardrobe, the last scene in that book? I most likely have read I most likely read it one time for the first time forty years ago, but I still remember that scene. It's the scene where the witch who represents evil, the devil, has gathered her forces at what is called the stone table. The altar. And there, Aslan, the Christ lion Has been attached to the table. This fierce lion cannot get away Doesn't even try. And there the witch plunges a dagger in his heart. And the minions and the witch are delirious that Aslan has finally been destroyed That he is gone forever from Narnia into everlasting death. But the witch and her minions would soon learn the same lesson as Satan and his host regarding the death of Christ. And it is this. You can party now Because in the refrain of a sermon from a black preacher I once heard, the refrain went like this. It's Friday now, but Sunday is a coming. Because you see, the victory of the cross Is the prelude for the victory of the resurrection of Christ. There is victory in the blood-stained cross. Victory over hell, victory over sin and death, victory in Christ's bloodstained cross, victory of the new life, of the resurrection For you, as God dwells with you now through his Holy Spirit, and he dwells with you now forever, in the presence of the everlasting paradise of glory. I think that is worth a loud rejoice and a big amen