Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the first book of Samuel, 1 Samuel, and you'll find this on page 225 in your Pew Bibles. 225. 1 Samuel chapter 1, verse 21, through chapter 2, verse 11. Hear now the word of God. The man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice and to pay his vow. But Hannah did not go up, for she with said to her husband, As soon as the child is weaned, I will bring him, so that he may appear in the presence of the Lord and dwell there forever. Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Do what seems best to you. Wait until you have weaned him, only may the Lord establish his word. So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him. And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her along with a three-year-old bull, an ephah of flower, and a skin of wine, and she brought him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh. And the child was young Then they slaughtered the bull, and they brought the child to Eli. And she said, O my lord, as you live, my lord, I am the woman who is standing here in your presence praying to the Lord. For this child I prayed, and the Lord has granted me my petition that I made to him. Therefore I have lent him to the Lord. As long as he lives, he is lent to the Lord. And he worshiped the Lord there. And Hannah prayed and said, My heart exalts in the Lord, my strength is exalted in the Lord My mouth derides my enemies, because I rejoice in your salvation. There is none holy like the Lord. There is none besides you. There is no rock like our God. Talk no more so very proudly, let not arrogance come from your mouth. For the Lord is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed The bows of the mighty are broken, but the feeble bind on strength. Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread, but those who were hungry have ceased to hunger The baron has borne seven, but she who has many children is forlorn. The Lord kills and brings to life. He brings down the Sheol and raises up. The Lord makes poor and makes rich. He raises up the poor from the dust. He lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes and inherit a seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and on them he has set the world. He will guard the feet of his faithful ones, but the wicked shall be cut off in darkness, for not by might shall a man prevail. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. Against them he will thunder in heaven. The Lord will judge the ends of the earth, he will give strength to his king, and exalt the power of his anointed. Then Al Kanah went home to Ramah, and the boy ministered to the Lord in the presence of Eli the priest. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Okay, now we read Luke Chapter one, Luke chapter one, verses fifty seven through eighty 57 through 80. We sang this already, it's Zechariah's song. Um and I hope you'll notice how much parallel there is between the Old Testament reading, Hannah's song and Mary's song earlier in this chapter of Luke, and then Zechariah's song And uh take note that there's a real biblical parallel between uh between uh Samuel and John the Baptist. I want you to But listen now to Zechariah's prophecy, beginning at verse 57 of chapter 1 of Luke. Now the time came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son, and her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown great mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her. And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they would have called him Zechariah after his father, but his mother answered, No, he shall be called John. And they said to her, None of your relatives is called by this name. And they made signs to his father, inquiring what he wanted him to be called. And he asked for a writing tablet, and wrote, His name is John. And they all wondered. And immediately his mouth was open and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, Blessing God. And fear came on all their neighbors, and all these things were talked about through all the hill country of Judea. And all who heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying What then will this child be? For the hand of the Lord was with him. And his father, Zechariah, was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spoke by the prophet of his holy prophets of old, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us to show the mercy promised to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant, the oath that he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before him all our days. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High. For you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins. Because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness And in the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. And the child grew and became strong in spirit. And he was in the wilderness until the day of his public appearance to Israel. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. And now, Lord, we pray that you will cause your spirit to come and illumine our hearts and minds. That we may benefit from this reading and preaching of your holy word and not go away unchanged, but go away With a better frame of mind, a better understanding of your purposes and your plans, and our world and our own personal lives too. We ask this through Jesus Christ. Amen. I will state first off that I am not a sports fanatic, but I'm going to use a sports illustration in the introduction. On February 5th, 2017, the New England Patriots won the Super Bowl. For them it was joy unspeakable and full of glory for Boston and all New England A few days later, according to the Boston police, one million people braved the snow and cold temperatures to see the Patriots roll through the city on duckboats. It can rain, sleet, snow. It's New England. We're used to it, one fan said. We'll be ready for anything. We wouldn't miss this for the world. This year, 2018, on February 4th, the Philadelphia Eagles won the Super Bowl against the New England Patriots For New England it was the agony of defeat. No party, no glory. But for Philadelphia, it was the thrill of victory and a huge victory parade in Philadelphia. I had two sons, a son-in-law and a f and a a son's father, a son-in-law's father on the parade route. February 8th, the parade started near Lincoln Financial Field in South Philadelphia, wound through Center City, and ended with a rally in front of the Philadelphia Museum of Art in Fairmount, eight miles away. It is estimated that more than a million people packed the route to celebrate the Eagles' 41-33 win over the New England Patriots, the team's first ever Super Bowl title. Can you imagine what it would be like if Cleveland would win the Super Bowl? Somehow, and here's my point, somehow fans, even fair weather fans Personalize the victory that they did not personally win. These fans did not make any money unless they were betting. In fact, they probably spent a lot of money before and after the win because fans buy all kinds of paraphernalia and spend money going to parades and so forth. But because these fans are devoted and have a great interest in their team, they share the victory. This sort of thing is hardwired into us human beings. Whether NFL football or World Cup soccer or any other sport, it is hardwired into us to want to win. And this is also true of wars, by the way. Although the cost is greater in money and blood, we all, regardless of nation, all want to win. And if our army, our navy wins, we feel that we have won too. We personalize the victory. There is theology behind this want-to-win phenomenon. Because since the Great Defeat Of a human race in the Garden of Eden, we humans have been wanting a win. Someone to remove our shame, our loss. And give us a victory. That's the big story of the whole Bible, my friends. And the story that we're reading today in 1 Samuel and that we started last Sunday is part of that big story. It's a small subset of that big story. Let me remind you of the cast of characters. There is Elk Hannah. That's the father and the husband of this story. He's the husband of Hannah. He has another wife. The other wife has lots of kids, and Hannah doesn't have any. And she prayed and asked God to give her one, and this is where we're at now. She gets one And his name is Samuel. He is a priestly tribe member, Al-Kanah, lives in the middle part of Israel, not too far from Shiloh. Hannah, his wife, is the one who was barren, who prayed and prayed and cried, and she was at the temple or the tabernacle praying, and the priest saw her and thought she was drunk because Because she was her mouth was moving and she was so agitated in her crying out. But she said, No, I'm not a drunk woman. I am a woman deeply affected. I need help. I need God to answer my prayer. And the priest, Eli, prophesied that you will have a child. She knew when she went away that she was going to have a child. She believed it And then there's the other wife of Alkana. Her name is Panina. She has lots of kids. She's really good at having kids. But she's not the favorite one. I mean you shouldn't have two wives in the first place, but she's the wife that's able to have kids and she's always picking at Hannah and bragging about how many kids she has and how few poor Hannah has And so you hear in Hannah's words of exaltation some get back at Panina, if you listen for it. And then as I mentioned before, there's Eli, the priest at Shiloh. He is a lousy father, really bad. He's raised terrible sons. And then there's the two sons, Hophni and Phineas. They are bad dudes. You're going to hear about it next week, how bad they are, how wicked and awful the Bible calls them worthless sons. And so that's the cast of characters. So let's go to the text, verses 21 through 28, just to review it quickly. It says in verse 21, the man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer to the Lord the yearly sacrifice and to pay his vow. And this is after Hannah's had a baby, right? Now verse 22, but Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, As soon as the child is weaned, I will bring him. So that he may appear in the presence of the Lord and dwell there forever. Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Do what seems best to you, wait until you have weaned him. Only may the Lord establish his word. So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him. And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her along with a three-year-old bull. an ephah of flour, and a skin of wine, and she brought him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh. Wow It's very clear that Hannah saw in all this, in God answering her prayer and giving her this son that's named Asthor, Samuel. But she promised to give him to the Lord. It's very clear that Hannah sees a greater thing happening here. She's not suffering from myopia, just me and my needs being met. She sees a greater purpose in all. this. She was focused, you see, on God's great plan, the plan for victory. So look and listen for this as we go forward today. And I want you to notice one thing. It is in the context of gathered worship that God frames her mind And all his people have the same experience. In the context of gathered worship around God's word, a promise, God changes us and frames our mind and gets us on the right track. Our natural tendency is to live life without thinking much about God's work and our part in it. We naturally are distracted from things. Of God and held captive by all the things around us and in front of us. But worship brings us to focus differently, brings us a renewed mind, as it says in Romans chapter 20. So I ask you to think about what is God doing in your life as we're here in gathered worship today. Think about this now. Hannah was devoted to worship. Even though she didn't go to Shiloh on this particular occasion, she was a woman devoted to worship. And so she wanted to wean the child. And in those days, women didn't wean their children until maybe Age four or five, this was mother's time. Mother's time with the little one. After this, she was planning to give up to the Lord. Can you imagine how difficult this is for Hannah? The picture that I gave to the children show her leaving her little Four or five-year-old boy at the temple or at the tabernacle in Shiloh with this priest, Eli, leaving him there permanently to be raised by this guy It says in verse 24 at the end of the verse, and the child was young. And then it says they slaughtered the bull and brought the child to Eli. And he said, Oh my Lord, as long as you live, my Lord, I am the woman who was standing here in your presence praying to the Lord. For this child I prayed, and the Lord has granted me my petition that I made to him. Therefore, I have lent him to the Lord. As long as he lives, he is lent to the Lord. Can you imagine this happening? Can you imagine doing this? Hannah is giving up her little boy that she has just weaned. I've heard stories about mothers crying when their little ones go to preschool, crying when they go away on the trip, crying when they go away on their first camping trip without mama. Crying when they go away to college. But can you imagine dropping off your four-year-old? Your four-year-old to be raised by someone else and someone else who has not done a very good job of raising his own children. That takes a lot of faith in God's purposes. So Elkanah, the husband, the father here, will not have much of a role in raising this little boy. After the weaning, it's usually dad's time then. To take a boy out into the field, out into the shop, out into the world and show him the world of manly things, to take him to the assembly of the elders and let him sit and listen to the elders talking about things. But that's not going to happen here because this baby, this little boy, is being left at the tabernacle with Eli. So that also shows us something. You might think that's crazy, but no, it's not in this case, because Elkanah is also a man of faith, a man of worship. And let me tell you, the worship that he brings when the child is presented is extravagant. Verse 24, it says, She had weaned him, she took with her Three-year-old bull, an epha of flour, a skin of wine, and brought him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh, a three-year-old bull. That is A fully grown bull, pretty expensive stuff here. Quite a lot of meat. Nice and tender. And then there's five gallons of flour. That's what these ifas are. Five gallons of flour. That's expensive stuff too. You don't just go to the super supermarket or whatever and buy flour. You have to grind it and put it in bags and hold it. Five gallons. And then one gallon, one skin of wine. It's hard to come by as well. Brought here for this celebration. So now Eli, Eli will be given an opportunity to raise this boy who is God's choice. To be prophet and priest in Israel. In time we'll see that Samuel's wicked sons will be replaced by this boy who is sent by God. Later, Saul, the king, will also be replaced, not by his own son, but by the son of God's choosing. This is a repeated pattern in the Bible. God establishes his king, not by human will and not by patrimony. But he establishes his king by his own design. And that's what we read in John chapter 1, the Gospel of John, but to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. And here's the not patrimony part, who were born not of the blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. God establishes his king in a different way. And the little boy learned to worship quite early. And I want to pause to say this to you I am so happy to have children here. Always. And if they compete with me once in a while, that's okay. Because children can learn to worship quite early. When they are taught about God, when they experience the joy and the solemnity of worship, they catch on Remember that the worship assembly is a holy place in both testaments, old and new, because God sanctifies time and space. In the New Covenant, the Lord's Day Assembly is a place and a time where God has promised to speak to His beloved, chosen people and to commune with them. So it should not be collect neglected. Even little children should be present in worship. And again, I say, even if sometimes they're louder, then the preacher wants to In a while. So little Samuel is in worship as a four or five-year-old. He's learning to worship. He's learning how to do worship very well. And now we get to the second part I want to show you is there's in this passage a wonderful picture of of exultant heart, Hannah's exultant heart. Verse 1, back in the text in chapter 2 now. And Hannah prayed and said, now we call this Hannah's song because it's a poetic form. So we don't know whether she said it or she sang it, but it is a prophetic, poetic form that is exultant coming from her heart. Hannah prayed and said, My heart exalts in the Lord. My horn is exalted in the Lord. My mouth derides my enemies because I rejoice in your salvation. When she says, my horn is exalted in the Lord, we have to remember that horn back in those days was often used as a picture of strength Because the power of an ox or a steer could be expressed in its horn. So Hannah spoke of strength and power being exalted in the Lord. And she says, I have this strength. Strength in him. The horn signifies power, might, and dominion. It is thus constantly used in the Bible. And then she says, I smile at my enemies. Hannah had a strong sense of vindication over her rival, Elk Hannah's other wife, Panina. You remember Panina had cruelly brought Hannah low. But now Hannah rejoiced because the Lord lifted her up. And in verse 2, she says, There is none holy like Yahweh, for there is none beside you. There is no rock like our God. There is none holy like the Lord. That's kind of redundant because holiness means separateness. God is separate from anybody and everything else. He is holy. That's what separateness is. And so you see that he is holy. It's a unique thing to say this. He says, she goes on to say, there is none besides you. That's another way of saying holy, separate, not like everything else, not like anything else. Separate, none besides you. And then she says, Nor is there any rock like our God. That's another way of saying the same thing. No one like him. And then she, I think, returns to Panina and says, Talk no more so very proudly. Let not arrogance come from your mouth For the Lord is the God of knowledge, and by Him actions are weighed. So she's saying, God knows what's in your heart, what you're thinking, what you're doing when you're deriding me. This, of course, is the best reason to forsake our pride because God knows, and by him actions are weighed Then I want you to see something a little further. She has an exultant heart, but she also has the spirit of prophecy, a prophetic heart here. She says things that are way beyond herself in the next few verses. Verse 4 and 5. She says, the bowels of the mighty are broken, but the feeble bind on strength. Parallelism. Contrast. Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread, but those who were hungry have ceased to hunger. The baron has borne seven, but she who has many children is forlorn. And what she's saying here is not about herself in this case, although you could find a way to apply it. She didn't have seven kids. But what she's saying in this prophetic utterance of hers is that God will reverse the dominance of the wicked in our world. That's a prophetic thing. Aren't you glad to know that God will reverse the dominance of wickedness someday? God's covenant will prevail in spades, sevens, she says. Seven. God will not Lose. His people will not lose in him. Then she says in verse 6, I think something prophetic of the resurrection. She says, the Lord kills and brings to life. He brings down to Sheol and raises up. Our Lord Jesus Christ was killed and brought to life. He went down to Sheol, but was raised up. The Lord makes poor and the Lord makes rich. He brings low and he exalts. He raises up the poor from the dust. He lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes and inherit the seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and on them he has set the world. And then she says, He will guard the feet of his faithful ones But the wicked shall be cut off from dark in darkness. For not by might shall a man prevail. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. You think of a clay pot being smashed by an iron rod. Against them he will thunder in heaven. Dale Ralph Davis, one of my favorite commentators, says this: what she says here is no piddly little thing. This is a manifestation of the way Yahweh rules and brings in his kingdom. Hannah's relief is a sample of the way Yahweh works. And of the way he will work when he brings in his kingdom in its fullness. The saving help God gave to Hannah is a foretaste. a scale-down model demonstration of how God will do it someday in grand style. And then she goes just one step further in her praise. And I want you to note this at the end of verse 10. Because there's no king. I want you to know, there's no king in Israel yet. He's coming. Samuel will one day will anoint him. He'll be David. First there will be Saul, but Samuel will anoint King David. There's no king right now. This is the time of the judges. Lousy time. And everybody does what's right in his own eyes. So what does she say? It's very prophetic. She said, the Lord will judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength to his king. There's no king, but he will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. This is the first time. This is the first time that the word anointed is used. And it means Messiah. That's what anointed means. the same word. Messiah is the anointed one. The Christ in the New Testament is the anointed one, the Messiah. So she says, he will give strength to his king. She's looking way ahead. And exalt the horn of his messiah. Hannah spoke of this king. She looked ahead to the Messiah who will finally set all wrongs right. He is God's anointed. So we see the first place in the Bible where Jesus is referred to as Messiah here in this prophecy. Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist, said the very same thing in our New Testament reading in Luke. He made this very similar song. In fact, he quoted Hannah's song in Luke 1. 68 when he prophetically called Jesus a horn of salvation. Quoting from 1 Samuel 2, verse 10, he said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. He has raised up a horn. She said, my horn is mighty and strong. And he says, step a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. And Mary, the mother of Jesus, also quotes Hannah's song in Luke 1, 46 through 55. Where she says, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. Behold, from now on, all generations will call me blessed, for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. Note the parallelisms. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things. Isn't that exactly what Hannah said? And the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. We get down to the very end here. Then Elkanah went home to Ramah. And the boy, little four-year-old, five-year-old Samuel, and the boy was ministering to the Lord in the presence of Eli the priest. My friends, please note that the whole story is framed in worship. She got the word that she would be given a son in worship. She got the word of who he would be and what it would be like. And she came back to worship. God gave her this prophecy that looks way ahead to our own Lord Jesus Christ. Worship is the most important thing in the world. It renews our mind. It frames everything and puts it in right perspective In worship, God fills us with joy unspeakable and peace that passes understanding. We see that in 1 Peter, where he's writing to people who are in trouble, who are persecuted. In 1 Peter 1, verses 6 through 8, he says, to those people. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials So that the testing of the genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, though it perishes, is tested by fire, may found to be resulting in praise and glory. and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with a joy that is inexpressible. and filled with glory. That's what I said about about New England winning and Philadelphia winning. Joy unspeakable and full of glory. And Peter says, that's yours, believers. That's yours. Even though you're experiencing various trials right now. God teaches us prophetically about how we win in His Christ, our champion. So Paul can say in Romans chapter 8, verses 35 through 39, Who shall separate us from the love of God? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? No. No. In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from From the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. We win, my friends. We win in union with Jesus Christ. We win. We've been wanting a win. And we have a win in a great champion, a great victor. Our Lord Jesus Christ. May this worship today frame our minds in the midst of our struggles and our troubles to know that we win. Amen. Lord, we praise you and thank you that we have a champion as we see this story unfolding. We see a champion coming into the picture. He's young right now, and he's going to anoint yet another champion. Who will be the great, great grandfather of our great champion? We thank you. We pray that you'll help us to know that Even in the darkest times, you are at work. Even in our personal lives, you are at work to bring victory, to give us a win. Amen.