Please open your Bibles to the book of the prophet Isaiah, chapter 26, where we'll read verses 1 through 19. Isaiah 26, verses 1 through 19. In that day this song will be sung in the land of Judah. We have a strong city. He sets up salvation as walls and bulwarks. Open the gates that the righteous nation that keeps faith may enter in. You keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever, for the Lord God is an everlasting rock. For he has humbled the inhabitants of the height, the lofty city. He lays it low, lays it low to the ground, casts it to the dust. The foot tramples it, the feet of the poor, the steps of the needy. The path of the righteous is level. You make level the way of the righteous. In the path of your judgments, O Lord, we wait for you. Your name and remembrance of the desire of our soul. My soul yearns for you in the night. My spirit within me earnestly seeks you. For when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness. If favor is shown to the wicked, he does not learn righteousness. In the land of uprightness, he deals corruptly and does not see the majesty of the Lord. O Lord, your hand is lifted up, but they do not see it. Let them see your zeal for your people and be ashamed. Let the fire of your adversaries consume them. O Lord, you will ordain peace for us, for you have indeed done for us all our works. O Lord our God, other Lords beside you have ruled over us, but your name alone we bring to remembrance. They are dead. They will not live. They are shades. They will not arise. To that end, you have visited them with destruction and wiped out all the remembrance of them. But you have increased the nation, O Lord. You have increased the nation. You are glorified. You have enlarged all the borders of the land. O Lord, in distress they sought you. They poured out a whispered prayer when your discipline was upon them. Like a pregnant woman who writhes and cries out in her pangs when she is near to giving birth. So were we because of you, O Lord. We were pregnant, we writhed, but we have given birth to wind. We have accomplished no deliverance in the earth, and the inhabitants of the world have not fallen. Your dead shall live, their bodies shall rise. You who dwell in the dust, awake and sing for joy, for your dew is the dew of light, and the earth will give birth to the dead. The word of the Lord. Romans five, one through eleven. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him, we also have obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. And endurance produces character, and character produces hope. And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood. Much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son Much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by his life. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through whom we have now received reconciliation. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray together. Lord, we thank you for this portion of your word, also the portion that was read from Isaiah, and also from the singing of the Psalm 98. But we pray that you will bless now as this particular portion of your word is open to us. May your Holy Spirit, who inspired it, apply it to our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. The tradition in which I was raised was one in which testimony was prominent in worship. Sometimes spoken testimony, but more often sung testimony. And one of the songs that came to mind as I was preparing this sermon and thinking about testimony was A gospel song by a man named Elisha Hoffman. His years are 1839 to 1929. And it has these words, some of them. Down at the cross where my Savior died, down where for cleansing from sin I cried, there to my heart was the blood applied. Glory to His name Then the refrain, glory to his name, precious name, glory to his name, precious name. There to my heart was the blood applied. Glory to his name. Another of the stanza says, I am so wondrously saved from sin. Jesus so sweetly abides within, there at the cross where he took me in, glory to his name, and then that refrain again. Again, what this tradition lacked in deep theological content was compensated somewhat by Wonderful songs like that, of testimonies of praise, Christ-centered spiritual experience, which I'm going to call doxology And that's the name of it, by the way. Glory to his name, his translation of the word doxology. Now, we have a lot of engineers in this congregation. And in chapters 1 through 4 of Romans, where we've been so far, we have the Apostle Paul being an engineer, a theological engineer. He is very Precise, very careful in spelling out exactly what's going on with the human race and exactly what God has done to fix this problem. Engineers are always fixing problems, right? But when we get to chapter 5, we break out into doxology. Glory to his name, precious name. Doxology chapter 5, verses 1 through 11. And the thing we see first of all is the first word of doxology is peace with God and standing in grace. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God Through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him, we also have obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. You see, justified by faith is precise legal language. From Romans one 18 to 320, Paul showed that you are found guilty before God's law court. And when you are self-aware, your own conscience also accuses you. Then he taught from the scriptures that because of the life and death and resurrection of Jesus, the righteousness of God is given to all who believe. The guilty verdict is transformed into a sentence of acquitted and justified by faith through the gift of the imputed righteousness. of Jesus. This is a stunning reversal. You should stop to imagine this for a moment. Imagine yourself being arrested for capital crimes for which you were caught in the act of committing and were in fact a repeat offender, but you're finally now caught. And then you were indicted and you were put on trial before a court of absolute justice. And I mean absolute, no sympathetic judge or some sympathetic jury of sinners who might be lenient toward you, but an unbendingly righteous judge whose law cannot be set aside. There, you were found guilty and sentenced to the exact specifications of justice. Again, no possibility that anyone would compromise the requirements. Years back, I attended a sentencing of a young man who had committed a felony assault. I had been his pastor some years before, and had personal knowledge of his repentance and amendment of life since his arrest. And so I was there at the court as he pled guilty and begged for mercy. The judge was unrelenting in sentencing him. He meted out the maximum sentence of seven years incarceration and seven years probation. I had written letters to the judge pleading for mercy for him Describing his better character and his youth and other mitigating factors, but nothing could say Nothing I could say or do availed before the judge. And the judge was in the right. What would it be like for this young man if it had been different? If some innocent, perfect citizen had stepped forward that day and said, I will serve his sentence And then went on to say, I want the offender's record to be written as my record. And I want my record of law-abiding innocence written on his official record. What if somehow the judge agreed to allow this? And what if indeed the citizens who stepped forward was the only son of the judge? And that they had conspired together to do this thing. That's what Paul is teaching with his precise Theology years. Engineers theology. And indeed he brings the whole Bible to teach this bearing on it And if that had happened, my young friend standing before the judge that day would have been overcome with joy. The handcuffs would have been taken off. He could exchange his orange prison jumpsuit for the excellent suit of clothes worn by the judge's son. And he could go out a free man and go out and have dinner with his family and friends. What rejoicing there would be. What thanks to the judge and his son. What toxology. That's what doxology is, my friends. Glory to his name. Glory to his name. And how his life would also have changed if that had happened. It didn't happen. He did serve the seven years. Paul wants us to see that this is really our situation and he wants us to break out into that doxology. And the first thing, as I said, he highlights is that we have, through this engineered theology, this wonderful thing of God, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus. Christ. This is the first change. Because the price has been paid in full by the work of Christ on the cross, God's warring hostile justice towards us is completely and eternally salvation. We have peace with God. This is not the peace of God that you hear in benedictions like in Philippians 4:7. This is peace with God. This announces that the battle between God and you is over. And he won. And now he is sharing his victory with you. Peace with God. And you may never have known that you were at war with God, but like a driver ignoring the flashing red lights of a police car in your rear view mirror, it will catch up with you eventually. Peace with God. This peace is grounded in our Lord Jesus Christ, Paul says. In fact, he is our peace, according to Ephesians 2. 14. Now remember this. Peace with God. One commentator says, remember that the Bible doesn't say we have peace with the devil or peace with the world. Jesus said You'll have trouble in this world. So it's not peace with the world or peace with the flesh or peace with sin. Life is still a battle for the Christian, but it is no longer a battle against God. We have peace with God. And next, he says, in his doxology, through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. Grace. Grace, let's take that word for a moment. Leon Morris says, Grace is God's undeserved favor towards us. It is not only the way of salvation that comes to us, but it is also a description of our present standing. As a result of what God has done, we're standing right now, we're sitting, and you are sitting, I'm standing, but we are standing before God with grace. We're accepted by God. We begin with grace and we continue to stand with grace. It is in the perfect tense here. That means That it's it's a present thing and it's also a continuing thing. The perfect tense always going on. We are standing on and on in grace. F. F. Bruce says, the former rebels are not merely forgiven by having their due punishment remitted, they are brought into a place of high favor with God. Called grace into which we stand. Guzik says: standing in grace means I don't have to prove that I'm worthy of God's love. It means God is my friend. It means the door of access is permanently open to Him. It means I am free from the score sheet because the account is settled. It means I can spend more time praising God and less time hating myself. Similarly, William Newell says The proper attitude of a person under grace is to believe in and consent to be loved. Are you willing to be loved? While unworthy, and you are. To refuse, it means to refuse to rely on resolutions. I hope to do better tonight. I hope to do better tomorrow. Refuse to rely on resolution. Doesn't mean not make any, but just don't rely on them. Because that is to trust in the flesh. It means to expect to be blessed, though realizing more and more your lack of accomplishment. It means to testify of God's goodness at all times. It means to be certain of God's future favor, yet to be ever more tender. Listen to this, ever more tender in conscience toward him. Certain of his favor, yet More tender in conscience toward him. And it means to rely on God's chastening hand as a mark of his kindness He chastens every son whom he receives, the writer of Hebrews says. It means to have no preoccupying burdens regarding himself, but many burdens about others. It means to think of others. Others see. The next phrase, we have access. Again, the perfect verb tense is translated have access. It means that this is a permanent, ongoing thing. We continue to have access. Leon Morris describes access. The idea is that of introduction to the present, the presence chamber of a monarch. You know, you can't just walk into a king's presence chamber. You can't just barge in. But we have access. We can barge right in. To the king's chamber. We do not come in our own strength, but we have an introducer, and that is Christ. He says, Here's it. And I get to go in. Because of your standing, which is based in grace, you really do stand and you really do have peace knowing that your access is a permanent position. Possession. It's not going to fade away. And then he says, and he's all full of doxology here, we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. This is the resulting fruit of such peace and such standing in grace, which is the result of justification by faith. As someone has said, when we relate to God on the principle of works, any rejoicing is presumptuous, and any imagined glory goes to us. Not God. But when we rejoice in God, when we rejoice in Christ, it all goes to God. Rejoicing. It's a it's a an amazing thing. We ought to do a lot more rejoicing. I was thinking about rejoicing, and Jennifer and I like to watch Wheel of Fortune. It's fun to see people solving the puzzles while spinning the wheel. It is sad when they land on bankrupt. But sometimes even those who get bankrupt earlier get go on to win the prize. When the champion gets to try that last bonus round puzzle And they are able to solve it. Then Pat Sajak opens the bonus card to reveal $36,000 or $50,000 or a new car. And there is rejoicing. Jumping up and down, rejoicing, grinning, hands in the air, hugging and kissing, rejoicing in the hope of the prize. Rejoicing is the word normally that translates boast. In the Old King James, this is all boasting, boasting, boasting. It means triumphant rejoicing confidence. And we're rejoicing in hope. Hope never implies uncertainty. It's not just wishful thinking. Hope always implies Happy certainty, according to J. B. Phillips. Happy certainty. Hoping and rejoicing in the glory of God. The glory of God is rich in meaning. That phrase is very important in the Bible. You could do a whole big long biblical theology study of the concept of the glory of God. It's rich in meaning. One of the things it calls to mind is the glorious presence of God with his people. Remember how after the Exodus, God's glory stayed with Israel day and night. Above the tabernacle in a pillar of fire at night and a cloud by day. Remember how it filled the temple built by Solomon in Jerusalem The great covenant promise of God is to be with his people, and that is glory, to be with his people. To be present with God without fear, but present with joy, that is what it means to enjoy the glory of God. We see a little bit of that in various places in Scripture. One of them that's very important is John 1:14, which we read at our nine lessons and carols every year. And the word became flesh and dwelt. Among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. So in summary of that first point, the outcomes of justification by faith are peace with God, access by faith, standing in grace, rejoicing in hope. And the glory of God, his wonderful presence, without fear. Now let's go on to point two, the net three verses three through eleven. Because there's a practical outworking of all that's been said so far. Not only that, Paul says But we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. And endurance produces character, and character produces hope And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. Not only that, but we rejoice in suffering. Friends, this isn't just pie in the sky, by and by when we die. Paul acknowledges the fact that we have many sufferings, but we rejoice even in sufferings. Guzik says Paul isn't spitting out spiritual platitudes here. First he uses strong words. Sufferings is a strong word. It does not refer to Minor inconveniences, a hung nail, or a little ache or pain here or there. It does not refer to minor things, but to real hardships. Paul knows what hardship is. He knows what suffering is. In 2 Corinthians 11, verses 23 through 28, he describes Himself and his sufferings. He says, I endured far greater labors, far more imprisonments, with countless beatings and often near death. Five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes less one. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked. A night and a day I was adrift at sea, on frequent journeys, and danger from rivers, danger from robbers, danger from my own people, danger from Gentiles, danger in the city, danger in the wilderness. danger at sea, danger from false brothers, in toil and hardship, through many a sleepless night, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure And apart from other things, there is the daily pressure on me of the anxiety for all the churches. That's suffering. But he says that suffering produces endurance, that we can rejoice, we can glory, we can doxology even in our sufferings. Now our stresses. Someone has said a runner must be stressed to gain endurance. Sailors gain by going to sea. Soldiers by going to battle And for the Christian, tribulation or suffering is just part of our Christian life, and we should not desire or hope for suffering, but we should also not hope for a suffering-free life. Because God uses suffering wonderfully in our life. God knows how much suffering we can take. And he carefully Administers and attends to us in it by the Holy Spirit who is with us. Those who are not Christians also face tribulations and sufferings. But they lack the excellent resources of the real presence, the glory of God presence with them in it. Here's what Luther says about this. Whatever virtues tribulation finds us in, it develops more fully. If anyone is carnal, weak, blind, wicked, irascible, haughty, and so forth, tribulation will make him what? More carnal, weak, blind, wicked, and irritable. On the other hand, if one is spiritual, strong, wise, pious, gentle, and humble, he will become more spiritual, powerful, wise, pious, gentle, and humble Spurgeon likewise says, Tribulation worketh patience, says the apostle. Naturally it is not so Tribulation worketh impatience. And impatience misses the fruit of experience and sours into hopelessness. Ask many who have buried a dear child, or have lost their wealth, or have suffered pain of body, and they will tell you that the natural result of affliction is to produce irritation. Against providence, rebellion against God, questioning, unbelief, petulance, and all sorts of evils. But What a wonderful alteration takes place when the heart is renewed by the Holy Spirit. End of quote. He says endurance produces character, and character produces hope. This has been called the golden chain of Christian growth. And maturity. One virtue builds upon another virtue until we grow into the image of Jesus, who suffered for us. Every Christian should want to develop character and have more hope. These qualities emerge out of the pains of endurance which comes through suffering. You may want to have better character and more hope, but you will not get it without some suffering. Here's what one commentator said. He said, I would rather have God just sprinkle perseverance and character and hope on me while I sleep. I could wake up much better. But that isn't what God's plan for me is, or any other Christian. Therefore we say, soberly, reverently, Lord bring it on. I know you love me, and you carefully measure every trial Every loving purpose of yours to accomplish in me and through me every difficulty. Lord, I won't seek trials and wish for them, but I won't despise them or hope lose hope when they come. I will trust your love because you are good in everything you allow Someone has said God's love isn't given to us as a trickle, but it is poured out into our heart. That's another doxology thing of Paul. He says, God's love has been poured out. into our hearts through the Holy Spirit. Paul now doubles back at the end of all this. He's introduced sufferings and he doubles back to reinforce the ground of the confidence that we have it even in sufferings. He says, for while we were still weak, say God is bringing sufferings, but I have to remember this. While we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. God knows just when to do Just in history when to do things. At the right time. Christ died for the ungodly. And he says, For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would even dare to die, but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us, so we can have confidence even in suffering. We have this kind of gracious God. God will not forsake you because of your sin, which clings to you against your will. He sent Christ to die for you, knowing all of your sins, knowing all the ones you ever have committed or ever will commit in the weakness of your nature. I know that this verges on lawlessness, but that is just how great God's grace is. my friends. It verges on, well it sounds a little like lawlessness, though it isn't And he goes on in his doxology, verse 9. So, since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by his life. He's announcing again the ground. The ground of your confidence is not or ever will be your personal improvement. The only ground for such hope is the death and resurrection life of Jesus. And at the end of all this doxology, there's one more word that we need to focus on, and we'll be done. One more word, and that's in verse 11. More than that, this is the third time he said more than that. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. That's the first use of this word in this letter. Reconciliation is both the relationship that God puts right between Himself and individual sinners, and it is also, listen, it is also His great plan for the fallen world. This means that he will put the whole world right. He discusses this later on in chapter 8. That your personal reconciliation done by Christ is going to result finally in the reconciliation of the whole world. Everything is going to be put right. As a result of that beautiful doxology and what he's talking about here, historic liturgies of the church have always observed something called The peace. Now you see it in our worship folder too. The peace. What is the peace? The peace. Comes as the church is about to celebrate the Lord's Supper. Because the once-for-all sacrifice of Christ is being commemorated in the Lord's Supper And so we see that the peace, the reconciliation of God is being celebrated. The minister announces that the peace that God has made saying something like this: the peace of the Lord be always with you. Peace, reconciliation, putting things right that were put wrong by the fall. In 1972, deep in the jungles of Guam, two men stumbled upon a Japanese soldier named Shoichi Yokoi. who had remained hidden for the last twenty eight years. In nineteen forty-four, when the Japanese lost the Battle of Guam, he and nine other holdouts went into hiding. Most of them moved away until only three were left living in the jungle. Then two of them died, leaving Yokoi alone for the next eight years. When it got dark, he would sneak out of his cave and hunt for food. He made clothes out of plants. He lived off of the land. But eventually he was discovered by a man named Jesus. It's spelled Jesus, but it's probably Jesus. And his friend, Manuel de Gracia, which means grace. I don't understand this, but anyway, they were both checking their shrimp traps. Yokoi didn't survive that long without being naive, so he attacked them. And worrying that they were a threat, he attacked them. Um the two men managed to subdue Yokoi and brought him out of the jungle and into the modern world of peace. And he got back to Japan, he said, It is with much embarrassment that I return alive. His words were famous for a while. When he got back to Japan, he regained his orientation. He became a television personality, and eventually even got married. Now, think about this. Many Christians believe the articles of the Apostles' Creed and the Nicene Creed But they nonetheless fail to grasp this beautiful meaning of these things about reconciliation laid out by the Apostle Paul. They believe them intellectually, but they don't experience the peace. They don't experience the reconciliation. They don't live in the standing, the access by grace. That God has wrought in Christ. They live in practical ignorance of what God has done and is doing in the world. He's going to make it all right. They fail to enjoy the loving presence of God in sufferings. They fail to grow in character and hope They fail to experience the joyful peace of reconciliation. And so I conclude by asking. Are you living in the joy, the doxology of that reconciliation, that peace, that standing, that access by faith? Are you living in the joy of all that? If you are, then doxology, praise, testimony, glory to his name will result in the precise theology of justification by faith Let us all be full of such doxology. Amen. Lord, we thank you and praise you that you have Done such amazing great things that aren't just for the future, not just for heaven, but are here and now. They fill us with hope and joy and peace. And they help us in our suffering. So please, Lord, by your Spirit who abides with us and in us, teach us from your word today. Amen.