Please turn with me in your Bibles to Leviticus 19. Leviticus 19, verses 1 through 2. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to all the congregation of the people of Israel and say to them, You shall be holy, for I, the Lord your God, am holy. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God Reading of the New Testament will begin with 1 Peter chapter 1, 13 through 21, which is the text of the preaching today. 1 Peter 1, beginning at verse 13. Therefore, preparing your minds for action And being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, Conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers. Not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of you, who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead. And gave him glory so that your faith and hope are in God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray together. Lord, we thank you for these portions of your word which we have Read and sung. We pray that you now will speak by the Holy Spirit through the preaching of your word. Bring it home to us so that we may know better how to live and rejoice in the great hope that you have set before us. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen Well, we are continuing now in the series in 1 Peter, and we are into the third sermon in that series. In the first 12 verses of 1 Peter 1, I want to remind you, in case you weren't here or in case you forgot, because who can remember sermons, right? uh maybe little bits and pieces, maybe a thought or an illustration. I know when I was a kid I used to hone in on the illustrations. I missed a lot of it, but I got the illustrations sometimes But I just want to remind you of what was said because so much of it was important to us for us to understand. In the first twelve verses, Peter calls them exiles, even though these people were Gentiles and they were living in their own hometowns, in their own home country, they weren't cast out of their place at all, but they were spiritually exiled. He calls them diaspora of the dispersion, which is another Jewish term for people who have been scattered, who have been sown, who have been displaced. These people are not literally displaced, but they are spiritually displaced because Jerusalem, the new heaven and earth, is the home that they're seeking. So they have been called exiles, they've been called diaspora, they've also been called elect or chosen, which is another great Jewish concept. God in mercy and love chose a people to be his, not because they were any better than anybody else. Not because they were any greater in number or anything about them. He simply set his sovereign love upon them and chose them. And he's saying that about these Gentiles, for goodness sake, who are living in Asia Minor. He's saying, you're the chosen people now in Jesus Christ. He says that they are born again. And what that means is not some kind of experience that can comes over you and and shapes you and changes you, although it could be, and certainly happened to the Apostle Paul that way, didn't it, on the road to Damascus. But it means you have been brought into, born into, a new creation. You're part of something that's coming. Something that will that will grow and be great. You're part of that now. You've been born into this new situation, this new family, this new situation. And he says, because of that you have a living hope. Not an old hope, not a passing hope, not a hope in money or a hope in anything else. You have a living hope that will not fade or fail in any way Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ was raised. Therefore, the living hope can never be spoiled because he will never die again. He was raised, you were raised in him, with him, therefore you have a living hope. And he says, and one more Jewish concept here, he uses it for these Gentiles, you have an inheritance Now wait a minute. That's an ordinary term, isn't it? No, the twelve tribes were uh were given the promises of the land of Canaan as theirs And these inheritances would be permanent inheritances for their tribes and their families in perpetuity And even if they had to lose their property for a while due to financial problems or having to sell it off for a reason on the On the 50th year, they would get it back. It could never be permanently lost because the Jubilee would come And they would get it back. That was the law of God. He says, you have the same kind of thing here. You have an inheritance that is imperishable and undefiled and kept In heaven for you. So he reminds them of those things. He says, this great hope, this great wonderful thing that's set before you was anticipated by the prophets of the Old Testament. They long to look into these things. They listen to the voice of Christ in them, talking through them, and they wonder what it all meant. But you get to see it all now. You get to know all about it. Isn't that wonderful? And he says, even angels, even angels, he uses the word epiphymia, which means over-desire, they lust. to understand. They look down upon you and me, redeemed sinners, and they long to see these things. They they're just intrigued by the salvation that God has provided. So that's the background, this great hope. that that is set before them. And so, because of this great hope, now we go on to verse 13. And the first heading that I want to say is is gird up and sober up. Gird up sober up And sober up. In our text, it says, therefore, preparing your minds for actions. That sounds kind of generic. I like the King James on this one, because it says, Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind. The loins of your mind. That is weird. No wonder they changed it in the ESV to make it sound more normal for us, right? We don't gird up our loins. Have you girded up your loins lately? I put a sermon illustration in the in the folder that you can look at for a minute to see what it they meant back then about girding up their loins. You can see the guy standing there, he's got his long tunic on, he hikes up the A tunic, I could try that with a robe, but I'm not going to. And then he pulls the material up in front, and then he pulls it underneath. Kind of like a diaper, you know. Then he pulls it around and he takes the corners and he ties it in front. Now he's ready for what? For action, for exercise, for work. for war. He's ready. He's not going to be encumbered anymore by this tunic. He says, you've got to get yourselves ready in your mind. Gird up the loins of your mind. And then he uses another figure. Be sober-minded. Set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. So we could sum it up this way. Peter here is saying, your mind can be encumbered by ordinary things of life. A tunic was an ordinary thing for men. Your mind can be encumbered by things, concerns about finances. We all have concerns about finances and But we can be encumbered by them. Relationships. We care about relationships, but sometimes we focus far too much energy and time on every aspect of a relationship, and we end up making it worse sometimes. Children, we love our children, we care about our children, we can worry ourselves to death about our children. We can be encumbered from any action because we're focused too much on our children. And this can happen with politics. You know, you s you hear about some political thing, there's a election coming up, you can get so wrapped up into that election that everything else is cast aside, and you're you're basically tripped up by it Pleasures, I can make a list, possessions, plans for the future, all these things which are not bad in and of themselves. can occupy you and keep you from essential action and trip you up when you try to focus on the great hope. The great hope that you need to be focused upon in those first 12 verses. There's another category of things that could certainly trip you up, and that would be sin patterns. Sin patterns. And he's going to open up some discussion about various kinds of sin patterns. That will trip you up too. We'll get to that in a future time. We need to gather these things up, therefore. Gather them up and move them aside in order to focus on the living hope that God has for us. So he says that in these verses, the living hope. Now, uh I want to give illustration here to try to bring this to bear. What does it mean to be unencumbered and sober-minded? Have your mind focused. Well, let's see. Let's try this one. Imagine that a young lady, a miner, has been left a $10 million trust fund Okay? And she's not going to receive this trust fund until her 21st birthday. Presently she is, let's just say, 19 years old. She is broke. She's living with relatives. She's driving an old beater of a car. And she's working a minimum wage job to pay for community college. And uh just to add a little more flavor to it, she's eating um low-cost food such as ramen noodles. I don't like ramen noodles myself, but Now, do you think any day would go by for this young lady, any day at all when she would not think several times a day about her coming inheritance? I imagine every time she started up that old beater, she'd think, oh, someday I'm going to get a new car. Every time she ate those ramen noodles, she'd say, someday I'm going to eat stuff that's better than this. Her mind would be continually and regularly focused on the inheritance that was coming to her. And that's what Peter says of us. We are heirs. We've been born again to a living hope. We need to focus on it. We don't need to be encumbered by so many other things, but we need to focus on it. And again, that word sober here, I think sober. What's the opposite of sober? Drunk, right? Following the metaphor of the robe that gets in the way, Peter says we can tend to be like drunks. Intoxicated, inebriated by life's concerns and life's pleasures and cares and troubles, we can be inebriated off of our focus because of these things. So he uses those two terms. And the the alternative that he offers to us as we close this first point is set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ will soon be revealed in all his glory. So focus on that prospect. Second point. Step out of former feudal ways. Step out. Verse 14 As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. And then in verse 18, he says something about the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers. Now, he's addressing Gentiles. And so he's now characterizing the Gentile lifestyle As passions of your former ignorance, you ignorant Gentiles, and these feudal ways inherited from your forefathers. What was that like? Well, the Gentiles' motto, which has been enshrined in history, is eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. That's not being sober-minded. That's doing anything and everything all the time to eat and drink and be merry because nothing else matters but what you can get now. And the word passions here is used. Do not be conform to the passions. Peter David's One of my favorite commentators says passions are defined as unsanctified longings of fallen humanity, and they are synonymous with the fallen world. Unsanctified longings. And then he says, of your former ignorance. Alan Stibbs says this, this old way of living, which is now to be given up, is further described as senseless indulgence. Former ignorance, passions, gratification of and dominated by the natural appetites which run to evil, and harmful excess because not governed by any true knowledge and subsequent standards. And as I was preparing this sermon and thinking about this thing right here, about passions of your former ignorance I happened to be in a vehicle for a short time with it with a country country music radio station on. It wasn't my vehicle, so I didn't change the station. Um but uh it w there was a a song on and and it was by Sam Hunt. I don't know who Sam Hunt is, but this this new song I guess called House Party. House Party. And I s I heard the lyrics. I listened to lyrics folks And it said, if you're gonna be a homebody, we're gonna have a house party. Let's have a house party, we don't need nobody Turn your TV off, break that boombox out, we'll wake up all the neighbors till the whole block hates us. And the cops will show up and try to shut us down. If you're going to be a homebody, we're going to have a house party. Well, okay. There are millions, I think, who have that kind of basic philosophy, who live drunken lives, figuratively or literally. Stumbling through life, one party to the next, one event, one relationship, one encounter to the next. Thoughtless, senseless. And it's not just the party crazed bar-hopping types that we're talking about. There's a respectable respectable, let me try it again. There's a respectable middle class version of this too That's described in Luke 17. The Gentile life there is described by Jesus. And he says this in Luke 17, verse 26, just as it was in the days of Noah. So will it be in the days of the Son of Man. They were what? Eating and drinking and marrying and being given in marriage until what? Until the day when Noah entered the Ark and the flood came and destroyed them all Then Jesus says, likewise, just as it was in the days of Lot, they were eating and drinking and buying and selling and planting and building, but on the day when Lot went out from Sodom, fire and sulfur rained down from heaven and destroyed them all. So we need to be sober-minded, focused on things that matter, not like these Gentiles that are described by Jesus. In fact, anything that is not Christ-focused, hope-focused, is futile. So that's the second head in the sermon And now we go to the third and final head. Step up. Step up. Step out of your feudal ways in the past and step up to imitating your Father. Verse 15. But as he who called you is holy, also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, you shall be holy, for I am holy. That phrase is repeated over and over It's from Leviticus 19, but then it's repeated by the New Testament writers, by Jesus himself in the Gospels. Be holy as your Father in heaven is holy. And here's what it really means, folks. Made originally in God's image, made in God's image, we were called to reflect his glory. In the world. We are the image bearers of the world. We show what God is like in the world, and then we fill the world and subdue it. According to the creation mandate, and we're to show God's glory everywhere. But what happened? We fell. From our glorious created status, from the perfect image of God, the unspoiled image of God, we fell. We turned away from God in sin. And now we don't reflect God's glory as we should. We turn away. We get off focus. But in Christ, In the new creation, being born again and living a new life, we should more and more show that new image again, show that original created image, show the glory of God in the way we live. We are now redeemed, he says. He uses the word redeemed here, which means to be bought out of slavery at a high price. And we were redeemed for not for nothing. We're not redeemed to just be like we always were, or to live like ignorant pagans anymore. We're redeemed to grow in our holiness and reflect. the glory of God, the the glory of our our Maker. He says in verse 17, and if you call on him as Father who judges impartially, According to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. And what he's saying here when he talks about impartially He's drawing on the fact that because these people are living in a pagan culture and they're now exiles in a metaphorical sense, now they're they're scattered, now they're strangers in their own country. He says you need to realize that the people around you are going to judge you. They're going to judge you. They're going to judge you for being Christians. They're going to judge you for living righteously. They're going to look down on you. You know, that's happening more and more, isn't it? People are going to judge us for the way we live, for what we believe. For what we do and what we don't do. They're going to judge us more and more. And so they're not going to be impartial. They're going to judge partially And they're going to judge us as outsiders and outcasts, and they wish we were gone. But he says your father doesn't judge that way. And he loves you and he chose you. So as you call on him as the Father who judges impartially According to each one's deeds, conduct yourself with fear throughout the time of your exile. What kind of fear is this? What kind of fear? It cannot be Folks, it cannot be the fear of God's wrath of losing the inheritance because God has provided it at At the cost of his son. And it is imperishable and it's undefiled and it can't fade away or be lost. God will not allow that. That is not the thing to be fearful of. What is it that we might be fearful of? Well, first of all, fear could simply mean here reverence, that we need to have a a glorious reverence for this great holy one. Fear doesn't have to be trembling in scariness. But if there is any element of fear here, it would be the the fear of not living up, not living up to what God has called us to, not living up to the royal gifts and the calling which are ours. in Jesus Christ. I heard this illustration. I guess preachers pass it around. During World War II When Elizabeth II and Margaret Rose, her sister, were little girls, the family chaplain at Buckingham Palace reported hearing their mother, the Queen Mother, instruct them. They were about to leave the palace for a party and about to get into a chauffeured car for this party. And she drew near and spoke softly, but the chaplain heard what she said. Here's what she said. Royal children, royal manners. That's what Peter's saying to us. You were the royal children of the king of the universe who saved you. Live up to it. Have royal manners. Fear not losing your salvation, but fear disappointing your great father. Fear spoiling his glorious image in you. Fear that. And he goes on to say, in verse 18, knowing that you were ransomed from the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers. And he says, not with perishable things. Such as silver and gold, mere silver and gold, that's nothing. But with the precious blood of Christ You were ransomed by a great price, a great cost. So fear, disappointing, your father who ransomed you with these precious blood of Christ. And then he says, to recall a little bit more theologically here, he says, like that of a lamb, without blemish or spot. Well, what does that recall? What does that recall in someone's thinking? It recalls the night of the Passover. On Exodus Eve, the first Passover was celebrated. And what happened then? A spotless male lamb was slain for each household And its blood was sprinkled on the doorposts and lintel of each household. And think of this. It was eaten in haste. And those people on that night had sober minds like Peter's calling us to. Sober minds set on freedom and Canaan home. Sober minds. And guess what else? What how were they eating this lamb? How were they eating it? They were eating it with their loins girded up. Ready to roll for the glory of God, for their departure to the homeland, the true homeland. And on the eve before Christ's crucifixion, this meal that he's referring to here obliquely was transformed. And a single lamb was to be slain. And that is Christ, our Lamb, the Lamb of God who takes away the server. the sins of the world. Silver and gold are worthless in comparison to the precious blood of Christ. And finally, in verse 20, going on, extolling Christ, he says he was foreknown before the foundation of the world. In other words, God's plan was laid and firm and secure. God had Planned all of this before the world was even created. But was made manifest in the last times. What does that mean? The last times just before the rapture or something? No. The age of fulfillment, which they're speaking living in then and now, and we are living in now too. For the sake of you, he says. He gets very personal here. For the sake of you. This ransom was paid, this great price, this Lamb of God for you. Angels longed to look into this. The prophets wanted to understand it. A great price was paid for you and me. Isn't that wonderful? Doesn't it motivate us to live for God? Now, I'm going to use an illustration by John Piper, so if you don't like it, you can blame him, I guess. He uses this illustration. He says, imagine your child, parents. That your child was kidnapped and held for ransom. And so you get the ransom price and you raise all the money you can. You mortgage the house again, you you do everything you can, you borrow, you beg, you get money to pay this ransom, and finally you go to the place where the ransom is to be paid, and you pay the ransom. And there appears with the capture, your child. And imagine then this, what a horrible thing it would be. That your child looks at you, And looks at his captor and says to the captor, let's take the money and get out of here. Wouldn't that be awful? Wouldn't that be awful? Before the foundation of the world, Christ was foreknown. The plan was set for you And can we do anything less than wish and desire and set our minds and gird up our loins and be sober-minded to live for him? Who died for us, who for us became God of God, or who was God of God, and light of light, and very God of very God, begotten, not made, being of one substance with the Father, who for us and our salvation came down and was incarnate by the Virgin Mary and was made man for us He says in verse 21, Through him, you are believers in God who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God. And that's the last verse of our text today. We go back to the beginning. The great hope is set before us. Gird up our minds. Get sober about important things. Step away from the futile ways that we've inherited. Get far away from the Gentile lifestyle We're all recovering sinners. We need to continue to recover. And then step up to imitating God's royal character, which is your true self and your true identity in Jesus Christ. Set your hope fully on the grace that we brought to you with the revelation of Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we are living in very similar circumstances today to these people in Asia Minor. People around us don't understand us. And we can either be like the world and and be like chameleons and hiding away, trying to look like and act like the world and and Fly under the radar, or we can stand up for what's true and right in our conduct, in our words, in our joy, in our love. In our kindness and our mercy. So help us, Lord, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.