Isaiah forty, verses one through ten. Try not to sing this in your head I had to promise that I wouldn't. Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. A voice cries in the wilderness, Prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low. The uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. A voice says, Cry. And I said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of the Lord blows on it. Surely the people are surely the people are grass. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever Get you up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength. O Jerusalem, herald of good news, lift it up, fear not. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God comes with might, and his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Romans twelve, three through eight For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. But to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and many members do not have all the same function. So we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members of one another, having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us. Let us use them, if prophecy in proportion to our faith, if service in our serving, the one who teaches in his teaching the one who exhorts in his exhortation, the one who contributes in generosity, the one who leads with zeal, the one who does acts of mercy with gentlemen. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks. Be to God. You may be seated. O Lord, illumine our hearts and minds by your Spirit. That we may understand this your word. Lay it up in our hearts, and practice it in our lives. Amen. Well the passage that I just read from Romans chapter three is a focus But the passage that brings this situation or this topic into focus is from 1 Peter 4, 10 through 11, as we continue through that section. Let me read that out. Because it's very much parallel to what we just heard from Romans 12. It says this, as each has received a gift. Use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles of God Whoever serves as one who serves by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. In both these passages, there are statements about the varied grace in 1 Peter. There's varied grace. Grace isn't just one thing. It doesn't express itself in just one way or one gift, but a variety varied. And Paul says the same thing in Romans chapter 12, verse 6, having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them. And then he goes on to To discuss particular gifts. All of God's gifts are for service. All of them. They're not for us, they're for everybody, they're for service in the kingdom. And in the church. And this list that we have here in Romans 12 and also in 1 Peter is a list of what I would consider the permanent gifts. Not all gifts are permanent. Some gifts listed earlier when Paul wrote his first letter to the Corinthians do not appear in later gifts after the early 50s A. D. And furthermore, Paul says, in fact, that he identifies these gifts of signs of tongues and miracles and healings, he identifies those as belonging to the office of an apostle. In 2 Corinthians 12, 12, he says that these are signs associated with the office of apostle. And uh we see in Hebrews 2 verse 4 that they are spoken of, that is the miracles and healings and and so forth are spoken of in the past tense there. And so those perhaps are not the permanent gifts, but these are. They keep being repeated. And that's what we're going to discuss today. They fall into two general categories. speaking gifts and doing gifts. In speaking gifts there's preaching or prophecy, there is teaching, and then there's encouragement. So let's look first at preaching. He says, whoever speaks as one who speaks the oracles of God, and how does preaching fit into that category? Well, the New Testament word for preaching is the word keruso, and it's related to the word karygma in Greek. Now what does that mean? It almost sounds like keruso, you know, it sounds like something being cried out, and that's exactly what it means. It means to cry out or proclaim as a herald. And it's used in the sense of to announce. And so it incorporates heightened speech. It's not just ordinary chit-chat or talk. It's heightened speech And it is Holy Spirit empowered when it is true preaching, which means that you can't get the same effect by hiring an actor to read one of the sermons of George Whitfield Or Jonathan Edwards, because the Holy Spirit will not be behind that thing in that case. It has to do with the gift and office, and so then it works the right way. The purpose of preaching is edification of the body of Christ. And outside of the body of Christ, it is evangelization. It is to be done in large crowds, it is to be done in church assemblies, it is to be done in public places, as it was, and in prisons, and it is to be done to individuals. Preaching is sometimes done one-on-one. The latest trend in preaching is toward something that we might call the friendly chat. The friendly chat or the classroom lecture style. Some preachers have decided that since we're living in an anti-authority against authority world and people don't like authoritarians and all that business that we should tone it down and and just give a friendly chat. But Jay Adams, preaching professor at Westminster, wrote in his book, The Truth Applied, he says this: In the pulpit, the herald represents God, not himself. He will always be tempted to abuse rather than use his authority, but he must carefully guard against doing so. But in spite of the temptation, he may not, listen, he may not shrink His shirk, not shirk, he may not shirk his responsibility to use authority properly. The preacher must be sure he does not contribute to the weakening of church authority by assuming some lower position. Than that of Harold preaching. Harold. Adams, uh I heard Adams speaking at a General Assembly years ago, and And he was lecturing against what he called us-we preaching. Us-we preaching. And that is when preachers Instead of referring to those who are hearing and saying, you, you, you, he says, us and we, us and we. And that's an attempt to identify with hearers, and that's not bad, but he's against that. Adams is against that. And I think he's right, because Listen, here's what the Old Testament says. It was read a bit from Isaiah 40. Here's what preaching was in the Old Testament. Go up to a high mountain. Get up on a pulpit. O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength. O Jerusalem, herald of good news, lift it up, fear not. That's not a friendly That is something heightened. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. And so it's different than saying, let me share with you something about God. It is a declaration, it is heralding that is talked about in this preaching thing. And then Isaiah 52, verse 7: How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news. Who publishes peace? Who brings good news? Who publishes salvation? Who says to Zion, your God reigns. Declaration. Pronouncement. But sometimes the preaching of the Old Testament is rebuking as well. In Jeremiah chapter 2, Jeremiah didn't want to do this because preaching sometimes Sometimes can be a hard job. People don't want to hear. And he says, You've got to go say this. And he says, Hear the word of the Lord, O house of Jacob, and all the clans of the house of Israel. Thus says the Lord. What wrong did your fathers find in me that they went far from me and went after worthlessness and became worthless? That's not a very nice message to deliver. And we see the same kind of thing in the preaching in the book of Acts. We don't hear the us and we thing. We hear declarations in Acts chapter 2, verse 22. Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you, not us, but you by God, with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know. this Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. You crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death because it was not possible for him to be held by it. And then in chapter 3, Peter addressed the people, men of Israel, why do you wonder at this, or why do you stare at us as though by our own power or piety we had made this man walk? It was the healing. The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus, whom you delivered over and denied in the presence of Pilate. So he's not saying, we, us, we, us. He's saying, you, you, you, and it's an accusation. It's pretty sharp and pretty hard. But he is compassionate in verse 17. He says, Now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance as did your rulers But what God foretold by his mouth of all the prophets, that is, his Christ would suffer, has thus been fulfilled. Repent, therefore, and turn back that your sins may be blotted out. So he is authoritative here in his preaching. And the same thing with Stephen, who is actually a deacon. Stephen in chapter 7 says, as he's forced to say, about to be stoned to death, but he's forced to say, you stiff-necked people Uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you. Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the righteous one, whom you have now betrayed and murdered. You received the law as delivered by angels and did not keep it. So it's pretty sharp and harsh, isn't it? It's an announcement of judgment. But then there's also the call to repentance. Repent and be baptized. Turn away from your sins. Receive the forgiveness of sin. So it's good news after bad, real preaching, real true preaching. So here's the upshot of all this. Preaching shouldn't be Ed Cathy's opinion. Okay? Or any other preacher's opinion. It's not just a data dump. Let me take this apart for you and put it back together and we you'll have some data to take home with you. No. It is to be a declaration, a heralding of the God's word, of God's truth, of God's good news, sometimes of God's judgment, but always of God's grace and God's mercy offered to us in Jesus Christ. That is preaching. Expect this of me Expect this of any other preacher wherever you may go that they will herald God's truth. That is what preaching is. But then there's other forms of speech that are gifts. Teaching. Teaching. What is teaching? In the OPC we actually have the office of teacher. It's not the office of pastor, but we actually have another office called the office of teacher And in many cases, that is given to someone who either full-time teaches in a larger congregation or to a seminary professor who spends his whole time teaching. Teaching is systematic training. Systematic, line upon line, precept upon precept. It is something that's done by a Sunday school teacher who has a curriculum, who's imparting that curriculum to the students. Or it is by a catechist who takes children through a catechism bit by bit by bit by bit until they learn a systematic understanding of God's Word. It is done by a Bible study leader who carefully unpacks the teachings of Scripture and discusses them with the hearers, analyzing and systematizing. God's truth. That's the office of teaching. It's not the same exactly as the office of preaching. Now, pastors may and ought to do both. Paul says in 2 Timothy 1. 11, he says, incidentally, for which I was appointed a preacher, he says, and an apostle and a teacher. So he's got those three offices, preacher, apostle, and teacher. And not all teachers are pastors, but all pastors are to be teachers. Well, let's go on to one other form of speech, which is a gift of the very gifts of God. And some of you may have this gift, and that is encouragement. Preaching proclaims the truth. Teaching systematizes and imparts the truth. But encouragement. Encouragement is literally to give courage. To give courage Discipleship, you see, following Jesus is costly, and we sometimes lose courage as we're trying to follow Jesus We sometimes are afraid to do what God says. We're afraid because we've never done it before, and we're just afraid it won't work, and we're just afraid. We're stuck in our own ways and our own patterns and we're afraid and we need encouragement to do what God says. Encouragement can take the form of biblical counseling. To encourage Christian followers to stop sinning and to live according to the truth. Encouragement to do what they ought to do, what they know they should do. And New Testament terms for this are to exhort and to advise and to comfort. These are all encouragement things. In 1 Thessalonians 5, he says to the people, We urge you, brothers, admonish the idol. That's an encouragement gift. Encourage the faint-hearted. Help the weak. Be patient with them all. That's encouragement. And I can testify to you the importance of encouragement. My friend Steve Doe, Pastor Steve Doe, has had to hear me on the phone and in person sometimes. Many times over the past few years, because the past few years have been rough for me, he would listen to my gripes. My fears, my complaints. And a lot of those complaints were about God. And he would say, Ed, focus on Christ's love for you. Ed, believe the gospel. Christ is your hope. Christ will not leave you. Did I not know these things? I did, of course I did. But I needed someone to encourage me in what I already knew. To remind me again and again. I can name others sitting here today who did the same things. I won't because it would Not the appropriate, but encouragement is a wonderful speech gift. Words empowered by the compassion of the Holy Spirit are able to help in time of need. And so if you have the gift of encouragement, use it. Encourage for the common good. Years ago, many, many years ago, there was a a student at Moody Bible Institute named Ira Wilson. He began his studies at MBI in 1905. And he wrote a song, which I would call a song for encouragers. The first stanza says, Out on the highways and byways of life. Many are weary and sad. Carry the sunshine where darkness is rife, making the sorrowing glad And then there's a prayer in the refrain. Make me a blessing. Make me a blessing. Out of my life may Jesus shine. Make me a blessing. O Savior, I pray, make me a blessing to someone today. That is the encourager's prayer. So we have preaching, we have teaching, we have encouraging. Now let's look at the doing gifts. Not that those other things aren't doing, but More focused on the doing, serving. In verse 11b, Paul says, whoever serves as one who serves by the strength that God supplies. And then in the Corinthians passage, if serving in our serving. Okay? So general service. General service is in view here. And many of you are doing many acts of service. It is wonderful to have so many servant-hearted people willing to put themselves out, willing to go out of their way to serve. God bless you. God bless you. God encourage you. This is a spiritual gift. It takes many forms. Older people who help younger people That's servants. Younger people who come to the aid of older people in their needs. And then of course it's the whole category of diaconal service because the word deacon means servant. In the book of Acts, the first deacons were appointed to do what? What did they do in the book of Acts? All these people were gathered in Jerusalem. There were all these poor people that were there, didn't have jobs. They were there to hear the works of the apostles and hear the word of God. And some of them were widows and some of them were very poor. And so there was a collection taken and there was food provided for everybody. What did the deacons do? They waited tables. They waited the tables for the widows and the poor. They waited tables at the distribution. And that office in some churches, the deacon assists at the Lord's table. Or holds the Bible for the reader. And those are symbolic acts of service. But diaconal work extends far beyond this. Every church. Needs diaconal people and every church needs deacons. Deacons who care for the practical needs of others. others who teach skills to others. A deacon may say to a younger man, let me show you how to change that alternator that's broken in your car, or that radiator that's got a hole in it or something. Teaching good stewardship instead of having to spend money worthlessly and needlessly, showing mercy to those who are in need. We need to pray that God would give us deacons. And diaconal hearts. Let servants serve. And you'll remember this line: let deacons deak. That's one of the doing gifts. Another one is leadership. Leadership. Now a lot of people don't think about leadership as one of God's gifts, but I think it probably falls into our terminologies and categories around here as project management. Project management. Having the big picture, having the plan, having the organizational skills to get something done, and the ability to motivate others to pitch in and use their gifts. Leadership. If you're preaching, preach. If you're serving, serve. If you're teaching, if you're encouraging, do it well. But if your gift is leadership, And please find a place to use it. Lead. I won't go on about leadership. That's enough. But giving is the next one. Giving. Now Giving isn't just a special spiritual gift for some people. Giving is for all of us in general, but giving is also a special spiritual gift that some people have. Tithes and offerings from the Old Testament and the New Testament are to be given by all of God's people. So giving is a general thing that we all do. I remember as a little boy going to Sunday school that mom or dad, I'm not sure which, would give me a nickel and say, this is for the Sunday school offering What was that about? It was teaching me the principle of giving. As a little kid, teaching me the principle of giving. Now, it was also a temptation because you could buy a pretty good candy bar for a nickel. When I was young. You could buy a really big one for a dime. And so there was a temptation to just keep that nickel in my pocket. But when I gave it, I realized that I was given something And I was to give it. That's the principle of giving. Special gifts in this area. can be described this way. If someone has been blessed by God with an abundance, they're able to make money, they're able to acquire positions and make a better salary than the average person. They're able to acquire or they're able to get money. They are been perhaps been given the ability to give in a special way. If they have, then stewardship is required. If you have lots of money, it's because God has allowed you to gain it. It was not given to you to count And to ponder and to spend on yourself, but to use wisely, directed by the Holy Spirit. And it begins with the tithe, but it also goes beyond the tithe, especially for those who have this gift of giving. If you have the gift of giving, give, give, give. And then showing mercy is the final one I want to focus upon. Showing mercy. It's related to the encouragement thing, but this is an act rather than a speech. showing mercy. Some people, praise God, are gifted with empathy and compassion for those who are hurting. Not everybody has that ability. Some people have the ability to feel for the downtrodden, the people who are broken, either financially or emotionally, they empathize with them deeply, and it's a spiritual gift. They're able to come and help and show mercy because of that. Have you ever heard of Kitsugi or Kitsukuroi? Have you ever heard of that? It's Japanese. Maybe a few have. This is the Japanese art of repairing broken pottery. And what happens is the pottery is broken, but lacquer, dusted or mixed with powdered gold or silver or platinum, is used to repair that broken pottery. And there's a philosophy behind it. The philosophy is that it treats the breakage and the repair as part of the history of an object rather than something to be disguised. Christ. Kintsu Kuroi. We who have this gift, those who have this gift of mercy, see a person who's broken and hurting, and they see that God is going to use. Something wonderful in that situation. He's going to make it more beautiful because it was broken. That's the gift of mercy, to have that kind of heart, that kind of Compassion. I want to show you this picture of Kinsu Kuroi if you want to see it afterwards. Right here in my notes, I'll show it to you. It's really pretty. All of God's gifts, all of them, are for service to others. That was the pattern of Jesus, you see. Jesus left heaven's glory to serve, to serve you and to save you. He was born in shame to a poor family. He was often homeless and without resources, so that you might have a home with God and be the heir of a fortune that cannot be counted. In heaven. He was unjustly accused and sentenced to death to deliver you from the just sentence and punishment you deserved. He experienced the filth and shame of your sins. as they were heaped upon him on the cross, so that you might be clean and righteous and honored and received and rewarded. Jesus ascended and gave gifts to his church. He still gives gifts to his church. You are all great, folks. We are blessed with gifts here. Keep using God's gifts. That's my message to you today. And if someone has not yet discovered those gifts, Or has become discouraged in the use of those gifts? Let God's word speak to you today. Hear God's word. And I want to read finally from a passage that we haven't read, which says some of the very same things. Listen to this in this be the end. Ephesians 4, beginning at verse 1. Therefore, I, a prisoner of the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope that belongs to your call. One Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. But grace was given to each one of us. Hear that again according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives and gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, what does it mean? But he also descended to the lower regions of the earth. He who descended is the one who ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for the building up of the body of Christ. until we all attain to the unity of the faith and to the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children. Tossed to and fro by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning and the craftiness of deceit, but in every way into him who is the head into Christ. Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in Nos