First Samuel eight, verses one through twenty-two When Samuel became old, his sons judges over Israel. The name of his firstborn son was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Bersheba. Yet his sons did not walk in his ways, but turned aside after gain. They took bribes and perverted justice Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah and said to him, Behold, you are old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to the Lord, and the Lord said to Samuel, Obey the voice of the people in all that they say to you, for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them. According to all the deeds that they have done, from the day I brought them up out of Egypt, even to this day, forsaking me and serving other gods, so they are also doing to you. Now then, obey their voice, only you shall solemnly warn them and show them the ways of the king who shall reign over them. So Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people who were asking for a king from him. He said, These will be the ways of the king who will reign over you. He will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots, and to be his horsemen, and to run before his chariots. And he will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties. And some plant to plough his ground and to reap his harvest, and to make his implements of war and the equipment of his chariots. He will take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks and bakers. He will take the best of your fields and vineyards and olive orchards and give them to his servants. He will take the tenth of your grain and of your vineyards and give it to his officers and to his servants. He will take your male servants and female servants and the best of your young men and your donkeys and put them into his work. He will take the tenth of your flocks, and you shall be his slaves. And in that day you will cry out because of your king whom you have chosen for yourselves, but the Lord will not answer you in that day. But the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel, and they said, No, but there shall be a king over us, that we may also be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us and go to out before us and fight our battles. And when Samuel had heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the ears of the Lord. And the Lord said to Samuel, Obey their voice and make them a king. Samuel then said to the men of Israel, Go every man to his city. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Reading is from John chapter 19, 14 through 22. 19, chapter of John, verses 14 through 22 Now it was the day of preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, Behold your king. They cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. So he delivered him over to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus and he went out bearing his own cross to the place called the place of his skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the king of the Jews, but rather this man said, I am the king of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. The word of the Lord, thanks be to God. Lord, we do thank you for your word. Whenever it is read, whenever we read it privately or read it in gathered worship, we ought to be thankful because It is our ground to stand upon. It guides us. It teaches us truth. Bedrock truth. And so now by the Holy Spirit, who inspired the Word to be written down and preserved and kept for us, speak to us, help us to interpret and understand it and apply it to our own lives. Amen. So last week we picked up again in our series in 1 Samuel, and we did chapter 7. There we saw beautiful national repentance. The people after 20 years had come to a place in their situation where they were ready to turn to God again and renew the covenant and obey the Lord. And so they came to Samuel and he directed them and they did just that. And then the Philistines came while they were all gathered together doing this national repentance and decided to attack them. And they trusted in the Lord, and the Lord thundered. and scattered the Philistines, and they defeated the Philistines. Then they pursued the Philistines out, and they took back all the land and all the cities that the Philistines had captured in the past twenty years. They got it all back. Because they repented, they trusted in the Lord, and he delivered them. Now we fast forward about 20 years more to chapter 8. And we have three things that we want to see in the text here. And this is an outline that I got from Pastor Liam Gallagher. who is the pastor of 10th Presbyterian Church. We sang one of those hymns uh just then uh recently, um Give Praise to God, that one. That was from 10th Presbyterian, but this outline is from Pastor Gallager, and it has three parts. The first one is the familiar crisis. Second, the familiar proposal. And third, the familiar result. So the familiar crisis, the problem of succession. These 20 years passed, and there was a forgetfulness and a desire for new things. You know, we've 20 years, I don't know what was back then, that was a long time ago. I want something new. New things. You kind of cast off the old ideas. Nearly every generation thinks that they can do better than the generation before them. So there's this desire for new leadership, for for hope and change and all these kinds of things. And so they they set out to get it. The situation in chapter 8, the first two verses, is Spelled out for us here this familiar crisis, the problem of succession. When Samuel became old, he made his sons judges over Israel. That's succession. He was the judge. He went around judging. He was good. He did what was right. He made justice work. But he made his sons judges over Israel. Verse 2: the name of his firstborn son was Joel, and the name of his second was Abijah, and they were judges in Beersheba. That's way down toward the Nevgev in the south part. Yet his sons did not walk in the ways, his ways, but turned aside after gain. They were in it for the money. They took bribes and perverted justice. Well, this is the succession that happens here. Like Eli's two sons long before, they were not following in their father's good footsteps. And the people of Israel had no confidence in them and feared that when Samuel died, everything would go completely down to nothing, and leave them without a leader. These two boys, men that uh were given these jobs had good names, by the way, and they're given to us here, so it's maybe worth Spelling out and understanding Joel means Yah is God. Yo El. Jehovah L. God Yah is God. And the other one had the name Abijah. My father is Yah. So they had really good names, but they weren't living up to their names. They weren't living up to the standards of their father, Samuel. They ignored the demands of justice and instead enriched themselves. You and I can understand this, can't we? Sounds like the way of all flesh to us. And even here in America, every election cycle we hear the promises made by the candidates, right? We hope that this time will be different, that they will keep their promises and do what is right, but we are mostly disappointed. Sometimes they overpromise and simply cannot do what they said they would do. Sometimes they were just lying from the start, and we're often disappointed. Israel was disappointed with Joel and Abijah. They wanted something different. They also wanted something stronger and more visible. than the invisible God of Israel. This is really what's behind their drive. They wanted something more visible than that invisible God of Israel with his Ark of the Covenant out the house of Abinadab in the hill. Something more visible So that's the familiar crisis. Now we come to the familiar proposal: a more centralized government with a visible king. Verses 4 and 5. Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah and said to him, Behold, you are old. And your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations. These are the same elders, well, at least in continuity, the same elders who had given bad advice in the past. Their predecessors had advised, for instance, taking the ark into battle years earlier. And these elders may have been old, but they were not wise. The elders came to Samuel and confronted him with this demand: set us a king over us. Like all the other nations. They are the blind leading the blind. And Samuel was greatly disturbed by this request. I want to pause here to say that this can happen today. These kinds of things can happen today. The church, I'm speaking broadly of the whole Christian-named church. The church may try to do this by better marketing. by appointing leaders according to human standards rather than scriptural standards. Sometimes the church Collectively says to itself, we just can't trust God to secure the church for us. We must update the church, get it with the times. This is seen mostly in old liberal old line churches that try to change the standards taught in Scripture to suit the German word here, Zeitgeist. They try to suit the zeitgeist, the spirit of the day. And many of those churches have denied the infallibility of the Bible They have fudged on the exclusivity of salvation by Christ. And they have changed the definitions of biblical concepts and ideas, including marriage, to name a few. They will even sometimes dress this up, this revolt up against God by saying that the Holy Spirit is leading us this way. That's blasphemy. When you attribute to God, the Holy Spirit, what is clearly against God's word, blasphemy. Well, that's the old line denominations, but what about us? On a personal level, you may, you may doubt the Bible You know, you you go to this class and it says this, and you hear this other concept over here, and a lot of people around you just don't believe that the Bible is true and it can squeeze you into that mold too. You may doubt the Bible. You may doubt the exclusivity and work of Christ for your salvation You may distrust God because He is not dispensing to you all of your requests. You've asked and asked, and He hasn't given you what you wanted. So you're not so sure about God anymore. And you may have even a wanton desire for something new. You were raised in this thing, and now, well, let's see what else is out there. And behind all that is, like the Israelites here, a desire not to be so peculiar. Want to fit in better. We don't want to stand out like a sore thumb, you know. I'm just going to pause and make a very clear statement here. Friends. The moral distance between an obedient Christian and the average American is increasing rapidly. And you will stick out and get over it. Verse 6, back to the text. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to the Lord And the Lord said to Samuel, obey the voice of the people in all that they say to you, for they have not rejected you, Samuel, but they have rejected me from being king over them. God said to give them exactly what they asked for. And that should put us in a place where we should be very careful of what we ask for. If you're rejecting God, the God revealed in the scriptures, be afraid to get what you ask for. You better stop asking for the wrong thing and ask for the right things. And so they wanted a king, and w we look thing ahead a bit and we see that they got a king eventually. They got David. Um and in David's monarchy He actually was pretty good. He acknowledged that God is the true king. He wasn't claiming to be king, in a sense, above God, but he was a king under God. But many, many, many wicked kings would follow old David. Israel and Judah would suffer under their reigns. So we come to the third point. Already, a familiar result described and granted in verses 8 through 22. Verse 8. According to all the deeds that they have done, from the day I brought them up out of Egypt, even to this day, forsaking me and serving other gods, so they are also doing to you. Now then obey their voice, only you shall solemnly warn them and show them the ways of the king who shall reign over them. And then we see it in the next several verses. God will send them what they want, at least what they're asking for, oppressive kings, takers. Takers. Listen how many times the phrase he will take is found in these next verses. Listen. Verse 10. So Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people who were asking for a king from him, and he said, These will be the ways of the king who will reign over you. He will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots, to be his horsemen, and to run before his chariots. He will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties, and some to plough his ground, and reap his harvest, and to make his implements of war, and the equipment of his chariots He will take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks and bakers. He will take the best of your fields and vineyards and olive orchards and give them to his servants. He will take the tenth of your grain and of your vineyards and give it to his officers and to his servants He will take your male servants and female servants and the best of your young men and your donkeys and put them to his work. Verse 17, he will take the tenth of your flocks. And the last phrase is poignant. And you shall be his slaves. And in that day you will cry out because of your king, whom you have chosen for yourselves. But the Lord will not answer you in that day. What is this? Samuel is doing what the Lord told him to do. He's attempting to dissuade them by pointing out the way kings are. The heathen kings were cruel and power hungry. They robbed the poor and the weak to enrich themselves and their friends. They were indifferent to the plight of the masses. They recruited the cream of youth for their armies to seek their personal glory and conquest. They levied heavy taxes and flagrantly infringed upon the freedom of their subjects, but no argument could convince the elders that they should give up their ridiculous demand They hoped that a king could unite them into one nation strong enough to defend their borders against the enemy What this really is, my friends, especially if you look at that last bit of verse 17, this is a back to Egypt movement. You know, Israel was set free from slavery in Egypt. And it says there, you shall be his slaves. Slaves again, oppressive rulers. Is that what you want? He's throwing it right in their faces. George Santaniana said, those who do not learn history are doomed to repeat it. But the people refused, verse 19, to obey the voice of Samuel, and they said, No, but there shall be a king over us. That we may also be like all the nations, and that our King may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. Folks, The Lord Yahweh had been willing to fight their battles. Just think of the battles that God fought for them, the ten plagues that he brought on Egypt. The crossing of the Red Sea, the battle of Jericho, just to name a few. And lately, about 20 years earlier, how he defeated the Philistines And they set up that rock, called it Ebenezer. From now to this place, the Lord has helped us. Verse 21, and when Samuel heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the ears of the Lord. And the Lord said to Samuel, Obey their voice and make them a king. Samuel then said to the men of Israel, Go every man to his city. He let them go, dismiss them. Who will be king? Given the king, who will be king? Now I want to throw something in here into the mix. God was not ultimately opposed to Israel having a king. But he wanted a certain kind of king to rule over Israel We find that description in Deuteronomy 17, verses 14 through 20. Listen to these words about the king. When you come into the land that the Lord your God is giving you, and you possess it and dwell in it, and say, I will set a king over me, like all the nations that are around me. Prophetic, isn't it? You may indeed set a king over you, whom the Lord your God will choose. One from among your brothers you shall set as king over you. You may not put a foreigner over you, for he was not your brother. Only he must not acquire many horses for himself, or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to acquire many horses. Since the Lord has said to you, you shall never return that way again. And he shall not require, acquire many wives for himself, lest his heart turn away. Nor shall he acquire for himself excessive silver and gold. And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself in a book a copy of this law approved by the Levitical priests. And it shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God, by keeping all the words of this law. and these statutes, and doing them, that his heart may not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he may not turn aside from the commandment, either to the right or to the left So that he may continue long in his kingdom, he and his children in Israel. So what's the list? One of your own brothers, not a foreigner. He may not acquire many horses. Why? Military acquisitions from Egypt. Trusting in military power He may not acquire many wives. What is that? Political alliances through marriage and the influence of ungodly women on a godly king. He may not acquire lots of money. He must not turn aside from God's commandments, so that he may continue long in his kingdom. And that's an echo of Exodus 20, verse 12, which says, Honor the Lord, honor your father and mother that your days may be long in the land the Lord your God is giving you. If you want to stay in the place that God has given you, honor those who are set in authority over you. In the course of Israel's and Judah's history, we shall see how they were taken out of the land repeatedly because of disobedience. Their kings were mostly horrible. All of the kings of Israel, the northern tribes, were horrible, and most of the kings of the south were also horrible. God punished his people with extermination, deportation, and exile. We fast forward a thousand years. Their descendants, the Jews, did not want God as king. In fact, they didn't even want to be Israel anymore And we see that in John chapter 19. When it was about the sixth hour, he said to the Jews, Behold your king. They cried out, away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. They don't even want to be Israel anymore. They want a pagan to rule over them. And so he delivered him to be crucified. The Jewish people had another chance The preaching on the day of Pentecost in Acts chapter 2, Peter said, Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit that is turn to the true King. The one king that God intended to send. Turn to him. Repent of turning to anything else and turn to him. And you'll receive the gift of the Holy Spirit For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are afar off, for everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. And with many words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation. the crooked generation that rejected the true king. That offer still extends today We, the visible church, I believe, are the Israel of God today. We have his law, his word Both the standard of righteousness and the gospel that makes the law work for us instead of killing us and condemning us because of the atoning work of Christ and the Holy Spirit who indwells us and leads us. Christ is King and Head of the Church But like the Israelites, you and I are still tempted to look somewhere else for comfort and security Will you have God as your King? The God man, King, Jesus? David was one of the best kings, a man after God's own heart, and yet a sinner. And yet he was repentant. He read the law of God. He enforced it reasonably well. After him came Solomon, his son, who was less good. Took many wives, made many alliances, began to slide downward into apostasy. But David's greater son is the true king. Well, you have God as your king, the God man, the better than David King who keeps God's law perfectly and gives his record of righteousness to you When you trust him by faith. Some of the Jews in Acts 2 said, no, no, we won't have him. And some said yes. And it's recorded that about about 3,000 were baptized that day Not just some water. They returned to the Lord. They said, we want Him to be our King. He will rule us. Our membership vows number four. If you're a member here, you took this vow. You acknowledge Jesus Christ as your sovereign. That's king. And do you promise that in reliance on the grace of God you will serve Him with all that is in you? Forsake the world. Resist the devil. Put to death your sinful deeds and desires, and lead a godly life. Well, you have God as your king Amen. Lord, we thank you for these things that were written down for our instruction upon whom the end of the ages has come. It has come upon us. And now we have the whole Word of God, Old and New Testaments. Now we have the Holy Spirit given to us to indwell us. We of all people must follow the King, Jesus Christ, the greater Son of David. Help us, we pray. Amen.