In this uh great prayer of Jesus, the word glory appears eight times in various forms. Glory In the Old Testament, the word glory stems from the root which we transliterate KBD In the Hebrew, they do not have vowels, although they were added in later in the Hebrew text to help people pronounce correctly. But anyway, KBD. So it's probably pronounced something like kabod. It literally means weight. Something heavy, something magnificent. Heaviness refers to God's visible, active presence. In its noun form, it means abundance. It means wealth. It means splendor. And abstractly speaking, it means dignity. It means respect and reverence. That's glory. In the New Testament, the word is translated Doxa, D-O-X-A, from which we get the name of our Trinitarian hymn of praise that we call Doxology. the study of the glory in song. Now in the Old Testament, notice this: the glory of God was always enclosed, always veiled in a cloud or in smoke or in some way And that was before the coming of Christ. In the New Testament, the glory was still veiled, but it's now veiled in human flesh, enclosed in the human flesh of Christ, who became one of us. took on our human nature. The thesis of this sermon, and so that you'll be able to follow it more clearly, the thesis is this. Jesus prays here that the glory he enjoyed with the Father before the world began be restored after the cross. And after the resurrection, and that that glory be finally shared with you and me. That's my thesis. But let's look back, step back, and see some historical manifestations of glory. Think back to Mount Sinai in Exodus chapter 19. Here we read, and the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I am coming to you in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you, and may also believe you forever. Moses told the words to the people. The Lord said to Moses, go to the people and consecrate them today and tomorrow. And let them wash their garments. They have to get ready for this appearance of God's glory. Wash their garments and be ready for the third day. Three days. For on the third day the Lord will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people, and you shall set limits for all the people around it, saying, Take care not to go up into the mountain or touch it. Whoever touches the mountain shall be put to death. No hand shall touch it, but he shall be stoned or shot. Whether beast or man, he shall not live When the trumpet sounds a long blast, they shall come up to the mountain. So Moses went down from the mountain to the people and consecrated the people, and they washed their garments, and he said to them Be ready for the third day, do not go near a woman. On the morning of the third day there were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain, and very loud trumpet blasts, so that all the people in the camp trembled. Again, enclosed in a cloud, God's glory is coming down to be near God's people. Verse 17, then Moses brought to the people out of the camp to meet God And they took their stand at the foot of the mountain. Now it's described here in verse eighteen. Now Mount Sinai was wrapped in smoke because the Lord had descended on it in fire The smoke of it went up like a cloud of smoke of a kiln, and the whole mountain trembled greatly. And as the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him in thunder. The Lord came down on Mount Sinai to the top of the mountain. And the Lord called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up. That's just one picture, you see, of this awesome glory of God. enclosed in this fire and this cloud with a magnificent display of God's awesome character and God's awesomeness as he comes down on Mount Sinai. This also was seen later on after they left Mount Sinai wandering in the wilderness. They have the tabernacle. And God appears there in the first camp. It's described in Exodus 33. So listen to this. Now Moses used to take a tent and pitch it outside the camp, far off from the camp, and he called it the tent of meeting. Meeting, what kind of meeting is this? It's a meeting between God and his people. And every one who sought the Lord would go out to the tent of meeting, which was outside the camp. Whenever Moses went out to the tent, all the people would rise up, and each would stand at his tent door and watch Moses until he had gone into the tent. So this is a long way off. It's outside the camp. It's where God meets his people. And they're watching because it's so awesome that God is going to meet his people in this place. Verse 9. When Moses entered the tent, the pillar of cloud would descend and stand at the entrance of the tent. And the Lord would speak with Moses. And when all the people saw the pillar of clouds standing at the entrance of the tent, all the people would rise up and worship each at his tent door. And then later on in that same chapter, Moses wanting to make sure that God's Glory would be with him, asked to see God's glory. Listen to this. Moses said, please show me your glory. What's going to happen now? And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim before you my name, which is that four-letter word, the Lord. And I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will show mercy on whom I will show mercy. But, verse 20, but he said, You cannot see my face. Whatever that is. It's the most unveiled, most immediate presence of God's glory. You cannot see my face for men shall not see me and live. Verse 22-21. And the Lord said, Behold, there is a place by me where you shall stand on the rock. And while my glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft of the rock. A a big crevice down in the rock, I suppose, where he's not as exposed. While my glory passes by, I will put you in the cleft of the rock, and I will cover you with my hand until I have passed by. Then I will take away my hand and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen. That's the glory, the awesomeness of God's glory. Can't be seen face to face. Next chapter, chapter 34. Whenever Moses went in before the Lord to speak with him, he would remove the veil. He had a kind of a covering over his face. He would remove the veil when he was in there, and when he came out, until they came out, and when he came out and told the people of Israel what was commanded, The people of Israel would see the face of Moses that the skin of Moses' face was shining. Maybe like a floodlight or something, you know They had to cover their faces because of Moses' face is shining so brightly. And Moses would put the veil over his face again until he went to speak with him. So he has to kind of shield the people. What's happened here? God's glory has so come close to Moses that his face is now glowing, and the people can't even hardly stand to look at it That's the glory that Jesus is praying about in John 17. One more, Exodus 40. But then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle, and Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting. Of meeting because the clouds settled on it. He can't even go inside now because of the glory. And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Throughout their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, the people of Israel would set out. But if the cloud was not taken up, they did not set out till the day that it was taken up. For the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel throughout all their journey. Later on, they build a temple in Canaan, in Israel, in Jerusalem. In 1 Kings 8, here's what happens when they build this temple, and it's now dedicated. When the priests came out of the holy place, a cloud filled the house of the Lord, so that the priest could not stand to minister because of the cloud for the glory of the Lord fill the house of the Lord. Isaiah sees a vision of this sort of thing in Isaiah chapter 6 In the year it says that King Uzziah died, that's an earthly king who thinks he has a lot of glory, but he doesn't. In the year that King Uzziah died, he's done, he's over with I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. And above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings. With two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. And one called to another and said, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the foundations of the threshold shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. Even these angels, these seraphim, cover their eyes at the glory that he sees filling the temple in this vision. And we read as a summary in Isaiah 42, only God has glory. Within himself. It comes from within him. It comes out, but it's within him. Only God has it within him. Isaiah 42, 8. I am the Lord. That is my name. My glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols. Specifically in relation to the promise of salvation throughout Scripture, God's glory is the experience of His awesome presence in the midst of His covenant people. It is associated with the knowledge of his name. I am the Lord. That is my name. Very important. And this is related to his grandeur and power as creator and redeemer. Glory is associated with the phenomenon of light or fire. Which is sometimes so overwhelming in brilliance and unbearable intensity that it is shrouded in a cloud. Summary of what this is all about. And in the New Testament, when Jesus is here with his earthly life and just as recorded in Matthew 17, a little glimpse there. After six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, the brother of James. These fishermen, you know. And he led them up a high mountain by themselves. was that reminiscent of? It's reminiscent of Mount Sinai, remember? There he was transfigured before them. His face shone, and his clothes became as white as the light. Just then there appeared before them Moses and Elijah talking with Jesus. So the Old Testament and New Testament come together again around the glory of God and the face of Jesus Christ. This is also recorded in the synoptic gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke. We come finally to a theological statement in John chapter 1. Which is read on Christmas Eve here, I'm sure, in the lessons and carols, verse 14 of John chapter 1. And the word became flesh. And dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory. There it is. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. And then verse 18, and no one has ever seen God, reflect in the Old Testament. The only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known in the glory of Jesus Christ, in the flesh. of Jesus Christ. So now let us take a quick look at the prayer that Jesus is praying now before he goes to the cross. This prayer, the immediate glory of Jesus, is the glory, surprisingly, of the cross. Verse 1. When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son. That the Son may glorify you, since you gave him authority over all flesh, etc. Verse 4, I have glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. God's glory is his presence in the midst of his covenant people, and Jesus is saying, I have accomplished this. And yet it's an odd proximity here, the cross, which is a symbol of disgrace, ignomy. The worst that could happen is going to bring glory to God. It's going to display the glory of God. Jesus actually said this earlier in John chapter 12, when he was thinking about the cross, he says, now my soul is troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Then he says, Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. So we come to verse 5 of the chapter 17. We see here the past and the future glory of Christ. Jesus says, and now Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existence. Glory described here is the glory of the Father and the Son, which they shared together with the Holy Spirit in eternity before the world was created. What kind of glory was that? I think if we try to make an earthy analogy, it might be the glory uh like lovers in a really, really good marriage. Who, maybe in their first few months, who are constantly admiring each other, constantly complimenting each other, constantly serving each other And they just enjoy always being together. Well, the persons of God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, lived in this glorious unity from all eternity. And Jesus is asking for that to be restored. And the Father is saying it will be restored. The incarnation did not end that unity, but the nature of Christ in his humiliation altered the constancy of Jesus' experience. The experience of the glory he had before the incarnation. Jesus here now looks forward to renewal of that glory of the past. But beyond that, he says, looking at verse 6, that that glory that he had with the Father, that constant loving communion, will be shared with believers who are in union with Christ. Verse six. I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you, for I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you, and that they have believed that you sent me I am praying for them. He's praying for you and me, right, at this moment. I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those you have given me, for they are yours. All mine are yours, and all yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. Somehow the gathering and sharing of the glory of God with you and me glorifies Christ. He is glorified in this work that is accomplished. It is the glory of God that redeemed humans come to share in the Trinitarian glory in a creaturely way. This is also called the beatific vision. Verse 22, the glory that you have given me, I have given to them that they may be one, even as we are one. These back and forth, we are one, they are one, may we all be one, may they be one. All these words, he says in verse 20 for Father, I desire also whom you have given me that they may that they may be with me where I am to see my glory. Moses wanted to see the glory of God, didn't he? What happened Well, you stand on this rock, and then you can be in this crevice, and I'll pass by, but you can't see my face. Jesus is praying now that we will see his glory someday, that you and I United to Christ, will see his glory. Paul tells us later on that all Christians, all Christians, even you and me here today, have to some extent through our love of Jesus, through our trust in Jesus, have come to begin to glimpse just a bit, maybe The glory of God in 2 Corinthians 3. 18, he says, we all, he's talking to the church here, we all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord. Beholding the glory of the Lord, yes. With unveiled face are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another, for this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. There it is, my friends. Jesus is praying for you and I to now share in a glimpse of his glory and ultimately to see the fullness of his glory. to share in that wonderful glory of God intimacy that he had with the Father before the world began. So I hope that you see how magnificent this really is, this prayer here for the glory. It's not just a word It means something. It's very important. But before we conclude, there's one more thing we need to consider in relation to this. That there are other glories. There are other glories that may that may get in the way, that may distract us That may come between ourselves and the glory that Jesus is praying for for us here. There are other glories. J. I. Packer says this. In the human earthly sense, glory is a beauty or vibrancy that rests upon the material of the earth So we sing a song for the beauty of the earth, for the glory of the skies. And we appreciate many beautiful things in the world, and we see the glory of God in them, the glory of the creation. I'm going on with Packer now, but the reason those fade is that material things do not last. They die and wither. But the glory that is in them belongs to God and returns to him when death or decay takes the material. God is the one from whom glory comes. God's glory is the source, the wellspring, from which all smaller glories are supplied. Since God is the one from whom glory comes, God will not allow the falsehood that glory comes from man Or from idols, or from nature. Isaiah 42, verse 8 We see the example of God's jealousy for his glory. And I've already read this, but I'll read it again. I am the Lord. That is my name. My glory I give to no other. Nor my praise to carved idols. This jealousy for his glory is what Paul is talking about in Romans chapter 1 that we read earlier When he speaks of the ways people worship the creature rather than the creator. In other words, they looked at the object through which God's glory was coming, and instead of giving God the credit for it, they worshiped that animal or tree or man As if the beauty it possessed originated from within itself. This is the very part of idolatry and is a very common occurrence. My friends, everyone who has ever lived has committed this error at one time or another We have all, as Paul says, exchanged the glory of God in favor of the glory of earthly things. Give you an example of that. Eric Metaxis was describing something that's uh come to light recently. It's something called young to old blood transfusions. Young to old blood transfusions. In 2014, when Harvard Stem Cell Institute researcher Amy Wagers discovered that the blood of young mice improved the muscle and heart and brain function of older mice So they started sewing the skin of two mice together, an old one and a young one, allowing their circulatory systems to merge. The surgery was called parabiosis. It was first performed a long time ago, but has seen a resurgence of interest following her study. And people are getting interested in this. The founder of PayPal, Peter Thiel, stated that he finds parabiosis really interesting and said that his curiosity leans more toward his personal health rather than potential business venture. He's got enough of that This is not the first time Thiel has shown an interest in combating aging. He calls himself a transhumanist. And he is taking a lot of human growth hormone to prolong his life. He says he hopes to achieve immortality by eventually uploading his consciousness into a computer. Wow. And last year, um there was an article about Teal in which this new plan to extend his life was described And he started finding ways to inject himself with the blood of young people in order to reverse the aging process. That was a few years ago. I don't know what happened since then. But I'll say this. Youth is glorious, but its glory fades, young people, and it will fade No procedure will ultimately reverse it, because it is a borrowed glory, and it must be returned to the giver. If you are trusting in the glory of earthly things, earthly relationships, your own powers or talents or beauty Or the goodness you see in others, you will see these things fade and fail because they are only the temporary carriers of the greater glory. If you trust in those things, you will despair. What you need to realize is that only God's glory is constant. And as you journey through life, you will see it manifested here or there, in this person or that forest, or in a story of love and heroism, or your own personal life. But it all must go back to God in the end. And the only way to share God's glory ultimately and completely and Forever is through his son Jesus Christ who was praying this prayer for you and me before he went to the cross. My friends, his blood is the real transfusion of glory which will never fail. His glory shared with you in his presence will never fade away if you are in Christ. And if you are in Christ, nothing will be lost to you. And all those things that faded in life, you will find again multiplied 10,000 times 10,000 in him. Reminds me of the great hymn of Peter Abelard from the 12th century. It's not in our hymnal, or we would be singing it shortly. It's in the old Red Trinity hymnal The hymn is, oh what their joy and their glory must be. Those endless Sabbaths, the blessed ones see Crown for the valiant, to weary one's rest. God shall be all and in all ever blessed. Jesus prayed for you to share his glory. Don't let other competing lesser glories get in the way. Amen.