Isaiah chapter fifty-five Come, every one who thirsts, come to the waters, and he who has no money, come, buy and eat. Come, buy wine and milk, without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me, and eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food incline your ear, and come to me, here, that your soul may live, and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast sure love for David. Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander for the peoples. Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know And a nation that did not know you shall run to you, because of the Lord your God, and of the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified you. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, So are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there, but water the earth making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower, and bread to the eater, so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth it shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it For you shall go out in joy and be led forth in peace. The mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress, instead of the briar shall come up the myrtle, and it shall make a name for the Lord, an everlasting sign, that shall not be cut off. This is the word of the Lord. Acts 2, beginning at verse 14 to verse 41, through the word of the Lord. Let me help you real quick to hear this. You just heard Isaiah 55. You're seeing Isaiah 55 fulfilled here in preaching this free grace of God and calling sinners to repentance to come take a part of it. So pay attention to this sermon. But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and addressed them, Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and give ear to my words. For these people are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day. But this is what was uttered through the prophet Job And in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. And your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams, even on my male servants and female servants. In those days I will pour out my spirit, and they shall prophesy And I will show wonders in the heavens above, and signs on the earth below, blood and fire, and vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood, before the day of the Lord comes, a great and magnificent day. And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know This Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it For David says concerning him, I saw the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken. Therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced My flesh also will dwell in hope, for you will not abandon my soul to Hades, or let your holy one see corruption. You have made known to me the paths of life, and you will make me full of gladness with your presence. Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the Patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that he would set one of his descendants on his throne, he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ. And he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus, God raised up, and of that we are all witnesses. Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ This Jesus, whom you crucify. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart And said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation. So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about 3,000 souls. And our text from this morning, Mark chapter 16, verses 15 and 16, and the Great Commission here, as Mark has it in the Gospel Hebrew. Mark 16, verses 15 and 16. Hear the word of the Lord. And he said to them, Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation. Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned. This is the word of the Lord. Beloved, this is the last sermon I plan to preach to you in the Book of Mark. We've reached the end. The end of an era. And next week we'll start in the book of Hebrews. That's a very fitting place to end. The beginning you might say of Christianity, the spreading of the gospel, which we are still bearing the fruit of what the disciples have Planted and labored for two millennia ago, and which we continue to hold fast and labor in our own day. So we are continuing to look at the Great Commission. So we looked in the first sermon about it, about the importance of sharing the gospel, the importance of making the good news known, and that is because You can't get a crop if you don't sow seed. And that's what Jesus teaches us in the parable of the sowers and Many other parables. He he he chose farming for a reason when he preached to us about the gospel. And you learn so much about it. We are in seed time in God's kingdom. It's really here You could really be out of this world and in God and in Christ and create anew today, now, and live in God's kingdom? And yet many people still pretend and act and live like God isn't King. And you know better, and one day nobody will deny that truth when He comes in strength. It will be utterly frightening to some and utterly joyful to others. But we're in seed time in God's kingdom, and harvest is coming, and you must plant seed if you're going to get a crop And we looked at last week, looking a bit at the gospel. Trying to understand, as I learned, they chose this word for a purpose. John doesn't use it in his gospel, so it's not essential, if you will, to say the word gospel. You want, John talks about witnessing to the truth. Read his gospel. You'll never hear the word gospel on John's lips Because he thinks there's not good news? No, it's because the church has always been commissioned to proclaim the truth to God in the language of today, that people can give it. But understand it. And see in in Mark's day in preaching to the church in Rome, they had a gospel of Caesar. You know that coin Jesus held up and said, no, show me the coin. He said, see whose image on it? You know what was written on there? Caesar, son of God. That was their gospel. Caesar. He's God's son. He controls nature. He'll bring us peace. We've got the Roman peace. He'll bring us salvation and give us life. That was their gospel. The thing preached to them. And here comes the crucified Galilean ascended to his throne in ordinary, uneducated men telling the world there's a different king. God's the king. The God of Israel's the King. And Jesus is his name. And he's the true Lord of heaven and earth. He's the true healer and savior of men. He's the one that will bring peace to this world and make it new. So he chose the gospel for a reason. Because gospel, both as it's used in Scripture, it's used in the Hebrew Bible Gospels used in the in the Roman world was a royal announcement. It's announcing the king is here, the king's ascendant. And that comes with a royal summons. You better acknowledge this king. You better accept this king. And that's that's God's continuing message for 2,000 years. to the people on this earth, will you accept my King Jesus as the only Lord and giver of life? That's the same question being asked to humanity That's the same gospel being preached to them. Will you take the true king? Will you come into the true kingdom and have life? Now, we've got to get that message out. And so we'll end today on what I humbly but very confidently present to you as the biblical method of evangelism. Now let me be clear on what I mean by that. Talking about a way, there are certain things you need to do, you need to proclaim. You need to promise. You need to warn, and first of all, you need to go. So we're going to look at those four words, and that is the biblical way. Now Let me be clear, I'm not giving to you one pat message that you can memorize and say, and that's it. Because your message and what exactly you'll proclaim and how you'll proclaim it depends on who you're speaking to. They spoke to Jews. They could talk about God fulfilling Scripture because they knew the Scriptures. You don't preach about God fulfilling scriptures of Gentiles. Go to Acts 17. Paul doesn't even start or the first sermon he preaches, you all don't even know God and you need to remember. Repent and start with the basic thing that the gods you worship aren't gods and you need to repent and the resurrection is telling you you need to repent Because it means that day of judgment is coming and God's assured everybody of it by raising up Jesus from the dead. You might say grace there. He left them going with Maybe my world isn't as together as I thought. And maybe me, smart philosopher, don't know as much as I think. Maybe this Hebrew strange looking man, I need to heed him. So it all depends on who you're speaking to. So don't misunderstand me as I'm telling you this morning Here's exactly the message. The best thing, beloved, if you want to be successful evangelizing, is eat this book up. Here's the gospel right here, the whole Bible Know it, internalize it, study it, have it, think on it, commit yourself to it, right? But at the same time, I do think As we saw in Isaiah and in Peter's sermons and all the sermons in Acts, there is a core to this message And there is a way in giving this message that I believe is biblical and honors God. And so we're going to look at that. But I want to give you a few goals to focus your mind this morning and You hear me talk to you about these four things. Go, proclaim, promise, and mourn. First is I I want everybody to come away with a love for the word repentance. How many of you think repentance is a part of gospel preaching? Good. Praise God. It is. Isaiah 55 is understood by many of that great text of the free offer, right? You don't get any of the goods if you don't repent. Peter preached what happened. He proclaimed, cut to the heart. What was the first word he said to him? Repent. I want you to come away with loving this word, repent. We'll talk more about it. Because, beloved, repentance not only honors God and gets people to goods, it's the kind of Christians I want to be around. What's the kind of Christians you want to be around? Because you're going to see it's the kind of Christians that experience the joy of being free from the shackles of sin. They are at peace with God. are walking in his ways, are humble and contrite. Proud Christians is a horrible thing Horrendous. Repentance is an an amazing word. God would never say repent if there wasn't a Christ crucified behind it. It is the most merciful word I think God gives to human beings. You're headed to hell. Turn around There's life. I want you to love the word attemptance. I want you to come away and see that the evangel or the gospel is the message for all. You're not dealing with God's secret counsels, you're not preaching to left and reprobate. That's in God's counsel. He'll deal with that. You're preaching to sinners You're telling a truth that an absolutely true message that is true for every single person. If you repent and believe in Jesus Christ, you will be saved. You can say that to any creature, any person, because it is true And you're not delving in God's working in our heart and giving effectual power to that word as he sovereignly discriminates amongst men. That's his prerogative. It is an absolutely true statement. If you repent and believe, you will be saved. And you can preach that to every single person you see. The evangelist dealing with a message everybody. Not getting into God's sovereign. It's behind it, it's happening, but you're not dealing with what God is doing. But the message he has said give to the world. That's what we're doing. And third, when the evangel is received, it begins a new life. And the lifelong discipleship process in a local church. You can't separate missions and evangelism from the church. It's part of it. The evangel created the church. It's integral to the life of it. People need to see there is a new community. There is a new spirit-filled people. There is a new way of life. Come be a part of it. And if you read the testimonies of converts or life of sin If there's not a community that is loving them in their sins, supporting them to leave, to come into, they're not going to leave it. There needs to be a Christ-centered With a heart of Christ crucified, showing that love to the world, and utterly accepts sinners, not to leave them in their sin. God takes sinners as they are. He says, Come to me as the filthy, miserable, hurting, broken, confused, angry, wicked people you are, and I'll change you. And the church better receive wicked, ugly, broken, diseased, hurting people that Christ might change them. Don't confuse what I'm saying with let us affirm people in their sin. No, repent. But God takes you where you're at. He one of the things that's impressed upon me As I would I preach to the cross, oh, it did something wonderful to me to preach a sermon on the cross. And you see that the father wanted the son to die. And bear the punishment for all those sins. And Jesus wanted to do it. That that changes you How wonderful this this message is and in the in the cross and the gospel. But anyways, that those are things I want, these kind of goals. So love, repentance. To know that the evangel is a message for all, and it begins a process of discipleship, a lifelong process of discipleship in a local church. Let me just briefly cause it it's so wonderful to cast the vision of the Great Commission. You know, as Mark and Luke and Matthew, they all give and John even give their version of it. As Mark were looking at it right at the It's talking about the kingdom of God's coming power, right? Jesus said in his trial, you'll see me seated in power. And then he was killed, and they're wondering, is that going to happen? Then he raises in glory, and yeah, it happens. He is seated in power and his kingdom's come. Empower. That's what Mark's saying. That's that's a driving force. Behold behind the evangel. The kingdom of God is here And it's shaped utterly by who God is the merciful, sin forgiving, loving God that can give life to sinners In Luke's gospel, it's about the sufferings of Christ who enters into his glory as the springboard to the preaching to all the nations to repent for the forgiveness of sins. But remember, with sins are forgiven, it's so communion and life can be restored. God is taking away what stands between you and Him in fellowship. He doesn't just take your sins away to not bring you and embrace you as your father But he takes your sins away that he might love you forever. So this gospel of repentance, forgiveness of sins is being preached. In Matthew is as we're most commonly used to it, all authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. Matthew is saying it It's the message that the true King and ruling Lord of the nations is here, and come follow him and learn what it really means to be a human being again. Because he's the glory. You know it's very interesting if you look at Scripture, all the human kingdoms are likened to beast The only real kingdom, the kingdom of God, is like unto what? A son of man, a human being. You aren't human if you're not in Christ. I know that sounds horrible, but you're not. You're more beastly And we know it. Because we're so unloving. We think we're loving, but we're so unloving. Humanity is restored to us in Christ. We bear the image of God again in Christ. That's why we want people to come in. We want to show them humanity and love them like we're meant to love them and say, come and learn this way. And in John, it's all about that spirit of life being breathes anew on people and a new beginning, a new creation taking place in their heart. So that's that's this glorious picture of what's been taking place for two thousand years and which we'll continue to do by Christ's power. So Let's go to Isaiah 55 and learn from the prophet the biblical method of doing evangelism. Go proclaim promise and warn. I think we can all remember that. Go, proclaim, promise, and warn. Because I really want us to be comfortable in how to do it. Really want you to be able to go away. The results aren't in your control in evangelism. But you can go away knowing I did evangelize. I did these four things. I proclaimed, but I'm supposed to proclaim. I gave the promises I'm supposed to To promise, and I gave the warning that I'm supposed to warn. I can say before God, I I did what I'm called to do. I shared the gospel. Okay, so go proclaim promise and more. Let me also say a note here because uh I do think that this is a method that can be used in every level of evangelism, whether you are an ordained and sent missionary Or whether you're just a Christian who loves Jesus and you want to share the good news. That here's a method you can follow at at whatever level, and of course each one comes with responsibilities. I have been, if I'm honest with you a little hesitant to preach on evangelism, not because I don't think we should evangelize. It's just very easy to make people feel really guilty for not doing it and I think at times unnecessarily Because not everybody's called to do it full time. But I do know as we all know as Christians we want to tell people about the life in Christ we found. To tell people how wonderful it is to be forgiven of our sins and made news. So I know every Christian wants to do that. So the Holy Spirit will help us and do that and be doing our roles. So I don't want to overly burden everybody and say, do more than Angelism. I tried to show you in the first sermon. There's ways you're doing you may not even be aware about. If you just pray To the Father in Jesus' name, you're letting everybody know nobody prays like that but in God's kingdom. It's here. Come into it. Evangel. Done right there and how you pray. Living Christian lives and just living like you're in God's kingdom and living out of that to others witnesses, that person's different. That person's like Christ. There is a gospel. There is good news for men. Bringing your coming to Sabbath services is is evangelism because, beloved, only in God's kingdom do we have Sabbath on the first day of the week Because the sovereign Lord Jesus changed it. The Jews still go on the last day of the week. They're not in God's kingdom. Until they repent and come into God's kingdom and own Christ and worship Him on the first day of the week, then they'll be in it So you do evangelism just by acknowledging Christ is Lord, Christ is King, and I worship him on this day, because he solemnly said to do it on this day, as we feast on his love. Joy in his grace and everything. So you're already doing evangelism, how you catechize your children and bring them up and all these ways. But here's a method. Have you ever called and You want to share the gospel with somebody, go proclaim, promise, and war. Now, it's clear as Isaiah 55 starts, the going parts happen, and it starts with proclaiming. So let me say a quick word. What does this word go deal with? It's dealing with Christian presence, right? You've got to be present and being present leads to the proclamation, right? So just be a Christian wherever you're at. Be ready wherever you're at at any time to give a proclamation that leads to someone might ask, tell me the good news, tell me why you live like this. What's the answer? Give me an answer with the hope that's in you, right? So being present leads to proclamation I think it's fine to have Christian clubs. I think they're great. I think it's fine for Christians to join other clubs. Get out there. Be a Christian in every aspect of society. Use wisdom in discernment on which ones Jesus teaches that. There are definitely swine herds you don't want to be involved in, and it's not a good place to be as a Christian. But be a Christian and go out in the community and live as a Christian. Share the good news. We have a message. We have something to offer. Christ. So go means Christian presence. Go humbly. It is very clear in the Gospel of Mark, this is not their message. They didn't get it. What do I mean by that? They had no clue that this was how God was fulfilling his scripture. They had no idea that God would actually become a man, true God, true man. die on a cross or sinned and rise three days later and then send to his In fact they didn't even believe it when their closest friends who you'd think that they would trust came and told them the good news and they said, Nuh uh uh No, that that can't be true. No way he's alive. So let us go humbly, beloved. It's not our message. It's gone. You didn't come up with it. Don't be arrogant about it. Don't go thinking you're smarter because you got a degree maybe and you studied it. If you know the gospel, it's for one reason. God taught it to you. So let us go humbly. Joyfully, we have a great news. Let us be bold and confident. It is the truth. I'm not saying doubt what you're preaching. I'm just saying be humble about it. Supposed to be joyful, be humble because this is so good, it's so amazing. Whoever could have thought of this, that I think leads to joyful preaching of the gospel because it's exactly that, not your message. The grace that is proclaimed in it, as we'll look at it, is you wouldn't think of it. The God who is proclaimed and told the people in it is not the God we come up with. Though as spiritual Christians, I think also one of the things that can lead to good evangelism is just being excited about the gospel yourself. Be excited about Christianity and being a Christian and leading a Christian life and worshiping and serving this great king. Clearly that's going to lead to what's different about the uh possibly, right? Please also don't go away thinking I'm going to convert everybody I see because I got the method. 3,000 were picked, but Peter clearly preached to probably 10,000. There were millions of people there So don't go away either disillusioned by all the affectiveness comes from God. I just want to give you confidence if you're the kind of the person that's going What do I do? What is the message and how do I get it out? That's the goal of this. And encourage you saints in your evangelism and give you confidence in it. The first thing is go. You've got to be present. You've got to be a Christian wherever that's at. Secondly proclaimed, look at what's being proclaimed. Look at Isaiah 55. It starts with proclamation. And you see there in those first three verses, what's being proclaimed is a great free feast. Use that in nails you can imagine going to many places. Imagine if you had a whole warehouse of steak dinner. And you just found people on the streets, poor people, hungry people, starving people, and you said, I have the best wine you could ever buy, I have the greatest food you could ever eat, that that'd be pretty good news, isn't it? It's a Christian gospel. Men are absolutely starving and thirsty. The woman at the well was thirsty. She had five husbands. It wasn't enough. She was on her sixth. We are thirsty as sinners. Sin promises everything, gives us nothing. Men and women are thirsty. Men and women are hungry. And what's the answer? Well look at verse 3. Cline your ear. It changes from this beautiful picture, because who doesn't want to eat this kind of stuff and enjoy it? But who is this kind of stuff? Come to me. But it is God being offered to the nation. God is your feast. Himself, his word. That's life It is God, the true God. All these nations are in darkness. They don't know up from down. They worship idols and they're dead. And the feast being proclaimed to these nations is God in his mercy, his love, his grace, himself. That is being offered to mankind. And then you can see the finality of the rejection and at the heart of what sin is. It is a rejection of God, even when he gives himself freely to you as a sinner. He says, Come to me that your soul may live. It is God who is offering himself to the world for life in his gospel. So you proclaim. You proclaim this great feast of God and life in Him. What do you promise? Look at all these promises. Go in there in verse at the end of verse 3. An everlasting covenant is being promised to people. God's steadfast and sure love for David, and you're aware of the sins he forgave. David. David does not deserve an everlasting reign and worldwide rule that God promised to him. And yet God said, I will not treat you according to your sins, but have put them away so you can live. God's promising an everlasting covenant. Why is he doing this? Verse 4 is a beautiful picture of David's son in Lord being fulfilled here and given as a witness to the peoples, a leader and commander to the peoples. Because at the end of verse 5, God has glorified him. What's being proclaimed to the nations, beloved, is that under the reign of King Jesus These soul restoring blessings, God Himself is being made known to the nations. It's because the servant suffered and died on the cross. And rose three days later, and is now glorified, and his reign has begun And he is under his reign, he is offering to the world these soul-restoring blessings, God Himself as life. Look what else is being being promised. Go on to into verse 6. Now let me also make the point here. This is not an unconditional promise. I know that sounds strange at a moment, because in one view it is, God is absolutely going to fulfill his will. But as it comes the man, the enjoyment of these goods is dependent upon repentance. Now we'll see that there's great power behind that word, and later in Isaiah 55, God affects what he says. But nonetheless, God makes it clear there in verse 6, seek while you may be found. We're not seeking a God because we don't know where he's at. God said, You know where I'm at? I put myself in Zion You know where Jesus is at. He's ascended to heaven. That's why it's important to preach Jesus has ascended to heaven. Why? Because you don't need to travel to Jerusalem to get mercy. Just turn in your heart and pray to him. You can get him anywhere. So it's not seeking because we don't know where God's at. It's seeking because we know where he's at and go where he's at and get the mercy and life he promises. Seek, call. Forsake your wicked ways. Forsake your unrighteous thoughts. Like as your thoughts are fine, thought there's an infinite gulf between God and His ways, the holy God, and the sin of men. And what bridges this gap? Repentance. Look at these promises. God will have compassion on the person who repents. The overflowing love of God will fill their heart. Pardon. God says, I will abundantly pardon. All the life of sin, all the sin, all that you did, pardoned. All that sins that barrier that comes between you and God and disrupts fellowship, God saying, I will take everything out. That disrupts fellowship with me, that you may know me, and my loving heart overflowing upon you. Look at these promises going into verse 12. If you repent, what you will she you show you're promising to men, if you believe this message and repent, you're going to go out in joy. What's that going out? It's exodus, liberation from bondage. You will know the joy of having the shackles of sin fall off. Beloved, I I know that. I have a brother who knows that. You know that. You know people that know that. The shackles of sin is misery. But man when they come off. How joyful. Imagine it's misery living under Egypt and the bondage there, and God brought them out. How joyful it is to be free again. It's promising here a life transformed by joy because sin shackles have been removed. It's promising a life trans by Formed by peace as God leads you forth and is your God, and you're at peace because you know He's God and you know He's for you. Psalm 23 is coming into your mind. Why are people so unpeaceful? Because they're trying to carry the weight of the world on their own shoulders. And trying to plan for everything that may happen to their life and consider every contingency and buy and buy and buy up all the insurance they can and make every plan they can and think something bad happens because they don't know God They don't know as sure mercies, they don't have a covenant with them. A life transformed by peace. Don't take that as meaning don't buy insurance. It's just you understand why people need it in the first place, right? There's a lot that's unsure in this world. You can't assure anything, actually, can you? That's a really miserable way to live. And God knows it's a miserable way to live, but he offers himself. The sure mercies of David, if you'll just leave that sin and trust me and take me A life transformed. Look at that. How many of you have heard testimonies where they wake up the next day and the sky is bluer and the trees are greener? Apparently, God tended that to happen because the mountains and hills will go before you will break into singing. The trees and fields will clap their hands. You're going to wake up into a transformed reality called being in Christ. And that's going to lead ultimately as verse 13 says, the thorn of the curse is taken away and the cypress is here. The curse of the briars removed and comes the myrtle. A life transformed by being set free from the curse of God. Ultimately entering into a new life that doesn't end in a transformed creation. That's an amazing gospel. That's an amazing message that a feast of the loving God is here for all to take, repent, and it's yours, and promise things that are beyond their wildest dream It's gospel preaching. It's the glory of the gospel. Well let's see how Peter did it. Peter does the same thing. Turn to Acts chapter 2. Now remember go. Peter was sent, and all the apostles were sent from Galilee back to Jerusalem because Jesus said, You need to stay there because the Spirit's going to come upon you. They were sent and they went They were there and the Spirit was poured out. Now you have Christian presence there, obviously in a charismatic way that we don't expect today, but nonetheless a Christian Presence, ready to preach. And the first sermon ever preached was in response to the question, what does this mean? And Peter said, I'm going to tell you what it means. The gospel. Look what Peter does. He proclaims, right? What does he proclaim? Peter, in one word, essentially proclaims to them, God's word has been fulfilled to you. Right, he starts with saying starts with Joel. Now these people understood God's word, so he could start there. But the message to them was the proclamation was God, your God, the God of our fathers, has done what he said he would do to the prophet Joel Then he goes on and he proclaims what has God done? God has put his son to death. You guys did it by your wicked hands, but it's God's plan What has God done? He's preaching to them what God has done. He's making a proclamation. He's not asking a question. He's proclaiming. God poured out the Spirit as he said he would. God put his son to death as he said he would by your wicked hands. God raised him up from the dead. God exalted him to his right hand. God has made him Lord in Christ. Proclamation, right? It's proclaiming Truths. It's proclaiming what God has done. That's gospel preaching. That's what it means to proclaim. You have to proclaim to them what God has done. Not what he might have done, but what he's done. He's raised his son up. He's exalted him to glory. He's made him Christ and Lord. Now you can see This is something that bothered me in my own understanding of the gospel and gospel preaching is if you read all the sermons in Acts, they all have this word repent in them. Except maybe Acts thirteen. Paul doesn't say repent there, but it's implied because they're not believing it, and he warns them about rejecting it. Because when you state the truth to people who are living a lie, it's implied, believe the truth, right? They're living a lie. Jesus isn't the Messiah. He's not God's Son. He's not the one God sent to us. He can't be the Messiah. And Peter says, you all are living a lie. He is God's Messiah. This is God's word filled up. I'm proclaiming truth to you. It's implied then. If you preach truth to somebody and they're not holding the truth, what do they need to do? Repent. Believe the truth. That's what Peter says. You rejected Jesus. What do you need to do? About faith and acknowledge him as your Messiah. and your Lord and submit your life to him. Now, beloved, that's an amazing statement, isn't it? Because Peter made it clear. You crucified him. And Peter's making it equally clear. He'll love you still. Now think of that. These people put their hands to put him to death. And Jesus says, come to me, I'll give you life. That's an amazing gospel. That's an amazing message. But you can't have it, right? It's not there if you don't repent. If you if you keep on in your darkness and rejecting me, you'll never get my love. It's an amazing thing. God watched his son being put to death because God was doing something there. The gospel is not about man's sinfulness. It's about God's grace. Gospel's not about you and I. That's what the old world's about, you and I. Gospel's about God. Gospel is about his love, his grace, what he offers to men. Preaches repentance to us. That's an amazing thought. You will get, what does he promise to them? If you repent, what does he promise? Forgiveness of sins. It's all that there in Isaiah, right? Abundantly pardon. The gift of the Holy Spirit. Now remember, beloved, the Holy Spirit gives us other gifts, but the gift of the Holy Spirit is God Himself. I told you the gospel is about God giving himself to you. To receive the Holy Spirit is to have God, the third divine person dwelling in your heart, in you living in his presence. Consecrated by the sacrifice of the Lamb. He promises them God. Promises them eternal life. Promises them the forgiveness of their sins if they repent. A baptism is more than just the outward sign of repentance. But it is also that. It's demonstrating we crucified him, now we confess him as Lord. Now we follow him. We're baptized into his name. We've left that old, we've entered into the new, we're washed by his blood And they do that. And they receive the Holy Spirit. And they join the church. But notice he warns them. What does it say that there? He says, save yourselves right from this crooked generation. He warns, and if you don't do this, you will perish. Utter loss. Isaiah says the same thing, right? It seek while he may be sound. Warning, you might not find God tomorrow. Call upon him while he's near. You might find out he's not here. The gospel, as Jesus preached it and as it should be preached, demands a decision right now. Not tomorrow, but right now. Will you leave your sin and take Christ. Now, let me go back to Isaiah 55 briefly and just make this point For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven, and do not return there but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout giving seed to the sower and bread to the earth, so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it Now I know that's usually quoted to mean every word of God, and I don't necessarily want to not say that, but we should not lift this text out of its context. Because the word there is repentance. The whole hinge of this passage is the word of repentance God will fulfill and bring them to these blessings. Trust that word. You're not preaching save yourself when you preach repentance. But you have to use God's word. God treats them as human beings. You have a mind, you have a heart, you have a will, you have affections. God's not preaching the blocks. He's preaching to miserable enslaved sinners who has a creative power behind his word, and he will only ever treat them as human beings. Grace does not destroy human beings, it restores them. Grace destroys sin Not nature, not what God's made. So don't be thinking if I preach repent I'm just telling them to save themselves. No, you're telling them what to do, and they must do it, and God will work with them to do it. But you have to trust God's word. And that word is it's many things. It's a great feast. There's this feast. It's here. But how do I get it? Leave what you are thinking that you are feasting on as giving you life, and come to that which is really life, God. So warn. A promising life with God or warning people against a complete loss of themselves. That's what's at stake. You'll lose yourself forever. The identity you've built up here, the life you've built up here, it goes away. The hope of the wicked man perishes when he perishes. It's serious, isn't it? I wake up most days going, hell's real. Because it is. This is what we're entrusted to live and preach. Is that what we want as a Christian church? Do we want to share this good news? Do you want to warn people? Are we confident here? Are you confident you can proclaim what God's done? If you're a Christian, you know what he's done. You know Jesus has been raised from the dead. You know God put him to death for sin. You know he lives and reigns. And you can promise him you can have life with Jesus forever. He'll save you from all your sins. He'll be your loving Lord forever. He'll take you from the grave. He'll love you in this life and give you everything you need. And you can promise that to the cows come in. And tell them it's yours if you repent. You can preach that to any single person. So I hope you're very confident now that you can preach the gospel. We know how to do it. Go. Be a Christian. Proclaim what it is to be a Christian, what God has done in Jesus Christ Claim how that can be yours. Repent. It's beautiful. It's wonderful. And that's what we're here to do. So as I close, let me put the question to you, beloved. Have you repented Has your life been transformed by joy? Because the shackles of sin have come off. Has your life been transformed by peace? Because when difficult things come, you know who God is, and you call on him, and you trust in him, and you know he is in control, and he is for you. Have you sought him and turned to Christ? Have you called on the name of Jesus and said, Jesus, Savior Have you left your wicked ways? Left your unrighteous thoughts, and come and take God and His Word I pray you have. And I know many of you have. But as a gospel preacher, I have to press this. Because I hope it's abundantly clear from Isaiah, the Word of God, and his apostle Peter. You can't get it if you don't repent. And you get everything if you do. Beloved, God has truly given us Himself. That's the gospel. It truly is an amazing cross, Christ that we preach by a risen Lord in glory that is ready to receive any sinner who turns. I pray you grow in your love for Christ and love for this gospel, your comfort in it, your joy in it. And I pray and truly hope that this has been helpful to you, to understanding what I think an appropriate method Let's move past the days of God loves you, has a perfect plan for your life, Jesus died for your sins, and give your life to Him. So much more to the gospel. There's no summons to repent in there. There's no glory of the cross. It needs to be heralded. We'll need to feel the people something needs to be declared to them. It needs to be declared a truth. Christ reigns. And He's coming. Let us preach the gospel as the as the Bible gives us to us to preach it. Go, proclaim, promise, and warn. May God give us his grace to do just that. Amen.