And now first Peter four one through nineteen. Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh. Arm yourselves with the same way of thinking, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. So as to live for the rest of the time in his flesh, no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. For the time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do. Living in sensuality. Passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. With respect to this, they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you. But they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged in the flesh, the way people are, they might live in the Spirit the way God does. The end of all things is at hand. Therefore be self controlled and sober minded for the sake of your prayers Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles of God. Whoever serves as one who serves by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you. As though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, Let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And, quote, if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? End quote. Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. This is the word of the Lord. Lord, we thank you that your word is sure and that it speaks to us in our time and place as well as it spoke to Israel in the past. So we pray now, as we have heard these words from Genesis 20 and this narrative, help us to understand it deeply, spiritually, according to your will. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'll begin by saying this. Don't miss the forest for the trees. Don't miss the forest for the trees. By that I mean don't get focused on each smaller story and miss the big story. The big story, the forest, is the story of God sending his son, the seed of the woman, to save the world. That's the big story. And the trees are the individual stories. Today we have this story, this individual story about Abraham and Abimelech and Sarah. And we need to be careful to see the big story in the midst of this small story. Ellen Ross says this. Throughout the Abrahamic narratives, threats to the promise frequently arise. Now, just on the eve of fulfillment of the promise, that is the birth of Isaac, such a threat appears again. It is a variation of an old theme, just as before, so here, unless God providentially intervened in the matter, everything would be lost. That's what we have going on here. In chapter 20, we have a case study of where God overrules in the lives of both the saved and the unsaved. Look at how God overrules in the sins of the unsaved first. Going back just a bit to Genesis 19, verse 27, it says And Abraham went early in the morning to the place where he had stood before the Lord, and he looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the valley. And he looked, and behold, the smoke of the land went up like the smoke of a furnace. You know the story of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. Literally, fire and brimstone rained down, and everything was destroyed. And he's looking at it from this standpoint. And he probably presumed that Lot was also destroyed because he didn't get word about Lot fleeing to the little town of Zoar. And so he evidently moved on south and grieved. In Genesis 20, it says, From there Abraham journeyed toward the territory of the Negeb. and lived between Kadesh and Shur, and he sojourned in Gerar. So that's down south from where he was. And verse 2, Abraham said of Sarah, his wife, She is my sister. That's what he's telling everybody down there in Gerar. This is my sister, Sarah. And Abimelech, king of Gerar, sent and took Sarah. From there, Abraham journeyed toward the territory. Well, we heard that already. Abraham came into this territory of this king named Abimelech. And he was also a king, that is, the head of a large family, lots of people, lots of stuff. So both these guys are kings. Abimelech was a normal materialistic pagan. He was, however, as normal pagans are, interested in forging an alliance with This other king, Abraham, who moved down with all his people and all his stuff. And this alliance was normally done in those days through what? Marriage. Marriage. That's right. And such marriages among royal families were ordinary at that time, and for thousands of years to come. Even, for example, King James VI used marriage to achieve the union of England with his native Scotland long ago. James used the spousal connection as a major element in attempting to bring about his aim. Abimelech probably inquired about Sarah. He saw her, and in some way discovered that she was Abraham's quote sister, a half-truth. It looks like this is all sin on Abraham's part, but not so. I mean, he is the head of the family, so he's primarily responsible. That's always true. But Abimelech is in danger of becoming an adulterer against Abraham and Sarah's marriage The fact that he does not know the situation does not excuse him, according to Scripture. He is a dead man if he does it. So the fact that he doesn't know better doesn't really get him off. Just because you don't know better doesn't give you freedom to do bad things. Sometimes sin is an objective fact, even if there is no known command against a particular sin. And I just want to pause here to Today in our culture, many people think some things are perfectly fine because they become normal. And they think, no problem. But God still has his standards. He still has his word that stands firm. And even if people don't know better, they're still guilty before God for what they do. It doesn't change anything You see, God's law is written on every human heart. Every human heart. So people sin against God even if they don't have an objective commandment against which they are knowingly. Everyone knows by this law that the purpose of marriage is not for economic or political Or even just for pleasure. But the purpose of marriage from the beginning is to glorify God and to serve God together as mutual laborers in his domain So other uses of marriage are not necessarily correct, and in fact some of them are quite wrong. And in the New Testament It's more clear that marriage, the purpose of marriage, if you're going to get married soon or anytime really the purpose of marriage Is to proclaim the union between Christ and the Church That's the main purpose of marriage. Proclaim the union between Christ and the church. Demonstrate its reality by the way you treat each other, the way you live. Demonstrate that union between Christ and the church. That's what Paul says in Ephesians 5. Is that your view of marriage? Now, Abimelech may have been doing what was expedient in his culture, sure. But it was a sinful practice of marriage. And therefore, objectively speaking, it was wrong. But this time, this particular marriage, this particular marriage, Abraham and Sarai, if Compromise would strike out against the redemptive plan of God. So in this particular case, it's a big deal. Big deal. No doubt Satan was behind it all, conspiring in this. We are attacked from without and within. The world, our own fallen flesh, and the devil, who's alive and well, seeks to destroy God's plan in our lives too So God would not, he would not permit this sin. Not this one, not this time. Now it says in verse 3, but God came to Abimelech, and I just want to note one thing here. The divine name is not used. That is the the name Yahweh, the tetragrammaton, the four letters, is not used. It doesn't say Yahweh came to Abimelech, it says Elohim. That's the generic word for God. God came to Abimelech in a dream by night and said to him, Behold, you are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is a man's wife. Now Abimelech had not approached her, so he said, Lord, will you kill an innocent people? Did he not himself say to me, She is my sister? And she herself said, He is my brother In the integrity of my heart and innocence of my hands I have done this. Then God said to him in the dream, Yes, I know that you have done this in the integrity of your heart, and it was I who kept you from sinning against me Therefore, I did not let you touch her. So God intervened providentially to keep this particular marriage intact Because it was an attack upon the redemptive plan, the big story that God is unfolding even in this little story. By the way, my friends, God, as you well know, allows much sin and injustice in the world. He does not endorse it. He does not approve it or sanction it, but he does allow it. In due time, he will judge it all. And if you don't believe me, just look at Sodom and Gomorrah. But he allows nothing to frustrate his plan to redeem the world through his promised Savior. Nothing. Our Westminster Confession says of the topic of providence, says this. God in his ordinary providence maketh use of means, that is secondary causes. He lets people do things that they shouldn't do. That's secondary causes. Yet is free to work without, above, and against them at his pleasure. So God can use bad things to accomplish even his great purposes. The next section says, as the providence of God doth in general reach to all creatures, so after a most special manner, listen to this, it taketh care of his church. That's the big story. That's the big plan. So that's major focus of God in what he does providentially. And it goes on to say, and disposeth all things to the good thereof. So that's the big picture again. This means. This means About you personally, your situation in life, if he has set his redeeming love on you, all things must work together for your salvation. So, no matter what the alarming report from the doctor or your employer or the phone call late in the night. No matter what evil is sent against you, and no matter what you have done, God is overruling. God is overruling to bring about his great purposes. For his church and for you in his church. Now I also want you to look at how The Lord overrules in the sins of the saved. We looked at how he overruled in the sins of the unsaved, the Bemelech. Now let's look how he overrules in the sins of the saved. What was Abraham and Sarah's sin? What was it at the bottom? Cowardly unbelief. Cowardly unbelief. This had been their agreement for decades. It's stated in verse 13, This is the kindness you must do me at every place to which we come, say of me, he is my brother. A half-truth. It's a lie, isn't it? This was due to his fear of men, due to the weakness of his faith in God's power to protect not merely himself, but to protect his family. The family destined to become a blessing to the whole world. And now the very promise of God is at risk. The old woman, miraculously, is pregnant with the promised child who was waiting for it for so long. If she is defiled by a pagan king, the promise will be thwarted. The seed would be raised by an idolater. Is this not amazing? Abraham is a man who believes God and rejoices in God's promise. Think of all the things we've already covered in Genesis. Abraham is a justified man. He believed God and God credited to him as righteousness. He's a justified man. And yet he does such foolish and faithless things. He lets his wife go to Abimelech carrying the promised son. For fear that God, the creator of heaven and earth, Yahweh, the covenant-cutting God of Genesis 15, And the God who sat down and ate under his tree recently, the God who destroyed the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah will not protect him. Amazing thing, isn't it? That he's so afraid after all that testimony to God's faithfulness And power. What a psychopath. What spiritual schizophrenia. Do you ever have that? Uh-huh. So do I sometimes. What a comfort it is to read this story, isn't it? Misery loves company. And I'm just like him sometimes. Sometimes full of faith. Oh, I'm so full of faith. I believe I'm full of joy and faith. And sometimes I'm weak and fearful. Are you this way? Another section from our Westminster Confession about Providence says this. Listen to these words. The most wise, righteous, and gracious God Doth oftentimes leave for a season his own children to manifold temptations and the corruption of their own hearts. Isn't that what we're talking about? To chastise them for their former sins, or to discover unto them the hidden strength of corruption and deceitfulness of their hearts, that they may be humbled. And to raise them to a more close and constant dependence for their support upon himself, and to make them more watchful against all future occasions of sin. And for sundry other just and holy ends. Lots of others, too, right? Going back to the story, the agreement made between them thirty years ago had never been revised. Even though they had grown in faith and had seen great things from the hand of God, this sinful plan, unrepented, resulted in an emergency A human emergency, that is. Abraham must have trembled when Sarah was led away to Abimelech's place in Gerar. Sarah must have been terrified. Would God still keep his promise through the child in her womb? The Lord did intervene. And he restored Sarah to Abraham. And we read about it in verse 14. Then Abimelech took sheep and oxen and male servants and female servants and gave them to Abraham, and returned Sarah his wife to him. And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before you. Dwell where it pleases you. To Sarah he said, Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver. It is a sign of your innocence in the eyes. of all who are with you. And before everyone you are vindicated. Then Abraham prayed to God. And God healed Abimelech, and also healed his wife, and the female slaves, so that they bore children. For the Lord had closed all the wombs of the house of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham's wife. So now God put his friend Abraham to work as a prophet to turn away wrath and to announce blessing. He put Abraham to work as a priest to intercede for this pagan king. And he showed this pagan king. That the God of Abraham is king over all kings. Prophet, priest, and king. And we have in our Lord Jesus Christ those same three offices. I think God was showing Abraham what the seed Would do to save the world. He would come to preach the good news as the great prophet, the word of God Himself. He would come to make atonement and intercede as the great high priest. And he would rule and overrule human unbelief and weakness to save and to become king of kings. And so in this little story, my friends, this sublime theology, but it's also very practical. Because God wants you to look at your own weakness, your unrepented sins, your unrevised plans to do sinful things under certain circumstances, like Abraham and Sarah's 30-year-old agreement did. He wants you to learn to trust him. Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus and to take him at his word. Is God ruling in all of this? He is. Psalm 10 says, Why, O Lord, do you stand far away? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? In all these things, sometimes it's difficult to see that God is ruling and overruling all things for good, but He is. And we know that in Revelation chapter 7, the big story will unfold and will be seen in its fullness, in its grand fullness someday. Where we see in Revelation 7, verse 9, and following. After this, I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. You see, that's the answer to the Abrahamic promise. The seed that would be a blessing to all the world. Standing before the throne and before the lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice. Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. That's the way it's going to end. So, my dear brothers and sisters in Christ, when the troubles of this world become very personal to you. A financial loss, a grim medical diagnosis, stress and strain in personal relationships Or even a sin in which you are caught. It may be difficult to see God overruling for good, but He is, and He will. As Paul says in Romans 8, 28. For those who love him, God causes all things to work together for good. To those who are the called according to his purpose. Right now, or whenever this happens to you, all you can see is the thing in front of you. But look up. He is ruling in it. Because you are the people of God. And you bear witness of Christ to this present world today, don't let that witness be trashed by sinful patterns. When you see your sins, do not despair, but repent. God is working good in you, for you, and through you, for the salvation of the world In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Lord, we do indeed praise you and thank you that you are working salvation. That you were overruling in the foolishness of your people. And we pray that you'll use us, Lord. Help us to repent of all known sins. Show us more. And help us to repent of them too. And help us to walk faithfully in the presence of this world. According to your gracious love in Jesus Christ, Amen