Please open your Bibles to the book of Genesis, chapter 18, verses 1 through 15. Genesis 18, verses 1 through 15. fifteen. And the Lord appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day. He lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing in front of him. When he saw them he ran from the tent door to meet them, and bowed himself to the earth, and said, O Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant. Let a little water be brought, and wash your feet. And rest yourselves under the tree while I bring morsel of bread, that you may refresh yourselves, and after that you may pass on, since you have come to your servant. So they said, Do as you have said. And Abraham went quickly into the tent to Sarah and said, Quick, three seas of fine flour, knead it, and make cakes And Abraham ran to the herd and took a calf tender and good and young and gave it to the young man, who prepared it quickly. Then he took curds and milk and the calf that he had prepared, and set it before them And he stood by them under the tree while they ate. They said to him, Where is Sarah, your wife? And he said, She is in the tent The Lord said, I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah your wife shall have a son. And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in years. The way of women had ceased to be with Sarah. So Sarah laughed to herself, saying, After I am worn out, and my Lord is old, shall I have pleasure? The Lord said to Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh and say, Shall I indeed bear a child now that I am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? At the appointed time I will return to you about this time next year, and Sarah shall have a son. But Sarah denied it, saying, I did not laugh. For she was afraid. He said, no, but you did laugh The Word of the Lord. Luke 22, 14 through 20, very familiar passage. Luke 22, 14 through 20. And when the hour came, he reclined at table, and the apostles with him. And he said to them, I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I tell you, I will not eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, Take this and divide it among yourselves For I tell you that from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. And he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And likewise the cup, after they had eaten, saying, This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for inscripturating your word. Causing it to be written down so that it could be accurately passed from generation to generation. We pray now that as we have read and now we'll look into. A portion of your word that you'll speak to us, nurture us, ground us in eternity. In Jesus' name. Amen. So we're in Genesis 18, and we will take a brief review. We have seen in recent times that Almighty God dramatically communicates his promises. Dramatically. He doesn't just say things. He dramatically does them. One of the ways he did this is in the previous chapter, his self-naming, he said, I am El Shaddai. which is translated God Almighty. And he was saying that in the context of saying, you're going to have a son. That was a long time before this moment that we're in today, but God said it. And you want to know who's saying this promise to you? It's God Almighty. He can do it, can't he? If that's what he is, who he is, then he can do what he says he's going to do. God Almighty. And then he gives Abram a new name. He gives him the name Abraham. So that's something that he won't forget either. Here's this old man, no kids, except for the one that shouldn't have been, really. And now he's been changed, his name has been changed to Father of a Multitude. What a joke. What a joke, really. But no, it's not a joke. It's true. It's the absolute truth. Father of a multitude, and since Sarai was promised that she would be The mother of kings, she's now given a new name. It's Princess, Princess Sarah. So God is is Underlining things and graphically illustrating things by saying who he is, God Almighty, who Abraham is, the father of a multitude, and who Sarah is, a princess. And then one more, uh as we have seen in the past, that um that Abraham laughed When he was told that he would have a son, a son through Sarah, he laughed, and so uh the name Isaac is the name of this child that's coming. Which means laughter. And that's another thing not to forget. He will not forget that ever. And then he dramatically communicates his promises also through signs and seals. And we saw that in Genesis 17, where God said, From now on, all baby boys born into your household for all the generations to come. will be circumcised, and that that is a a sign of God's covenant. It is his covenant in their flesh. And we talked about how we see in Colossians that baptism comes in the place of circumcision. It is appointed as the new uh circumcision without hands, the unbloody sign of God's continued covenant. The old circumcision Pointed to pain and blood and judgment and no confidence in the flesh. And it sealed and marked out God's people for union with God, including little children. Of believers. They are included in this. Just as in the old administration of the covenant of grace, now in the new administration, the children of believers are included. And we learned also that it points to a spiritual cleansing, the washing of the heart, through the sprinkling of blood. And no confidence in the flesh, no boasting, but rather complete humility instead of boasting. It also points to union with God through his covenant in the promised child. That's how God is going to do this. He's going to send this promised child, and through him, through faith in him, as we will see, union with God. Union with Christ. Now we come to chapter 18 of Genesis and another instance where God dramatically communicates the reality of this promise, the promise of the Son. The seed named Isaac to Abraham and Sarah. God dramatically communicates and confirms his promise here through a meal. A meal. A meal of fellowship and peace. Now, meals mean something to us today. They still do. They are a sign of warmth between those who sit at table together, aren't they? Meals are a sign of hospitality on the part of the host. Someone has gone to the trouble to prepare a meal and has laid it out and has invited a guest. So it's a sign of hospitality. It's a sign of care for the guest and honor to the guest. So meals are important even in our present day. In our family, the Kathy family, when they would have their birthday, each member of the family would get to choose what they wanted for dinner at their birthday dinner. Some had a strong and persistent preference, never changed. Year after year, the same request. Others changed their choice from year to year. Sometimes it was steak, sometimes it was shrimp, sometimes pasta or pizza, depending on their taste at the time. I remember when our then-future son-in-law, Ben, Ben Trader, came down from Delaware to ask for Megan's hand in marriage. We had recently moved here and they had been seeing each other and now he drove all the way down from Delaware to speak to Dad. I like that kind of thing, you know. And after it was a late, late in the morning kind of thing. And after I spoke with Ben and he nervously expressed to me what he was asking, shouldn't have been nervous, you know, but he was. After giving my consent and blessing, I took him to a restaurant in San Sushi Plaza, which was called Monterey. It was a Mexican restaurant. It's not there anymore. But I took him to Monterey because he needed to go back to Delaware right away and he couldn't stay for dinner. Which we would have planned a big dinner if he had, but no, he couldn't stay. So it it just didn't seem right after after granting such an enormous request, after showing him this favor of saying, Yes, you may marry my oldest daughter that I could just go home and say, let's see what we can find as leftovers in the fridge. Or, hey, I have some peanut butter and some bread. We'll make some peanut butter sandwiches and you can be on your way. No. So we went to a place to celebrate. And we sat down and we had some good food. And I don't know what else, but it was it was a celebration because it was an important event and you need to seal such a thing with a good meal. The meal sealed the deal, so to speak. And when Ben and Megan both came down shortly after that. And they were there for dinner. Jennifer pulled out of the freezer a big beef tenderloin and roasted it and made a great meal. And we enjoyed that meal on the deck of our house. Together. And still going on today, things like this happen. And you could tell stories like this. I'll give you one more. We were in Delaware last week. And um we were celebrating three birthdays that came about the same time of the month And we were also celebrating or giving a farewell to our son Isaac and his family who were moving to Germany for a few years. And so Aaron packed up his his uh smoker machine, you know, on his pickup truck, brought it down to Milton, set it up on our patio in the back. and put in the charcoal and put in the hickory and they proceeded to smoke a 15-pound brisket for 22 hours. And man was it good. I can show you on my phone pictures of carving this thing. So tender the juice was running out and everything. A meal specially prepared for you communicates intimacy and love and loyalty and warm fellowship, you see. You don't normally eat with someone you despise. You don't if you have a lawsuit against somebody and And you go to court and after the lawsuit is settled one way or the other, you don't s meet on the courthouse steps and say, hey, I'm hungry. Are you hungry? Let's go out and let's go out and have a meal together with the adversary. You don't do that Meals with someone you despise are considered tricks and lies and deception. Meals are sometimes used in business dealings to your advantage. Meals may be used to gain trust falsely, but this meal was a meal of fellowship, a meal of celebration, of intimacy, and of promise. You see, meals meant much more in biblical times than they do even today. They were used to confirm treaties, underline great promises So here's the point of this little pericope, this little story in Genesis 18. The fact stated here is that God sat down And ate with Abraham during this meal. And he there announced the soon-coming birth of the long-promised baby boy, the promised seed. That's what's happening here. God sat down and ate with Abraham. Verse 1: And the Lord appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre as he sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day. We're given the identity of the visitors, the three. It's Yahweh. Yahweh. The self-existent God of the universe. It's not certain whether Abraham knew his identity at first, probably not. And then it says in verse 2, he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing in front of him. When he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them and bowed himself to the earth. What's this about? We do not know that Abraham recognized them completely, but he recognized something of their greatness and their grandeur Because he bowed himself down to the earth and hurried to request fellowship with them. This seems beyond the ordinary greeting. The Hebrew word Adonai is used instead of Adoni. They're close, but not quite the same. Adoni is used for addressing an ordinary person, but Adonai is a grandurous name. Abraham bowed himself to the earth and said, O Adonai, if I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant. Let a little water be brought and wash your feet. That's the first sign of hospitality. And you'll remember, by the way, that that's what Jesus did On the night before he was betrayed, as recorded in John 13, he knelt down and washed the feet of his disciples. That's hospitality. And rest yourselves under the tree, my shady place. And I will bring a morsel. What a modest way of putting it. I will bring a morsel. I'll get something out of the fridge now. I will bring a morsel of bread that you may refresh yourselves, and after that you may pass on, since you have come to your servant So they said, do as you have said. Yeah, go ahead. The provisions sound modest at first, but Abraham intends to do much better. So, in verse 6, Abraham went quickly into the tent to Sarah and said, Quick, three sias of fine flour, knead it, and make cakes And Abraham ran to the herd and took a calf, tender and good, and gave it to a young man who prepared it quickly. Then he took curds and milk by the calf that he had prepared and set it before them and stood by them under the tent while they ate. One siya is seven quarts of fine flour. So three is twenty-one quarts. That's a lot of bread. That's not just a little morsel, is it? And the calf quickly prepared. That would uh probably mean you you don't take the time to completely dress the whole animal and and take it all apart. You just cut out the best part, probably loin. And then the Kurds. This is the second step in cheese making. It's these chewy morsels that get pressed later and made into cheese, but uh So it's the second step, quicker. And then milk. A fresh drink. A fresh drink. And then Abram waited for them and waited on them under this tree. And they're eating. The three visitors are eating, while Abram is their waiter, showing real hospitality to these three. So when they have eaten a bit Verse 9, they said to him, Where is Sarah, your wife? Evidently, she didn't make an appearance after doing all this work. And he said, She is in the tent. Then it says verse 10, then Yahweh, Yahweh, the self-existent God of the universe, Yahweh, said, I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah your wife shall have a son. And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him A little bit of eavesdropping. And now Abram and Sarah were old, advanced in years. The way of women has ceased to be with Sarah. So Sarah laughed to herself, saying After I am worn out and my Lord is old, shall I have pleasure? And then Yahweh said to Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh and say, Shall I indeed bear a child? Now that I am old, is anything too hard for Yahweh? That's the real question, isn't it? This promise has been made before, long before. Is anything too hard for Yahweh? And then he says, At the appointed time I will return to you about this time next year, and Sarah shall have a son. But Sarah denied it, saying, I did not laugh, for she was afraid. He said, no, but you did laugh. The subject of the meeting was the promised son, the seed, Isaac, whose name is Helas. And now she laughs too. He laughed in chapter 17, now she laughs in chapter 18. And the purpose of this meal, this meeting, was to assure Abraham and Sarah of the promise through an intimate meeting and a restatement of the promise. And here again the meal sealed the deal. Meals were very significant in biblical times, as I've said before. We read in Exodus that God's covenant included a meal. In God's covenant, in Exodus, he sent young men. of the people of Israel and offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the Lord. And it says, And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he threw against the altar Then he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people, and they said, All that the Lord has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient. And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, Behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words. So that's the covenant ceremony there. That's the making of this covenant. And then we go on in verse 9. Then Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and 70 elders went up, and they saw the God of Israel. There was under his feet as were the pavement of sapphire stone, like the very heaven for clearness, and he did not lay his hand on the chief men of the people of Israel. And then this phrase They beheld God and ate and drank. They beheld God and ate and drank significance of a meal in the covenant ceremony. And there are similar accounts of peace and fellowship meals in the context of covenant making. In Genesis 26, for instance, a peace treaty is made between Isaac and Abimelech. And it says there So he made a feast, and they ate and drank. In the morning they rose up early and exchanged oaths, and Isaac sent them on their way, and they departed from him in peace. So another eating and drinking event. And then in Leviticus, God later instituted a peace offering for the Israelites. And this peace offering involved eating and drinking. Leviticus 3 and Leviticus 7, the offering meal was eaten by them in the sanctuary, a holy meal. And no one who was ceremonially unclean or defiled could partake of this meal. And then we see more of this same idea in the New Testament. Union, that's the most intimate way you can have any kind of relationship. Union with Jesus is put in terms of eating and drinking Union with Jesus is eating and drinking. John 6, verse 47 and following. Truly, truly I say to you Whoever believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate manna in the wilderness and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If any one eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh Jesus gives himself as the meal. Jesus is the sacrifice. And the meal. And he is the host at his own meal table Then we see in the next few verses the Jews disputed among themselves, how can this man give us his flesh to eat? They got it. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. Union again. As the living Father sent me, I live because of the Father, and whoever feeds on me will also live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. And then we read, as our New Testament reading a little earlier, Luke 22, where Jesus instituted the sacrament of his body and blood. And he said, Take this and divide it among yourselves. For I tell you that from now on I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. And he took bread and had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them. saying, This is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And he did it again. On resurrection evening, Luke 24. So they were going along the road and he pretended to be going on and they asked him to come in and stay. And so he went in to stay with them, verse 29, Luke 24, 29. And then verse 30, when he was at table with them, he took bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to them. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. After his ascension, Jesus continually invites his people to eat with him. And he says it in Revelation 3, the very familiar passage. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and do what? Eat with him, and he with me. You see, meals are always significant And this meal, confirming the promise of the Son who was to be born to be the Savior of the whole world, was being performed here. And we see that when the kingdom is fully come, when the kingdom is completely realized, what will it be? A wedding feast. A wedding feast. Revelation 19. Listen to these words. Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters, like the sound of a mighty peals of thunder, crying out. Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. You, his bride. It was granted to her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure, for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints And the angel said to me, write this, blessed are those who were invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. So that's the way it will be in the final analysis. You and I, at the marriage supper of the Lamb, a meal which confirms the covenant. Which promises and reveals and shows forth the whole promises of God forever. So this meal here in chapter 18 rebukes doubt, first of all. And I hope that this meal that you eat here every Lord's day rebukes doubt, too. This meal marks and seals the promise. The one that was made here in Genesis 18, and the meal that we eat together also marks and seals the promise. You have intimate relation with God. You are in union with God. He is in you, and you are in him, as we say. And as he said in John 17. How could either Abraham or Sarah ever forget this occasion? You think sometime later they would say, do you remember that time? When the creator of the universe sat under our tree and ate dinner with us? No. They didn't have to ask that question Yahweh himself came and ate and spoke the promise in greater detail with a close time frame this time. And Yahweh asked the great question, the one that you and I need to remember. Is anything too hard for the Lord? So I give you two simple applications. Meals at Christian gatherings are significant. They are a sign of gospel peace, a sign of reconciliation, a sign of being in the family together That goes for the Lord's Supper, obviously, but it also goes for our fellowship meals. It goes for our lunches out together. It goes for our enjoyment of each other's company. Some time ago, my friend Don invited me to join him for a delicious turkey dinner at Asbury Retirement Center on Solomon's Island. The common ground for that meal, all those in attendance, was that everyone there was nearing retirement age. and uh or already in it. And they were prospective residents at Asbury. So it was a commercial dinner. There was no fee. And you could go back and get more if you liked it. And as I looked around the room, a large room, lots of people eating turkey, we all pretty much looked alike. We were all Americans. We all spoke English. But other than my friend Don, when we sat down at the one table that we chose to sit at, we didn't have much basis for fellowship. Once you got past the basic questions of where did you work and what do you do and where did you live and things like that and family facts or hobbies or something like that, there wasn't much else to say. I'm sure we could have found Christians there if we had looked around and had time to discover them, but not at the table that Don and I sat at that day. There weren't any Christians. People were very clearly not interested in talking about religion. On the other hand, I remember another meal that I had in Philadelphia some years ago. with an Indonesian congregation of Reformed Christians there in Philadelphia These people had darker skin, and they spoke a different language. And the food was not turkey and dressing and mashed potatoes and gravy. It was not my normal palate. It was something stewed in a big pot with rice and other things. And we at that meal could barely communicate with each other, but we were In Christ. We were in common. We shared fellowship richer than a bunch of Americans eating turkey. Belonging in the Church of God, the church bought by the blood of Christ, is free for all, and no commercial interests involved. We are equal whether we are rich or poor or old or young. There are no ethnic or racial dividers, no economic status divisions. All are equal in this family through the greater promised child of Abraham, Jesus. God is among us as our common bond when we have this fellowship. Wherever you are in the world, you'll find believers and you can eat with them. And share deep fellowship with them. And then this meal that we share together, the Lord's Supper. It's where we sit down with God at His invitation. And I want to remind you that He is the host at this table. I used to say that regularly in the liturgy. I don't always remember to say it now, but he is the host. I'm a stand-in. He provides the food, the heavenly food, his body and blood. It's a meal of covenant fulfillment. It's a meal of reconciliation between God and man and between all others in our lives. It's a meal anticipating a future consummation. It's a little bit like a rehearsal dinner for a wedding, which anticipates the event to come, the great wedding feast. So let every Christian meal, fellowship, become significant to you, but especially this meal. This gospel meal, this family meal in Christ. The great seed, the son of Abraham, has made it so by his death and resurrection. And he invites us today. Amen. Lord, we thank you that you communicate To us not only in written word, but also in sacrament, in sign and seal, in things that you have ordained for us until the end of the age When we will sit finally at the wedding supper of the Lamb and enjoy a consummate meal. So we pray now that you'll help us, Lord, to think deeply about these important matters that are revealed in your word. In Jesus' name. Amen.