Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the 22nd chapter of Genesis. Genesis chapter 22, and we will read verses 1 through 14. Genesis 22, 1 through 14. After these things, God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham! And he said, Here am I. He said, Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love And go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering, on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac And he cut the wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar Then Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son, and he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went both of them together. And Isaac said to his father Abraham, My father. And he said, Here am I, my son. He said, Behold, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son. So they went both of them together. When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham! Abraham! And he said, Here am I. He said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son So Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide, as it is said to this day, on the mount of the Lord it shall be provided. This is the word of the Lord. Now, the text is Romans 8, 31 through 39. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is the condemned? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who was at the right hand of God, who intercedes for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers Nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. So would you stand with me now as I just read our main verse at my church when I read if we stand? So if you would stand with me. And I'm just going to read Romans chapter 8, verse 32. Romans chapter 8, verse. Verse 32. Hear the word of the living God. He do not spare his own son. But gave him up for us all. How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? The grass withers The flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. You may be seated. Heavenly Father For the sake of your beloved Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, we ask for your divine help, your blessing, your grace. Get me out of the way. May it not be about my cleverness or even my own pret, but I pray the Spirit of Christ who inspired the Word of Christ would come now to fill me that I might proclaim the Word of God with all boldness We ask that your people might hear it with meekness, receiving the implanted word which is able to save their soul. So we ask for your blessing and your grace for Jesus' sake. Amen. There might be an example of something, if there's ever been a time in your life where you've given a gift, where you've given something to someone you care about, someone you want to bless. And this isn't always the case, but usually the greatest gifts or the gifts that mean the most to you are the gifts that cost you the most. The gifts that you really want to give someone is something you sacrifice a lot to get to that person. It wasn't something you picked out of your house saying, well, this will do. It's something that you went out of your way. sacrifice and cost to give someone this gift that was precious to you. And that's exactly what we see in Romans chapter 8 verse 32. that God the Father gives his most precious gift to us, namely his own beloved Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. So three points I want to emphasize this morning. One is that God did not spare his own son for our sake. God gave him up for us all, and that since God did the toughest thing, namely giving up his own son, everything else will be quote unquote easy for God to give us for this life and the life. So if you look at the text starting at verse thirty-two, he who did not spare his own son. God the Father in love did not spare his own son. But before we can understand really what that means, you have to know some of the backstory. Because that would be like me going up to you and saying, Do you know I paid the debt that you owed? And you would say, I don't have a debt that I owe. Why are you telling me that you paid my debt? And unless we understand the backstory, the bad news, we'll never understand what it means that God did not spare his own son. And so God being our maker, our sustainer, the one who is sovereign over all, the one to whom we belong, the one who is holy, holy, holy. The one who is righteous, Psalm 8914, righteousness and justice are the foundation of God's throne. This God who made us, and why did he make us? that we might, you know the catechism, that we might glorify and enjoy him forever. And so since God made us for himself, And he loved us in such a way that he would make us, make us in his own image, that we would reflect his glory, honor him, and have a satisfaction in our soul that can only come from him. So God made us for the purpose of glorifying him. But the problem for everyone in this room, including myself, is you and me don't do what we are created to do. You and me, instead of glorifying and enjoying God day in and day out, by nature we rebel. We sin against God. We go our own way. And the Bible even says there is no one righteous. No, not one. No one understands. No one speaks for God because all have turned aside. Together we have become worthless. No one does good. Not even one. And that includes you and me by nature. There is none of us who does good, no, not one. And as one pastor put it, he said, What's the most terrifying news in all the Bible? God is good. Why is that so terrifying? Because you're not. And what does a good God do with sinners like us if he's truly good? Because if it's a wicked God, we can maybe bribe him and get out of it. But if he's a good God, he must carry out a just sentence for sinners, which is everlasting damnation. And so we see that in of ourselves, there is no one who does good, not even one. And so the infinite distance between us and God is such a great chasm that there is no way that sinners like us could ever be reconciled to God unless God does something. And this is what separates every world religion from biblical Christianity. I tell people that there's only two religions in the world. You can put every religion in the category of, and this is oversimplification, but we can define it as have a religious experience, do more good than bad, and hope for the best at the end. Biblical Christianity says you can never do enough good to hope for anything good at the end. And that's why God Himself had to step into human history to bear our sin in his own body on the tree. And so as we see that unless you understand the bad news, unless you understand that you belong to God. In America, we have this mindset that we are ultimately free, we're accountable to no one, but the Bible won't let you have that mindset because you are utterly accountable to God. And everyone will stand before God to give an account for their life. And if God would give you what you deserve, you would have death, hell, and the grave. And unless you understand that, Romans 8. 32 is going to make no sense to you. You're going to say, I don't need God to spare his own son. I'm pretty good, thank you very much. But unless you understand that who you are, outside the grace of God, Outside of the redemption purchased by the Lord Jesus Christ, you'll never understand this text. So my question is for you: do you understand where you stand before God outside of Jesus Christ? Did you come here this morning thinking that somehow by coming to church or doing some religious rituals that somehow you were going to be accepted by God on that? Isaiah 64, 6 says, our greatest works apart from Jesus Christ are like a filthy rag before God. And so unless we understand this reality, we'll never come to a place where we can receive and rest upon Christ alone as he's offered us in the gospel. But now that we have that backdrop, he who did not spare his own son but gave him up For us all, but God had a plan, even though all had sinned, fall short of the glory of God, that God willingly and voluntarily sent his own son. Sent his son on a rescue mission that he might come. And the Lord Jesus Christ didn't come as a victim. He came as a volunteer. That he came willingly by emptying himself of divine glory, who though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but he emptied himself, taking the form of a servant. And God the Father sent God the Son. And God the Son, in his what we call His active obedience, lived a perfect life for sinners And according to our catechism, his suffering didn't begin on the cross. His suffering began in his incarnation. And that the Lord Jesus Christ for thirty-three years kept the wall in our place, was born in a low condition, undergoed underwent the miseries of this life, and then ultimately the wrath of God and the cursed death of the Christ. And he went to the cross because the only way God could spare you and me from his wrath is if God the Son was not spared. The only way God could forgive you is if God did not let his son off the hook for your sin. The only way that sinners can be reconciled to a holy God is if a holy God satisfies his own justice. And this is why the Lord Jesus Christ had to be truly God and truly man in one person. He had to be truly God because only God could satisfy his own wrath. And he had to be truly man that he could represent us before a holy God. The Bible says he himself wore our sin in his own body on the tree. It says, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, as is written, curses everyone who is hanged. It says, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, but the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. It also says it pleased Yahweh to crush him. to put him to grief. And so God did not spare his own son that we might be spared of his divine wrath. Have you ever thought about these realities? Have you ever thought about the glory that that God doesn't just sweep your crime under the rug? I talk to people all the time. I was out open air preaching. at the Inner Harbor of Baltimore this Friday. And while I was doing that, so many people we talk to, we go up to them and they ask, how do you know you're going to be right with God? Or why do you think you're going to go to heaven? Well, God's a forgiving God. And we tell them it doesn't work like that. Yes, God's a forgiving God, but He doesn't sweep our sin under the rug. But someone had to die for that sin because without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sin. And Jesus Christ is that perfect sacrifice. And I love, I'm assuming they did this on purpose. I love that we read Genesis 22. Because this should make you think of the story of Abraham. And Isaac. God takes Abraham, tests him, and says, take your only son whom you love to be a sacrifice. And according to Hebrews 11, it says Abraham trusted God, knowing God could even raise his son from the dead. But he trusted God, he went to the mountain, he went to the place of sacrifice, had the knife in his hand. About as the text said to slaughter his son. And God, the angel of the Lord, some people think that's God the Son, said, Stop, Abraham. Because why did God tell him to stop? Because the Lord is the one who provides the sacrifice. And then you might read that story and wipe off your brow and say, wow, that was a close one. Wow. But my dear friends, that's the intermission. That's not the end of the story. The curtain opens back up, and God takes the knife from Abraham's hand. And because there was no other sacrifice I could do, God took the knife out of Abraham's hand, grabbed it, and jabbed it into his own son that we might be spared. That God is the one who slaughters his son, that we might be forgiven. God is the one who provides the sacrifice in his own son. son. That through the story of Abraham we see the picture because God, the Father, gave his only son, whom he So when you think about the story of Abraham, don't shut the book and say, well, that's that was a close one. Open the book to John chapter 19, where Jesus is buried. the wrath of God and cries out, it is finished. Because God who did not spare his own sin. Second point is that God gave him up for us all. It says he who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. We see this word in the Bible many places, the word all. God gave him up for us all, and we have a couple of different options. Does this mean God gave his son up for every person who ever lived from Adam to the end of the age? Some people take it to mean that. Don't worry, I don't. But it could also mean that God gave up his son for his people. Because if we think about it this way, God the Father Has a particular people he is saving. Ephesians 1, 3 and 4. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. even as he chose us in him or in Christ before the foundation of the world. So God the Father has a particular people Those whom he chose before the foundation of the world. And then you might be thinking, well, couldn't have God saw who was going to choose him and then chose him because of that? Well, my Bible says we love God because, or we love God because he first loved us. So the only way you love God is because he first set his love on you. And then we see in Acts 13, verse 48, that the Gentiles glorified the word of the Lord, and as many as were Important word. Appointed to eternal life believed. Why do they believe? Because the Spirit of Christ worked in their heart to bring them to saving faith in the Lord Jesus. Christ. So if God the Father and God the Spirit are choosing to save a particular people, why would the Lord Jesus Christ come and have a completely different mission? Because Jesus says, in the context of salvation, I and the Father are not two, but one. Meaning we have the same purpose of salvation. So what this text is teaching that those for whom God gave his son for is all for whom God the Father gave to his son. Have you not read John 6. 37, the first part? All those for whom the Father has given me, not might, not hopefully, but will come to me. And then my second argument for why it means that is because right after it says, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? And my question for you is, repentance and faith are those things that are included in the all things that God gives us? Or to somehow God give his son and forget to give us the all things of repentance and faith. Well, let's look in the Bible and see that repentance and faith are gifts of God. If you turn to 2 Timothy, 2 Timothy chapter 2, 2 Timothy chapter 2, verse 24, it says, and the Lord's slave must not be quarrelsome. But kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant or gift them repentance leading to the knowledge of the truth. And they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil after being captured by him to do his will. God grants repentance. If that isn't good enough for you, turn to Acts 11. Acts 11. Acts 11, verse 18. When they heard these things, they fell silent, the things about God saving the Gentiles. And they glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles. God has granted or gifted repentance that leads to life. So if God gives us all things in his Son, one of the things he gives us is repentance, to turn from sin unto God. And then does he give faith? The question is now, is faith a gift? Well, Philippians chapter 1. Philippians chapter 1, verse 29. Philippians chapter 1, verse 29 read For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ, you should not only believe in him, so it's been granted that you believe in him, but also suffer for his sake. And I'll just quote this one a few Ephesians 2. 8. For it has been, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and this, the grace and the faith, is a gift of God, not a result of works. So that no one may boast. So if God gave up his son for you, he will give you all things, including repentance unto life and saving faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. So the evidence that God the Father gave up his son for you is that you were repenting and believing the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. But now your question might be, well, how do I know whether he died for me? And I think a lot of people in reform circles might have Answers that I think sometimes are unhelpful and lead to a hyper-Calvinist view. And we I hate hyper-Calvinism as much as anybody because it destroys the free offer and the need to proclaim the Lord Jesus Christ. And some people might say, well Well if if you only die for particular people, then what use is it for for me to hear the gospel? Well well let me give you an example in the Bible, Acts chapter 16. The Philippian jailer. He's convicted of his sin. He knows he needs to be saved. He says to Paul, what must I do to be saved? Paul doesn't look at him and say, I'm not sure if Jesus died for you. I don't know what I can tell you. No, he says, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved, you and your whole household. So the command for everyone in this room, God commands all people everywhere to repent. God doesn't suggest it. God doesn't hope you do it, but God commands that all people everywhere repent. That you hear the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ and you repent of your sin. And God commands that all people everywhere believe in his Son, the crucified and risen Savior. And we have this doctrine called total depravity, total inequality. But the problem is, is you can't come because you won't come. Because so many people think, well, we're totally depraved and we're just victims. No, my friend, you can't come because you won't come. And our problem is in our sin we don't want God because no one seeks after God. So my question is for you today, have you repented and put your trust in the Lord Jesus Christ? Have you turned away from your sin and have ran to the only one who can save you, Jesus Christ our Lord? Lord. Because in a reform context, it's so easy to get the mindset, well, if I'm not elect, I'm not elect. And I hope you don't hear that. I'm assuming you don't hear that from this pulpit. But I want to preach it again. Make sure you don't use God's sovereignty as an excuse for not coming to the Savior. Because you will be personally responsible for coming. You are personally responsible. For believing in the Lord Jesus Christ. And we always have to proclaim that there is salvation in no one else. For there is no other name, Gitam Man, by which we must. And the last section of the verse, he would not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? The argument of the text is this. If God, my third point, if God gave up his toughest or his hardest thing for him to give, namely his own beloved son. It'll be, quote-unquote, easy for God to give you everything else. If God gave up the toughest thing for you, namely his own son. Everything else is easy for God to give you. Do you believe that? Do you believe that if God gave up his own son, everything else that is for your good in this life and the life to come? He will give to you? Or do you have a mindset? Well, God's holding something back from me. God somehow doesn't know my circumstance. God somehow doesn't know my particular problem. Or do you believe, like the text says, that everything you need God graciously gives with His Son? Because according to Psalm 84, verse eleven The Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord God bestows favor and honor, and no good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly. But now your question might be, well, what about suffering? What about hardship? Sam, are you telling me that suffering and hardship is God's good for me? Are you saying that when suffering comes, that's what God is graciously giving me in his time? Yes, that's exactly what I'm telling you. Because my question for you, my dear friends, what's God's greatest good for you? What is God's greatest good in your life What is God's ultimate purpose for you? Our text right before tells us without any ambiguity. Black and white. And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good. For those who are caught according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined. To be conformed to the image. of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. What's God's ultimately good for you? That you look like his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. That you live out the fruit of the Spirit, because the Lord Jesus Christ, as the God man, was had love and joy and peace and patience and kindness and goodness and gentleness and self-control. God's good for you is that you be like his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, that he, the Lord Jesus Christ, might be the firstborn among many brothers. And how can you be like the suffering servant if you never suffer? How can you be like the one who was rejected by man despised if you never go through hardship in your life? To put it kind of in a silly way, if if this life was rainbows and lollipops, how would we ever become more like the Savior who died in blood for our sinful sins? souls. Because my because really what we have to come to is what is God's greatest good for us. And the Bible says it's conformity to the lightness, the character, the mold of our blessed Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. And God also brings good and happy times, times of delight and rejoicing, and times of sadness, that we might depend on Him, that we might hope in Him Think about it too. The problem I see in the church today, and I'm speaking as a 22-year-old man, so it's not gospel truth, but we have a lot of worldliness in the church. We have a lot of worldliness in the church. No difference between those who come on the Lord's Day morning and those who never come. We have a lot of people who look just like the world, and if you ask them what's the difference that Jesus made, they would say, Well, I have a place to go on Sunday. And one of the reasons why God brings suffering in your life Is God wants to take that worldliness out of you? God, because we grip to the world so strongly, because our nature is to love the world and the things of the world, and God by His grace showed you this isn't humble. This isn't what you want. This is just temporary. This is fleeting. But the one who does the will of God abides forever. Do you believe that? Do you believe that God will strip will do whatever it takes that you don't walk as the world walks? He will do whatever it takes to make sure that you don't look like the world. Because if you love the world and the things of the world, the love of the Father is not in you. And he will discipline his children. And he will bring hardship, not to destroy us, but that we might have a fruit of righteousness and holiness, because without holiness, no one will see the Lord. And so what we see in this reality is that God strips off our fingers of the world. God doesn't let you grip on this world too tight. Because just like Abraham, we are looking for a city whose builder and maker is God. We are not looking for a builder city made by man, but an eternal city where righteousness dwells, the new heavens and the new earth. And so we can say like the psalmist, Psalm 42, verse eleven, why are you downcast, oh my son? So why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise him, my salvation, and my God. And you might be able to say, like the psalmist, that I will go to God. God, my, listen to the text. Exceeding joy. Because God's purpose is that you might not find ultimate pleasure in this life, even though He provides us all things richly to enjoy, but you might find your delight in the Lord. Because delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your hearts. Do you believe that God knows what's best for you? Do you believe that God knows what is best for your life, whether it's happy times or sorrowful times, whether it's times of great rejoicing or great sorrow, God's purpose is to say, Become like my son. Son. And one day, see what kind of love the Father has bestowed on us. That we should be called the children of God. And what we are, we do not know, but we do know this, that when we see him, We will be like him. Why? Because we'll see him as he is. And so this is God's purpose in our life: that we might know that God is good. That God is faithful, that God cares about us, and that God wants what's best for us, namely conforming to His Son that He might be might be the firstborn among many brothers. Do you have fear? Do you have anxiety? Do you have worry? Do you have this feeling that you just can't shake of just never control Trust. Say like the psalmist, the Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is my strength and my fortress. Of whom shall I be afraid? So God gave up his own son, that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. My question is For you, have you called on the name of the Lord? The young people in here. I was saved at 11 years old. One of the greatest blessings. I wish I was saved younger. And my dear young people in this congregation, don't say I'll get saved later. Don't push it off. Sin only brings sadness and misery. Sin only brings destruction. Why would you not at a young age come to repent and believe in the Lord? Jesus Christ. Why would you go a life of outside of Him where there is no happiness or joy to life, but come to And those who are older, do you know that he is the fountain of living water? Do you know that he is the one to whom when we drink of him we'll never be thirsty? And when we eat of him we will never be thirsty. Hunger again. This is our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. That God so loved the world that He gave His one and only Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish, but have eternal life. And that he gave him up so that we might find our delight in God. And we might know from the bat the good times and the bad times. That if God is for us, who can be against us? Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for your blessed truth and your word. We thank you that you have not spoken in language we can't understand, but you've spoken clearly. And blessed to the saints who are here. And I pray for anyone under the sound of my voice, or who might hear this by tape. That they might come to repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. So we ask for your blessing and your grace for Jesus' sake. Amen.