1 Samuel chapter 3 Hear now the word of God. Now the young man Samuel was ministering to the Lord under Eli And the word of the Lord was rare in those days. There was no frequent vision. At that time Eli, whose eyesight had begun to grow dim, so that he could not see Was lying down in his own place. The lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel was lying down in the temple of the Lord where the ark of God was. Then the Lord called Samuel, and he said, Here I am. And he ran to Eli and said, Here I am, for you called me. But he said, I did not call. Lie down again. So he went and lay down. And the Lord called again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, Here I am, for you called me. But he said, I did not call my son. Lie down again. Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, and the word of the Lord had not yet been revealed to him. And the Lord called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli and said, Here I am, for you called me. Then Eli perceived that the Lord was calling the young man. Therefore Eli said to Samuel, Go, lie down, and if he calls you, you shall say, Speak, Lord. For your servant hears. So Samuel went and lay down in his place. And the Lord came and said Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, for your servant hears. Then the Lord said to Samuel, Behold, I am about to do a thing in Israel which the two ears of everyone who hears it will tingle. On that day I will fulfill against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house from beginning to end. And I declare to him that I am above the early thing. Therefore, I swear to the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be atoned for by sacrifice or offering forever. Samuel lay until morning. Then he opened the doors of the house of the Lord. And Samuel was afraid to tell the vision to Eli. But Eli called Samuel and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here I am. And Eli said, What was it that he told you? Do not hide it from me. May God do so to you, and more also if you hide anything from me of all that He told you. Samuel told him everything, and he hid nothing from him. And he said, It is the Lord, let him do what he seems good to him. And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground. And all Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, knew that Samuel was established as a prophet of the Lord. And the Lord appeared again at Shiloh, for the Lord revealed himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the word of the Lord. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel This is God's word. Thanks be to God. We have two readings from the New Testament which have some corollaries or parallels or something like that. The first one is John 1, 1 through 14. Because we're talking about God's word coming. So let's listen to John 1. 1-14. through fourteen. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him, but to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born. Not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son of grace and truth. And then let us turn to first Timothy four, eleven through sixteen. First Timothy four Beginning at verse 11. Command and teach these things. Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech. In conduct, in love, in faith, in purity. Until I come, devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture To exhortation, to teaching. Do not neglect the gift you have, which was given you by prophecy when the council of elders laid their hands on you Practice these things, immerse yourself in them, so that all may see your progress. Keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching. Persist in this, for by so doing you will save both yourself and your hearers. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, we pray now that what has been read will be illumined by the Holy Spirit who inspired them these words to be Written down and kept, preserved, that we might be saved. Amen. Today we're going to be focusing upon Israel's need for God's word. And the obvious application, your need for God's word. So the whole sermon's over. Israel needs God's word. You need God's word. That's it. Well, we're going to expand a bit on that. Four points. And you see them there in your worship folder if you'd care to take notes. The dark setting without the word, the call of Samuel by the Word. The tearful message of the Word and the grace of God in the Word. First, the dark setting without the Word. Verse 1. Now the boy Samuel was ministering to the Lord in the presence of Eli. And the word of the Lord was rare in those days. There was no frequent vision. What's going on here? Well, what's going on here is that God sometimes gives up on people, at least for a while. And he lets them go the way they choose. God gives up and lets people do what they want. They want to be in the darkness, they want to be without his word. He gives up for a while. Later In Amos chapter 8, much later in fact, we hear these words. Listen, verse 11 of Amos chapter 8: Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord God. When I will send a famine on the land, not a famine of bread, nor of thirst for water. but of hearing the words of the Lord. They shall wander from sea to sea and from north to east. And shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, but shall not find it. A famine of the word of God. was predicted by Amos for the northern kingdom because they didn't want to hear God's word. So he brings what they want. He gives them what they want. He lets them go. In such conditions, people look for direction. It's described there in Amos. They look for direction, for meaning, for security from things that cannot adequately serve that purpose. Whether it's seeking these things and personal accomplishments. If I can just accomplish all my big goals, then I will be secure. I'll have everything. It'll all work out. No That won't do. Or material gain, if I get enough stuff, if my bank account is really big. If I have all the possessions I want, then I'll have, I'll be all set. No, you won't. Or relationships. If I could just find that That relationship or those relationships, then I will be all set and complete. No, you won't. Or on a grand scale, sometimes people seek security on a grand scale when they don't have God's word. They seek a controlling political state to regulate all of life and provide security in a chaotic world. That's what happened in the days of the Tower of Babel God said, scatter out and fill the earth, and they said, no, we're going to build a secure place and build a nice big tower, and that'll be the center of our world. God says, no, it won't. I'll fix that. You know how he did. But all these ways of coping without God's word have this in common. They substitute something for God and for his word. It's a family. Of the Word of God. God lets them have what they want. And I've referred to this before, but I'll refer to it again. It's recorded by the Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 1. He's talking about the pagan world, and he says, for though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but became futile in their thinking. And their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal men and birds and animals and creeping things. They tried to find security in in other gods that they made up for themselves. And then verse 24, therefore God gave them up. That's number one. He gave them up to the lusts of their hearts, to impurity, to dishonor their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshipped and served the creature rather than the creator who was blessed forever. Amen. And then verse twenty six, for this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. God gave them up twice now. For the women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature, and the men did the same thing. Verse twenty-seven And then verse 28, and since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up third time to a debased mind to do what ought not to be He doesn't tell us what ought not to be done, but it certainly you could fill that in by a lot of things. God gives people up, leaves them in the darkness that they have chosen for a while. And we read in verse 2, at that time Eli, that's the old priest, who had the bad sons. At that time Eli, whose eyesight had begun to grow dim so that he could not see, was lying down in his own place. Now why is that little detail included in the narrative? Well first of all, it's true. He had bad eyes, he was getting old and couldn't see, right? But why is it included? Eli's eyesight was dim both literatively and typically as a representative of all Israel. They were all going blind. Israel was nearly blind to the things of God. Israel was living in many ways like the pagan nations all around. We read in the previous chapter how the sons of Eli were corrupting the worship that God had ordained, corrupting that worship to satisfy their own carnal appetites Messing up the sacrifices, choosing what they wanted, taking what wasn't theirs, and how they were also sexually immoral in worship, just like the pagan peoples. God was letting them go. And then in verse three, another picture here in the words, the lamp of God had not yet gone out. And Samuel was lying down in the temple of the Lord where the ark of God was. The lamp of God is the menorah, you know. It's that seven uh seven lamp candlestick. One standing straight up and then three on each side. That menorah. The ancient symbol made of pure gold, the symbol of God's light. It had not yet quite gone out. Well, it's metaphorical. It's included here, it literally happened, but it's included here to draw a picture of the darkness that is ensuing Israel. Because of the lack of the word of God. Into this literal and spiritual darkness, God sent the little boy Who was now a young man, probably maybe thirteen years of age. Samuel, who we find sleeping in God's house We come then to the call of Samuel by the word. Three times God calls Samuel. Then the Lord called Samuel verse 4 and said, Here I am. And he said, Here I am. And Ran to Eli and said, Here I am, for you called me. But he said, I did not call. Lie down again. So he went and lay down. Verse 6, and the Lord called again, Samuel. Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, Here I am, for you called me. He said, I did not call my son. Lie down again. Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, and the word of the Lord had not yet been revealed to him. Verse 8: And the Lord called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli and said, Here I am, for you called me. Then Eli perceived that the Lord was calling the boy. Therefore Eli said to Samuel, Go lie down, and if he calls you, you shall say, Speak, Lord, for your servant hears. So Samuel went and lay down in his place. And the Lord came. This is interesting language. The Lord came. And stood, what does that mean? Extremely heightened presence of God. Calling as at other times Samuel, Samuel, and Samuel said, Speak, for your servant hears. This, by the way, should be your constant refrain. Speak, Lord, for your servant is listening. We need the word of God. The words of culture, the words of the world are all around us constantly. We need the Word of God to set us on the right path. Speak, Lord, for your servant hears. This is the essential response of those who belong to God, those who serve God. They hear God. They are attentive and they are responsive. And I want to pause to ask you this question. When you come to church, Do you come expecting God to speak through his word? It's a providential gathering, isn't it? It's an ordained gathering. The Lord says, do this every week. Are you here every week? Do this every week. Come and hear my word read in the assembly of the people. And I promise you that I will give you something that you need from my word. Not personal private revelation No. But you will get personal application of God's word proclaimed that fits your situation in life Expect God to speak to you, to give you what you need to frame your life. We come then, thirdly, to the tearful message of the Word. Verse 11. Then the Lord said to Samuel, Behold, I am about to do a thing in Israel at which the two ears of everyone who hears it will tingle. On that day I will fulfill against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house from beginning to end. And I declare to him that I am about to punish his house forever for the iniquity that he knew, because if his sons were blaspheming God, and he did not restrain them. Therefore, I swear to the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be atoned for by sacrifice or offering forever. This is really bad news. The message of God is often a message of rebuke and judgment when you come, you might expect to hear that too sometimes. And it'll make your ears tingle, not in a happy way. I guess I tried to think about what it means to have your ears tingle. And I think it's that probably being described that that sense of Embarrassment or fear that would strike a person when they hear something that's just terrifying and it makes their blood rise up into their ears and their ears. Become red and they feel like they're tingling. Have your ears ever been tingling at the Word of God? God sends his word to heal and save. Yes, that's what we celebrate and are so thankful for. But what if you don't think you need saving? You don't get much, do you? You need to see your lost estate. I think when Isaiah saw the vision of God, High and lifted up, and the glory of his robe filled the temple, and his smoke filled the temple, I think his ears tingled at the cry of, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. Because he said, Woe is me. My ears I think his ears were tingling. Our natural condition is like Isaiah's that I referred to just now. Because Jesus says in John, the Gospel of John chapter 3, verses 18 through 19, which are not the most famous. The ones before that are famous, but he says in verse 18: whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already. That's not a very happy condition. Because he has not believed in the name of the Son of God. And this is the judgment. Not good news. That light has come into the world, and people love the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. That judgment that makes ears tingle. And Paul, when he's preaching and gloriously proclaiming the gospel, the good news of salvation in Romans chapter 1, he's talking about it, Romans 1, 16 through 18. He says, I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes to the Jew first and also to the Greek, for in it the righteousness. Of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. And then later on in verse 18, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of man. Men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. So God's word comes, you see, not always as the good news, but sometimes as the Fearful news of judgment. So we get back to the text, verse 15 of the text. Samuel lay until morning. It doesn't say he went back to sleep. I doubt very much if he went back to sleep. He lay until morning. Then he opened the doors of the house of the Lord. That was his job, to let the people come in. And Samuel was afraid to tell the vision to Eli. But Eli called Samuel and said, Samuel, my son. son and he said here I am and Eli said what was it that he told you do not hide it from me And then he forces, he forces the boy. May God do so to you and more also, if you hide anything from me of all that he told you. So Samuel told him everything and hid nothing from him. And he said, Eli Said, it is the Lord. Let him do what seems good to him. So this little boy, young man, is a prophet. And being a prophet is a tough job. He had to tell the old man bad news of judgment that was going to come. I want to tell you, folks, that being a preacher is a tough job. The preacher's job is to afflict the comfortable, those who are comfortable in slothful living and sin. And to comfort the afflicted, the repentant and sorrowing for sin. No one, not even me, certainly not me, likes to be the bearer of bad news But bad news is necessary. How would you like it if you were looking for a doctor and you came across one who promised only to give patients good news of perfect health? Oh, good doctor. Such a doctor wouldn't be much help when you came complaining of a chronic pain in your gut. You'll be just fine, don't worry. Be happy. The doctor, the pain is getting worse every day. Don't worry, be happy. Some people choose churches like that They choose churches like they choose restaurants to get just what they want. They check the menu out first. I was looking at church websites, and there's actually a church in Hamden, Connecticut. We have a church in Hamden. Connecticut, by the way. But there's a church in Hamden, Connecticut called Happy Church. That's its name. Happy Church. I don't know. Samuel loved old Eli, and he didn't want to deliver bad news, but he had to tell the truth. Eli was wise enough to want the truth. I think he was a believer. He had made bad mistakes. that he was a believer. And when he heard the word of the Lord, he said, I want to hear what God says. I accept what God says, even though it hurts. For Eli, it was too late to undo the damage of his past, but if he repented, and I think he did, then God surely forgave him. Looking forward to the work of Christ, who died for sinners like him. Finally, we get to the grace of God in the Word. Verse 19 and following. And Samuel grew, and the word was with the Lord was with him. And let none of his words fall to the ground. And all Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, knew that Samuel was established as a prophet of the Lord. And the Lord appeared again at Shiloh. The Lord appeared. This is amazing that God actually comes We've seen that sometimes in judgment, but also sometimes in blessing. God comes down. The Lord appeared and revealed himself at Shiloh by the word of the Lord. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. I want to just draw back for a second and say say one thing. That last verse that I just read, 1 Samuel 4. 1, and the word of Samuel came to all Israel, is the Hebrew word Dabar. And it's translated earlier when God says, I'm about to do a thing in Israel that'll make your ears tingle, it's the word Dabar. I'm about to do a word in Israel. This whole thing is about the word, the word, the word. And the word of God came through Samuel now. The thing of God comes to Bring judgment and comes to bring grace. This is an amazing blessing now. It was a dark place. People were without. It was a famine of the Word of God. But it's no small thing that now we have the Word of God spreading everywhere. God's word is now frequent. God is present at Shiloh. Everybody knows it. There's a prophet. The distance from Dan in the far north to Beersheba in the far south is about 180 miles. It's the whole length, basically, of the populated part of Israel. This mention means that everywhere in Israel, God's word through Samuel, was spreading far and wide. God is present and speaking at Shiloh, the place where the tabernacle is No doubt it was a word of rebuke that was being spoken, and a word of reform, as well as a word of gracious, a gracious God who chose Israel. He keeps saying, I chose you, I chose you, I chose you, I called you out, I brought you out of Egypt. You're my people, I chose you, I have covenant with you. That was the good news. I gave you this place, this land, this home, it's yours. Follow me, obey me, love me, serve me. I'm sending you the Messiah, the promised one, the great king will come someday. The prophet, like Moses, will arise. The word made flesh will come Isaiah sees the same promise. In Isaiah 42, 6 through 7, I am the Lord, I have called you in righteousness, I will take you by the hand to keep you. I will give you as a covenant for the nations, a light for the nations, to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out a prison from the dungeon, from the prison those who sit in darkness. Isaiah was talking about that. And then we see that Jesus, when he came, said, I am the one who does all these things. Because in Matthew 11, when John heard in prison about the deeds of Christ, he sent word by his disciples, Matthew 11, 2 through 6. He sent his disciples and said to Jesus by them, Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? And Jesus answered them, Go and tell John what you hear and see, the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up. And the poor have the good news preached to them. He's the fulfillment of the removal of that darkness, of the famine of the Word of God, because the Word became flesh. The preaching, therefore, the preaching of God's word is the greatest gift that can be given to any people at any time in history or any individual. It brings the greatest opportunity to respond and be saved. People can't respond if they don't hear the word of God. Romans 10 says, How will they call on him of who they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? The word of God Is the thing that brings faith, repentance, salvation. The preaching of God's Word is the greatest gift that can be given to any people Now I have a hard time understanding the thinking or reasoning of professing Christians who neglect the proclamation of the Word of God. This is hard for me to say to you because I'm a preacher. And it sounds kind of self-serving to say you should come hear me. I'm not saying that. I'm saying come hear God's word proclaimed. I can only imagine that when people neglect the preaching of God's word, they have come to prefer the famine, the darkness. The pervasive influences of the fallen world system rather than the healthful and healing effect of God's word. I'm afraid such Christians would be happy living in the period of the judges, doing what is right in their own eyes. Happy with living when the Word of God was rare And there was no frequent vision. Beloved congregation of Jesus Christ, attend the preaching of God. God's Word at least once every Lord's Day. Why each week? Because God established the world in seven days and made One day, the day of rest and worship. And that pattern continues. So I say to you: you need to be in God's presence and hear God's word at least once. Every Lord's day. And if you think you have it all, you've heard it all, you know it all, then you're saying to God, No thanks. I've had enough of your word. I have better things to do with my time. Let me go on with this attitude. I have better things to do with my time during the few years you have given me before I appear before your great throne. To give an account of all my deeds, all my choices, all my time, all my affections. You really want to say that? No. So I end with this little phrase from Colossians 2. Therefore, as you have received Christ Jesus The Lord. So walk in him, rooted. How do you get rooted? The Word of God. Built up in Him and established in the faith. How do you get that? Faith comes from hearing, and hearing comes from the Word of God. God, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. Therefore, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him, established in the faith Just as you were taught. Where were they taught this? By the preaching of God's word in Colossae. Amen. Lord, we pray that you will help us to be faithful to your word. In our private life, in our reading, but in the place that you've ordained and the time that you've ordained, the Lord's day Help us to be faithful to your word. And please help your preacher and preachers everywhere to faithfully Proclaim your word and apply it to the hearers. Amen