Please open your Bibles to the book of Ezekiel, chapter 47, and we'll read verses 1 through 12. Ezekiel 47, verses 1 through 12. Then he brought me back to the door of the temple, and behold, water was issuing from below the threshold of the temple toward the east, for the temple faced east. The water was flowing down from below the south end of the threshold of the temple, south of the altar. Then he brought me out by the way of the north gate, and led me around on the outside to the outer gate that faces toward the east East. And behold, the water was trickling out on the south side. Going on eastward with a measuring line in his hand, the man measured a thousand cubits. And then led me through the water, and it was ankle deep. Again he measured a thousand and led me through the water, and it was knee deep. Deep. Again he measured a thousand, and led me through the water, and it was waist deep. Again he measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the water had risen. It was deep enough to swim in, a river that could not be passed through. And he said to me, Son of man, have you seen this? Then he led me back to the bank of the river. As I went back, I saw on the bank of the river very many trees on the other side and on the other. region and goes down to the Arabah and ends the sea, ends enters the sea, when the water flows into the sea, the water would become fresh. And wherever the river goes, every living creature that swarms will live. And there will be very many fish. For this water goes there, that the waters of the sea may become fresh, so everything will live where the river goes. Fishermen will stand beside the sea, from Angedi to Angedi Angelion. It will be a place for the spreading of nets. Its fish will be of very many kind, like the fish of the great sea. But its swamps and marshes will not become fresh. They are to be left for salt. Food. Their leaves will not wither nor their fruit fail, but they will bear fresh fruit every month, because the water for them flows from the sanctuary. The Word of the Lord. The text consideration today is John chapter 4, 1 through 25. The story of the woman of Samaria. Now, when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John, Although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples, he left Judea and departed again for Galilee. And he had to pass through Samaria. So he came to the town of Samaria called Sikar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there, so Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. And a woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a Samaritan woman? For the Jews had no dealings with the Samaritans. Jesus answered her: If you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, Give me a drink. You would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep Where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water. Jesus said to her, Go, call your husband and come here. The woman answered him, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You were right in saying, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one you have now is not your husband. What you have said is true, the woman said to him. Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshipped on this mountain But you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming. When neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews But the hour is coming, and now is here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming. He who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Send the light of your spirit. For as the psalmist says, in your light do we see light. Amen. So we come to these first verses again, and they are introductory verses. They are a note really explaining the change of scene. The scene before this was Jesus meeting with Nicodemus, and before that, as he was hearing about John's baptisms by the Jordan and Bethany. And that is all in Judea, which is to the south. But now this is a change in scene. So when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John, and then the note, although Jesus himself did not baptize but only his disciples He left Judea, changing scene, and departed again for Galilee, that's in the north, and he had to pass through Samaria, it says. So he came to a town of Samaria called Sikar, near that field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph long ago. Joseph's well was there, so Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. The sixth hour is high noon. So this note tells us about the change in scene. It also tells us that Jesus probably decided to leave Judea and go to Galilee. in order to avoid controversy. Jesus decided to go away and avoid controversy. And the region of Samaria stands geographically between Judah to the south and Galilee to the north, so it's in the middle area. And the shortest route between the two places would be to go through Samaria. Many Jews, however, would simply not travel through Samaria. They considered Samaritans impure racially and corrupt in religion, and so they wouldn't like to go through Samaria. Now let's try to understand that situation and how it happened. It things sometimes last a long time. Grudges and views and perceptions last for a very long time. And if we turn back to 2 Kings chapter 17, I'll read part of that. And we turn back 720 years. That's how long? 720 years, 2 Kings chapter 17 tells about what happened after the northern tribes, that would be the people that at that time, 750 years earlier, lived in Samaria and in Galilee, those northern tribes of Israel, what happened to them? It tells us there And uh verse 24 of 2 Kings 17, and the king of Assyria, this is after he had brought great destruction The king of Assyria brought people from Babylon, Kutha, Ava, Hamath, Safavarim, and they placed them in the cities of Samaria. Instead of the people of Israel who had been moved out, who had been destroyed, who had been killed. And they took possession of Samaria and lived in its cities And at the beginning of their dwelling there they did not fear Yahweh. Therefore Yahweh sent lions among them, which killed some of them. So the king of Assyria was told, The nations that you have carried away and placed in the cities of Samaria do not know the law of the God of the land. Therefore he has sent lions among them, and behold, they are killing them because they do not know the law of the God of the land. Verse 27 Then the king of Assyria commanded, Send there one of the priests whom you have carried away from there, and let him go up and dwell there and teach them the law of the God of the land. Verse 28. So one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria came and lived in Bethel and taught them how they should fear Yahweh. Now we're going to skip down to verse 20 or 40. However, they would not listen, the people that were living there. But they did according to their former manner. So these nations feared Yahweh. They were taught something. They feared Yahweh, and they also served their carved images. Their children did likewise, and their children's children, as their fathers did, so they do. So here's the report of what happened, how the Jews or the Israelites were carried off and destroyed and removed from that region and how the king of Assyria brought people in there to live who didn't know God and didn't serve God and he tried to fix that a little bit because he was concerned for their well-being, I suppose. But that's who got settled here, these Samaritans. They're not pure racially, and they're not pure religiously, and that's why the Jews didn't want to go through there That's why they wouldn't travel there when they were on their way up to Galilee. Jews would often cross the Jordan. Instead of going through there, they would cross the Jordan and go up on the other side of the Jordan. and then cross back into Galilee to avoid contact with the Samaritans. It could be that Jesus was simply in a hurry, that he wanted to get there fast, and so it was the shortest way to get there. But more likely, as we have it in the Gospel of John elsewhere, more likely John is recording this encounter as a deliberate act of Jesus. Because Jesus, as we know, is the Savior of all nations, all nations, everywhere. Now, how do you think about people who are outside the mainstream of what is socially acceptable to you? How do you think about such people? Do you avoid contact with them? You wouldn't speak to that person because they're so different, so strange, so odd Do you despise them and loathe them and or do you believe that it's possible that God might actually have loved them and cared for them and even maybe chosen to save some of them, the strange people that that are so different from us I just ask you that as a thought question as we go forward. How do you view people who are very different? Secondly, let's get to the encounter, verses 7 through 15. A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, give me a drink. So she came, he said, give me a drink. That doesn't sound too strange to us. And there's a note for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food, so he's alone. And She asked for he asked for a drink. Now woman women would normally travel to get water. They would travel in groups. They wouldn't travel alone. It was not safe for a woman to travel alone. They would also do this earlier in the day or very late in the day before the heat made carrying water difficult. The fact that this woman was at the well, the fact that she was alone in the middle of the day, would have been a clear indication to Jesus that she was not wanted in the society of decent women. So this is an amazing set of circumstances and an amazing encounter. A Jewish man alone in the middle of the day talking to a Samaritan who was a woman who was alone at the wrong time. of the day. Need to get that. And to top it off, he spoke to her as if she were fully human. He asked her for a drink, as if she would not contaminate him Verse 9, the Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? For Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans, it says. Now, it says Jews had no dealings with the Samaritans, but we also heard that these people have gone off to, his disciples have gone off to buy uh food in the near city. So they do have some dealings, and Lightfoot says this, but as to Samaritans it was not permitted for the Jews to borrow or receive anything from them At any time as gratis. They couldn't take anything from them free. They were allowed to buy certain times and certain situations, but never would they ask for anything for free. Normally, Jesus would have had to establish his Jewish superiority by paying her for the water. He wouldn't ask for it for free. As if she were an equal or something. But he did. Verse 10. Jesus asked her, if you, Jesus answered her, if you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, give me a drink. You would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. Living water. What's living water? Jesus here resorts to metaphor, not to obscure the meaning, but to bring it into focus. Because you see, what he's going to tell her is that he is the free gift of God. As we've heard already in this teaching, God so loved that he gave Jesus, the eternal Son of God. He is the free gift of God. And living water, living water here, you have to understand this, is flowing water. Spring water that comes up to the surface. You don't have to go down to get it. It comes up to the surface and it comes up pure and abundant and clean and clear. This is in contrast to normally what you find in a well. Well water can be okay, or it can become stagnant. Or the well can even become dry or muddy, and it always has to be accessed by a rope and a bucket. Jesus says, I'll give you living water. Water that comes right up. Living water is a flowing spring that comes to the surface, abundant and pure and clean. And the woman said to him in verse 11, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get this living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself as did his sons and his livestock. Now, according to archaeology, there were other wells in this area. There were other wells in Sikar and in the general area where she could have gone to get water. So it is possible that she's going to this well, this is Jacob's well. because she's there seeking some sort of spiritual benefit. Maybe she has come to sense her need for spiritual benefit She may have been aware of her need for God's mercy and is seeking it through somehow connecting with Jacob's well. But this is false religion. This is false religion. And false religion will not meet needs. It will not solve problems. False religion may have some kind of benefit for folks, but it really won't work. And Jesus says to her in verse 13, everyone who drinks of this water, the water in this well, will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. Wow, what a speech. What an invitation. What a statement of amazing promise. And the woman says, verse 15, Sir, give me this water so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water again. She sort of gets it and sort of does it. But as Tom Tyson said to us last Sunday, you can't really receive good news until you first receive the bad news. And so we have the bad news. And that is in verse 16: the confrontation, the bad news, the scandal of sin. Verse 16: Jesus said to her. Go call your husband and come here. Bad news. The woman answered him, I have no husband. She's trying to get out of this situation. Jesus said to her, You are right in saying, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one you have now is not your husband. What you have said is true. I'm sure that when she said that, she's trying to get off the hook, she's trying to wiggle out of this conversation in some kind of gracious way. But when he said, You've had five, I'm sure her face went, oh. He knows me. I can't hide from him. This sounds very mean-spirited and judgmental by our current standards But it was necessary. It was necessary to get to the life-destroying disease of sin which was destroying this woman. In order to bring her healing, in order to bring her life, you have to get to the bad news first. And that's what Jesus is doing. Not very politically correct, is it? To pass judgment on someone's life. But it's necessary if we're going to offer good news, there has to be first a realization of bad news. Verse 19, the woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Yeah, you can tell. You know what's going on. But then she tries to change the subject. She tries to say, let's talk religion for a while. You have yours and I have mine. Let's talk religion. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where we ought to worship. Jesus won't have it, will he? No. No. Jesus said to her, Woman, he's not saying that in any kind of mean way. He's just speaking to her politely. Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem Will you worship the Father? You worship what you do not know. He's telling her her religion is false. We worship what we know for salvation is from the Jews. Not all religions lead to God, as a lot of people think today. In fact, no religions lead to God except the biblical religion. That's what Jesus is saying. saying salvation is of the Jews. The biblical religion which began with God choosing Seth to be the chosen line of Messiah in the days of Adam. That's the biblical religion. None are true but the revealed religion that chose Noah to be saved through the flood and bring forth the chosen line of Shem, and to reveal himself in the line of Shem to Abraham as the one whose descendant will bless the whole world with salvation. And we know from the genealogies that Jesus is in that line. Jesus is not politically correct here about religion. Religions are all the same. They all lead to the same God. They do not. Jesus says salvation is of the Jews. And all these other religions go nowhere. So he does not coddle her false ideas, her false religion, as if it doesn't matter. By the way, next week I'm going to preach about Jesus' method of evangelism from the same passage. And hopefully instruct us as to how we ought to talk to people, both in terms of being truthful and blunt and also being gracious and kind. It's all here, and I'll open that next week Jesus does not coddle her. He says, You worship what you do not know, you're ignorant. We worship what we know, what God has revealed, for salvation is from the Jews. And then he says in verse 23, But the hour is coming, and now is here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. Must worship him in spirit and truth and the truth That John is unfolding for us in this gospel. The truth is Jesus. Jesus is the truth. Worship God in Jesus. Jesus is the truth. He tells her the truth about her sins. He tells her the truth about himself. And that's where we finally get to this wonderful good news in verses 25 and 26, the last two verses. The woman said to him, I know, she's heard of this Jewish thing, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. I've heard this story about the Jewish Messiah who's going to come and who's going to tell us all things. In verse 26, Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. Wow, that's good news. You're waiting for good news, you're hoping for good news. Here's the one who's telling you about a well that will well up within your soul and give you eternal life Here's someone who can tell you about your sins, who can also tell you about the truth and the way of salvation. He's telling the good news. This is good news. Now, like this woman, you may sometimes think, as you look at your own heart, as I look at my heart, that we cannot be accepted by God. We look down deep. She was, it was pointed up to her by Jesus telling her about her husbands. But if we look down in our own heart, we can see some things down there like she's being shown. We can see some things down in our own heart which make us feel like, you know, I I don't fit either I don't really belong to the kingdom of God. I'm too dirty, too tainted. Sometimes we can make a good show around us of the people around us and try to look pretty good, but we know down deep that it's not really what it should be. You know the darkness of your own thoughts, perhaps even your secret deeds You may put on a religious show like this woman did when she said, Sir, I perceive that you're a prophet. I perceive that, let's talk religion for a while. And John is saying to the readers, to the hearers of this gospel, if you only knew who Jesus was. Was. If you only knew who Jesus is. And Jesus said that to her. If you knew the one speaking to you, you would ask him and he would give you. Salvation. Jesus is the one. He's the Messiah Who makes things right, who makes things satisfying and complete. He will make all things right. It will be unending. There will be a well of water springing up within those who trust in him. He says, the water that I give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. This is fantastic good news. In the face of this woman's situation and need, and in the face of our looking down into our own darkness I think maybe Jesus was drawing on the prophecy of Ezekiel when he talked about this Water that refreshes, that heals, that comes forth from God's holy temple, as we write it in Ezekiel 47 that gets deeper and deeper and that cures and heals and brings forth the trees that their leaves are for the healing of the nations. I believe that Jesus was thinking of all these pictures and things as he was telling her about a water that wells up for eternal life. This woman was dying of thirst. Not literally, but spiritually, she was. I hesitate to quote prop popular songs, but it came to my mind as I was as I was preparing this from my youth, I suppose, uh Whalen Jennings She had been looking for love in all the wrong places, looking for love in too many faces, searching Your eyes looking for traces of what I'm dreaming of, hoping to find a friend and a lover. God bless the day I discover another heart looking for love But she wasn't finding it. In friends and lovers and other sinners, she wasn't finding it. We go back in church history. Dan Graves tells us about Augustine. It's on the front cover of the worship folder. You don't have to look there now. But if you want to see it later, Augustine experienced a succession of desperate searches for fulfillment. This is in the fifth century. Excessive pleasures, false religions, Manichaeanism. Philosophy, dissipation, and distractions, futilities left him so weary of himself that he could only cry out, How long, O Lord, how long? And the confessions that he wrote, this long testimony of his salvation, were the testimony of God's interaction with a soul that has found rest, refreshment in its creator. And here's what is said about him. With his heart bursting with the reality of God, he addresses his manuscript directly to the Lord as one long prayer and meditation. a prayer and meditation it will take him five years to complete, a testimony five years long. He dips his quill and begins Great are you, O Lord, and greatly to be praised. Great is your power and your wisdom is infinite. And in contrast to God he muses, what is man? If there is a connection between the two Humans, such a small part of creation and short-lived as they are, still find a need to praise God. In spite of sin, each feels the longing to reach out to his creator. Why is this? He realizes it is the doing of God and then says this. This is the thing to memorize. You have made us for yourself And our hearts are restless until they find rest in you. You have made us for yourself, and our hearts are restless, thirsty, dry until they find rest. Ecclesiastes 7 29, the the writer of Ecclesiastes who also sought all kinds of pleasures and was looking for love in all the wrong places and Said in verse 29 of chapter 7, see, he says, this alone I have found, that God made man upright, but they have sought out many schemes. Schemes. Jesus offers himself as the source of deep meaning and satisfaction for sinners. God so loved sinners. Sinners like this woman, like you and me, who wallow in the filth and false idols. He so loved us that he gave the Messiah, he gave the Messiah through Israel for all the world. And so believe in him. Believe into him. Trust in him. Throw yourself on his mercy. Recommit your goals and your hopes and your dreams to him. There is no other Savior. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for your choosing to pass through Samaria to meet this woman. To help her, to heal her, to offer her salvation, as we will see how how wonderfully her life has changed. But also to offer us a picture of who we really are without you, and how much we need you, and how wonderfully you promise to supply all our needs. Help us, Lord, to turn to you, to trust you, to recommit ourselves to you, to stop looking for love or anything else in the wrong places. Turn only to you. We ask it in Jesus' wonderful and saving name, Amen