So let's turn to Psalm forty-seven, the next in our series, and the Psalms. So now let us hear the word of God read. Clap your hands, all peoples. Shout to God with loud songs of joy. For the Lord, the most high, is to be feared, a great king over all the earth. He subdued peoples under us, and nations under our feet. He chose our heritage for us, the pride of Jacob, whom he loves. God has gone up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet. Sing praises to God. Sing praises. Sing praises to our King. Sing praises. For God is the King of all the earth. Sing praises with a psalm. God reigns over the nations. God sits on his holy throne. The princes of the peoples gather as the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of earth belong to God. He is highly exalted. The word of God never fails or fades. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our So now let us turn to Psalm 47, and I have it under three headings if you'd like to Think through those three headings. First, the command to praise God who ascended. Second, the reasons given for this praise. And third, the results of God's ascension The command to praise God who ascended, the reasons for this praise, and third, the results of God's ascension. First, the command to praise God who ascended. Clap your hands. All peoples. We need to think about those phrases. Clap your hands. We don't do that. Why don't we do that here at Grace and Peace? We're the frozen chosen, that's right. Now, it's an element it can be a part of corporate worship It could be a part, it could this the uh the session to say, could say, let's do this. And we would be in our rights to do this. The reasons why we haven't been doing it is because applause is usually done for people people after they perform something. And in many churches that's what's done. Someone sings or someone plays or someone does something. You know, maybe one of the elders gets up and reads and everybody claps, right? Right? No, we don't want to do that. So we we're trying to avoid the entertainment thing. So we don't clap. And we could do that, and we could also simply say, let's praise God with clapping. And we could do it. It would be strange because that we are Presbyterians and the frozen chosen and all that. But it could be done because it says here, clap your hands. And is a universal way of showing acclamation, isn't it? It's one of the ways. So, but then it says all peoples. What's that about? Oh, it just means all peoples, right? No, it means all nations. It means not just you, Israel, not just you people who God chose and delivered, but all the nations are to join in this acclamation of God. See, the gospel, the good news was never just for the Jews or for the Israelites. It never was. It was always for the whole world. God so loved The world. To the Jew first and also to the Gentiles. So it's always been for all the world. So clap your hands, all peoples, shout. That's the other thing. I think we do that pretty good in our songs. We have been shouting some shouts tonight. And that's perfectly good. Shout to God with loud songs of joy. So I think we're doing pretty well on that. It won't hurt to increase our volume, but we're not to whimper. I've been in some churches where Th there's very little s there may be hundreds of people, but you can hardly hear the people sing. They're just kind of groaning or mumbling along. Um the instruments maybe are making some sound, but the people are not. It is a sign of God's work in us that we sing loud. We want to praise God. because it says to do so, shout to God with loud songs of joy. One of the exposors said, clapping your hands draws attention to something, usually as an outward expression of inward joy The Bible uses it in some places negatively, but also in many places positively. And the word is for all nations, whether they can speak the same language or not, everyone can join in class. So that's a word about clapping, and then all peoples, as I mentioned, Genesis 12, 2 and 3. God had said to Abraham In your descendants, your family. Through your family, I will make you into a great nation, and through your family, all the families of the earth will be blessed So this clapping all peoples is shouting all peoples is an unfolding of that ancient promise that God would be a blessing, that Abraham's descendants would be a blessing Blessing to all peoples. Shout to God. Shout to God. Not just make noise. But shout to God. Psalmist did not have in mind sleepy singing or whispered prayers. Most people are not against shouting or enthusiastic outbursts. When the Eagles score a touchdown and Tim is home and Stephen is home, I hear a shout. But we are to shout God's praise. Metaphorically, yes, but literally sometimes. Shout God's praise. That would be, wouldn't that be interesting for the visitors if I if so uh let us all give a shout of praise to God. You'd all go, oh no, he's gonna do that again. Well, we need to think about some of these things and what's appropriate for worship. Um it's it's it's a scandal that football games and other such events Are places where people are free to shout as loud as they want in praise of their team. But we're tempted sometimes to shout God's praise. The reasons for this praise that's been commanded is that the Lord Yahweh is the most high, and he is to be feared. He's the great king over all the earth. The psalmist doesn't prove this. He just says it's the case and everybody knows it. It's as obvious as the fact that water is wet and fire is hot. He is the great king over all the earth. His office as king and the realm are important and pictured here. He's a great king. He is the king of kings, the highest of all monarchs His realm extends everywhere. There's no borders or boundaries where he is not ruling. He is sovereign in all places. And this is important, especially to the Israelite, because the pagan gods were confined to their borders, confined to their areas of influence Baal, Molech, Ashtareth, these gods and others like them were territorial gods. They were imagined to only rule over the sea or the land or the mountain or the trees or this region where we have our tribe or something like that. Their authority was limited to a nation or a region. The psalmist proclaimed that Yahweh, our God, is not like these false imagined gods, but he's king everywhere And then verse 3, he subdued peoples under us and nations under our feet. He subdued peoples under us. Well While the Israelites were coming through the lands on the way to the Promised Land, they encountered various tribes of peoples. And God gave them victories. over many of those tribes. The Moabites, the Ammonites, the Jebuzites, the Hittites, all these different ones. So he subdued nations historically under their feet. But he will do so even more in the future, as we shall see. Verse 4, he chose our heritage for us, the pride of Jacob, whom he loves. That historically refers to the promise. He chose our heritage, our land, our possession for us. And the land of Canaan is called the pride of Jacob. I think there was a brand of something, uh dairy or something called the Pride of Shenandoah. Uh and so it's the It's that product that comes from the Shenandoah Valley. Well, this is the pride of Jacob, the land of Canaan, whom he loves. Here the psalmist speaks as one of God's chosen nation, Israel. He looks forward to the time when the righteous reign of the great king would be exercised over all the earth, and Israel will assume its destined place of leadership among the people. among all the nations. Without doubt, the psalmist knew that this great king would be the Messiah. Yet he looked ahead to the hope of this Messiah. We now can look back at Part of the fulfillment of the promise to send the Messiah. He came. We celebrate that at Advent and Christmas. That was fulfilled in Jesus Christ. He is the great King, but part of His reign and rule is now And will be consummated. He will rule the earth and subdue all the nations. So this will literally happen. He subdued peoples under us, the nations under our feet. We will see that that will happen in the future. Ephesians one, three through six tells us some of this. I'll read part of that. Uh well I don't have it open. Um Ephesians one three through six. Let me turn there right quick, and you can turn too. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every blessing in the heavenly places. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace. With which he has blessed us in the beloved, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of His grace. He chose us. He gave us this inheritance, salvation, the forgiveness of sins, and membership in his family. He adopted us. into his family, adoption through Jesus Christ. He did all this for us in his own mind, in his own plan before the foundation of the world. So it is a great thing to remember that God chose our inheritance. Our inheritance is not merely a land in Palestine, but it is salvation itself. Is to be the heir of all things. David, who knew that God would choose him and did choose him, Showed his contentment with the inheritance that God chose for him. He would look back at his life when he was an anonymous shepherd boy and think about those days and say, God God chose my inheritance for me. That's what I was born. That's what I did as a young boy. As a warrior, when he came against Goliath, He could remember that as God's inheritance, personal inheritance for him, when he slew the great Goliath and became, started to become a famous warrior. When he was a fugitive, we've heard that many times in these psalms, a fugitive running for his life from Saul. That was part of his inheritance. And he could give thanks to God for it later. As king over Israel, he could certainly say, wow, what a blessed inheritance I have. I am the king of God's people, the chosen people. And he could also give thanks as a disciplined sinner. Because you know what the great King David did. He lusted after Bathsheba and took her wrongfully, and then made sure her husband died in battle. And covered it up until Nathan the prophet exposed him. And then he confessed his sin and was forgiven and was restored and was able to teach others that God is merciful and kind and forgiving. Sinners. That was part of the inheritance that God chose for David. So he could look back over his own life and see that God had done great things for him. And another reason now for giving thanks for God is that he has gone up with a shout, verse 5, the Lord with the sound of trumpet. The Lord with the sound of a trumpet. Now, as I studied this, I saw that part of the historical reasoning from the perspective of the first understanding of the psalm would be that this is probably referring to the ascension of the Ark of God The Ark of God. In 2 Samuel 6, the Ark of God has been restored to the people eventually, and it's been moving around in various places. It hasn't settled But in 2 Samuel 6 verses 12 and following, the ark finally comes, David finally has the ark brought to the city of David, which is now Jerusalem. Jerusalem. And David, when that happens, dances violently before the Lord, before the ark. And so that is probably one aspect or one part, one fulfillment of this thing that God has gone up. You see, God is thought to be with the ark and probably was. It's his footstool. And when this is recorded in 2 Samuel 6, the shout happens when God has gone up with a shout. David dances violently and the people are shouting, praise to God. as the ark ascends from where it was before to Mount Zion, the city of David, Jerusalem. The second meaning is probably something like this, referring to the ascending to a royal throne of the royal king, God's King. And the idea is that the great king has taken his throne and therefore receives the shower. David could have sung this. Not that he was God, so it doesn't quite fit, but the King, God's King, God's representative on earth, ascends the throne and receives the shout. Another aspect that could be found here is the idea that God comes down at times for Israel's sake. From heaven to help and save his people. And when he has saved his people, when he has delivered them from their enemies, he goes back to heaven. So God has gone up with a shout. He deserves praise and acclamation from his people because he has delivered them. But I think the third and most pregnant meaning Is when it refers to Jesus ascending the royal throne in heaven. The psalmist The Holy Spirit inspired the Psalm to be written. The psalmist may not have quite understood what he was writing. In fact, it says that in Peter, that they didn't understand. They longed to look into the things that had been revealed to them. They didn't quite understand them Angels long to look into those things, it says too. But we can see them now after the fact. Christ ascended. the throne of heaven after his coming down and serving and saving us, delivering us from our enemies, death, hell, and sin. And after he rose from the grave and ascended into heaven, it's a shout of praise when he ascended into heaven. In Ephesians 4, 8 through 12, I do have that open here. It says Therefore, it says, when he ascended, and talking about Christ, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives and gave gifts to men. And the Apostle Paul says, in saying he ascended, what does it mean but that he also descended into the lower regions of the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens that he might fill all things. Don't we see some of that in the Psalm 2? Filling all things, ruling over everything? And then in verse 11 of that chapter, the Apostle Paul says, and he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers. To equip the saints for the work of ministry, for the building up of the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning and craftiness and deceitful schemes So what's Paul saying here? Let's just try to draw a circle around it. He's saying Christ ascended after he completed his work. He ascended. And he gave gifts on earth. What are those gifts Apostles, prophet, evangelists, shepherds, and teachers, for what purpose? To equip the saints for the work of ministry, to build up the body of Christ until we all attain to the unity of the faith, the knowledge of the Son of God. He has ascended. A shout goes up because Christ ascended. And he is now Given gifts. He's now building his church in history on earth until it's full, until it's mature, until it fills the whole earth So he goes up with a shout because he came down in humility to fight for his people and to save them. And they are not the chosen few, but the chosen many. One more thing before we move on. The Lord comes and goes up with a shout of a trumpet in the ancient world of Israel, the loudest thing you could find anywhere. was a trumpet. You could hear it for a very long way. It would echo off of canyons and over mountains and everywhere. The pitch was higher, the sound was louder. And so that's what you praised God with, the best and loudest thing you possibly could. To honor God clearly and strongly for his victory on our half, on our behalf, the sound of the trumpet is heard Now I want to move on finally, and I've already alluded to this, to the results of God's ascension. Verse 6, 7, and so forth. Sing praises to God, sing praises, sing praises to our King, sing praises. Wow, it's repeated often, isn't it? For God is the King of all the earth. Sing praises with a psalm. The word is used five times singing praises in these two verses. It shows that once the earnestness and happiness of the people, they keep repeating the same thing. They are words of exaltation and triumph. And it says that not just Israel, again, I've pointed this out, not just Israel But who sings praises? All the earth. All the kings of the earth sing praises. All the peoples of the earth sing praises In all of this psalm, the psalm shows us how we are to praise God. We are to praise Him cheerfully, clapping our hands. As an expression of our joy. Universally, everyone, all peoples, vocally, as we shout to God with a voice of triumph, frequently, because it's five times here. Intelligently, we are to sing, understanding what God has done, but we are to sing because of the results of the ascension. The reign of the king over all nations. Because it says God reigns over the nations, God sits on his holy throne, God reigns over the nations. God reigns over the nations and moves history towards his desired destination. He's doing that now. He's doing that now. Doesn't look like it sometimes, but he is. He's doing it now. It says in verse 9, the princes of the peoples, again, that's the nations, all of them, gather as what as the people of the God of Abraham. I said this in the earlier part of the sermon. The promise was made to Abraham that in his descendants, through his family, all the nations would be blessed The Christian faith is not one ethnic faith. It is multinational and multi-ethnic. It is for absolutely everyone. There is no place For prejudice, for racism, for anything like it that is against the gospel, always against the gospel God had said in Genesis 12, 2 through 3, and I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all of the families of the earth shall be blessed And Paul explains that more in Romans 4, 11, when he's talking about Abraham and what Abraham did and How he was circumcised, it says he received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all. who believe without being circumcised, so that their righteousness would be counted to them as well. All peoples are blessed, you see. And Paul explains it again in Galatians 3, 7-9, verse 7. Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then those who are of the faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. So we can see here in this psalm, because of the ascension, God is unfolding his plan. Christ has ascended. That is the fullest and most pregnant meaning of the ascension. He has ascended to the throne of God in heaven. And when he returns, there will be trumpets again. God has gone up with a trumpet, with a shout. 1 Corinthians 15, 24 through 27, Paul describes eschatology here. The way eschatology, the way the last things will unfold, he says. Then comes the end, that's eschaton, when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father. After destroying every rule and every authority and power, you see, he's in heaven now, ruling and reigning now, and he will deliver this kingdom. After he has done what? After he has destroyed every rule and every authority and power. After the kings of earth have been subdued to him And all nations have come under his domain. Because it says then in verse 25, For he must reign, he is reigning, he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. And then the trumpet. In the same chapter, verses fifty-one and fifty-two, behold, I tell you a mystery, we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. Christ is now ruling and reigning from heaven, and he will subdue all the nations under his feet before he returns. How is he going to do that? That's a big job. They're not very cooperative. So he gave gifts to men, prophets and apostles, evangelists, teachers, shepherds, to build up the church, to perfect the church in history. He will return to the world with shouts and trumpets and praise because he will have ruled the nations and built his church. It will be a world of disciple nations, a largely saved world, featuring a great multinational and multi-ethnic church. I had here in my hand a book called The Puritan Hope. written by Ian Murray. And in this book, he talks about the ways that Puritans understood the gospel and the plan of God for the world. And one of these was his discussion about the Church of Scotland earlier, not today. And how God would was working in the Church of Scotland in those days. And I'm just going to read a little bit to you One practical result of the mission of enquiry was the establishment of a work among the Jews at Budapest with John Duncan, that's one of the Scottish missionaries. The Jews of Budapest. So they sent this missionary to Budapest to the Jews? I think they believed Romans 11, that God would pour out his blessing on the whole world, and the Jews would also come back into the church. Duncan and four others appointed as the Church of Scotland's first missionaries to the Jews. The work was abundantly blessed. But at the disruption, Duncan was recalled by the Free Church to take the original chair in their new theological school, New College. Though disappointed at leaving the Jews, Duncan was persuaded that their interests would now yet receive more attention. And speaking of his return to the continent in the summer of eighteen forty three, he later commented, I was cheered by learning from the witness that the first thing our church had done after its exodus was to take up heartily the mission to the Jews. He is called Rabbi Duncan affectionately, not that he was a Jew, because he sent to The missionaries to the Jews. At the same period, the Scottish missionaries to the Gentiles in India also remembered Israel's place and the unfulfilled promises of Scripture. Three outstanding Free Church missionaries in Madras, John Anderson, John Braidwood, and Robert Johnston, would meet with converts and other Christians on the first Monday of the month to plead for the world's conversion. At one of these meetings, Robert Johnston addressed the little gathering on the conversion of the Jews and its bearing on the conversion of the Gentiles. His address was published posthumously in Edinburgh in 1853. Well, that's just a little bit. This book tells about these early missionaries in the great missionary movement and how they believed and therefore went and sent. And believe that God would someday bring the whole world under the discipleship of Jesus Christ. I think we can see that here in this beautiful Psalm. So consider your part in that work. Consider your place as a witness in this work. World. And pray for those, those gifts that God has given evangelists, shepherds, teachers, apostles, original ones, anyway. That are to build up the church. Pray for those who are to do this. And consider, young people, whether you were called to do these things. Your life doesn't consist in just making the most money you can and buying the biggest house in the suburbs you can and driving the hottest car you can, but in doing something that matters. Consider if God calls you. He gives gifts to build up his church So that there will be, when Christ returns, a discipled world, largely a saved world, praising and shouting and singing to Christ. And he will come again with trumpet sound. Count as we sang earlier. Amen.