Just turn in your Bibles to Joshua 10. We'll read the first 28 verses. As soon as Adni Zadek, king of Of Jerusalem heard how Joshua had captured Ai and had devoted it to destruction, doing to Ai and its king as he had done to Jericho and its king. And how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel and were among them, he feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, like one of the royal cities. And because it was greater than Ai, and all its men were warriors. So Adonai Zadek, king of Jerusalem, sent to Hoham king of Hebron, to Pyrum, king of Jarmath, to Japhia king of Lachish, and to Davir, king of Aegon, saying, Come up to me and help me, and let us strike Gibeon. For it has made peace with Joshua and with the people of Israel Then the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmouth, the king of Lachish. and the king of Aeglon gathered their forces and went up with all their armies and encamped against Gibeon and made war against it. And the men of Gibeon sent to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal, saying, Do not relax your hand from your servants. Come up to us quickly and save us and help us, for all the kings of the Amorites who dwell in the hill country are gathered against us. So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor. And the Lord said to Joshua, Do not fear them, for I have given them into your hand. hands. Not a man of them shall stand before you. So Joshua came upon them suddenly, having marched up all night from Gilgal. And the Lord threw them into a panic before Israel, who struck them with a great blow at Gibeon, and chased them by the way of the ascent of Bethoran. and struck them as far as Azika and Makedah. And as they fled before Israel while they were going down the ascent of Bethoron, the Lord threw down large stones from heaven on them as far as Azekah And they died. There were more who died because of the hailstones than the sons of Israel killed with the sword. At that time Joshua spoke to the Lord in the day when the Lord gave the Amorites over to the sons of Israel, and he said in the sight of Israel, Son, stand still at Gibeon. And noon in the valley of Ajelon. And the sun stood still, and the moon stopped, until the nation took vengeance on their enemies Is it not written in the book of Jasher? The sun stopped in the midst of heaven and did not hurry to set for about a whole day. There has been no day like it before or since Since when the Lord heeded the voice of a man, for the Lord fought for Israel. So Joshua returned and all Israel with him to the camp at Gilgal. These five kings fled and hid themselves in the cave at Makeda. And it was told to Joshua, the five kings have been found hidden in the cave at Makedah. And Joshua said, Roll large stones against the mouth of the cave, and set men by it to guard them, but do not stay there for yourselves. Pursue your enemies, attack their rear guard. Do not let them enter their cities, for the Lord your God has given them into your hand. When Joshua and the sons of Israel had finished striking them with a great blow until they were wiped out, and when the remnant that remained of them had entered into the early 1930s, to the fortified cities, then all the people returned safe to Joshua in the camp of Makeda. Not a man moved his tongue against any of the people of Joshua. Then Joshua said, Open the mouth of the cave and bring those five kings out to me from the cave. And they did so, and brought those five kings out to him from the cave. Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the King of Jarmouth, the King of Lakish, and the King of Aeglon. And when they brought those kings out to Joshua, Joshua summoned all the men of Israel and said to the chiefs of the men of war Who had gone with him, come near, put your feet on the necks of these kings. Then they came near and put their feet on their necks, and Joshua said to them, Do not be afraid or dismayed. Be strong and courageous, for thus the Lord will do to all your enemies against whom you fight. And afterward Joshua struck them and put them to death, and he hanged them on five trees. And they hung on the trees until evening. But at the time of the going down of the sun, Joshua commanded, and they took them down from the trees and threw them into the cave where they had hidden. themselves and they set and they set large stones against the mouth of the cave, which remain to this very day. He devoted to destruction every person in it. He left none remaining. And he did to the king of Makeda just as he had done to the king of Jericho. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Second Thessalonians chapter 2, 13 through 17, and then 3, 1 through 5. Listen to the word of God. But we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, beloved by the Lord. Because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by our spoken word or by our letter. Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace. Comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word. Finally, brothers Pray for us that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, as happened among you. And that we may be delivered from wicked and evil men. For not all have faith. But the Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one. And we have confidence in the Lord about you, that you are doing And will do the things that we command. May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, without your help, This is all vain. Our gathering is vain. We could just be having a sing-along or a fellowship lunch. We could just be collecting money to do a little good here and there. But because this is your assembly and you are speaking in this assembly, and you have given your spirit and angels to be gathered here. It is a dynamic assembly. So we pray now that as we hear the preaching of this your word, you will speak to the hearts of all who have gathered, also to any who may listen in the future through internet or by radio. This we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So we have this very interesting narrative. about the sun standing still, and the moon too. And it begins in verse 12, but it's stated in verse 12, at that time Joshua spoke to the Lord. So that's prayer, isn't it? Speaking to God is prayer. So that time Joshua spoke to the Lord in the day when the Lord gave the Amorites over to the sons of Israel. And he said in the sight of Israel This is his prayer. Sun, stand still at Gibeon, and moon in the valley of Agilon. And the sun stood still, and the moon stopped, until the nation took vengeance on their enemies. Is this not written in the book of Jashar? The sun stopped in the midst of heaven and did not hurry to set for about a whole day There has been no day like it before or since when the Lord heeded the voice of a man, for the Lord fought for Israel. Last week, we recounted the narrative of how the leaders of the Gibeonite cities deceived the nation of Israel and their leaders, into making a treaty with them. They didn't want to be wiped out. And so they pretended to be from a great far distant land away. And that would be allowed for treaty purposes, but these people didn't live a distance away, they lived very close. And so they deceived Israel into making this covenant. And then Israel honored the covenant. We learn through that narrative that God is a God of truth who keeps his promises. and wants his people to be like him in truth and faithfulness to keep their word. So that was a moral lesson. That we should all be like God in keeping our word, doing what we say, keeping our promises. Remember that the Gibeonites live nearby and refused to be allies with the other Canaanite nations against Israel. The other nations were gathering forces and about to attack Israel, and these Gibeonites said, no, not us. We're not going to be a part of that. So they made that treaty that I just mentioned, and as part of that treaty, they accepted their lot. Their lot was to be woodcutters and water carriers for Israel, and particularly in the service of the tabernacle. And for them this was servitude. That would be their lot forever, and it was indeed. For them, this was also likely to be a huge blessing in disguise, the disguise of servitude. Because they would now live near the tabernacle. They would now live near Israel and have Friendships and fellowship and connections to Israel. And they would learn about God's amazing great plan for the whole world to be blessed Through Abraham and his descendants, now Israel. And so they were really in a pretty good place, these Gibeonites. And now these other Canaanite peoples are steamed at them. How dare they make a treaty with Israel They are steamed at them, and their solution is to attack these Gibeonites as punishment and destroy them if possible. But Joshua and Israel, having made this treaty, are not willing to let that happen. Not willing to stand by. And so in verse 6 of the text of chapter 10, Here's the request of Gibeon. Here's their request to Israel. And the men of Gibeon sent to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal, saying, Do not relax your hand from your servants. Come up to us quickly and save us and help us. For all the kings of the Amorites who dwell in the hill country are gathered against us So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor. Joshua, you see, had heard from God. God had basically said to him, It's a done deal. I have already given you the victory. Verse 8, And the Lord said to Joshua, Do not fear them, for I have given them into your hands, not a man of them shall stand before you. So Joshua had this assurance as he went into battle. In response to God's word of assurance, Joshua took action. He didn't just sit by and do nothing. He took action, and as we also shall see here in the text. Yahweh, the God of Israel, took action. Verse 9: So Joshua came upon them suddenly, having marched up all night from Gilgal. So nighttime march up to this place where these people are attacking the Gibeonites. Verse 10, and the Lord threw them into a panic. Who threw them into a panic? The Lord, Yahweh, threw them into a panic. God can do things like that He threw them into a panic before Israel, who struck them with a great blow at Gibeon, and chased them by way of the ascent of Beth Horon, and struck them as far as Azika and Macheda. And as they fled before Israel, while they were going down the ascent of Beth Horan, the Lord Here's the Lord doing his thing again. The Lord threw large stones from heaven on them, as far as Azekah, and they died. And there were more who died because of the hailstones than the sons of Israel killed with the sword. So you see here, God took action. God took action. Now, that is quite a hail storm, but it is not unprecedented. Where's Darwin and and uh Diana is not unprecedented. According to the German historian, the battle of Solferno, no Solferino against the Austrians in 1859 was determined by a hailstorm of mammoth proportions. And then the largest hailstones in terms of diameter and weight ever recorded in the United States fell on July 23, 2010 in Vivian, South Dakota. It measured eight inches in diameter and eighteen point six two inches in circumference, weighing one point nine three pounds. Wow. You really want to move there? In Bangladesh, a giant storm of grapefruit-sized hail killed almost a hundred people in 1986. Some stones weighed more than two pounds, more than the South Dakota stones. Bangladesh. These actions of God are indeed extraordinary actions. God does not do such spectacular things every day. But what we have here is the big picture unfolding. And this is an important part of that big picture. This is a major action in God's great plan to save the world. By sending his son through whom? His chosen people. And God has determined that these chosen people will inherit Canaan And they're taking Canaan, the land that God gave to their ancestor Abraham. So we have it in verse 12. At that time Joshua spoke to the Lord. In the day when the Lord gave the Amorites over to the sons of Israel. And he said in the sight of Israel, Son, stand still at Gibeon. And moon in the valley of Aegelon, and the sun stood still, and the moon stopped until the nation took vengeance on their enemies. And then the writer says, Is this not written in the book of Jashar? The sun stopped in the midst of the heaven and did not hurry to set for about a whole day. More details about it. There has been no day like it before or since when the Lord indeed heeded the voice of a man, for the Lord fought for Israel. And then at the last verse 15, this is the end of the text that I'm preaching today. So Joshua returned and all Israel with him to the camp. At Gilgow. Now, about this sun stopping and the moon stopping too, I listened to a long and quite complex sermon by a conservative Presbyterian pastor. in South Carolina, who spent most of his preaching time evaluating theories about how the sun either stopped shining, extending the the night, or stopped moving toward the sunset horizon. Extending the day. Took him quite a while. He cited Hebrew scholars for both positions. Long night, long day. I won't try to repeat those discussions for you. I don't think they're very helpful, really. In his conclusion, which was good, he said, it does not matter which occurred, longer day or longer night. The point is that Yahweh intervened with regard to the normal course of daily planetary events in order to answer prayer and fight for Israel. Because God has his purposes for the world, and he will intervene when necessary to accomplish them. God was out to give Israel the victory there and throughout southern Canaan, all the way to Jerusalem. Note in the very third verse, It is Adonai Zedek, king of Jerusalem, who's one of these kings. So Jerusalem now comes into our picture again. We saw it before back in Melchizedek, who was the king of Jer Jerusalem, King of Peace. Now we have this other king of Jerusalem who's an ally against Israel. We see that the movement is toward Jerusalem and to taking all of southern Canaan. And the rest of Joshua will tell the story of how God allows the Israelites to take the whole place of Canaan. This was an important part of his distinct people, and particularly of preserving the tribe of Judah. And we get the name Jews from the tribe of Judah. They were the ones who survived. And the family of David, which came through the tribe of Judah And through whom God had promised to send a king who would reign forever, whose throne and dominion would never end. And then we see in Matthew's gospel how Jesus is the descendant of King David, and how he is the one who brings the fullness. of this great plan of salvation. A few moments ago I said that God does not do such spectacular things every day. And the word emphasis there is on spectacular Spectacular. He does do things every day, believe me. He is quite active in the world. But spectacular things are things that are seen by all, like the sun stopping. or the moon or whatever happens that way or hailstones that weigh two pounds. It would be hard for anyone to miss this pausing of the day or the night for several hours. But God still does intervene in the normal course of things for his purposes. for his chosen people, for his plan to save the whole world, all nations, all tribes, all kindreds of people, the whole world. I want to show you one of those miracles. There are many places I could have turned, but now we're on a top means every day. And the Apostle Paul tells how he intervened in Ephesians 2, 1 through 10, when he raises the dead. had a similar thing from the 2nd Thessalonians reading, but here we have how God raises the dead. We you know we had this AMC television program, Walking Dead. You don't want to have to confess to whether you watch it or not, you know. But there are these gross zombies after this post-apocalyptic uh North America, and these uh these zombies somehow seem to get around and want to eat you or bite you at least. They're terrible. But now Paul talks about the walking dead too. And He says that in a very graphic way, and you, he says to these Ephesian people, you were dead In the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. So there's the walking part. Following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. The spirit that is now working, the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind. So here are these people walking around in the world today without Christ, without the knowledge of Christ, without the work of the Spirit in their hearts, and they're walking dead They're going about the passions of the flesh. Whatever the flesh dictates, that's what I do. Carrying out the desires of the body and the mind. Their minds are against God, and their bodies are against God, and they just follow them like the walking dead. That is our By nature. So this isn't something that's happened to us since we were born. This is something we were born with. By nature, the children of wrath. And wrath there is a personification. The word wrath is in the genitive, feminine, singular, which means it's speaking as if this was a mother, a woman. Our father was Adam, and our mother was Wrath, according to Paul's way of putting it here. This is our natural family. And so if anything changes from this, It would be a miracle, wouldn't it? If the zombies on The Walking Dead could suddenly be retransformed into wonderful humans, that would be a miracle, wouldn't it? It's just a show, right? But God does raise the walking dead. Here we have it. But God, verse 4, being rich in mercy Because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. Anytime we're alive, it's because we're with Christ. By grace, he says, you have been saved. And raised us up with him. And seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. And he summarizes verse 8 by saying, For by grace. Grace means a gift that you didn't earn or deserve. Grace means God doing a miracle. For by grace You have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. You couldn't do a blessed thing. This is not your own doing, for it is the gift of God. God taking action. God going to battle for us, raising us. And he goes on to explain it further. Verse 9, not as a result of works. It is not our good deeds. A lot of people think today, you know, I'm a pretty good person. If I do this and that and the other thing, and I don't do some really bad things, maybe I'll make it. But no, it is the gift of God not as a result of works, because frankly, our works just don't make it. They won't won't pass muster. Not as a result of works so that no one may boast. No one whoever gets Transformed and translated and moved into this heavenly situation with Christ. No one who will enter heaven will ever be able to pat themselves on the back and say, I made my way. No one, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works It's not our works that save us, but we're created in Christ Jesus for good works, for the purpose of doing good works. which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. So instead of being walking dead, we're now walking in the works of God. Isn't that wonderful? Amen. I want to tell you about one more such passage, John 6. Gospel of John, verse, chapter 6, verse 43. And Jesus is talking to some pious people who try to do their good works. And they think they've got it made, they think they've uh done enough, and that they're on the inside. And Jesus said, verse 43, do not grumble among yourselves. They were grumbling because they didn't like what Jesus was saying. Do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me. Unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. You don't have it in you to come to Christ. By nature, walking dead don't come to Christ. So here, here's the conclusion of those two things. If you are a believer in Christ, trusting in him, hoping in his saving life and death for you. No matter how you got to where you are, whether it was being born into a Christian context, being catechized, going to Sunday school, or whether it's from a message that you heard or read From a preacher or from a friend or on radio or internet or wherever it was, whatever circumstances God used, it is a miracle An absolute miracle. God intervened in your life and in your heart. You were not the actor primarily, you were acted upon by God. So God does still do amazing miracles. Not always as spectacular as the sun stopping and hailstones falling on people But he still does amazing things today. And why should we be surprised at that? Because listen to this, God intervened by sending the Son of God. And permanently adding human nature, as Pastor Tom said to us on Christmas Eve. Permanently adding human nature to the being of God in order to provide a second Adam, the head of a new race. And God intervened in the virginal conception and birth of Jesus to a woman in David's family line named Mary. And God intervened by allowing him, that one who was born to her, to be unjustly crucified in order to make atonement for Your sins and mine, freeing us from the condemnation of lawbreaking. And God intervened by raising this Jesus up from death on the third day thereby giving the gift of resurrection and eternal blessedness to those who are united to him by faith. And God intervened, leaving Jesus at God's right hand when he ascended into heaven. And God intervened by sending the Holy Spirit To indwell the church and do miracles. And God will intervene again when Christ returns to judge the world in great power and glory. God intervenes. I want to give you a couple of stories about people who experience God's intervention through prayer. Jerome Barrs is a professor at Covenant Theological Seminary, and he's the head of the Francis Schaefer Institute there, and he tells about the personal testimony of Francis and Edith Schaefer. Wafer, they were people who lived last century. After studying as an undergraduate at Hamden Sydney College in Virginia, Francis Schaefer started his seminary training at Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia in 1935. After seminary, Francis Schaefer served in three different churches in the United States, two in Pennsylvania, and I got to preach at one of those. It's in Booth Wynn, Pennsylvania. Near Wilmington and one in St. Louis. After these years in pastoral ministry, Francis and Edith believed that they were called to the ministry in Switzerland, and they moved to Switzerland in 19 Francis and Edith were sent to Europe by their denominational mission board with the call to, quote, strengthen the things that remain. In 1947, Schaeffer had traveled in Europe for several months seeking to understand and evaluate the state of the European church in the years after World War II. Let me just pause to say, I think I understand what was going on there. Before World War II, there was this huge optimism that everything in the world was going to get better and better and better Because science and technology and peace and processes, the first world war was the world war to end all wars, right? And now everything would go forward and man would just triumph and there would be great blessing everywhere. But then what happened? Hitler rose and World War II happened and horrible things happened. And now Europe was depressed. People said, is there a God at all? All of our Christian thinking, all of our Christian life is it uh is it worth anything is this any of this stuff true they were very disillusioned and he went there so he was being sent To impact that situation, the struggling nature of European Christianity. And so they went and they established a little outpost in the Swiss Alps out of the way, completely nowhere. They called it Labri, which means the shelter. There they prayed that God would provide the money that they needed to live. They did not publish their needs. They didn't send their missionary letters home saying, hey Here's how much we need. Can you send it, please? They didn't do that. They just prayed. And month after month, as Edith tells it, month after month Their support came in, sometimes just at the last minute before they were evicted. They did not make their needs known, and yet they received gifts in just the right amount to the penny sometimes And at just the right moment, Bars says, Schaefer believed and practiced the conviction that it is God who saves people Indeed, he would frequently encourage people to leave Labris, people who came there, found their way there, and heard him telling them about Christ, he would say after a while, leave Go off by yourself and think through what you're hearing. He would do this because he didn't want to pressure people He didn't want to cajole people. And he liked this scripture. We have renounced secret and shameful ways We do not use deception, nor do we distort the Word of God. On the contrary, by setting forth the truth plainly, we commend ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. renounced cajoling and pressuring people. He says this, because Christianity is true And because God is the one who delights to draw people to Christ, we do not need to put emotional pressure on unbelievers. Nor do we need to try to manipulate them into responding to our message. Rather, we commend the truth to them by seeking to show them that it is indeed the truth. And we pray for the Spirit to open their hearts to that truth. We are called by God to pray that He would demonstrate His existence in the reality of His answers. to our prayers. Francis Schaeffer believed and spent his life practicing the belief that prayer is the most important work that we do. Whether in the task of apologetics, that's defending the faith, or in any other area of our Christian obedience, in one sense he would say prayer is a work that we must do. But then he would quickly add, In prayer we are holding out the empty hands of faith to the God who is there and can do far more abundantly than we all ask. Or imagine. Prayer, you see. That's what Joshua did, isn't it? He prayed. In the sight and in the hearing of all Israel, he prayed, and amazing things happened. Here's a few citations of commands to pray and examples of prayer. 2 Thessalonians 3, finally, brothers, pray for us. 1 Timothy 2. 8. I desire that in every place men should pray. Philemon 6. And I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective. Hebrews 13, pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience. James 5 If anyone is suffering, let them pray. Call the elders and let them pray over them, anointing them in the name of the Lord. And then James 5, the prayer of the righteous person has great power as it is working. And then James 5, 18. Then Joshua prayed again, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. 3 John chapter 2. Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you. In Jude 20, but you, beloved, building up yourselves in the most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit. That's just a few examples. We are commanded again and again and again to pray. And I'll conclude with my little prayer story. I came here in June of 2006. And in that fall, we developed a little committee of people, even though we didn't have much money. We developed a little committee of people to look for land. And uh, you know, we thought now where in St. Mary's County would we like to be? And, you know, we look at the map, and right across the middle of the county, there's St. Andrew's Church Road. Running east and west. I know it says north and south on the signs, but it actually runs east and west. And so we found these two parcels of land that were for sale. One at the corner of Indian Bridge Road and St. Andrew's Church. And one at right here near Pet Paradise, just a few miles further from us. And we went to the parcel on Indian Bridge Road. They're building houses there now. And uh we had a fellow down here from Philadelphia to look at it with us and see if he would maybe help us with the money. And uh He said, you know, that's gonna be a lot of site preparation and so forth. I don't really think you should buy that. We didn't have the money anyway. And then um we went to the place down here on the other side near Pet Paradise and looked at that. It was fifteen acres, you know. The idea of maybe using part of it and selling part of it and so forth, but it didn't perk. The property didn't perk. He said, you shouldn't buy that either. We didn't have the money anyway. And uh so our little committees out there in this field, this muddy field, it's winter time. And Jeff Ronenberg was there with his dan. And uh so um we're out in the field and he says, you know, I don't think either one of these parcels is, but you can keep thinking about it and praying about it. looking. And I'm not a great, you know, I'm not an Elijah, believe me. But once in a while something happens, and this is something that happened. I just said, let's pray before we go. So everybody's like, okay. And we gather in a little circle. And I said, oh Lord, I don't know about exact words here, but this This is the gist of it. I said, Oh Lord, you know we don't have any money, but you own the cattle on a thousand hills, the wealth in every mine. That's from a Sunday school song. Learned a long time ago. So please just give us some land. Now again, I'm no Joshua, I'm no Elijah, but God heard this prayer for a miracle. And he unfolded the miracle the very next day. I got a call from Don Hess, this building. The land was basically free. I'd asked for free land, right? We ended up paying eighty thousand dollars for the completed and furnished building. God does answer prayers. The biggest miracle isn't getting seven acres in a building for 80 grand. The biggest miracle is when he opens our hearts. And makes us change from the walking dead to those who are alive in Christ. That's the biggest miracle. And that happens. It has happened here many times. It's a beautiful thing. In answer to prayer, God made the planets pause for nearly a day as part of his fighting for Israel to gain the land that he had given to them in accord with his greater purposes to save the world. For your sake, God put on human flesh. For your sake, God raised Jesus from the dead In miracle power, God made you alive in Christ. If you are alive in Christ, God still hears and answers prayer. At the end of the service, we're going to sing a hymn by John Newton. John Newton was a British slave trader, captain of a slave trading ship. whose mother constantly prayed for his conversion. Over years and years she prayed for his conversion. And he was converted. And you know, Amazing Grace is one of the hymns written by him, right? Very, very famous. But this is one where he says, Come, my soul. He's speaking to himself, come, my soul, thy suit prepare. Suit means a list of things. You know. Come, my soul, thy suit prepared. Jesus loves to answer prayer. He himself has bid thee pray, rise and ask without delay. One of those stances says, Thou art coming to a king. Large petitions with thee bring. God answers prayer Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this narrative of your great work in Israel's life, your greater plan to save the whole world, all nations, through Israel Your miracle power displayed in spectacular things and in things which are not so easily seen. But nonetheless, great miracles. We ask that you would continue to do your work among us, of miracle-saving power. In Jesus' name, amen.