Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from Genesis chapter 22. Genesis 22. We'll read the whole chapter, verses 1 through 24. Hear now the word of God. After these things, God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham. And he said, Here am I? He said, take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love And go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac, and he cut the wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day, Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar. Then Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac, his son And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went, both of them together. And Isaac said to his father Abraham, My father. And he said, Here am I, my son. He said, Behold, the fire and the wood. But where is the lamb for a burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son. So they went, both of them together. When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built the altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son And laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here am I. He said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him. For now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. So Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide. As it is said to this day, on the mount of the Lord it shall be provided. And the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven and said, By myself I have sworn, declares the Lord, because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son. I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and as the sand that is on the seashore. And your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies, and in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. So Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and went together to Beersheba. And Abraham lived at Beersheba. Now after these things, it was told to Abraham, Behold, Milkar also has borne children to your brother Nahor. Uz, his firstborn, Buz, his brother, Kemuel, the father of Aram, Pesed, Hazo, Hildash, Jidlaf, and Bethuel. Bethuel fathered Rebekah. These eight Milkah bore to Nahor, Abraham's brother. Moreover, his concubine, whose name was Ruma, bore Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Maakah. This is the word of the Lord. Like to read along, you can turn to uh Romans chapter 8 on page 944 in the Pew Bible or in your own Bible. I'm sure they may be earmarked already or well-worn for the saints know these passages well in Romans chapter 8 and God's clear love for them from all of eternity put on display. Grace and peace. Hear the word of the Lord. Romans 8, beginning verse 31. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with them graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies, who is to condemn Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ, shall tribulation or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword, as it is written. For your sake, we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation. will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. And turn over to 1 John chapter 4, and we'll read verses 9 through 11, or 9 through 10 really. First John chapter four beginning verse nine. Grace and peace. Hear the word of the Lord. First John chapter four beginning verse nine. In this, the love of God was made manifest among us that God sent his only Son into the world so that we might live through Him. In this is love. Not that we have loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be. the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one Another, and adding verse 19, we love because he first loved us. The word of the Lord. Let us bless the Lord for his word and call upon him now. Our gracious God, thank you for your Sabbath day. We thank you for the gospel of your Son, Jesus Christ. We thank you for calling us together that you might continue to testify to us. Just how much you love us. Just what you've done for us in Christ Jesus. Just how much you desire not the death of any sinner But that we might turn and put on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. Give us ears, O Lord, to hear this very serious and weighty and challenging passage. To see clearly the faith that inherits the promises. And by your grace, O Lord, help us to walk in this faith that we too might inherit the promises. And be in glory with the Lord Jesus Christ forever and ever. And we ask this in His name. Amen. If you'd asked me why I picked those New Testament readings. Because the love of God is seen here in this passage, but it isn't the primary focus, and so I want to focus on the primary thing, and that is God's testing of Abraham and that event. But it's understood, right, if you look at all of Abraham's life, a man like any other man, raised up in an idolatrous pagan household, would have continued to worship pagan idols and pagan gods. And God called them out of that land and to gave them all these promises and blessed them forever. So the love of God has been there from the beginning of Abraham It's understood in Abraham's life. I think the best light that we could understand this passage in, and I'll just stress it now and I'll make a point a little bit later, but it's not the chief point. But the best way to understand what's happening here to Abraham is what we just read in 1 John. God so loved Abraham And gave him these promises and has been with him. It's probably been about forty-two years now in Abraham's life that he's been walking with the Lord. God has constantly kept him and provided for him, and all Abraham is doing Is showing and returning the same love back to his God that he's constantly showed him. We love God because he first loved us. It's true for Abraham, and let it be true for us. I want to read you a verse from Galatians 3. Paul makes much use of this text and laying out for us. The only path of salvation, a righteousness received by faith and not by works. And he gives us these words. So then they which be of faith. are blessed with faithful Abraham. And that is today's lesson in this sermon. Abraham's Faith. It is on full display for us what kind of faith Abraham had. And if we are to be blessed, as Paul said, they which be of faith are blessed. With faithful Abraham, then we need to have the right faith. The faith of Abraham, because seeing as Paul says in Galatians 3:7, those who are of faith are children of Abraham. How do we walk in the steps of our Father, right? Because Abraham, as we see here, had a faith that obeyed. It had a faith that had works. As James will put it, it is a faith that withheld nothing from God. It is a faith that feared God. That's the kind of faith we must have if we're to inherit the blessings. This passage teaches us the faith that we need to inherit the promises of God. What kind of worship that God finds pleasing. We've gathered to worship Him today. And what is that holiness without which we cannot see God? All these things are found here. So let's begin looking at our text here in verse 1, these first two verses. We might call the call. Here God calls to Abraham and says, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. Now we know up front because it tells us here that this is a test. God tested Abraham. Abraham had no idea God was coming to test him. God just comes and gives him a command. Abraham doesn't find this out until we might say after he's passed through those testing fires. And he sees there on the mount when God stays his hand, that this was indeed a test, but all he knew was to obey God. And notice how readily Abraham responds to God's calling. If he doesn't, if you will, let it go to voicemail. Right? He doesn't screen God's call in his life, hoping that God will indicate some idea of what he wants from at this time, because God's called him to do other things in his life. Before he commits himself to answering, right? He doesn't fill out his God to see if it's going to be too costly, and then I'll follow you. But we see already how much confidence Abraham has in his good and loving God. And so let me make this point. Living faith fed on God's goodness is ready to obey God's calls. How many people are afraid to give up what they have to follow God? I've had someone tell me right They didn't want to commit to God and get serious with this church and serving him because they were afraid it might cost them that career they like. What if God calls me in the missionary service or something, right? How many people are afraid Really, because they're not assured of God's goodness. That it might actually be better in God's idea and plans for you than what plans you come up with on your own. And they're afraid. But see here, Abraham, he is not afraid. He knows of God's goodness. He's been fed upon it for 42 years now, and it's made him eager to obey his God. You see here in verse 2, God says, Take your son. Here's the test. Here's what God called Abraham to do. Your only son whom you love, right? And go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains, which I shall tell you. Moria, Yah, Yahweh, the name of the Lord. This this place is actually named from this event. Word in Hebrew means the manifestation of Yahweh. I don't know what it was called. The land belonged to the Jebusites. You know the place it's talking about here. It's Jerusalem. Second Chronicles 3. 1, Solomon began to build the temple on the Mount Moriah in Jerusalem. God is calling Abraham to go from here. Shaba all the way to Jerusalem. Of course, it's not called that yet. It will take David and the conquering then of the Jebuzites before it comes to David's city, but that is where Abraham is headed. You're probably already going, oh, that's significant, right? And the sacrifice to be made there in the fullness of time. But that's the name of this place. And Abraham is somewhat used to God asking difficult things of him, isn't he? This isn't the first time Abraham's been called. Remember these words? Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. That's not easy to be called away from family and things familiar and who you love in Islam. Abraham's responded to that and was blessed. He's also been told just in the last chapter, be not displeased because of the boy, Ishmael. And because of your slave woman, Hagar, whatever Sarah says to you, do as she tells you, right? How many difficult things can God ask of a man, right? But this. Take this son, the only one left to you. Probably Abra or Isaac is probably anywhere from fourteen to seventeen. The name Lad here was used from Ishmael last chapter, and he was said to be 14. It's used later for Joseph in Genesis 37, and he's declared to be 17 So Abraham possibly could be ready, brought his child all the way up. How many here we just had some graduations, right? 17, 18 years with your children? You've brought them to that first test. They're about ready to go forth in so much of promise of life before them. And now God says it has to come to an end, Abraham. And you have to offer him to me. How much can God ask of a man, right? And I don't answer that question. The guy can't answer that because God can ask whatever he wants of us. Because he's God. And it's better we all learn that lesson and obey him. That's the test. It's a very simple test, isn't it? It often comes very simple in our own lives We're either going to obey God, as he clearly speaks to us in his word and his providence, or we're going to disobey God. It's really one of two choices and paths you can go down Obey God or disobey God. Even right, this is really, it's inexplicable I don't know how to explain why God would ask this of them. It's inexplicable why. We know God doesn't delight in child sacrifices. We know that he wanted to test them, but God doesn't reveal to us all his purposes. And so no matter if you're wondering why has God asked this of me at this time. Let me counsel you from the wisdom of Solomon, lean not on your own understanding. Abraham does not lean on his own understanding. Because if he did that, he never would offer it up Isaac. Because his understanding would have been, well, how are you going to fulfill all this if I go and kill him? That would have been man's wisdom. That would have been leaning on our understanding. If you take away this promised seed, how will it ever get fulfilled? But he leans on God's understanding. I want to make a comment here about holiness. We often have heard, or maybe I can't say often, because I don't know you that well and I don't I don't know those things. Mm but the word sanctification, right, uh you might have heard said, it means to be set apart for something, right? To set things apart and devote 'em to God. Dr. Sinclair Ferguson, who I was blessed to have as my seminary professor in the final year, said that definition only goes so far towards holiness. Because what do we do when it gets like where we're at on our Wednesday night Bible study and the Upper Room Discourse and the Gospel of John and you're dealing with the Trinity? What about the holy, holy, holy God? They're not set apart from each other. So they're utterly devoted. He says holiness as it turns into God. It's more like this holy, burning fire, and devotedness for each other. And when I look at the Lord Jesus' life and the gospel, we could also look at his faith. We're called in Hebrews 2 to look unto him, the author and finisher, as our example. What a holy burning desire that he has towards his God. Nothing is going to get in the way. He set his hands to the plow. And he'll see it through. And so I just want you to see as we go through with the rest of this exposition, see Abraham's burning intense and holy love for the God who first loved him. So verses 3 through 14 are really what I just call the response. Here Abraham begins to respond to this inexplicable call that God's made upon him. We read that Abraham rose early in the morning. He didn't waste time. He saddled his donkey. He took two of his young men with him and his son Isaac. He cut wood for the burnt offering. He got things prepared early. He didn't wait till later on to get it ready. He was devoted from the beginning to carry through God's, or to obey God and to complete his word. And he went to the place which God had told him. From the beginning to the end, right, Abraham has an unshakable faith in his God, which prompts him to a prompt obedience. I noticed here too, he doesn't go and tell Sarah what he's about to do. He doesn't go, I'm going to go take our darling child and take him and offer him to God. And I appreciated Matthew Henry's remark there. A ready faith, the faith that's ready to obey God in the moment here, does not erect needless obstacles to obeying God. That's a trap he didn't need to go down and dealing with Because it doesn't matter at the end of the day what Sarah says, right? Why embroil her in this? He is going to obey God. So why set up things that are going to make it difficult for you to obey God? Have you ever done that when God asked something and you Dallying to do it, you involve things that are needless. If you know God is calling you to do something, do it. Verse 4: On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and he saw the place from afar. And Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship. and come again to you. Right, only a faith now, forty-two years walking with God, grounded upon his truthfulness And his power could ever say, could ever prompt Abraham to say to these young men, I and the boy are coming back to you when this ordeal is done When clearly he knows he's going there to sacrifice them. I and the boy will return. 1 Corinthians 10, 13 comes to mind here, right? God is a faithful God. He does not test us beyond what we can handle. God did not ask Abraham to give up something like this when he first called him. He asked something pretty difficult, leave your family. But God has been loving him and demonstrating his faithfulness to him Gave him a child when an all-human account never could have had a child. Clearly, God has shown this man. He's in control, not nature. He's behind everything. He holds the stars. He orders the life, our world, our steps. And Abraham is just walking in that. A life fed upon God's faithfulness. And so I can say to you, right, as Abraham was once the babe in Christ, you can in Christ do whatever God asks of you. You can in Christ, you have the ability in Christ to do whatever God asks of you. Because I know in Christ you learn nothing of his goodness, his faithfulness. His love, his care, his almightiness, his power, his sufficiency for you. So never be tempted by Satan to think you have not what it takes to obey God, because that would be to believe the gospel. In Christ, you have what it takes. to obey God. Abraham took the wood in verse six, and for the burnt offering, laid it on Isaac his son. He took it in his hand, the fire and the knife. So they went both of them together. And Isaac said to his father, Abraham, My father, And he said, Here I am, my son. He said, Behold, the fire in the wood beware is the lamb for burnt offering. And Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb For a burnt offering, my son. So they went both of them together. Right to Isaac rightly so, it seemed very strange to worship God by a burnt offering without the burnt offering. This isn't the first time Abraham's worshiped God by a burnt offering. This isn't the first time Isaac has seen uh his father worship his God by a burnt offering. So it seems strange to go now and worship God by a burnt offer without a burnt offering. And I think the only lesson I can make, or something we can learn of this faith, is that when God calls you to an obedience beyond your understanding, this is beyond his understanding what God's asking him to do. It is best to refer the obvious questions regarding its strangeness or its absurdity to God, right? Leave those difficult questions to God. That's what he does. Sons, God will provide. And right enough, that's absolutely true. And now I don't think Abraham is saying that, knowing, I'm going to get out of this at the end. Because God testified, that's not how Abraham responded. He was ready to put the knife to his neck and let his blood out. And it was at that moment that God stayed his, and he saved him from actually completing it, but in spirit. That boy was dead. And he obeyed God. And so Abraham isn't saying to Isaac, oh, don't worry, I don't have to actually go through this. The ordeal of your faith you're about to go through, Isaac, and what you learn of God you're not going to have to go through. He just does the best thing in the world. He puts it into God's hands, but he doesn't understand what's going on. God will provide. Son, know that. I don't know what it's going to look like, but God will provide. How antithetical, right, to how we generally respond to things. Don't we hate sin? Don't we hate the lie? Don't we hate what Satan's done to us in this world and the race of men, that the last thing we're ready to do is just to believe God and put it in his hands? I hate it. I hope you hate it. I sorrow for my sin that I still act in those ways, and I thank God for his great grace. And let us pray that he would more make us to be as simple-hearted people like that. Just ready to give it into his hands and trust him and who he is. An unshakable faith says, whatever is lacking, God will provide it. You notice though, Abraham's response is a very good response because it's a response designed, as I said, to bolster Isaac's faith that's about to be tested We'll make a point of that when we get to it. But you can see how a response of faith from one person, rather than unbelief, can serve to help another person's faith and their time of trial. And their time of testing is Isaac is about to be tested. We read in verse 9, When they came to the place of which God had told them, Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. What a father and son moment, huh? What does Isaac see over here about his dad? What does he learn about his father? He sees one thing very clearly, right, in this burning holiness of Abraham. This is a holy thing. Why do I say this is a holy thing? I'm not going to get into it. I'll just make this a little side comment Read certain commentators, certain unbelieving exegesis and things, they make a big stink that God would ask this of Abraham and this child sacrifice and all this stuff The more we look at the atonement, the more we look at the faithfulness in people's lives, the more you look at your own faith and you do these things and the world goes, Why do you do these things? It's not understandable to us. That is holiness. Because the only thing you can explain to them is to say, Because I believe in God and I fear Him and not you. And this isn't a matter between me and you, but between me and my God. And how often do we run across that in life? There is something so holy going on here at this moment. And God is such a blessing to them. Because Isaac learns that I'm not my father's God. Yahweh is my father's God. My son. He doesn't fear me first. You know, do your children know that about you, parents here? Do they know that they're not your gods and you don't fear them first? Do you set aside God's commands, the obvious one here, like discipline for the immediate comfort of your children? Because you're more afraid of them and what discomfort you might think it would bring about, etc. Do your children know that you fear God first. Isaac learned that about his death. Also, Abraham is given the wonderful opportunity to comfort Isaac with the promises of God. Here. We don't read of a struggle. We don't read that he has to wrestle his boy and his son on there. I can only imagine it doesn't tell this is slightly speculation. That he preached, right, Isaac's what I would call his circumcision promises, what we call our baptismal promises to him. What promises were made to Isaac while he received circumcision? Son, I can imagine Abram telling his boy, God has promised to be your God, not now but forever. Son, your seed, God by himself, by his own seed maledictory oath that he would take his life if he doesn't bring to pass your seed coming out of Egypt four generations from now. This doesn't end here, son. You can get on that altar in faith. What a moment to preach to his child and his child. What we would call as baptismal promises And you, as parents in covenant with God, your children in covenant with God with these promises, can preach to them that God will not leave them. That they can trust God in these circumstances and walk in faith in Jesus Christ. What a moment that God, which seems inexplicable, provides for this Father and Son. For him to learn from his father how much he fears God and loves and serves him, and how much Abraham an opportunity gets to encourage and comfort his own son and provide a example and a life of faith for him. We read then in verse 10 that Abraham reached out his hand, here's the moment, and took the knife to slaughter his son. As I said, this is actually the comment from Hebrews 11:19. In spirit, Abraham killed his son. He didn't say that. In a figure receiving him back from the dead. That's what Hebrews said. In a figure, meaning he didn't really actually die. It was typified there. He received it, but he was as good as dead. He received his boy back. And verse eleven, but the angel of the Lord called him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, he said, Here am I. Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your own. only son from. But here is what God was after all along in calling Abraham to this test. It was not the destruction of Isaac, but a revelation of Abraham's fear. That was what God was saying. seeking here. This is the kind of worship that God finds pleasing. A heart that withholds nothing from it. God will find out from you As you put on the Lord Jesus Christ, become an heir of the promises in him, baptized, he will find out from you in your worship. Whether you withhold anything from him, a job, a relation, a spiritual gift, I was tested right before I was ordained Professor Cathy knows about it. I pray to the Lord, Lord, make known to me any unconfessed sins. He brought sin to my life from ten years ago. Sin that I have forsaken, I don't commit it, but I've never confessed to anybody. And I started panicking. What if I tell people? What if people will still punish me for it? What if I'll lose this ordination and these gifts and I can't have it? I went and told Pastor Kathy what it was He gave me some counsel on what to do. I wrote some letters to some other people that are involved with it, made reparations. But I'm so thankful for that test because I can stand before you as your pastor in receiving these things, knowing confidently. That I fear him more than you, and I desire him more than these pastorate and these gifts. And that should give you great confidence. That I wouldn't do anything to have this, even sin against God. I praise God for these ass and I pray it for you. I do pray for you. That God will test you in these ways. That you'll learn the worship that he finds pleasing to him is one that doesn't withhold anything from him. Why? Because I'm sure there's many reasons. One of the great ones is, then whatever blessings he does give to you, you'll enjoy them so much more. You won't enjoy them with a guilty, disobedient confidence. That's no enjoyment of it. But you'll have them knowing that you love God. And you'll have them knowing it's all of grace. He received Isaac back as a gift. Isaac was dead. And now he has his boy as a gift of grace. Verse 13, and Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by his horns. Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. So Abraham called the name of that place the Lord will provide. As it is said to this day, on the mount of the Lord, it shall be provided. He might as well call the name of this place, God is faithful. That's what that name was intended to say. God will provide. God is faithful. When we sacrifice to God the things we hold dearest in life, He is faithful to provide in greater measure. Here our Lord Jesus Christ say those very same things. Mark 10, 29 and 30. And Jesus answered and said, this is a reply to his disciples, that said, We forsook all these things. Verily I say unto you, there is no man that has left house or brethren or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands for my sake and the gospels, but he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time Houses and brethren and sisters and mothers and children and lands with persecutions and in the world to come eternal life, right? God promises to reward you. Whatever those costly things He calls you to lay down and sacrifice to Whether it be real family, real friends, real relations, real jobs, whatever it is that is hindering you and obeying and following the Lord Jesus Christ, He promises to bless you in this life a hundredfold And in the age to come, as Paul says, in a way that a number cannot be affixed to it, we cannot account what glory lies ahead for us. But I will, as I said, why I picked those New Testament readings, comment on it here. I don't want us to miss the good news put on display in this verse right here in 13 and 14. We read Romans 8, we read 1 John, right? It's not strange to me that God would test a man to see if he's holding with anything from him, because God hasn't withheld anything from you Isn't that what Paul says in Romans 8? He who gave his own son. Now we're in covenant with God, right? We're in that binding, eternal relationship with God, right? Here's one party, God, in the giving of his Son and the gospel of Jesus Christ, hasn't withheld from you anything he has. Why then should not God find out those who profess to love him if they really do? Why then should he not test us to see if there is anything withholding us from him? I think it's a lesson I've had to learn recently. I know others have to learn recently. And I encourage you to learn it. I think it's harder when you're younger. You probably learn it as you grow older and lose things If you hope for anything else other than God, even in heaven, apart from kids, children, family, whatever, you'll be dissatisfied because those aren't promised to you. But God has promised to you. And Him you will always have. And you have to have Him first in your heart. If you have a child, a mother, or anything else before that. You will not be satisfied. You run the risk, and you won't. You have to have God first. And these last verses, 15 through 19, hear the reward of Abraham's faithfulness. Main the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven and said, By myself I have sworn, declares the Lord, because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son. I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven, as the sand that is on the seashore, and your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies And then your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed because you have obeyed my voice. For Abraham's obedience, God swears to continue to bless him in this life as he has been And to fulfill his promises already made to him, as well as to his seed, Christ here. This is very interesting in the fullness of time when Christ, that promised seed, would come How do you think when Jesus read his Bible, when he looked at these words, he thought, My God, whom I serve, has sworn on oath by himself to bless the nations in me, because I'm that promised seed. Therefore, write this cross before me is not the end, but the beginning. Or the grave that I will lie in for three days is not my deathbed. But my womb, my new birthplace from which I'll arise and make many sons of God in me. How wonderful Abraham obeys in this way. God assures him with this oath, swearing by himself. That when our Lord Jesus Christ, who we know according to Hebrews, walked the life of faith, read his Bible, believed these promises of his Father, And saw the cross was not the end, but the beginning. And verse 19, so Abraham returned to his young man. And they arose and went together to Beersheba, and Abraham lived there at Beershebah. He begins now to pass off the scene. It is without doubt and controversy that Abraham was a faithful man. Tested by God, declared and revealed to all who see it. Abraham probably lives for well he does live if my calculations are right. I calculated Isaac at 17 here Would have been forty-two years of walking with the Lord. He's going to go on for another fifty-eight years and walk with the Lord on this earth. But we don't see much of them We read in 20 and 24 here, God makes known to him his relatives, and in God's promise, Abraham now knows the way forward in God's provision for his son. So it's time now in this book in Genesis to pass on to the next generation. And the question before us then, right, as we've seen Abraham's faith, what faith Are you and what faith are we passing on to the next generation? Let me close here and remind us The kind of faith that we saw Abraham put on display. A faith that we must have ourselves if we are to be blessed with faithful Abraham. It is a faith that obeys, right? Or James will make use of this passage. James will say, Don't you know, O vain man, that faith without works is much to say, faith that would not or does not obey God is a dead faith Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? See, he goes right to this passage and he says, It's foolish for people to say, Oh, I believe God exists, I'm saved, and never ever. Give up anything for him. Never forsake anything for heaven and believe his promises. So we must have a faith to obey, because if we don't have a faith that obeys God, it's dead. It's a body without breath. It cannot save us. Secondly, right, we must make God, and you must make God your portion. We must have a faith that says, I have nobody else in heaven or in earth, but I have you, O God. And as I mentioned before, why must we make this claim? Because God has not withheld from us in his gospel anything. Paul in Romans 12 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, all that He's done for you in Jesus Christ, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. Your whole self to God is the kind of faith that faithful Abraham exemplified. And finally We must have a faith, that holy kind of faith that fears God. Now fear is an emotional state, right? Fear is an emotion. Emotions can be bad and we can run awry with our emotions, but they can also be very good and they are God given to us. They are intended to help us and lead us. Fear is good when there is danger and we should avoid it. We should have that impulse-like fear of God that when we're tempted to go to this site, we're not supposed to go Sit with these people that we shouldn't be sitting with. Have that kind of conversation. Use that kind of language. Do these sorts of things. And we have a fear of God that eats and burns all that up. Always liken the fear of God here. Notice, too, it's not a terror of God. The fear of God we have doesn't make us run from God. But draw near to God. Abraham was called God's friend. But it's that kind of fear you would have if you were standing on the edge of a cliff or a waterfall. You don't do those dumb, stupid things and dance around it You respect it. You go slowly with it. That's what Peter says in 1 Peter. If you who know that God does not show favor to any man or his children and live, then fear him on this earth. How often do we just run about in our lives, right? Not fearing God. We must have a faith that fears God. And how do we do it all? You put on the Lord Jesus Christ. If you are here today and you are unconverted, you have not believed or know and believe and confess as truth that Jesus Christ is God's Son, come in the flesh? That he is the promised seed of Abraham, that in him all of God's promises are yes and amen. And the word of God to you is determined from your sins. and to get into Jesus Christ. Because only by putting him on, only by being baptized into his name, will you become an heir of the promises and be saved. And if you are in Jesus Christ, stay in Jesus Christ. I don't know what God has before you, before me, this coming year, our times together, but abide God's testing. And you will be rewarded and blessed, as I know you've been blessed already in Christ Jesus. Stay in Him. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious Lord, we call to mind your words to us that narrow is the path of life. How many walk a faith like this, a road of faith? Ready to forsake all, crucify their intellects and their understandings, walk beyond their own understandings and their own light, and to trust entirely into you Who walks that robe withholding nothing from you, ready to give all and forsake all, no matter the cost, even the good blessings and gifts that you've given to us? Who walks that narrow road fearing you and not social media and not peer pressure and not woke America and not our family and friends and whatever it may be? Help us, Lord Jesus Christ, to have this faith, to walk in this faith, and to be blessed with faithful Abraham. In your name we pray. Amen.