We're going to begin with chapters 3 and 4 of Jonah. You know what happened in chapters 1 and 2 about the fish, right? What happened after the fish? Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you. So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, three-day journey in breadth. Jonah began to go into the city going a day's journey, and he called out, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. And the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them to the least of them. The word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, removed his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes. And he issued a proclamation and published throughout Nineveh, by the decree of the king and his nobles, let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste anything. Let them not feed or drink water. But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and let them call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands Who knows? God may turn and relent and turn from his fierce anger so that we may not perish. When God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that he had said he would do to them. And he did not do it. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly. And he was angry And he prayed to the Lord and said, O Lord, is not this what I said when I was yet in my country? That is why I made haste to flee to Tarshish. For I knew that you are a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, and relenting from disaster. Therefore, now, O Lord, please take my life from me. For it is better for me to die than to live. And the Lord said, Do you do well to be angry? Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city and made a booth for himself there. He sat under it in the shade till he should see what would become of the city. Now the Lord God appointed a plant and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head to save him from his discomfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant. But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that attacked the plant so that it withered. When the sun rose, God appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun beat down on the head of Jonah so that he was faint, and he asked that he might die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. But God said to Jonah, Do you do well to be angry for the plant? And he said, Yes, I do well to be angry, angry enough to die. And the Lord said, You pity the plant? For which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in a night and perished in a night, and should I not pity Nineveh? That great city, in which there are more than 120,000 persons who do not know their right hand from their left And also much cattle. That is the word of the Lord. And we'll turn now to Romans chapter 5. Verses 1 through 11. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would even dare to die. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, Much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son Much more. Now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. More than that We also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we now have received reconciliation. The word of the Lord. Beloved Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, the third chapter of Jonah contains the high point of this remarkable true story. For however remarkable the preceding action has been in chapters one and two, and however great the miracles swallowed by a fish whole and still alive and then spit up again? The most remarkable action and the greatest miracles are in the result of Jonah's preaching. Never again has the world seen anything like the result of Jonah's preaching in Nineveh. This is divine election, predestination of sinners to salvation, irresistible grace, pure and simple, as we read about in Romans 5. There is perhaps, however, no other text in all of Holy Scripture that sets before us in graphic and unmistakable terms What happens when God determines to save sinners? Then the third and fourth chapters of the book of Jonah, particularly Jonah 3, 1 through 10, and particularly 3 verse 10. When the word of the Lord came to the uncooperative prophet the second time, after he got out of that fish or God got him out of that fish. It came with the same commission that he had received the first time. Know that if you try to run away from God, sooner or later he will catch up with you. And you will be right back where you were. But true as that is, it does not constitute the point of the book of Jonah. Something else does. At last Jonah obeyed and went to Nineveh and proclaimed to it the message God gave him. And then what happened? Are you ready for this? We read, the Ninevehites believed God. Yes, they declared a fast And all of them, all of them, from the greatest to the least, put on sackcloth. Here we have a citywide display of apparently genuine repentance. It looks like God, if not his recalcitrant representative, loves Nineveh And has chosen its inhabitants up and down those dingy eighth-century BC Assyrian streets. For salvation. I cannot help but wonder if today's Iraqi elementary schools Chronicle for their children this amazing event in their history But even if not, this account forms an unprecedented and unparalleled display of unconditional election. For us who believe the Bible's record of salvation history. My proposition then is this a great city Responds with unexpected repentance to the message of coming judgment as a result of the love of Yahweh. And we observe first to describe that theme a judgment that was imminent When Jonah entered Nineveh, he began to proclaim this message, and apparently it was the whole. of his message. Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. Amen. This does not seem to be a very impressive message, for in the English Bible it is only eight words, and in Hebrew, it is even shorter. Five. The words are a simple prophecy of judgment, yet they were blessed because they were God's words and not those of a visiting preacher from out of town. But what a sermon. Can you envision it? Yahweh says. Then he moves on in the city to another spot. Yahweh says, dot dot dot. He goes a bit farther, same message, short, but wow, how powerful. We can almost see Jonah as he completes a day's journey in that great city and cries out his warning over and again. Short But anything but sweet. Now, what would his reception be? Would the Ninevites laugh? Perhaps they would dispose of him speedily and consign him to the city dump. Never mind. This is the word of the God of heaven who made the sea and the dry land. Whether or not Jonah added his own personal testimony, the Bible doesn't say he did ever been inside a fish. I don't know. But his sermon was singularly clear, uncomplicated, and carried its own powerful application. You Ninevehites have offended the God The holy God who is, with your horrendous sinning Now what are you going to do about it? As he cried out, people stopped to listen. The hum of commerce died down, and a holy hush stole over the collecting multitudes. Soon there was heard weeping and other signs of a genuine repentance for sin that surfaced. At last the message of Jonah entered even the palace, and the king of Nineveh, divesting himself of his magnificent robes, took the place of a mourner alongside Is repenting subjects. The Ninevehites simply believed God. Then comes verse 10, one of my favorite verses in the whole Bible When God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that he said he would do to them. And he did not do it. If you're seeking a Bible verse on the grace of God, this will do. You found it. Jonah 3. 10. Jonah proclaimed the message of an imminent judgment. He cried out that message. Like Jeremiah's, Jonah's message was not an easy one to destroy and to overthrow. First And then to build and to plant, second. But Jonah never even apparently got to the good news, at least it's not recorded, scripture. The bad news alone was in this case enough for God to use in his unsearchable wisdom and matchless power. When he decides to save, save God does, by whatever means it pleases him to use. The same is true today, my friends. Christianity is not soft. It is realistic And if the Orthodox Presbyterian Church is ever going to be of any help to this sin-sick nation, it's going to have to preach the message that begins with Jonah's sermon. You see, there is a time when a negative message is needed before anything positive. Can begin. It often is the case that folks must first be brought to the place where they understand What's wrong? Unless they do, they won't be ready to hear about any remedy Unless we put first things first, we only tempt people with a hollow oak. For when we speak of the negative side of the gospel message, we are not merely proclaiming that something's wrong. Everybody knows that. What they will not face, however, is why something is wrong. Sin. I'm afraid that sometimes our testimony is not effective simply because we are too anxious to get to the answer without having people confront their true guilt. Nineveh faced that squarely because Jonah was faithful after all his attempted diversion to Tarshish was faithful. I say at least he was faithful in proclaiming clearly a message of judgment to the inhabitants of Nineveh. One of our daughters-in-law came to Christ under circumstances not unlike those described in our text. Oh, hers was not that she was caught up in a mass urban revival, but that she heard preaching similar to that which the Ninevehes heard from the lips of the prophet Jonah. A friend witnessed the gospel to her in much the same truncated version. It was a message of judgment, exclusively. It echoed that of a television evangelist who would sometimes invite his TV viewers to touch their screens in order to connect With his preaching, preaching that was almost exclusively fire and brimstone. He would threaten unbelievers with the receipt of the mark of the beast and generally sought to scare them into the kingdom of God. Still the Lord God used what I can only call a crooked stick To lead her, our daughter-in-law, to cry out to God for mercy. And she received it In Jesus Christ, according to her testimony, and is today a firm believer, led by God into the full orb faith of Holy Scripture. Whatever fallacies there were in the introduction that she received. Something like what Jonah experienced in Nineveh, don't you think? Here, too, was something less than a commendable tool in God's hand, but he used it nevertheless. Don't pay too much attention to the preacher's motivation and manner. Listen to his words. Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. A treasure in a broken vessel It reminds us of the cartoon. You've no doubt seen it, the serotypical sandwich board worn by a wizened, bearded old man. Parading up and down the sidewalk, his advertisement declaring triumphantly, The End is near Yes, the gospel is indeed good news, but the very thing that makes it good news is that it is the only answer. To a bad reality that is faced. A message of judgment, though unpopular and hard, is necessary, clearly. And you and I must deliver the complete message, never cutting it short, by skipping the hard part. Secondly, we need to observe a repentance that was unforeseen The people of Nineveh believed God. It was truly unexpected. What actually happened was something that we never thought would be the case, nor did Jonah. Here we see a thing that we hardly judge possible today: a whole city bowed in contrition. Notice the breadth of it. The people, from the greatest to the least, repented. Can you imagine the situation if such were repeated in Washington, D. C. ? And its surrounding counties, for instance, carried on the front page of Washington Post in 108-point bold type. City contrait The mayor declares a citywide fast. The lead story in Fox's evening news, The Anchor. With shaking head utters an unscripted Wow, folks, look at this. We've had a revival of true Christianity right here in the center of the nation. Millions are seemingly repenting of their evils and declaring their trust in Jesus Christ Billboards all over the map are being re-worded and lit up with Jesus is Lord. Every city bus festooned with praise to God for his grace. Mailers filling postal boxes Computer screens and smartphones. Folks, you don't need to enter the lottery. Or for I to nos Vegas, since God's lavish grace has fallen on us. In fact All the restaurants in the city and its suburbs are closed. Olive Garden, McDonald's, even Pizza Hut. Everyone fasting. Seeking rather the bread of life. But back to Nineveh, even the animals at the fast. And the king was involved. In fact, he led the way. And notice, he doesn't bind God or demand pardon from him. Who knows? He reasons God may yet relent, and with compassion turn from his fierce anger, so that we will not perish. Then note the length of the repentance. They turned from their evil ways. It was not in word only, but also in deed. There's an old country song that extols, Nobody robbed a liquor store today Nobody OD'd anywhere today. In the streets of Ireland, all the children had to do was play. We sure could use a little good news today. Apparently, something very close to that happened in ancient Iraq. Nineveh. And what does Jesus say about that city? Our Savior made a powerful application of this event to his own hearers and to us today also. The men of Nineveh will arise in the day of judgment and witness against a generation that stands off and demands proof of the promised judgment Nineveh repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, something greater than Jonah is here. And I will say this to you hearers of tonight's sermon. You have this message to declare to your city in 2023. The love of Christ constrains us as we know the terror of the Lord. Look at what God had to do to his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, in order to save the world. He put into the grief of the cross, bearing the sins of all everywhere and anywhere, whom he would gift with repentance and faith. The gospel, the good news, is that none who come to Christ in true repentance and faith will be denied. And none who come to God by Jesus will be cast out, but will receive the forgiveness of their sins and eternal life. No, Nineveh doesn't mean that all cities will repent any more than Sodom means that all cities will perish. In a conflagration before the last judgment. But Nineveh does mean this. By comparison, our nations Cities, counties, municipalities, and townships are judged by Nineveh, firstly, because of the amount of revelation they received. Nineveh believed with only the message of impending judgment Whereas today we have heard the whole message, including the hope of the gospel. Secondly, they heard only Jonah. But we have had the Lord Jesus Christ preached. His body, the church, is clearly in this land of ours. The Orthodox Presbyterian Church and our congregation similarly is determined to see more and more churches planted in our nation and around the whole world. That will herald the full gospel. Third and finally, we observe a love here that was unprovoked. God loves Nineveh. Let us be open to confess this great truth that forms really the theme of the entire prophecy of Jonah. That God loves Nineveh. Joda himself, even though he was a prophet, a seer, S-E-E-R, really did not see that. Chapter 4 describes Jonah's consternation at God's forgiveness of Nineveh, that gourd, remember, upon which Jonah had compassion. He loved it just as one of the trillions and trillions of shade shrubs the ground has produced. Jonah loved But God loved 120,000 human beings, people who could not tell their right hands from their left. And much cattle. And the reason for that forgiveness was the unprovoked and unconditional love that God had for that city. That was the thing that Jonah found hard to believe. There was no explanation for it to be found in those ancient Assyrians. You have to look elsewhere. You have to look to Yahweh himself for that reason. But it was so. And that exactly was the thing that Jonah found it hard to do. God did not send Jonah to Nineveh to announce the destruction of Nineveh only, but to announce that it would happen. In forty days. Not right away, that is. There was to be a grace period The people of Nineveh were given time to call upon the Lord and be saved. If God did not love Nineveh, why send them a prophet at all? Why warn them? Just let the fire fall. Why bother to tell them anything? Just destroy them right away. But God says no. After all, as the Bible says, He takes no pleasure in the deaths of the wicked. We read, however, that when Nineveh repented, Jonah became angry. It displeased him. He was not just angry, he was greatly angry. He was sore, really kicked. Because God spared Nineveh. Can you imagine such a thing? But that didn't stop God from saving that city. How is it with your faith? Do you believe that God loves your city? Not only that God feels kindly disposed toward it, but that He is both able and willing to do something about its sin and depravity. God's love is not a piece of warm wishing. Rather, in this is love That he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. And then when he sent his son, he sent you. You have the privilege and the commission Jonah had. Don't flee to Tarshish. Go into this city and warn these people Your Lord commands you, because he loves this city too, no matter how improbable that may seem to you. Do you doubt that people in our Nineveh could repent and turn to Jesus Christ in saving faith in great numbers? Nobody can, not one, by human strength and resolve. But we are dealing here with divine strength and divine resolve. God loves Nineveh. And when God gives new birth to a heart, to a human spirit that has been heretofore dead to grace, when God does that. People not only can, but will repent and believe God. His grace is, after all, in truth Irresistible. That can happen here with many. For there is, after all, my friends, a precedent Right here in our text tonight. Are you sure that God plans to leave your entire city? Or for that matter, your nation to face his wrath and judgment, are you sure that he has only a very few in this city? God once told the Apostle Paul that he, God, had many people in one of the cities that Paul visited, Corinth. Like Nineveh, except that with Nineveh, apparently, it was everybody, not just much people Corinth was bad enough, and God had many there. Nineveh was the capital of the ancient Near East foremost raping city, and God had all of its inhabitants. At least the people of that day. A hundred years later, their descendants fell under God's judgment. When Cyrus of Persia, in fact. But that generation responded in faith and genuine repentance to the call of Jonah's preaching Brothers and sisters, you need to let the simple message of this book of Jonah sink down into your souls. God loves sinners. This is the scarlet thread that runs throughout the whole Bible. And when God elects sinners to salvation, Saved they become. This is what our Lord Jesus Christ perfectly revealed to us by his death upon the cross, the most solid proof that God loves Nineveh. Jesus died for sinners. And boy, oh boy, did the Ninevites ever qualify for that designation So do you. God does not desire sinners to die, however, says the scripture, but to turn to Him and live. And he has acted to bring that very thing about. So let there be a renewed dedication on your part. To be concerned about your city. Let that city know that you're in this with them. And don't consider yourselves a special group that is in with God. And therefore doesn't need or want to be involved with them. Your city needs to repent, not that community out there and those bad people This Nineveh, which God loves, is, after all, part of this world, my folks, which the Bible says God so loved. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but should have eternal life. And who knows? Perhaps the Lord will have mercy and will send you into this city headed for judgment. Perhaps even now experiencing something of a foretaste. of that coming and final judgment in the brokenness of the lives of so many of our countrymen today Perhaps the Lord will use you, the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, together with others who believe his word of the gospel, to declare what's wrong. And where hope is to be found. This nation needs healing. Your city Needs to repent. Southern Maryland needs more churches preaching Christ, the only hope for sinners. And I'm glad to hear that the Presbytery yesterday of mid-Atlantic. has determined to provide help for support for three new church plants in our districts. Yes, let Christ's church live in the city today. Let Christ's church witness for him in your city, for God loves Nineveh. And the USA has received far more of the gospel witness than Nineveh ever had. Here the message of Jonah hits quite close to home. Each of you tonight as well needs to repent and turn to Christ, who bore your punishment. For forty days came upon him, and he was overthrown. But he arose in triumph for his beloved ones, the object of saving grace. Your turning from sin must be at the same time a turning to Jesus. To whom you alone have forgiveness. By grace, you Ninevehites, who repent and believe. May live. Amen. Well, Lord, we pray that we will not be so surprised At what you did to Nineveh. But believe it, that it can be done whenever and wherever you please. For you are God. And not a man who cannot be counted upon as we are to do what we intend. But you are God who fulfills his covenant purposes and promises to the full in every generation of this world's life until Jesus returns. Do so, O God, in Jesus' name. Amen.