Luke chapter 7, short lesson, 11 through 17. Soon afterward he went to a town called Nain. And his disciples and a great crowd went with him. As he drew near to the gate of the town, behold, a man who had died was being carried out the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a considerable crowd from the town was with her And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said to her, Do not weep. Then he came up and touched the beer. And the bearers stood still, and he said, Young man, I say to you, Arise. And the dead man sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother. Fear seized them all, and they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has arisen among us, and God has visited his people. And this report about him spread through the whole of Judea and all the surrounding country. The word of the Lord, thanks be to God. Almighty God, illumine us who are gathered here. Illumine us by your Spirit that we might rightly understand and carefully obey your word of truth. Open our hearts that we may love what you teach us and desire what you promise. Set us free from private distractions that we may hear. And from selfish pride and moral blindness, that we may receive the promise of your grace through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Please be seated. Here we have yet another pitiful situation, like we had last week. A pitiful situation into which God's grace comes. The widow of Nain is the first widow that we're going to consider here. And let me just give you a few A few definitions and thoughts that help you understand this picture. A widow is a person of dire vulnerability. A widow was not a rich lady driving a big Cadillac around as we see so many today. A widow is a woman of completely dependent Completely dependent upon the charity of whoever it might be, and completely destitute, often, left to terrible things. That was what a widow was about, and that's why the deacon's ministry in the book of Acts was particularly to care for and feed Widows. They didn't have any way to get food. And so the deacons distributed to the widows. And James, James tells us that true religion, he says, is to do what? Care for orphans and widows because they're destitute. They have no help. So care for orphans and widows. So that's something about widows that you need to consider in this gospel story, this true gospel story. By the way, when I say story, I never mean anything but absolute historical fact. Now, the second thing is morning. M-O-U-R-N-I-N-G, morning, not A-M. Here we have a morning situation, a small town. And we have all these friends gathered round this widow, and no doubt there were professional mourners because When someone died, the professional mourners would come and they would cry and they would wail. What was the purpose of that? It was so that the grieving widow could cry quietly or loudly if she wished in herself And not be heard, not be embarrassed, because there was all this other crying and wailing, so she could cry her private crying without being a spectacle. It was to give honor to the one who died, and to give comfort to those who were grieving. And so here were these mourners all gathered around, and no doubt also, according to custom, their pouring spices. On the body of the boy, the dead man, because that would help alleviate the smell that would come in the days ahead And then there's going to be a burial. What kind of burial would it be? Well, it would be a burial in a small man-made cave, probably just outside of the town. And there was in this cave a shelf for the body, and there probably this woman's husband had been laid. And it had been opened up after his flesh was gone and his bones would have been collected and put into a bone box. And then the shelf would have been cleaned and cleared and readied for the next person who would lie there. And so that's what a burial would have been like in those days. This widow is very, very poor and very, very lowly in terms of Isaiah 6 And you'll remember if you've ever read Luke, that in Luke chapter 4, Jesus said that he had come to do the things described in Isaiah 61. To set captives free, to raise up the poor. Poor like this widow. And so here we have this picture, and you see some of the parameters, and Jesus comes in this situation And he, the scripture says, touches the beer. He's not afraid of corpse defilement. Because when Jesus touches something, instead of being defiled by it, Jesus transmits life. So he comes up and touches the beer, not the boy yet. He touches the beer in order to stop the parade, the funeral procession. And then we have here the dead boy. If the dead boy had lived, he might have inherited whatever his father owned, because according to custom, the inheritance rules His father's estate would not come to his mother but come to him. Or if there was nothing, at least this boy might grow up and have acquired a trade and be able to care for his mother the rest of her life. And so that's the picture that we see here. And we see that picture into which Jesus comes and he calls the dead to life. He brings joy. Out of grief, God visits his people in this beautiful story Now let's look at the second widow that I want you to think about in connection with this story. And that is the widow of Zarephath. And that's the portion that Al read from 1 Kings. Luke wants us to think back to the widow of Zarepheth as we read this account of the healing of of this boy, the the raising of this boy from the dead. He wants us to think back to the widow Ozareph. In fact, in Luke chapter 4, verse 26 Jesus there said, and Elijah was sent to none of them, but only to Zarephath in the land of Sidon to a woman who was a widow. So it's already been brought up, and now we're supposed to think about it. It's a parallel to the healing. And we can see that that was also mentioned earlier when uh we had the healing of the centurion servant last week. Jesus said there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian. So that's been brought up before, too. It was brought up in that connection last week. Jesus here is clearly being set forth by Luke and by the Holy Spirit as a great prophet That's the comparison. Just like Elijah and Elisha are great prophets, the greatest prophets of the Old Testament. Because they raised the dead. Jesus is the great prophet who raises the dead, who ministers to poor widows, and raises their sons from death. Jesus also, like Elijah and Elisha, will be doggedly persecuted Yet powerfully works wonders in the name of Yahweh and overthrows evil and calls the nation to repentance And he raises the dead and cares for widows. That gives us a picture of God's heart. God cares for those who are destitute, for those who are broken, for those who are alone. And what does the scripture say then happened in the account in Luke? Fear sees them all, verse 16. Fear sees them all, and they glorify God. So it's a kind of fear that goes, wow! I don't know what to do, I'm afraid. It's kind of like Isaiah's fear when he was before the temple in Isaiah 6, and he saw the temple filled with the glory of God, and it shook him. And he was terrified and he says, Woe is me. That's the kind of fear we have here. Fear seized them all. And they glorified God and said A great prophet has arisen among us. That's the first thing they said. And the second thing, and God has visited his people. God is here. God is acting. God is doing something. And it's a wonderful thing. So Jesus is a great prophet. Yes, he is. Luke tells us that, but he speaks the word of God here, and yet more than just speaking the word of God like Elijah and Elisha did. He doesn't ask God to raise this boy. What happens? He himself raises the boy. He himself speaks and calls the boy to life. He himself gives the boy back to his mother. The reader is given here a big, big clue as to who Jesus is and who is he. He is God, the Word, who has the power to create, to give life by his very word. So in this first parallel, the widow of Zarephath, Jesus is greater than the prophets, Elijah and Elisha. He will also be persecuted as they were. He will also defeat evil and call the nation to repentance, but in a much greater way. Greater in power, greater in scope. In fact, the scope is the whole world. He calls the whole world to repentance and faith in himself. So we've had one comparison from the story backward to the widow of Zarephath. Now I want to show you yet another comparison that I think is also meant here by the Holy Spirit. And that is a comparison forward, the widow of Nazareth. Luke wants us to see another grieving widow whose son died and was carried to a burial cave and placed on a shelf. It's a bit of foreshadowing in literary terms. Mary, the mother of Jesus, had no doubt become a widow. Joseph is nowhere to be found. And from the cross, Jesus entrusts his mother's care to John the Beloved before his death. Not because he will remain in the grave, however, but because he will ascend to heaven forty days after the resurrection. And we celebrate that ascension just this past Thursday. But this widow's grief and loss foreshadows Mary's grief at the cruel and unjust persecution and execution of the best son any woman ever bore. This son too will be raised from the death, but by the power of God and never ever to die again. So Luke's narrative here gives us a foreshadowing of Jesus, the greatest prophet, but much more than a prophet, God who calls the dead to life. Luke is careful to tell us in verse 13, and when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her. That's why he did this. Now, I want to draw some application. That's great content, I think, but also realize that Luke's readers Luke's readers at the time the gospel was written are in the same place that we are in. Although Jesus has been raised from the dead, and the kingdom of God has dawned. We, like those readers that would read the first time, we still live in the time between the beginning and the consummation. We live in the time between the engagement and the wedding. And what kind of time is that? It's a time in which, because of Christ's resurrection, death has been defeated, and yet it is still our last enemy. It has been defeated in principle because Christ was raised and yet we still suffer death. We're still all, each one of us. Going to be carried away someday. Romans 8 verse 11 says, If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. And that's wonderful comfort. But we still grieve. We don't grieve as others who have no hope, but we still grieve because we live in the time in between. So I want to ask this question for us to think about today. How does Jesus meet us now in our mortal grief? You have to imagine yourself in that funeral procession. You have to imagine yourself as the person who has the dead person on the bier. And you're the one grieving, how will Jesus meet you in your mortal grief? How will you be able to say, when it comes, God has visited his people? Imagine yourself facing something that you fear. The loss of a relationship that you cherish, employment, health, even the death of a loved one. When you experience great loss, not if, but when you experience great loss, how will Jesus come to you and visit you? Well, I'm going to give you some answers to that hypothetical question. How will Jesus come to you? First, he may come any way he pleases. He is sovereign. He is God. He may come any way he pleases. The Westminster Shorter Catechism says: God, in his ordinary providence, makes use of means Yet is free to work without, above, and against them at his pleasure. He is free to meet you privately in your moments of need. He is free to meet you in words of counsel. He's free to meet you in your own thoughts and in your circumstances. He is free to work outside means or to create new and different means. You'll remember the account of God speaking through Balaam's donkey In the Old Testament. Yes. Any and all of these things God may use to touch you and speak to you mercy and peace. So, whatever it may be, God may come to you. But now I'm going to answer it in a different way. What are the ordinary? What are the ordained ways? Ways that you can count on. You cannot count on Balaam's donkey talking to you. You can't count. God can do that. He does all kinds of wonderful things. He is sovereign. But what are the ways that you can count on? The ordained ways, the ordinary ways. He comes in the ordained reading, but especially in the preaching of his word. In the preaching of his word. Now, that sounds very self-serving because I'm a preacher, but that's not what it's about. Let me get you a little bit of proof if I can for this, or a little bit of evidence, I should say. Romans 10, verse 14 and following, the Apostle Paul is describing the need for preachers. He says, he asks this question, how then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him whom they have never heard? Now I know your text says of whom, but that's not in the Greek. The translators thought it made sense to them because of their preconceived ideas, so they put the of in How are they to believe in him of whom they have not but it's not what it says? It really says, and how are they to believe in him whom the relative pronoun whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? So preachers are the voice of Christ. When they preach the word of God, not infallible. You know, I'm not infallible. You know that But when they preach the word of God, the preaching of the word of God is the voice of Christ. Christ is heard In the preaching of God's Word. And he goes on to verse 15, and how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. So I've made a little bit of a case here for that with that relative pronoun, but let me show you a little more clearly in Ephesians chapter 2. I've said this before, but I'll say it now. Ephesians 2. 14. And Paul says, for he himself, that is Christ, he himself is our peace. who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility. Keep listening. By abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself one new man in place of two, so making peace. So he's saying that Jews and Gentiles are now one body because Christ And verse 16, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And now here it is, verse 17. And he, Christ Came and preached peace to you who were far off. That's the Gentiles. And peace to those who were near, that's the Jews. Christ came and preached. How did he do that? When did Christ go to Ephesus? Never. How did they hear Christ preach? Through preachers. That goes back to verse 14 of Romans. How are they to believe in him whom they have never heard? Well, the preachers are the voice of Christ when they preach the word of God and Christ is heard. Christ was heard in Ephesus Preaching is the word of God. You may expect, therefore, God to speak to you in your troubles and your griefs and in all situations of life, whether joy or grief, in the reading And especially in the preaching of his word. Even though the preachers are quite fallible, when they preach God's word, Christ speaks In the assembly of his people ordained by him, he speaks. When God's word is preached, Christ preaches. Perhaps especially in grief, because he desires to comfort his loved ones made poor by pain and sorrow in a fallen world. Jesus was sent, as he said, to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, and to set at liberty those who are oppressed. So he'll come to you. He'll speak to you in the reading of God's Word, yes, but especially in the preaching of God's word. Secondly, he will also come to you in the ordained sacraments given by him to his church. You can count on it. Baptism. We are united to Christ in baptism by faith. Baptism, if you study baptism, and some of us are, baptism is a change of status by union. It's not just some What's the symbol? It's not just some bare symbol of something else. It is a change of status by union. Baptism is God's word and God's action, which anticipates and expects and calls for faith. Those who have been baptized, whether they remember it or not, are called to faith. And faith trusts in Jesus for pressing needs in a fallen world. So God speaks to his people in baptism. The truth of union with Jesus leads us to hope even in our troubles. We anticipate that we will triumph because he has triumphed over death and we are in union with him. That's what baptism says and does. The resurrection of the son of the widow of Zarephath and the son of the widow of Nain were temporary, because they would die again. in due time. But united to the son of Mary, the widow of Nazareth, we will be raised to life immortal. And we have this in what God has done and God does in baptism. But we must have faith, faith that trusts God and works itself out in obedience Then we can look to our baptismal union with Jesus and rejoice in our troubles. He also comes to us in the Lord's Supper Remember again with me those two despondent disciples who after the resurrection were on the road to Emmaus in Luke chapter 24 They were grieving, like the widows were grieving. They were grieving over the loss of Mary's son. Here's what they said. Well Jesus said to them in Luke 24, verse 17, He said to them, What is this conversation that you were holding with each other as you walk? And they stood still, looking sad. Then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days? And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people And how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified him. And then they said this, but we had hoped he was to come and redeem Israel. We had hoped he was to be the one. Such grief. The loss of a deliverer. The loss of a redeemer. Dead now in the tomb for three days. Verse 28. So they drew near the village to where they were going. He acted as if he were going farther, but they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is now far spent. So he went in to stay with them. Verse 30. And when he was at table with them, here's the Lord's Supper part. When he was at table with them, he took the bread. And blessed and broke it and gave it to them. And what happened? Verse 31. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him And he vanished from their sight, and they said to each other, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures, and that same hour at night They rose and returned to Jerusalem, and they found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon. Then they told what had happened on the road. And how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. There's that Lord's Supper part again. Christ has ordained that his blessing and breaking of the bread until he comes is our portion. That is what we have until he returns to consummate his kingdom. Therefore he comes to you this way. He comes to you in your joy, he comes to you especially in your grief, to make himself known as the Redeemer, the Deliverer, the Conqueror, to give you the bread of everlasting life. And we see the same thing happening in Acts chapter 2, verse 42, where it says, And they devoted themselves, here's after Pentecost, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to the fellowship. To the breaking of bread and the prayers. These three things are the ways Christ now comes. The preaching, the sacraments, the prayers, that is the gathered worship context. These are the outward and ordinary ways Christ touches and speaks. And calls to life until he comes again. Christ wants to come to you Christ wants to draw near to you and help you and strengthen you to live joyfully and fearlessly. And so I ask you, are you making diligent use of these ways Christ has promised to come to you? If so, if you make diligent use of these means, you can be sure that when you face grief or trial or hardship Christ is with you, and Christ will sustain you whatever may come. Glory be to Christ. Amen.