Now let me lead us in a prayer for illumination and help. So let's pray again. Our Father in heaven, we ask that now, as we come and open your word, you would teach us all. The truths we need to learn and know you would unteach us the wrong things we've learned about your word and who you are. We pray that you would correct our wrong behaviors and that you would train us in righteousness, that that word may come to pass, that all are taught of God. Through Christ our Savior, we pray. Amen. Our first reading is from Deuteronomy, and we'll read together from chapter 7, verses 1 through 11. I've selected these readings because our theme tonight is the faithfulness of God. And so here we see God and his faithfulness to his people in the old Testament and that same God faithful to his people in the new covenant. We get there. So Deuteronomy chapter 7, beginning at verse 1, hear the word of the Lord When the Lord your God brings you into the land that you are entering to take possession of it, and clears away many nations before you. The Hittites, the Gergeshites, the Amorites, the Canaites, the Perizites, the Hives, and the Jebuzites, seven nations more numerous and mightier than you And when the Lord your God gives them over to you and you defeat them, then you must devote them to complete destruction You shall make no covenant with them and show no mercy to them. You shall not intermarry with them, giving your daughters to their sons, or taking their daughters for your sons. For they would turn away your sons from following me to serve other gods, and the anger of the Lord would be kindled against you, and he would destroy you quickly Thus shall you deal with them. You shall break down their altars and dash in pieces their pillars and chop down their ashram and burn their carved images with fire. For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession, out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. It was not because you were more in number than any other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you, for you were the fewest of all peoples But it is because the Lord loves you and is keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers, that the Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery From the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Know therefore that the Lord your God is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations, and repays to their face those who hate him by destroying them. He will not be slack with one who hates him. He will repay him to his face. You shall therefore be careful to do the commandments and the statutes and the rules that I command you today. And our reading from the New Covenant is uh 1 Corinthians chapter 10, and we'll read uh verses 1 through 22 together. Here again, the theme, um, many things, but focusing on the faithfulness of God. And the trials of the people, and they were facing those trials in their pagan culture, and what it means to be a holy people amongst God. And God says he is faithful to them. First Corinthians chapter ten, hear the word of the Lord For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all pass through the sea And all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. Nevertheless With most of them, God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now These things took place as examples for us, that we might not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters, as some of them were, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and 23,000 fell in a single day. We must not put Christ to the test, as some of them did, and were destroyed by serpents, nor grumble as some of them did and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come. Therefore, let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man God is faithful, and He will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as the sensible people. Judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body. We all partake of the one bread. Consider the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar? What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything? Or that an idol is anything? No, I imply that what pagan sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? This is the word of the Lord. Our confessional reading tonight comes from the canons of Dort. And we're looking at article number three, God's preservation of the converted. And this is the third article and the fifth and final point of doctrine that the Synod of Dort deliberated on in this is the Bible's teaching on the perseverance of the saints. So we're looking at the grand theme of the perseverance of saints And particularly tonight we're looking at God's preservation of the converted. So here what the synod says. Because of these remnants of sin dwelling in them, and also because of the temptations of the world and Satan. Those who have been converted could not remain standing in this grace if left to their own resources. But God is faithful, mercifully strengthening them in the grace once conferred on them. and powerfully preserving them in it to the end. So that's what we'll be looking at tonight. God's preservation of the converted Now I see some new faces that are joining us. That is wonderful. Glad that you're here with us this evening. I I said when I began this la final point Well actually I think I have the same quarter I used. We all know a quarter. It has uh two sides, a head side and a tail side. Uh this doctrine of preservation in saints on the head side, right, it has the saints Persevering to the end in the grace of God and reaching right that heavenly city, right? The glory of God. That's one side, our persevering in Christ But the other side of the coin, and you can pick heads or tails, but the other side of the coin, right, is God's preservation of them. So saints persevere because God preserves them. And that's what we're looking at tonight. This article gives us very simply uh reform doctrine here on preservation or perseverance of the saints, and that is that God preserves us in his grace. And God preserving us in his grace assures us that we shall persevere in that holy path in that holy calling that he has marked out for us as we follow the captain of our salvation, Jesus Christ. Where he is already seated at the right hand of God, entering into that veil, that anchor, that sure anchor for our hope, the forerunner. Right. That's what we are marked out for as a people of God. This is what we're being preserved for. This is what we are persevering to, that we might pass into the heavens and through that veil and into the very presence of Almighty God and I see some smiles here because that will be such a joy. I've seen the smiles of your guys' face before. Let us never forget that, beloved. As God gives us oil to make our ha faces sm uh smile or or bright, we eat good food today. You know, people are marked by health when they eat food because their faces are shining. One day our faces shall be shining so much more as we reflect back that eternal light and and glory of God. You know, and to my shame, not to my glory, in some way I feel particularly prepared to preach on this topic tonight of God's faithfulness, uh, because of someone who was so unfaithful to God and did not trust uh that God is faithful. I was a person who grew up in a Christian home, but thought if I followed Christ and lived Christianly and put him first, I wouldn't get the things I wanted There wouldn't be the pretty girl, there wouldn't be the things, it wouldn't be whatever you wanted. And I did not trust the God uh who preached his gospel to me. I was raised in a church that preached the substitutionary atonement of Christ. I heard the gospel, I heard what Jesus did marry. And then I grew up, 18, joined the Marines, and died. But if I trust him and do this, I won't get what I want out of life. And I sinfully sought to get a wife, and God took all that away. And I was brought to utter despair, wondering how am I going to live that this woman I had been living for for five years has now gone out of my life? Now I'm not charismatic in the way that's normally used, but I am charismatic in that I believe in the Holy Spirit. I believe every believer is anointed by him and has a charism, and there are charismatic gifts of the Spirit, and I believe God still speaks to us. I know that gets wonky. I don't mean it in that way, uh the word, but uh what I'm setting you up is for this. I was in despair. And I was behind my um apartment in Greensboro, North Carolina at that time. And I sat out there twenty minutes on a log deliberating to myself, and finally I looked up to the heavens and I said, Oh God, what are you trying to teach me? I heard no audible voice, but the word trust just emanated from my heart and permeated my whole body. And I just sat there in shocked amazement. Did the God of the universe just speak to me? I thought, wow, for a while I thought that was pretty special. And years later it dawned on me, Damon, that's just how lost you were. You didn't know to trust God. The theme tonight is the most basic teaching of all of Scripture. God is faithful. He can be absolutely trusted in. And I say that again to my shame because I have a very beautiful wife. I have a very beautiful family. And I've been redeemed and hold an office I'm utterly unworthy of. Because God is faithful and can be. Trusted. So that's why, I mean, besides the study of Scripture, I hope to give you all the much of what I found this week studying scripture on these passages where God is faithful. But besides that, as one who was very unfaithful and came to learn that God can be trusted. This is so important because we are saved by grace through faith Faith is trust. Trust in a person. Trust in their word. If you think God is not trustworthy, you do not trust those you do not think are trustworthy. This is why this is the most basic foundational doctrine because God is calling you to entrust your everlasting souls into the arms of Jesus Christ. Trust to nothing else, but trust to your Savior, to give yourself and who you are utterly, entirely, completely, fully to Jesus Christ, to be kept. saved, preserved, given life by him forever. To be governed, kept, directed, guided, filled, used By him. So this is no small doctrine to preach the trustworthiness and faithfulness of God because That is what we're resting upon. And that's why I don't necessarily like the statement, take a leap of faith, unless that just means jump into Jesus' arms, but surely it is not a blind thing. Scriptures do not present turning to God as turning to darkness but to light. God is the absolute and everywhere assumed in Scripture. It's not a blind leap to trust in Him It is the right thing, it's the only sane thing to do, is to trust in Almighty God The main point, beloved, is this that the preservation of the saints rests solely upon God's faithfulness. I encourage you to read chapter 18, our own confession of faith on your own, where our confession deals with that And that faithfulness gets worked out through God's love, Christ's atonement, the Holy Spirit the covenant. We'll look at some of those things. But underneath all of these things and the provision for us in Christ is God's faithfulness. And we're going to look at that tonight but the preservation of the saints it rests solely upon God's faithfulness. Looking at the hour that it is and you knowing me, I won't get through it all. So this is more like this is going to be a two-part of this There's no reason to rush past God being faithful, there's wonderful things. You have to come back for part two. I hooked you. Um so we'll start looking at this There's basically in this article two theses presented, one kind of recapping from what we've seen in article and two and laying this foundation for the main one we're going to look at. So the first proposition or theses uh put out by uh canon here is that those who have been converted and says here those who have been converted could not remain standing in this grace if left to their own resources. Technical term for convert in the New Testament was coming to acknowledge the truth, right? Those who acknowledge that the Jesus preached to them was God's Son, the Messiah, He died on the cross, He was raised from the dead, He is reigning in heaven. Those who came to believe that message and trust in Him are those who are understood to be converted And so those who have been converted have received, heard the message of the gospel, received the message of the gospel Believe the message of the gospel, trust in God, trust in Christ. They could not remain standing in this grace, right? Jesus has redeemed us out from under the curse of the law We do not have a legal covenantal standing, a law of works basis with God anymore. Our base is nothing but sheer grace We stand before God utterly in his sheer goodness that he will fulfill his promises to us. Standing in grace doesn't mean sinfulness, lawlessness. It means your standing before God is sh purely on him not giving you what your sins deserve. Him showing you his kindness and in showing you his kindness, conforming you to the image of his son Jesus Christ, and fulfilling those promises to you. So our standing is nothing but grace before God now and forever Surely in his goodness is our standing point. As sad as it is for weak, sinful humans, when God invites us into his grace, we wouldn't even stay in that. Because of the indwellingness of our sin which would turn away from it, because of the temptations of the world and Satan which would turn us away from God, that even standing in God's goodness which He invites us all into, if left to our own resources, Sources we would be unable to remain them. I'm I'm not going to elaborate on that, but Paul's very clear, Romans 7. Though redeemed, regenerate, filled with God's Spirit, given new hearts, have an inward man. We still inhabit a body of sin And that what that means is this body, because it's a body of sin, will be overcome by death. These bodies will go to the grave and will be raised with new ones Paul talks about the indwelling sin in the members of our bodies and that bringing him even into captivity, though he wants to please God in his mind, he finds when he would do good evil's there, and he's frustrated in his purposes as I'm sure you've been frustrated when you You wanted to go have a helpful, encouraging, edifying conversation with your neighbor, with your elder, with your pastor, and you give you go away and it didn't go as you thought, because sin is there That's one reason, the indwelling sin. The second reason is temptations of the world and Satan. I tried as much as I could. I typed into my biblical software the word temptation, the word world And as far as I can tell, it's not explicitly stated in the scriptures that the world tempts us. Now I I think the big picture what Dord is getting at here is it's in an indirect way that the world understood is not what God made. John tells us very clear the world is everything that's not of the Father So every perversion of this world and its lust and its desires, its purposes, its aims, its endeavors, it's more or less really an It's an ethical term and it's referring to well, it's not referring to creation, although men build build very many perverse things. Temples are of the world, pagan idol temples and etc. things belong to the world or evil things made by men for evil purposes. So the world can still encompass physical things, but again the key is whatever's not of the Father is by definition then of the world. as it is turned from God, and that is what uh the w this is the world God loved, the world turned from him, the world darkened and hardened against him So this world maybe works on us in indirect ways as pressures upon us, as influences upon us, as making promises to us, of offering us protection and and uh and promotion and and glory and esteem and fame and so it can I think very much tempt us and and try us. And sometimes Jesus will personify the world and it'll say, right, the world hated me, right, it will also hate you. So the even the world gets personified at times. But so the world you might say in indirect ways tempts us and if we were left to our own resources we would be unable to do what we should do as Christians and turn upstream and swim the other way Because Paul tells us in Ephesians, it is the course of this world is marked out in an ungodly way, and they are filled with the Spirit of the Prince of the Power of the Air, the sons of disobedience, and they're what And as Christians we're going this way against it. And we can, if we are unaware, if we are not vigilant in prayers, vigilant in the means of grace, be caught up for time in those tides and washed with them until God graciously will see. rescues us because he is faithful. So that's the world. Satan definitely though in scripture is presented as one who Tim says. Now, have your Bibles with you. This will be one of those sermons where I will be going here and there and everywhere, looking at these passages and talk to us about the faithfulness of God Satan is presented here even in First Corinthians a little bit earlier in chapter seven in verse five Where we read Do not deprive one another, speaking to married couples, except perhaps by agreement for a limited time that you may devote yourselves to prayer But then come together again so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. So you set yourself up for temptation. Satan sees that's a prime example to get this couple to fall into sin when they keep themselves from sexual relationships, from the marriage bed So Satan is involved there, and you can imagine the heyday he had if you read the Reformers, brothels being set up, the horrible monastic vows and all these things. Evil, evil Satan sees this is a prime way. To get this sin of adultery in many things. We read in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3 and verse 5. For this reason, then I could bear it no longer. If you remember, Paul was chased out of here, Thessalonica. I sent to learn about your faith. I preached Christ to you. I want to know if you're still in the faith For fear that somehow the tempter of Satan had tempted you and our labor would be in vain. So prime opportunity for a tempter to come in is a church plant Where the seeds of faith are being sown, particularly in an area where there's persecution evangelism, and maybe the pastor or the elders have to get driven out Paul is very worried. These are weak Christians, unstable Christians, not yet been established in it. And that Satan looks upon that and sees, here's the time to come in and say That was if you read C. S. Lewis, he's really good about this and he talked about his own conversion. It's like basically you're gonna get converted if you if you get converted like him, there's God converts us many ways, there's no one example of it But be prepared if you get converted like that late in life for the Monday morning sort of what did I do strong on temptation to get you to undo everything you did at the revival meeting on Saturday or Friday or whatever happened to you Because Satan wants to come in your very young state, your very first believing, before you're established before you have been tried by God and established and confirmed, the state make you think that was really dumb. Why did I ever give my life to Christ? So Satan finds young Christians as a great opportunity, new converts. And Revelation And I forget uh the church. Oh yeah, it's the church of Smyrna. Jesus, this is wonderful. Jesus is writing to them, telling them what Satan's going to do to him. Behold the devil is about to throw some Jesus chapter 2, verse 10 Some of you into prison that you may be tested by God, tempted by Satan. For ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I'll give you the crown of life. You see that God will use Satan in the trying and testing of his people, and that's what Satan's doing there is testing these Christians and putting them in in prison. So Satan is definitely presented to us as an object of uh as a tempter and you can bet if you are a Christian and you are suffering from merely being a Christian, the devil's hand is in it. And if we were left to our own resources, it would be too much for us. But God is faithful. That will take us on to the main uh theses here uh that I want to talk to you about. God is faithful. What is God faithful to do? The canons sum it up in two ways, mercifully strengthening them and the grace once conferred on them. So God is faithful mercifully. Again, He's not doing it because you deserve it. He's not doing it because He owes it to you. He's doing it because He loves you unboundedly and He's merciful and He will help you in these times He will mercifully strengthen them in grace once conferred on them and powerfully preserving them in it to the end. So God strengthening and God preserving. I find a wonderful passage in the prophet Zechariah. God is promising here the redemption of his people, the return from Babylon It's prefigured a far greater return, the redemption of Christ. And we read in chapter 10, verse 6, I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph I will bring them back because I have compassion on them. Some will change that as mercy. And they shall be as though I had not rejected them. So you see, God promising to strengthen is redeemed People in the context there has been strengthened for warfare as they stand against your enemies. You are strengthened to fight against the world, the flesh, and the devil by Almighty God Holy warfare is in our living rooms, isn't it? Holy warfare is in our churches, isn't it? Holy warfare is in our neighbors, isn't it? God promises mercifully to strengthen us. And uh 1 Peter, Tom preached a wonderful sermon on us all the way back when he preached on 1 Peter, the beginning of it there, um, in chapter 1, and God promising to preserve us Where we read chapter one. Here we go, verse five. By God's power, you are being guarded through faith, that's through trust in him, the faithful God. For a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. You see, God by His power is guarding you, reserving you by that faith to reach the end, to reach that fullness of that salvation prepared for us in Jesus Christ Okay, so God is faithful to these. What I really was wanting to do then is I want to look at several passages that show us that God is faithful. And shows in the area that God has promised to be faithful to you in the Lord Jesus Christ. That kind of gives you a big large summary and a and a You know what God's going to do, He's going to strengthen you and He's going to preserve you. But let's now look at that in detail in these particular ways God has promised to strengthen us. These particular ways that God has promised to preserve us And fill it out. And we won't get through it all here, but I want to get through the first one. Um I've got five. God is faithful to us in his covenant, God is faithful to us in his promises, God is faithful to us in establishing us in Christ. God is faithful to us in the early thing. So these are all the places you find in Scripture where God declares, I am faithful in these ways to you Who trusted me? We'll probably just have time to look at the covenant tonight and we'll look at the other four next time. But before we even get to that, I want to ask the question, well what is faithfulness? Does the Bible talk about faithfulness and what that means that God is faithful? It does. Very wonderfully in Numbers chapter 23. We read that God says to his people, God is not a man. Praise God. That he should lie. That's one thing it means to be faithful. God doesn't tell lies. Or a son of man that he should change his mind, that his God was without repentance. He does not change, he doesn't have a change of heart. He doesn't say one thing, goes away, rethinks it, and changes mind, and has a different word for you when you come back to him. He's not a man. God does not lie, nor does God change his mind Another place saying the very same thing is in 1 Samuel chapter 15 in verse twenty nine and also the glory of Israel will not lie or have regret For he is not a man that he should have regret. Oh dear friends, you've probably tried God You probably tried him since you've been a Christian. He doesn't regret making you a Christian. He doesn't regret that again he has to see you not trust him. Yes, again, so you find broken cisterns that don't hold water, so you can satisfy your thirst. Rather, and inhibit God has no regrets in putting his love upon you. There's no regrets about it. That is a wonderful word. That's what it means that our God is faithful. He doesn't tell you lies. He doesn't change his mind. And he has no regrets about calling you into fellowship with his son, Jesus. No regrets about what he has done, and he has done it. No regrets. All right, let's look firstly at I hate to bring you all the way this far and not tell you one thing he's faithful in. So I'll tell you one thing he's faithful in. And we'll start here, and this will give you a think for this week. Turn to Isaiah 49. And if you know the book of Isaiah, I'm turning you to a servant psalm. And I'm turning to you a psalm about God's servant Jesus Christ. His Son, our Lord. This is a wonderful servant Psalm because the first six verses tell us about what we've been seeing as we've been going through the Gospel of Mark. He came, he preached, he did, and they didn't believe. But God says to his servant, beginning there in verse 6. It is too light a thing. Now you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel. I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. Now see then here You think it might be, we don't generally think maybe Jesus got discouraged. And the psalm presents here in verse 7, he was a bit discouraged by this But look at what the faithful father says to his faithful son and servant Jesus. Look in verse 7. Thus says the Lord. the Redeemer of Israel and his holy one. Look who he's saying to. Saying to one deeply despised. Abhorred by the nation, the nation of Israel, the servant of rulers. What does he say to them? Kings shall see. Kings. The richest, wealthiest, famous kings. Shall see. Kings shall see and arrive. Kings don't get off the thrones, but for nobody. Kings. He tells the his deeply despised servant. Kings will arise, princes, and they shall prostrate themselves Because of the Lord who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you. God the Father chose Jesus to be his servant. And he is faithful to his servant. That he will not be merely a despised, deeply despised servant, an abhorred servant. or a servant of rulers, but he promises kings will come and prostrate themselves before you God is saying, I am going to work a work of grace in these Gentile nations, in their hearts, and their people. And they are going to come, my servant Jesus, and they're going to fall before you and prostrate themselves. Have you ever prostrated yourself in your prayer closet before Jesus? Have you ever fallen on your face, ever in your life, before King Jesus? So I'm going to leave you there tonight because this this is really the head of our salvation. This is the fount of it. What we're talking about here is the covenant of redemption. I hope that's a term familiar to everybody here. If not Talk to Elder Huckabee, he's very well read up on it. Come talk to myself and somewhat. This is a glorious teaching of Scripture. We're talking about the covenant of the triumph God that pact of salvation, that plan in eternity past. That God had promised to give a people to his son to redeem them. And here you see in the pages of Scripture of God the Father saying he's the faithful one to Jesus You see, then Jesus as a man, he became a real man. As God the Son, he doesn't need faith. He's not talking in his eternal deity here, he's talking as the God man. Who became a man is now living like you and I are called to live, merely upon the promises of God, that he would do this for him. This is the fount of our salvation God's faithfulness first and foremost to his son and servant Jesus. And you and I have come to know him and are being preserved by him in his grace as we persevere under it. Towards our salvation. So think about that this week. First and foremost, know and understand before God is faithful to you, which he is. is faithful to his son and servant Jesus. And that's why you have come to know him and I pray, prostrate yourself before him. So God is, or the preservation of the saints, beloved rests solely upon God's faithfulness. I'll give you three things of application. Therefore, do not fear in dwelling sin or trials, but trust in God and his provision of grace by Jesus Christ. Don't fear these indwellings and don't fear these trials as if they're too much, but trust in the provision of grace by God. Find rest in your souls that what God has begun, He will finish it. When is the last time you've just rested on that? Sanctification is not first and foremost in your hands. Rest. Rest. God will finish it. Your holiness, you're not being saved by your holiness. You're being saved merely by the merits of Jesus Christ, merely by the love of God and his promise. Find rest, dear people of God. God's going to finish this. And thirdly, let God's promise of his grace make us to be prayerful for ourselves, prayerful for one another, prayerful of all the saints worldwide. And pray for this grace for them as they go through and persevere in their Christian life. God promises that grace, so let us be prayerful about it. Amen.