The reading of God's Word, we'll read in Mark chapter 4, verses 14 through 25. Mark chapter 4 beginning at verse 14. Hear the word of the Lord. And this is Jesus making known the parable of the sower. The sower sows the word. And they are the ones along the path, or these are the ones along the path. Where the word is sown. When they hear Satan immediately comes and takes away the word that is sown in them. And these are the ones sown on rocky ground. The ones who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it of joy, and they have no root in themselves but endure for a while. Then, when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately they fall away. And others are the ones sown among thorns. They are those who hear the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. For those that were sown on the good soil are the ones who hear the word and accept it and bear fruit, thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold. And he said to them, Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket, or under a bed, and not on a stem? For nothing is hidden except to be made manifest. Nor is anything secret except to come to light. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. And he said to them, Pay attention to what you hear. With the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you. For to the one who has more will be given. And from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. This is the word of the Lord. Our confessional reading. It's Article 17, God's Use of Means and Regeneration. This will be the fifth sermon on this topic, and I believe to be the last. Our confessional reading, Article 17, God's use of means in regeneration. It reads: just as the almighty work of God by which he brings forth and sustains our natural life Does not rule out but requires the use of means by which God, according to his infinite wisdom and goodness, has wished to exercise his power. So also the aforementioned supernatural work of God, by which He regenerates us, in no way rules out or cancels the use of the gospel. Which God in His great wisdom has appointed to be the seed of regeneration and the food of the soul. For this reason, the apostles and the teachers who followed them taught the people in a godly manner about this grace of God. to give him the glory and to humble all pride, and yet did not neglect, meanwhile, to keep the people by means of the holy admonitions of the gospel. Under the administration of the Word, the sacraments and discipline. So even today, it is out of the question that the teachers or those taught in the church. should presume to test God by separating what he in his good pleasure has wished to be closely joined together. For grace is bestowed through admonitions, and the more readily we perform our duty, the more lustrious the benefit of God working in us usually is and the better his work advances. To him alone, both for the means and for their saving fruit and effectiveness, all glory is owed forever. Amen. What we're going to look at tonight, beloved, is this second the last sentence. We last time looked at grace is bestowed through admonitions. Tonight we're going to look at this sentence That the more readily we perform our duty, the more lustrious the benefit of God working in us usually is, and the better His work advances. Now, this whole head of doctrine has been about God's supernatural work of regeneration, just as much as it was God and God alone who created the heavens and the earth and everything in it So much as a God and God alone who works to regenerate human beings, that is, make a new creation in Jesus Christ. And yet That doesn't mean we don't need to use the means he's appointed to bring about, and that is the gospel And that has been a point. The reason Dort is having to write on this, because it has been a point in the history of Reformed churches. Not that Reformed churches don't believe in the eusemines But those who don't like Reformed churches and don't understand the teaching of Reformed churches and like to characterize Reformed churches think, oh, those hyper-Calvinists, they'll just sit back and don't need to do anything. They don't need to go share the gospel They don't need to read God's Word. They don't need to worship. The sacraments are meaningless. That's what they think the doctrines of grace mean. And Dorda's saying emphatically to that, no. And we began by looking at um And the reason being is they they characterize the power of God. Even actually, though, funny as it is In the Reformed churches, particularly teaching in the sacrament, in the debate between Zwingli and Calvin and others, it was this point of power And use the means that was at play there. And Zwingli really strongly held to the power of God, rightly so, and thought, how can God use water? How can God use bread or do anything, right? Use means To regenerate or do anything. And so there's a strong emphasis, and as we look through this doctrine, the scripture is very strong on who regenerates and who's doing it, and it being the alone work of God. But the thing we can't do with our high doctrine of sovereignty, which is biblical and right, is to then err Or think then that somehow God's power is being limited or controlled through the ordained and appointed means He's given. His word, his sacraments, and church discipline. And so that's why we've been spending so long on it, and that's why it ends this doctrine on regeneration and Dort's making very clear and I think very helpfully by using that analogy from creation, because I remind you. You all of you sleep, all of you eat, and all of you clothe yourself to live here on this earth. Just as much as in our, you might say, the old creation, the first creation, God uses means in his goodness and his wisdom, in his power to uphold them. So in the new creation, God equally uses means, the ministry of the word and sacraments and discipline, to work his saving sovereign grace in us. And therefore we saw through the scriptures, that's why the apostles admonish the members of the church do not Withhold themselves from these means of grace? To not continue using them? Nobody preached sovereignty like Paul, like Peter, like any of the apostles. I get it from Jesus' lips Nothing is possible with man, but everything's possible with God. And yet, they still said, you guys need to stay under the ministry of the word. You still need to stay in the fellowship. There's still a use and purpose of these means, even though it is God who gives the growth, as Paul reminds the church in Corinth. Or I sowed Paulus waters and God gives the growth. There still has to be a sowing, there still has to be a watering for God to give the growth, ordinarily right, through these means. That's what we've been looking at. And what the argument is really being made is that we can't separate these then. We should never seek to separate what God has put together. His grace And the means of his working that grace in us. And the first example or proof of that we looked at last time was that Grace is bestowed through admonitions. And we looked at 1 and 2 Corinthians, and really 2 Corinthians, where Paul is writing in reaction to the first letter, 1 Corinthians, he wrote And rejoicing at the good report that he heard back from Titus, that that letter of 1 Corinthians, that sorrowing letter, had worked such an amazing grace in their hearts and these were zealous, godly people ready to make right all the wrong that they were doing and living in their slack Christian lives. Pretty much all of 1 Corinthians is one big admonition, one big reproof in many ways. Yes, there's encouragement there, but it's a sorrowing letter. And you read 2 Corinthians and you see, wow, God was very pleased to work the grace of repentance in the hearts of the members of that church who needed it. to get that church back on its feet. Well today then we're going to look at the second and final reason Dorr gives us why we should never tear these apart And that's this teaching that the more readily we perform our duty, the more lustrious the benefit of God working in us usually is, and the better his work advances. Now, I know some of these words may be unfamiliar in language we're not used to, so let me walk you through these words real quick to try to make it clear and understood to us Uh readily, we don't use a lot, that word just means willingly or eager. So the more willingly or the more eager we know what it is to be eager to do something, to want to do it, to desire to do it, to put ourselves into it, to seek it. So the more willingly, the more eagerly we perform our duty. Duty is not a word used a lot today, but this word means obligatory service or that which ought to be done. So the more readily we do our obligatory service, more readily we do or willingly do that which ought to be done, the more lustrous or shining is what that word. Lustrous means shining. And so I think what the idea of saying the more evident or more seen This work or the benefit, a benefit is an advantage or helpful actions, the more seen is God helpful action, his working in us, usually is, and the better his work, right, of making us like Jesus. That's that great work of regeneration, of making us again in his image, in the image of his Son, Jesus Christ. The more Uh, the more that work advances. Let me see if I can put it together with what Dort is saying is the more willingly or eagerly we do what God requires of us The more evident or apparent the helpful action of God working in us usually is, and the better his work of remaking us into the image of his son advances. The point they're trying to make there is that if I could summarize it to you this way, there is a match, generally speaking, generally so, there is a match between doing our duty And the work of God seen and advancing in us. But generally, usually the case is that there is a match between our doing our duty. And the work of God seen that is seen around to others, that they notice it and say, wow, I can see you really growing in grace. That work is seen in us and advances. Now I'm going to prove that to you. We're going to look at some biblical passages and talk some more about it. But before I do, I want to hone down real quick on this word duty. I already told you that a duty is obligatory service or something that which ought to be done. Well, what is our duty? Our duty is the duty belonging to us, namely what God requires of us. Now that may be ringing some bells if you've been brought up in the shorter catechism Question 3 asked the question: what does Scripture principally teach us? What we're to believe about God, and what duty God requires of man And question 39 then asks, well, what does God require of us? What is the duty that God does require of human beings? And that is obedience to his revealed will. And then the catechism goes on from there, from question 39 to 107. expounding upon God's revealed will and what that is for us. And it breaks down really into three parts. It begins with its exposition of the Ten Commandments that God's revealed will for us is that we would keep His holy law. We would obey His commandments. That's our duty. to keep God's holy law, obey his commandments. It asks the question why? Because it says God is not only our creator, but our redeemer. By the very fact we've been purchased out from the power of sin, it is obligatory to us then to serve our Lord Jesus Christ and obey him and keep his holy law So our duty first is the keeping of the Ten Commandments, and then in question 44 and the number after that, it um tells us, what must man do to be saved? God Desires all men everywhere to be saved. Paul tells the pagans in Athens, the Dereophagus, that God commands all men everywhere to repent. And he is sending his servants with that message into the whole world to let you know the God you don't know, but the God who holds you every day, his will for you is to repent Because he has given you the gospel of his son, Jesus Christ, as the atoning sacrifice for your sins, and he promises for all who believe in him never to treat you as your sins deserve. God would never be telling people to repent if God was not willing to put their sins away and God had not put their sins away in the death of his son, Jesus Christ. The gospel is what motivates the message of repentance. That there is still time. There is still opportunity. So God requires of us to keep his commandments. God requires of us faith. God requires of us repentance. And God requires us the diligent use of his means of grace if we're to be saved. Faith, repentance, and the diligent use of his means of grace if we're to be saved. And thirdly, what ends the catechism, prayer, as it ends in the exposition of the Lord's Prayer. God requires of us, obviously, prayer, because he has given us the spirit of adoption, which cries to him, Abba, Father. It is not Possible to get through this life without prayer, and it is sinful and against God's will to seek to solve every problem on your own strength To deal with everything under your own power? Do you think that you are the wise, strong one, all-knowing, and can do it all? And so prayer God requires of us. So that is, you might say it's summarized like this. God's duty towards man requires of us. Is his command to love, right? We know that the Ten Commandments can be boiled down to one word. Love with two objects. God And man, what is the great duty God requires of us in every situation, no matter how uncomfortable it is for you, no matter what you don't want to do it, no matter what you don't like that person, no matter how tired and cranky and groggy you are? Love. God requires love. God requires believing the gospel. And God requires prayer. Faith, you might say hope, and love. You know, God requires it. I just wanted that to be clear. Now God adds other particular duties or particular duties if you are a father, if you're a mother. If you're a husband, if you're a wife, if you're an ordained man in the church, the communion of the saints encouraged the reading of chapter 26. six and our confession of faith, which opens up the duties we have as members of Christ's Church and the communion of saints. So there are other duties that you need to know as Christian. And you may be thinking for a moment, wow, that is overwhelming to me. All of these duties, and God requires so much. And the answer is yes, He does. Now thank the Lord that your salvation doesn't stand. Your standing isn't on the keeping of your duties But your salvation is found in the keeping of your duty. What do I mean by that? You have been saved. You've been brought out for being sons of disobedience by God's grace. washed clean, given a new heart, given a new status as God's children, set apart and Jesus Christ filled with his Spirit, that you might begin to keep your duties, which as sinners we throw off and say No way, I don't have time for, I've got my other life to live. So, your salvation does not stand on the keeping of your duties, but you might say your salvation is found. In the keeping of duties. Philippians 2. After he preaches that everybody should do what? What is God's will? Confess Jesus as Lord. Bend the knee. What does Paul say? Therefore, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. What does he mean? Work out your confession of Christ as Lord in your life Obeying him in everything with fear and trembling. That's what it is to be in a saved state. To stop thinking you're God. And to believe and confess Jesus Christ as your God and King and begin the battle? the struggle, the glorious overcoming, baptized life in Christ, of learning more and more obedience, becoming more and more dutiful, more and more trustworthy as God's redeemed and renewed image bearer. I've hit that hard because this whole thing stands upon that the more readily we do these duties, the more readily we do these things that God requires of us Generally speaking, the more seen in us the benefit of God working on us is, as well as that work in us advances. And surely That is what we desire for ourselves. That's what we desire for those we love. That's what we desire for this church. That the work of God's grace should be more and more evident in every member here And the work of God's grace would more and more advance in every member here. Because I think as you all are well, and I could use Paul's language again in Philippians, if there's any comfort in Christ, any consolation of the Spirit, and you all know what it's like to be with really holy people and Christ-like people that are warm They're loving, they're forgiving, they're patient, they're honest, they're wise. It's a really great thing. And you may know what it's like to be with young and immature Christians and who that word is just beginning in. It's a struggle. It's tiresome. You've got to do something. Now, I'm not complaining. Don't hear Pastor Young complain. Don't hear us say we don't do that. Don't hear so we have grace with him. I'm simply saying for the happiness of the church our happiness together. We want this work to advance in us. And he wanted to go, and I love what they're saying here, and it's meant to encourage you with this wonderful truth I'm going to show it to you in scriptures wonderful truth that truly and generally speaking you will see the work of God's grace advance in you and others will see it the more readily and willingly you perform God's duty. Okay. Let me illustrate it real quick to you Do you expect to meet a bright and advancing exemplar of Christ in a Christian who neglects to walk in God's ways? who neglects to exercise faith in Christ, who neglects to hate sin and turn from it, who neglects to listen to, study and meditate upon God's Word, who neglects the ministry of the Word and Sacraments And finally who directs prayer, you expect to see some shining example of God and his grace in such an individual? No. I hope the answer is resolutely no I think again what Dort is sort of presenting here is somewhat of a common sense argument, or as they've been showing, really an argument from nature and illustrating the way God uses means to keep us going Just as in creation, right, whoever neglects the means of sustaining life, right? Diet and exercise, or does things positively harmful to human life, drugs Alcohol, abuse, abusing alcohol, smoking will hardly find life shining in them So also in the new life and the new creation, right, those who make use of God's grace through his means can expect usually to see his work shining in them and advancing in maturity, right? Christ's likeness. And what the Bible calls this advancing in glory here is found in 2 Corinthians 3. 18, or the Bible calls this idea of becoming more like Christ, advancing in glory. Second Corinthians three eighteen, but we are with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord, right? From glory to glory, advancing in that glory as we behold Jesus Christ uh by faith now. Right? The same glorious Lord is the Lord we know by faith Is the same glorious Lord we will see by sight. And we are be we behold them even now, and in the presence of them are changed from one degree to the next. Beloved, the means of grace are what keep us before the Lord of glory, in whose presence we're changed. You saw that in 2 Corinthians 3. We behold him and are changed into his image. And it is the purpose of the means of grace to keep us before this Lord of glory. In whose presence we're changed. St. Augustine said that Scripture is where we behold God's face now. Scripture is where we behold God's face Now, I love the biblical teaching of perfection. It doesn't happen here, because it can't happen until you see him. By verse John 3, it's when we see him, we'll be like him. When you behold that glory, you're going to perfectly reflect it. It's beholding God. It is in the presence of God we're changed. And it's the point of the means of grace to keep us before that God that we might be changed into his image. Richard Foster said the very same thing. Some of you may know his best-selling books, Celebration of Discipline. He speaks about these spiritual disciplines as the way we get ourselves before Jesus to be changed in his presence. Don't find Bible study Prayer, whether it's corporate, private, the means of grace of worship as something, you've got to check off your list, but say, this is what God's appointed for me to get before Him and in His presence to be changed But that changes how you see these means of grace, isn't it? I think it's changed wonder for me to understand the spiritual disciplines, not as uh some legal thing we put on ourselves and overly burn burden ourselves. But as the God-appointed way for you and I to bring ourselves before Him, that we may behold Him, And be changed into his image and advance from one degree of glory to the next Now I said I would show you to you in a number of places. First place I'll mention to you briefly here in Mark 4. Notice what Jesus says in verse 24. Pay attention to what you hear. Why? Because with what measure you use it, it will be measured to you. If you are a diligent student of God's Word and study and listen to what Jesus is saying and apply it to your life, it is going to be paid back to you, Jesus said. And notice what he says beyond that. And still more will be added to you. Now, there is that, I think there's a meaning and application here in this life, and obviously there is something to come too. When he speaks about storing up treasures, he speaks about our advancement to other roles and duties and places. But even in this life, you hear from our Lord Himself. Pay attention to what you hear. With the measure you use, it will be measured to you. And still more will be added to you. Another place, if you want to follow with me, you can turn to 2 Timothy. Second Timothy chapter two, and verse twenty and twenty-one, Second Timothy two twenty and twenty-one, Paul is encouraging Timothy, a young minister in his in his young ministry. And he says to Timothy, Now Timothy in a great house, and he's referring here to the church, he's likening church to a great house, a big house. Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use, some for dishonorable Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use. set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. You see what he's saying there? Have you ever been into a great house? Your chamber pots aren't generally made out of silver and gold, but Often they were made out of earthenware because they were tossed out the window and left to broke and you didn't you just got another one. But you would serve up tea in nice polished silver or display your latest pies on a golden you know you get the point that there are different uses for different vessels in a great house and Paul's applying this to the church Paul's applying this to Timothy, telling Timothy, what you need to do is cleanse yourself. He gives an idea of what he means there in 22. Get rid of youthful passions. Pursue righteousness, that is God's ways, God's law, God's will. Pursue faith. Pursue what it is to trust yourself entirely to God. And trust in him as one who loves you and cares for you and has assured it to you in the gift of his son, Jesus Christ. Pursue love, pursue peace, or you get this ideal. You pursue these things, uh Timothy. You cleanse yourself from these dishonorable things. You're gonna be a vessel in God's house for honorable you set apart, you're gonna be seen. You're going to be someone set apart for a public, useful ministry. That may not always mean an ordained office in the church. It could be something else or another ministry, but you're going to be seen, you're going to be recognized As somebody God has set apart for work. You're going to be ready for the Lord Jesus Christ to be used by the Master for every good work. Again, Paul would hardly tell Timothy to cleanse yourself, to be diligent in your duties as a Christian. If Paul wasn't convinced that the work of God's grace is going to be advanced in us, it's going to be seen in us, it's going to pay off, and we're going to be very serviceful and useful to our Master Jesus Christ in his house, the church, his kingdom. Another place if you want to turn your Bibles to Hebrew Hebrews chapter 5, Hebrews 5 at uh verse 11 and 11 through 14 that we read About this, we have much to say, Melchizedek's priesthood, and it is hard to explain since you have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food, for everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since he is a child. But solid food is for the mature, for those who have the powers of discernment, trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil. What what Paul is saying here, something's happened with these Christians, right? They stalled out. They should have been advancing. Paul laid the foundation of the principles of the doctrine of Christ They become so deficient in the practice of those that they're unable to even take the milk of the gospel. That's what the word of righteousness means there. You're unskilled And the word of that imputed righteousness which is the foundation of the Christian life. If you don't understand the basic principles of what God has done in the gospel and have that foundation laid in your life You can't build on the work of Christ in you then, right? The gospel is both the work of Christ for us, what he has done for our salvation, but also the work of Christ in us. And if you are unskilled in the word of the gospel, if you don't have that foundation laid short in your life, then you're just like a child, right? There's a problem when our children don't advance from milk to solid food That's a rested development. There's an issue there. In the Christian life, you are either progressing or you're degressing. There's no just getting to a place and comfortably resting there. Because you either stop listening for whatever circumstances may be going on in your life or things you're distracted by, whatever hardships, whatever it may be But you're turning away from God's Word, you're turning away from your duties, and it's having an impact that you're at a place now you can't even be taught and instructed in the things in God's Word. So that's a another place. I'll give you a final one if you're not convinced, and I really do want you to be convinced, that it truly will pay off in your life, generally speaking, brothers and sisters, that as you work. As you do your duties, God shall match that with the work of his grace in your heart. Philippians chapter 3 at verse 12, we read from Paul, not that I have already obtained this, I'm ready perfect. But I press on to make it my own. But I press on. I'm seeking to advance because Christ Jesus has made me his own Brothers, I do not consider I've made it my own, but one thing I do, I forget what lies behind, and I strain forward to what lies ahead. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. You can get his point in some of you maybe also maybe third Paul's words, I worked harder than anybody else by God's grace that He's given to me Paul is an example, right, of someone whom the work of God's grace is evident and seen in his life. And as Paul says in his own admission, I strive by these same ways to advance and to go on for what I have been laid a hold of. I hope We all know and understand Christ has grabbed a hold of you for a purpose. Christ is doing something to you. And Christ wants you to know that generally speaking, There is a match between your doing of your duties as they come from the Lord Jesus, He is the Lord of heaven and earth, and that work, that benefit of God working in us by His Spirit is as it's seen in the church. And as that work advances in you, and you more and more obtain, more and more obtain in your life. What Christ has laid hold of you for. Now I said that this doctrine is usually the case, right? But not always. Now I'm not going to get into all the reasons. I don't know them all. Uh Reverend Tyson may know he's got much more experience in the gospel in doing these kinds of things. I appreciate the wisdom of the canon and dorth of acknowledging that this is generally the case. You may be in a season and period, period of your life where you know that hey, you are sincerely obeying Christ, you are diligent in these use of means, you are diligent in these disciplines, you disciplined your life, and you use these And you may see stagnation. You may even fret and think you're seeing decline. So generally speaking, this is so, but I will give you, at least I'm confident I can give you this much counsel Even if you don't see that being matched and you're not seeing the growth that you want to see, or maybe you're s maybe it's other people in the church you're seeing it, you've given them good things to read, you've prayed for them, you've counseled them Yeah, I can see elders in this position, right? We want the children to grow abundance and you're and you're looking and you're not seeing it. Still the encouragement is no matter what God may do in the working of that grace, our responsibility is always to do our duty. Even if you're thinking, ah, these prayers, this Bible reading, this study, I've just not seen the growth and change. I think I've told you before J. C. Ryle once said, you know, why do people stop reading their Bibles? Two reasons. They either don't understand it or they don't see it making an impact in their lives. Your duty is still to search out the scriptures to know the will of God and to apply it and obey it in your lives. So whether you see it or not, and now I'm convinced, and I hope I've convinced you and encouraged you that you will, by God's grace, generally see this. But even if you don't It's still your duty, still your responsibility as Christians to do your duty. Let me speak a word to the young men here. Young men, you should be desiring Offices in Christ's church. You should be desiring to do what Paul says and lead as godly a life as you possibly can. Apply all the means of grace that you may be a fit vessel in Christ's church and serve an office. You should be seeking the office. So God will call you if you're there, but it doesn't mean you shouldn't be seeking it. How many times in church? Oftentimes Just not enough qualified people. And you've got to borrow from another session. Then it takes time. Start now. If you want help with that encouragement, knock on my door, please. Talk to the other elders. Do all we can to encourage your young men. You young women, I don't see any we've got really young women here, little young, but I get it, but young women Unmarried women, you should be desiring to be the spouse of office bearers. Is everybody going to bear office? Remember, everybody's got that fourth office of being a Christian. Is everybody gonna serve in in one of the three offices? No. But you should be desiring it. You should be desiring in Christ's church and saying, You by your grace have redeemed me from the pit. You have given me the means of your grace by which I can be of most service to you. And you should be desiring and praying and working towards that end that we all may have God's grace seen in us and advancing in us for the sake of the Lord Jesus Christ and his great house. So, beloved If you stop using these means of grace, continue using them. If you are using them, may you continue on them. And may you establish the discipline of communing with your God through these appointed me. And you establish that discipline Of making time in your lives to commune with God. Finally, I'll leave you with this thought. It'll be a whole other sermon. I'll just plant the seed in your mind. If God uses means, beloved, he uses you and he uses me. Right? This is kind of the whole point of the means. The means he uses require human beings. If God uses means, beloved, he uses you. It uses me. Let us put ourselves at our Master's disposal to be used by Him. You want to see God do a work of grace? Pray, read, preach, talk about Jesus. Root out sin in your life. If God uses means, He uses you, He uses me. And may God bless his means to everyone here. Amen.