We're going to read together three places from the New Testament. We're going to start with 1 John chapter 5 and read verses 16 through 18. So 1 John 5, beginning at verse 16. Hear the word of the Lord. If anyone sees his brother committing a sin, not leading to death, He shall ask, and God will give him life to those who commit sins that do not lead to death. There is sin that leads to death. I do not say that one should pray for that. All wrongdoing is sin But there is sin that does not lead to death. We know that everyone who has been born of God. does not keep on sinning, but he who was born of God protects himself, and the evil one does not touch him And then turn, if you will, to 1 Peter 1, verses 22 to 25 1 Peter chapter 1, beginning at verse 22 to verse 25. Hear the word of the Lord Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love Love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Since you have been born again not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God. For all flesh is like grass and all its glory, like the flower of grass. The grass withers and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good news that was preached to you. And then turn to the gospel according to John in chapter 17. And we'll read a bit of Jesus' prayer beginning at verse 9 to verse 20. John chapter 17 beginning at verse 9. Hear the word of the Lord. I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me. For they are yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine And I am glorified in them. And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world. And I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have gardened them, and not one of them has been lost except the Son of Destruction. That the scripture might be fulfilled. But now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the womb. Sanctify them in the truth. The word is the truth. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world. And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. This is the word of the Lord. Our confessional reading tonight comes from head five in the Canaan's Ador. We'll read articles six, seven, and eight together. Article six, uh, seven and eight from the Canons of Dorp. That's what we'll be looking at tonight. Here beginning at Article 6, God's saving intervention. For God who is rich in mercy, according to his unchangeable purpose of election, does not take his Holy Spirit from his own completely, even when they fall grievously Neither does he let them fall down so far that they forfeit the grace of adoption and the state of justification, or commit the sin which leads to death, the sin against the Holy Spirit and plunge themselves entirely forsaken by him into eternal ruin. For in the first place God preserves in those saints, when they fall, his imperishable seed, from which they have been born again. lest it perish or be dislodged. Secondly, by His Word and Spirit He certainly and effectively renews them to repentance, so that they have a heartfelt and godly sorrow for the sins they have committed. Seek and obtain through faith and with a contrite heart forgiveness in the blood of the mediator. Experience again the grace of a reconciled God Through faith adore His mercies, and from then on more eagerly work out their own salvation with fear and trembling So, it is not by their own merits or strength, but by God's undeserved mercy, that they neither forfeit faith and grace totally, nor remain in their downfalls to the end and are lost With respect to themselves, this not only easily could happen, but also undoubtedly would happen. But with respect to God, it cannot possibly happen. Since his plan cannot be changed, his promise cannot fail, the calling according to his purpose cannot be revoked. The merits of Christ as well as his interceding and preserving cannot be nullified and the sealing of the Holy Spirit can neither be invalidated nor wiped out So that's the teaching we're going to look at tonight from God's Word as the canons adored again. So helpfully lay it out for us. And as I hope as you saw uh did it so wonderfully biblically, right? Because almost some of these are just copying pasting biblical passages uh for their statement. And that's a that's one of the things I want to start by by saying that's one thing that struck me in the preparation of the sermon this week I won't go into all the details because the the time constraint. There's much to be said about these. If you really want to study and probably get the most out of the canons of door Uh you really also need to study in detail the rejections of errors and the Armenian position. I I'll bring them in when they when they come in, but I know for some of us it's this and I don't want to do this to everybody, but I want to get the the positive teaching. Uh but one of the things that just really stood out to me in the preparation this week of the sermon, as you're looking at those positions and seeing the ways the Reformed Church refute those and rebut them It's just plain exegesis of God's word. The simple opening up of Scripture and resting there. So just hope they'll come through tonight and you'll you'll see that about what we preach and teach is just the plain Exposition of God's Word that teaches us that God is the author of our salvation. The plan of God is secure. He will bring us to that everlasting salvation, even when we, for whatever silly, sinful reason we turn ourselves from him and do fall into sin as as we've been looking at. I was so struck by that William Cowper him I just want to read to you line two, because this is what we're going to do tonight. In holy contemplation we sweetly then pursue the theme of God's salvation, right? And find it ever new. One of the things to be honest, you know, you struggle with sometimes in going over this like And look at Reverend Tyson, he's been preaching these things for many years and and our elders too. The steam of God's salvation isn't new to them But yet it becomes everything when we look at it again. I was refreshed again in my study with this thing I sometimes say is just you're not gonna hear I hope anything new tonight But hopefully you'll hear it anew again as we refresh ourselves and study this theme of God's salvation to find it again, ever new and set free from present sorrow we cheerfully can say. Let the unknown tomorrow bring with it what it may, because God is for us. That's what we're gonna hear again tonight. Uh that's what I'll close with exhorting you again tonight is just living in the truth that God is so wonderfully, completely, entirely for us in Jesus Christ. Tell you right now, so I hope we'll I don't have to end on a surprise. I hope you just go away tonight loving your God more and maybe saying it to yourself. How often do we say in our day, God loves me? But say it more often to Isahuz it's true. Say Jesus loves me It's out of that foundation that yes, God loves me. Jesus loves me. That I can go on and go about my day. draw near to my God. And He loves me, as Paul's going to remind us tonight, when I was an ungodly and pious sinner I can surely be certain now that he's awakened me to my sinful state and I'm aware of it and struggle with it That I shouldn't think that he all of a sudden loves me last now and never be a doubtful thing when he declares to me, I loved you when you were a sinner. So I just hope this sermon refreshes us again in this theme of God's salvation of who our God is and who he is for us and Jesus Christ. And this really gets at the heart here of this article of refuting Many of the errors of the Armenian position as you'll see here Armenian position teaches you can lose your salvation. Arminian position teaches that you can actually lose your regeneration, but then you can be regenerated again and then you could lose it again and then you could be regenerated again. You can fall from justification. You start wondering, well, did I justify myself? Did God justify me? Does he change his mind when he declares unjust in Christ? So it's just Stunning and I don't and I don't know how they get into this. Uh I'm led to understand a little bit again is just trying to overthink it. Bringing in too much of philosophy. I don't mean to say we shouldn't understand. My point is not sticking closely to Scripture and really ultimately wanting to have a salvation that rests upon our will and our doing, rather than upon God first and God only, and what He's done for us and is doing. I guess that's really the the basis of what it what it is As we look at these tonight, I want to build up the way they build up with 8, 7, and 6. As I said, as much as this is new, I I won't belabor too many points too much, maybe a little bit in Article 6 Uh but the foundation here is Article 8. So tonight we're going to look really at three things that God does for his saints. God preserves them, God renews them to repentance, and God intervenes to stop their sinning. Uh the cut so the logic then really of these articles is as Dort's put them together is starting from eight up to six And the logic of something like this, that God preserves his own, his called ones, his chosen ones, his faithful ones, and since he preserves his own, then he renews them to repentance when they fall into sin. Sin, it's part of his preservation of us. Even when we fall into sin, he will renew us to repentance. And since he renews his own to repentance, then he intervenes right to stop their headlong fall into sin. Contra what Arminian position says that even regenerate true believers can sin the sin un to death and can fall from grace and lose their salvation. The reform position is, again, starting from the foundation, and we'll look at that, that God certainly preserves his own. That means he's going to renew them to repentance when they fall into sin. And that means that then he intervenes so they don't commit those sins. And he stops their headlong fall into sin. So that's the logic and argument here. Let's start with Article 8. If you want to I'll be looking at different passages I'm sure familiar to you but Romans 8 obviously is a very great place to go so if you want to turn to Romans 8 you can go there Uh the first thing this article is teaching us, and I'll just remind you as you know that preservation is the mercy of God. And this right really should be obvious to us since we're talking about God recovering his children from sin So clearly this is something he's doing in his mercy and not giving us what our sins deserve. So this is a mercy of God that God would intervene and and renew us and restore us to repentance Uh left to ourselves, right, we'd be lost. That's really a scary thought, isn't it? But a sobering one. If God just left us to make our way to heaven, we'd all be like Dante in the middle of my life, lost in those woods with no hope of getting out. But, thanks to God, right? This is strong language, it's impossible for his own to be lost. Is that your understanding God's people of God's word? Are you convinced that it is impossible for God's elect, God's people to be lost. Is that uh does that sound too strong? Or are you convinced that this is the view of the Bible that it is impossible? And if you were to assert that and say, well, it is impossible, and someone said, Well, tell me why is it impossible? Why would you, what answer would you give that here's why it's impossible for God to lose one of his own people? And uh Dork gives us uh its answer, and this is the biblical answer, this is the gospel, this is the covenant of grace And it talks about the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. It begins with, here's why it is impossible for God's, one of God's own people, to be lost. And that is because of the Father's plan. It says here, God's plan cannot be changed, the Father's promise cannot fail. And the calling according to his purpose cannot be revoked. Let's talk about God's plan real quick. If you look at Romans 829 For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. Now notice what comes next. In order that. language bringing out well what's there in the grammar and the Greek and our English grammar of showing purpose, meaning God has a plan. God had a plan. God has predestined us to be conformed to the image of his Son. Why? In order that he, his son, Jesus, might be the firstborn among many brothers. What a wonderful plan. Here then you have God's made known to you. Here's his plan. He's going to make sure Jesus has a lot of brothers. That's God's plan. To make sure that Jesus isn't the only child in the new heavens and new earth, but that he would have many brothers there with him. That's God's plan. You can see it right there, Romans 8 uh 29. God predestined those whom he foreknew. Why? In order that as soon as you start talking about a purpose, right, you're talking about a plan. God had a plan. Here's his plan. This is what he's going to do God can't change his plan, right? To speak that God's going to change his plan, and God says, my plans can't change. My plans will come to pass. So it rests here upon God's plan? Uh it rests upon God's promise, and this gets us into a big realm. Um, but the promise, at least I want to addressed to you that I think is the fundamental one is Isaiah 5310. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him, he has put him to grief When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring. He shall prolong his days The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. We're talking about the promise that the Father made to the Son, the covenant of redemption, that when Jesus would make his soul an offering for guilt, he would have a seed. And that's really the way the Bible and the reform position leads us to think about ourselves. If you're a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, you're his feet of suffering. Your faith and perseverance comes from His cross. It comes from God's election and it comes from Jesus' cross and dying for you, that he poured out his soul for you and therefore you are his seed. So that's the promise again there, to think that God would make a promise to his son And not fulfill his promise, that cannot happen. And then finally talks about calling. We can see that there again in Romans 8. 28. Many of us know, and we know Yeah, for those who love God, all things work together, for those who are called according to his purpose, right? We may call people and change our minds. God does not call people and change his mind or change his purpose for them as the text says. The first layer of why it's impossible for God's own to be lost, it's because of the plan that the Father has made to give his son many brethren And that's just one way it's said in Scripture. The promise that the Father made to Jesus that when he would pour out his make his soul an offering for guilt, he would see his seed. He would have a people There would be a holy people consequent of his sufferings. And we know those retrograde too in the Old Testament or retroactive as well. And also in God's calling. God has called us, not according to your purpose. God has called you according to his purpose. And again, I forget the passage somewhere in Isaiah. My purposes will stand, right? So God's purposes will stand in your calling Uh the second area talks about the Son's merit and intercession, and I can really just build on Isaiah 53, 10 again, right? Jesus' merit is talking about his sacrifice, his death, his obedience, by his knowledge, he would justify. many. That's the sure foundation, right? The Father's plan, the Father's promise, the Father's call, the Son's intercession for you, both on the cross, his merit, his pouring out, his soul making and a guilt offering for you. is the sure foundation, the impossibility then, of his people being lost. Intercession, that's why I read for you those passages from John's gospel. You saw Jesus' prayer of prayers very specific. I'm praying for them, I'm not praying for them. And these ones I'm praying for, I'm praying you would keep them. And I'm not just praying for these twelve gathered around here, I'm praying for those who would believe on their word too And the whole idea again is that some people teach, the Armenian position teaches, that what Jesus prays for, his intercessions will be ineffective. I think that borders on blasphemy. You think that the Son of God's prayer, who only prays perfectly according to God's will, we might not That we can struggle in the darkness and knowing God's will and we can wrestle with that and that does happen. But to think that Jesus' prayer for his people that the Father's given to them would not be answered, that God would keep them from the evil one. So it's to to say that one of Jesus' own people can be lost is to say his prayer for them is ineffective There's a good article in the tabletop this month in the back on Christ's intercession and uh from Hebrews that you could you know take a look at. Uh we well we also know that's an effective from Peter's case in Luke 22, 32, right Peter, when you're recovered from your fall, because I prayed for you, go encourage your brothers. Now I ask you, did Peter recover from his fall, go encourage his brothers? Yeah, well I think Jesus' prayer was heard. We can trust in the merits of his prayer. But Pastor Bill Snodgrass used to love this thing, right? Jesus prays for us. We have hope of making it. Because Jesus has prayed for us. The wonderful God. Jesus has prayed for me. So joyful about the gospel. So joyful about the covenant of grace, the covenant of redemption. Jesus isn't inactive and idle in heaven, right? He's interceding for us, our saviors of lives. pleading for us when we do silly dumb things. His merits and his intercession are always being applied to us by the Lord. Finally, the Holy Spirit's seal. You get something of that in Ephesians chapter one. Ephesians chapter 1, I'll read you 13 and 14. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of salvation, and believed in him. We're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it And I appreciate the the actual the footnote here, or until God redeems his possession to the praise of his glory. What they're saying is here When you came and exercised faith in Christ under the uh effectual calling of the Holy Spirit and believed in the Lord Jesus, you received the gift of the Holy Spirit And that's a seal. That's that indelible grace that can't be wiped away. We're talking about the baptism of the Holy Spirit. That leaves a mark that can't be undone. That's no mere washing of water that is dried up five seconds later, depending on how much water, or five minutes later. But the regenerating, washing, bathing of the Holy Spirit as a seal. That's something indelible, that's a seal that can't be taken from us, even when saints again seriously fall into sin. But you see what what Paul's saying, the function of this seal here is it's a deposit, a guarantee of your inheritance until when? Until God comes and redeems that possession. To have the Holy Spirit is to be one of the redeemed. Redeemed by Christ and to already have the first part of that redemption. And God's not given you the first part to then take it away If our view is again all from man starting, we can get there because man's got to acquire it and man's got to hold on to it. But if it's God's doing and God's work and his giving and his sealing And he wants you to know by the gift of the Holy Spirit, you will be of the redeemed. God is coming for his whole possession, will redeem us fully in Christ when he raises us to new life. So what I'm saying there is, why is it impossible for God to lose one of his own? It's because the gospel makes it impossible. Because the covenant of grace makes it impossible. That's really the assurance of our salvation, that the gospel and covenant of grace is what assures us But next week we'll talk about our own subjective assurance and assurance that God gives us. That's going to be next week. We'll talk about the assurance and salvation that God brings us people to have that they might rest and know they belong to him and are in Christ. But we're talking about the objective foundation, we're talking about the architecture, the structure of salvation. It is God's plan. God's promise God's call, Christ's work, Christ's intercession, the Holy Spirit seal upon you. Okay That's the foundation. So that's why God certainly preserves us when we fall into sin. Well, how does he do it? That's what Article 7 is talking about. I've already preached on repentance. I'm going to just kind of breeze through this real quick Uh this article tells us a little bit about how preservation works. It's talking about God preserving in us in his imperishable seed. That one text in 1 Peter 123, which uh which I read for you, how you have been born again, not of a perishable seed, but an imperishable seed. It's with that text that the reform says no to the Arminian position that you can lose your regeneration This is what I mean by just the simple exegesis of scripture. The Bible says God's put an imperishable feed in you That must mean that even when I fall into sin that sin can't make it perish But that God, even when I fall into sin, is going to preserve me and preserve that seed in me because He's planted an imperishable seed, the gospel, so that I maintain Christ and the knowledge of Christ and who Christ is and continue to believe in him and will believe in him and will repent. So God reserves his imperishable seed And then God works by his word and spirit certainly and effectively renews us to repentance. Think about David real quick. Think about God's word to David through the prophet Nathan You will not die for your sins. But that was an oracle of God. That was the word of God today. Do you know what the fruit of that word was? Psalm 51. That gave him the sure foundation to go to God in confidence and seek his mercies and pray for God to create him in a new heart and to restore him, right? Through the word And his spirit, God, working on David's heart, he renewed him to that repentance. So he enjoyed all these wonderful blessings they talk about here. of a reconciled God and now seek endeavor more and more to work out their salvation with fear and trembling. So like I say a lot about that I will say something real quick because it's so wonderful God's word from Isaiah 57, just so you can see again what I'm talking about. God must have pictured this scene. Uh he must have done this already for his people. He's gonna do it again. Isaiah 57, verse 17, hear what this says of one of God's people Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain, I was angry. One of God's people had done something in some unjust way to get ahead in life. And it angered the Lord. I struck him. He felt my anger. I hid my face and was angry. Have you ever lost the sensible presence of God? If you've ever known the presence and favor of God, to lose it is like death. The thing as the William Cowper suffered so much under, he doubted so much. struggled so much for feeling and knowing that when it breaks through, no wonder he can say that light surprises and it's so refreshing to him. God says I hid my face from this man But he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart. He didn't come seeking me. He just kept backsliding. I have seen his ways, but not good ways. But, verse 18, I will heal him. I will lead him and restore comfort to him and his mourners. Creating the fruit of the lips, right? That is what we're talking about here. God creates the fruit of our lips. When you come asking for pardon and mercy and restoring, that is God creating fruit of your mess, as he has healed one of his saints out of their backslidden state in display. Praise him. This is glorious. Glorious stuff. Finally then, here, and I apologize, we're going to go a little over time tonight. I think it's worth it. God savingly intervenes in their fall. If the foundation of our salvation rests in the gospel, in God's plan, His eternal plan And therefore, he's certainly going to intervene, and the way he's intervening is to renew us to repentance, bring us back Repentance is such a wonderful word. Bring us back to that place in life where we're sorrowful for our sins. We hate it. We forsake it. And we're going after God again with our hearts engaged in obedience. Well then that means that whatever sin we have been in that backslid and slate going as we just read there, God is going to intervene. And God is going to say no more at some point, and He's going to begin that process of healing and that process of restoration. And uh I just want to look briefly with you uh at this article, Article 6. I really want to look at it from the position of the rejection of errors. If you still have it over, you could turn over to page 915 Because really this whole article uh is in response to rejection of error three and four. And I just want us to hear these and be encouraged by these Um because again it's showing you the glory of the reformed position, just the glory of the Bible, but also this plain, simple exegesis of God's word to refute these things What uh reject so in Article 6 we're talking about God's not gonna take his spirit, saints aren't gonna uh forfeit the grace of adoption. Forfeit something means to lose it by misconduct They're not going to forfeit the grace of adoption, uh, they're not going to forfeit the state of justification, and they're not going to commit the sin that leads to death. And why is it Well, because the saints say um the because to say otherwise is to nullify the very grace of justification And the grace of regeneration, as well as the continual preservation by Christ. And then they give us three passages to look at real quick. Romans 5, 8, and 9. If Christ died for us while we were still sinners, we will therefore much more be saved from God's wrath through him, since we have now been justified right by his blood. And Paul's argument here is If God already did the hard work of justifying impious sinners through the death of his son, and that's the whole argument, if you know how Romans 5 begins, here's how God commends his love to us when we were weak ungodly and sinners. Christ died for us. And the Paul saying if if that's the hard work that God's already done then he can do the uh we can be confident that he's going to do the easier work of saving us from his wrath or saving from wrath those who are already righteous in his sight Since we have been justified by the death of Jesus Christ, we can be certain that God is going to save us from his wrath because we are righteous in Christ. I'm going to give you a quote from Pelagius Just one commentator quoted Plagius as good here. If God so loved sinners, how much more now will he protect the righteous, saying if this is the love that God shows the sinners? Well what about then now that we're righteous in Christ, how much more is he going to preserve us? And the point, you know, that they're saying is It's nonsense to talk about losing your justification through sin. Because God justifies sinners. To think you can send yourself out of justification is nonsense because he's justifying sinners. Now we share that in Christ, and I think I'll make that clear in the preservation part But the force of it is is you are nothing but sin out of Christ, and yeah, you may commit new sins in it, but you're in Christ, and you're united to Christ, and you even commit your sins in Christ. You commit sins in Christ, beloved. I'm not encouraging to sin. I'm not saying go home and sin. I'm just saying you can't sin yourself out of Christ. You can't lose the grace of justification. That's called you out of your sin. And when you sin now, you're going to hate it. You can't sin yourself out of Christ. The truly regenerate cat is the point we're making. People may make a profession, and John talks about they were of us for a while, they sinned and left, because they never were actually of us. It makes a nonsense of the doctrine of justification. To think you can do something to unjustify yourself. You didn't justify yourself. God declares you just. And he believed in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this idea of falling into sin as somehow losing justification, like, wait, does God justify sinners or not? Or does he justify? Righteous people I know we hear it. We gotta hear it afresh again. We're every time we hear that doctrine, it again, I'll make the points here in a minute when we get to preservation, but if you didn't know, you sin in Christ, but you're still in Christ. You do all your living in Christ. You're in Christ. You do everything in him. You're not in Adam anymore. You're in Christ. Your whole living, your whole life, you struggle, you fight, you doubt, you sin, you win, you overcome, you obey everything you do in Christ. That other argument here is regeneration, right? 1 John 3. 9. No one who's born of God is intent on sin because God's seed. remains in him, nor can he sin because he has been born of God, right? Well John's saying his new birth eradicates sin. Well how can we talk about a regenerate person dying to sin? In principle to irregular, but y you get the point. If the new birth you experience in Christ puts it, if that's what put an end to sin Then why are we talking about God's regenerate people being lost due to sin when it's a regeneration which puts an end to sin But argue that you could lose your regeneration and say you sinfully lost regeneration or say, wait, but it's regeneration that make that makes me stop sinning. And again, this is that kind of overlap of the ages, right? That's a bit of, yes, you're done sinning. Yes, you do sin. If you've ever tried to expound first John, you're going, why did you make it so difficult? Couldn't you just help us out here? But that's the force of what we're dealing with. Regenerations eradicated sin How can you then un how can you send yourself out of regeneration? You may still sin as a Christian. Yeah, lose regeneration. Again, you can see from these plain statements of Scripture Christ died for us. We're certainly going to be saved because he died for sinners. And now we're righteous by faith in him and God's going to save us. No one who's born of God is even intent on sinning anymore. How can I then? Now we know we do sin and it does happen, but how can I I didn't sin my new birth. And God clearly says it's a new birth that brings an end to my sin. And then finally is John 10, 28. I gave eternal life to my sheep, and they shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. My father has given them to me as greater than all. No one can snatch them out of my father's hand. Now the you know the argument that they seem to be making, right, is well who or what can take a believer out of Christ's hand? Right. And Jesus has already said earlier, right, I lay my life down for these sheep. These sheep in my hand are the ones that I've died for Your fall into grievous sin happened while Christ had you in his hand, right? And he didn't let you go. That's the point and the force of it. How many of you have seen a sinner recovered out of years of sin in backson state? They were in Christ. Did Jesus let go even in their backson state? No. So I don't want to ever be perceived as countenancing sin, but equally so, and maybe more so. I never want to present God's grace to you as something less abundant or less efficacious than your sin. Do you get what I'm saying and attention here? I never want to count in sin. I never want to present to you God's grace as something that can't handle your sin. It's been dealt with definitively in Christ, and you are experiencing the blessed effects of that in your regeneration, and it will finally be away from its presence and pollution one day. Uh the sin of unbelief, I'll just cover this briefly. Um I think really what's talked about here, this is just I'm just gonna go with the tr church tradition. position on this through the ages. And again, it's one of those, if you think through it, kind of, how could a believer do this? You know the argument there in 1 John 16, right, is I'll just read it to you from Canons of Dorp. The same apostle after making mention of those who commit the sin Sin that leads to death and forbidding prayer for them immediately adds, and we know that anyone born of God does not commit sin. That is that kind of sin, but the one who was born of God keeps himself safe And the evil one does not touch him. And again, we're dealing with this ideal that if a born-again person does not sin, well how can he commit the sin unto death? And yet we also feel the attention because right how presumably then he can also commit a sin not unto death, because John's saying if you actually see a brother committing a sin not unto death, pray and God will give him light. So there's that tension. I think what's being gotten out here is this. Believers cannot commit the sin of disbelief. I believe the sin unto death is that The sin of disbelief. And I'm choosing disbelief over unbelief. Unbelief can just come out of ignorance It can also mean a willful rejection, but disbelief, look it up in the dictionary, means a willful refusal to believe. Which will end yourself and put yourself against God and as it did against the Pharisees, put you in such a hard-hearted state To believe the manifest truth before you that you will begin to call good evil who began to ascribe those men knew that that was the work of Spirit in Jesus, because they weren't ready to say my own son who cast out a demon from Uncle Bill earlier last week was a demon was the work of Satan too. Jesus knows he's dealing with men who have hardened their hearts against him and taken a definite stance against him and are willfully refusing the light that is abundantly evidenced to them and have put themselves in a place beyond their recovery. So again, it's one of those, how can a believer, right, by definition, we're talking about true believers falling into sin, how can a believer commit the sin of disbelief? And that's what happened in John's church. These people who left the church refused to believe rightly about Jesus Christ. They refused to acknowledge he'd come in the flesh. They refused to acknowledge that truth, but held to whatever Gnostic positions they held to or false views of the truth. They refused To believe in who Christ truly is, God who became man. And they left and went out from them and evidence their unbelief and rejection of the truth. And this just leads me with a closing application. This is why I think we should have clear confessions of faith and deal plainly with each other. This is why we should ask people very plainly: what do you believe? See, that's the basis in starting with everybody. When you're going to counsel them and help them, what do you believe Who do you say Jesus Christ is? Who do you say God is? That's the center thing of what we need. And I think John should teach us here, but The sin unto death is that sin of opposition to the truth and ultimately apostasy. And it makes sense, right? How can you pray for a person who refuses to believe in Jesus Christ? refuses to lay hold upon the Lamb for the forgiveness of their sins. How can you pray for their forgiveness, right? I pray and that's the kind of sin that refuses in a hardened position of lick. Now I know it gets tricky in trying to find out when this happens because I don't think it's sort of like one little sin But just a position and place a person has put themselves in too. But I'll end with this encouragement because I've found place to use it Um this week this should also encourage us though when we see our brothers and sisters sin and repenting and asking for help, we can pray, Lord, according to the word of your apostle For those who do not sin to sin unto death, you'll give them life, give them life and restore them. So let us confess our sins to each other. And pray for each other that God would restore us and give us life. Because as John says, sin is serious. All sin is wickedness. It's wickedness. But not all wickedness and sin is unto death. So let us rejoice in our merciful covenant-keeping God. He will bring us to his everlasting salvation. Let us be humble and thankful for his grace. And I hope everybody has seen anew again their salvation tonight and may Go away a little bit less anxious about what tomorrow might hold for them, and a little more faithful and trusting and believing in God who loves you so much, and please Tell yourself God loves me. Please, tell yourself Jesus loves me. It almost would show a position of unbelief if he didn't say it right. So please tell yourself God loves me. If you believe in Jesus Christ and Jesus loves me, may God bring you to his everlasting salvation. Amen.