Please open your Bibles to Genesis chapter twenty-five, we'll read verses nineteen through twenty-six. Genesis twenty-five, verses nineteen through twenty-six. These are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son. Abraham fathered Isaac, and Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel, the Aramean of Aram, the sister of Laban the Aramean. to be his wife. And Isaac prayed to the Lord for his wife, because she was barren. And the Lord granted his prayer, and Rebekah his wife conceived. The children struggled together within her, and she said, If it is thus, why is this happening to me? So she went to inquire of the Lord. And the Lord said to her, Two nations are in your womb. And two peoples from within you shall be divided. The one shall be stronger than the other. The older shall serve the younger. When her days to give birth were completed, behold, there were twins in her womb. The first came out red, all his body like a hairy cloak So they called his name Esau. Afterward, his brother came out with his hand holding Esau's heel. So his name was called Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them. This is the word of the Lord. Selected that canticle because Mary, like Rebecca, found herself used of God to bring forth a very miraculous birth. Uh the promised scene, and of course Mary bringing forth that accomplisment scene, the Lord Jesus Christ, and blessing God for His providence towards her. And you can imagine how difficult that might have been. Oh Lord, if I am so, why is this happening to me? I'm a virgin. And now I'm pregnant. And now I gotta deal with all the stigma with that. But the Lord look after her, right? Uh I have changed the reading this morning to Matthew twenty-six if you want to open up your Bible to Matthew chapter twenty-six Uh Romans nine is an exegesis on verse twenty three in our text, which Lord willing we'll get to next time I preach. Um when you look at exactly in detail of of what the Lord is saying there. We're going to look this morning and focus on verses kind of twenty-two and twenty-three on Rebecca's inquiring of the Lord and the Lord answering her inquiry. And for that text, I want us to look at Matthew 26, beginning at verse 17. So Matthew 26, beginning verse 17, hear the word of the Lord. Now on the first day of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus saying, Where will you have us prepare for you to eat the Passover? He said, Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, The teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples. And the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover. When it was evening, he reclined at table with the twelve. And as they were eating, he said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me. They were very sorrowful and began to say to him one after another, Is it I, Lord? He answered, He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me The Son of Man goes, as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. Judas, who would betray him, answered, Is it I, Rabbi? He said to him, You have said so. The word of the Lord. Let us pray. Oh Lord, we look to you this morning to do what only you can do. Be man's teacher. Help, Lord, your servant, to proclaim your word here. And may uh you bless the preaching of the word this morning and help your people to ear. Unharden our hearts and stop our ears. O Lord, instruct us and edify us and call us and gather us. May your word go forth mightily, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever been envious of the saints in the Old Testament? Consider, right, this text. What a privilege to be able just to go and inquire of the Lord like that, right? And have your uh inquiry answered. Have you ever wanted to ask the Lord, Lord, why am I thus? Or why am I so? Or why is this happening to me? And I want to make two points this morning. First, you too, Congregation of the Lord, grace and peace, are in a privileged status as God's people. As disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our Lord tells you, right, in John's Gospel, that in his eyes you are his friends, because he's told you everything that he, your master, is is up to. You know God's plan. Furthermore, He's declared to you the future. As we see, God declares to Rebecca here, the future You can look into God's Word and see what is going to happen to you. If you are a believer, you know what's going to happen to you. Sanctification is going to happen to you. Cross carrying is going to happen to you. Afflictions are going to happen to you. Persecutions are going to happen to you. Resurrection to life and glorification is going to happen to you. And if you are a wicked person and an unbeliever, you too know what's going to happen to you. Hardness of heart and hardening of heart. Unrepentance, bitterness, resurrection of death, and everlasting damnation. We too have much of the future told to us And scripture. You have the word of the Lord. You can go there with your inquiries. And secondly, the second point I want to make Inquiring of the Lord why I am so, or why is this happening to me, may not be as useful as you imagine it to be. Look here at verses 22 and 23 with me. The children struggled together with inner, and she said, If it is thus, why is this happening to me? So she went to inquire of the Lord, and the Lord said to her, Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples from within you shall be divided The one shall be stronger than the other. The older shall serve the younger. Here the Lord is speaking to Rebekah. Who has come to him for an answer to this question? Why am I thus? Why is death happening to me? Her trek to God, it took place sometime in her pregnancy, when that pregnancy became for her either too perplexing or too painful, or both. Perplexing for her because she couldn't understand how this fit into God's working out his promise in her life. For she said, if it be So that is, if it be so that God has caused me to conceive, so that he might carry forth his promise of a numerous seed, then why am I thus? Do you see how she's arguing? God did this, right? He caused me to conceive. So this must follow. And easy delivery with a beautiful boy at the end. I mean, how else, God, right, would you fulfill your promise? That's how I would have done it, right? Certainly not like this. There seems to be some disappointment of her expectations. She can't understand how this crushing of her insides, this pain, lines up with God finally giving her a child of her own. She might be thinking, what's going to happen to me? What's going to happen to the child? We we know children. She didn't know that then. Will they be normal children? What does this signify? Will I still get to show him or her off to all the other ladies? Will I survive this pregnancy? Her expectations of how God should fulfill his promise have come under attack. So she has gone to God for an answer. Now in itself that's not a bad thing to go to your God and get an answer. And as I've said, you can do that today by prayer and by searching of the scriptures. So realize then here that God is speaking to Rebekah to answer her why she is thus. He is telling her the reason why she is thus. This oracle of God in verse 23 is God's answer to why she is thus. As you'll see, it is also the answer to why you are thus. God's word then to her, as it is to you, is a light in her darkness. Of why now this? A light in her darkness of threatened expectations. Look there, right, at this light in verse 23, this oracle of God. Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples from within you shall be divided. The one shall be stronger than the older, the older shall serve. The younger. Notice the tense there. Will be. One shall be stronger. The older shall serve. That's future tense. What is the substance of God's answer to Rebecca's question? The substance of it is very simple. Is good pleasure. He tells her the future. They're the same thing. God's good pleasure is what God wants to do in her life and in your life. He doesn't tell her her imagined future. He doesn't tell her her hope-for future. He tells her the future. This future that is signified by all the struggling that is going on in her womb. Now I do not think it's in doubt here at Grace and Peace That God was just making a big guess here. I don't think we're a bunch of open theists in that heresy that God has to read the newspaper to find out what's happening. But that God was able to tell her the future because He had planned the future. From all eternity, Isaiah 46, 9 and 10, I commend you for your memorization if you're a person who struggles with Who God is, as the sovereign God that gets to do what he does, it brought great peace to me. When you see he can't be any other but this God, here his words: I am God, and there is none else. I am God and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning. And from ancient times, the things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand. And I will do all my leisure. Understand God's point there in Isaiah is if it were any other way, then he'd be no different than those idols that men lug around on their backs or on the backs of their pack mules. But he wants it to be known, and he especially wants it to be known to his people, that he is not caring, but care. He carries history forward to its predestined end. His counsel shall stand, and his pleasure will be done. Now, in our theological language, right, we're talking here about God's eternal decree and I commend you chapter twenty-three of our commesh confession of faith as an excellent summary of what the Bible teaches on this doctrine. What you are seeing here in our text this morning is the light of God's foreordained plan shining into the darkness of her threatened expectations for her own future. The future she very well might have been imagining for herself up until the struggle within her womb. This text is telling her, and this text is telling you, that not your will, but God's will be done. And face to face, the text doesn't tell us in what manner she received this oracle, but the idea is the same. Face to face with the God of heaven and of earth. and his word. She and you are immediately summoned to faith and belief and trust in that word And trust in the living God's good pleasure for her life and for your life. So the answer to the question, why am I thus, or why is this happening to me is very simply. Because it is God's will. That's why it's happening to her. And that's why it's happening to you. Now I said earlier that inquiring of the Lord, why am I thus may not be as useful to you as you think. Here's what I mean. Rebecca asks the Lord, why am I so? And in response, the Lord tells her the future. But no longer is there only the pain of this warfare taking place in her But now the painful realization that her two children will not grow up as one big happy family. There will be a rift. There will be a turn of events contrary to nature. The elder will serve the younger And what if she doesn't like that future? Now what? Well, why does it have to be this way? And then when will the whys stop? Her wise won't stop? Your wise won't stop Until you trust the Lord. Say, thy will be done. It's interesting, right? The future that was revealed to her didn't take away her present pain, and it didn't change a thing about her situation. It gave a little bit of light But look at the vista that it opened up to her, and the sorrows that it promised the hold as well, and the evils there We're reminded of Jesus' words, aren't we? Sufficient are today's evils. Let's not go inquiring about the ones for tomorrow. But trust God Today. Her wise and your wives will stop as you trust the Lord with the future, no matter what the present may look like. And make his good pleasure all of your expectation. And that's our teaching this morning. That's what we're going to focus on here. I reminded you, I read to you the other week, Romans 15 4, one of my favorite passages of how to approach the scriptures when Paul tells us everything that was written before, meaning the Old Testament. It was written for our learning that saints today, like can go and learn from the saints of old because God deals with the saints today, the same foundation dealt with the saints of old Salvation through faith in Jesus Christ, heirs to the promise of life in that seed, in Jesus Christ. And here's our lesson. Your wives of frustration or of confusion will never go away until you trust God with the future. No matter what the present looks or feels like, and make his good pleasure all your expectations. What do I mean by this? First, I'm not saying that every Y is a bad Y. I'm not saying that every time you say why is a failure to trust God. There are good reasons and good times to say why. Why is the greatest commandment, love thy God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, is not a bad question. If you don't know why, it's the greatest commandment, then you should ask it. I'm talking about the whys that arise from frustrated expectations. As you see in this text, if it be so, I'm talking about those wise that arise from reasoning out how God ought to act towards you. I'm talking about those wise that arise from a failure to have God's good pleasure as your expectation and your only expectation, and Lord willing next week Or the next time I preach here in the morning, I hope to look to exactly what God's good pleasure in this text says, right? The Apostle Paul opens that up in Romans 9. But this morning we're focusing on the principle of trusting God. As we confess in the first article of our creed, right? I believe in God the Father all. Mighty. You are seeing a display in this text of what it means to you that the Father is Almighty. It means he gets to do whatever he wants to do in your life. Therefore, learning to trust the Father's good pleasure will alleviate the need in perplexing situations to ask why so often. Furthermore, learning to trust your Almighty Father will take away these wise of frustration and confusion, but it won't take away everything. Some things will stay. Your sorrow will stay. Your grief will stay. Trust in God and sorrow are not anti present. There is no war like the one going on in Rebecca's womb between them. In fact, the Almighty Father's good pleasure for his saints in Christ is for many sorrows. You even see that in this text. The brothers will be at war. What sorrow that holds forth for mom then, as she sees her children at war. Also, by trusting in God, your wives of frustration, but not your prayers for help, go away. Consider Isaac. He could just as well have said, if it be so that you've now made me the blessed one after my father Abraham and have promise to make an innumerable seed through me, then why am I thus saddled with the barren white? Because just as well, when inquired of the Lord, what are you up to in my life? But Isaac seemed to have learned something of the Lord's ways from his ordeal of earlier years. Remember him twenty years ago, right, on the mountain with his father Abraham. For he learned that the Lord will provide. In fact, even then, right, Abraham could have reacted like Rebekah and inquired of the Lord. He could have said, If it be so, that in Isaac Shall my seed be named, then why am I thus going to this mountain to sacrifice him? It seems as if every saint that God deals with could find some reason to say, if it's so, why are you doing this? It seems as if every state needs to learn because my good pleasure will stand, and you aren't accepted from that because you're my chosen, privileged special people. Both Abraham and Isaac in their perplexing situations chose rather to respond to the Lord's doings in faith. Abraham by obediently worshiping the Lord, and Isaac by entreating for his wife. Neither of them by inquiring, why am I thus? In fact, some commentators suggest that Rebecca didn't even tell Isaac what she was up to when she went to inquire of the Lord. And some even say that even after she had received this oracle, she didn't tell Isaac. I don't know. The text doesn't But it does seem clear to me that as Abraham and Isaac both had to learn, so Rebecca, and we remember, right, she grew up in Syria. She grew up under a different God, or at least under a not very clear view of the true God. And now it is her turn to learn that Yahweh's good pleasure must stand. And this means for her And for you to trust in the Lord, to wait upon Him, to say, Father, I can't see in this perplexing situation, but you can, to pray like Jesus taught us Thy will be done. That's a wonderful prayer to pray when you don't know what is happening to you. And in your heavenly Father's will, to find peace there. Can you really find peace in God's will? Can you really find peace in His good pleasure? Is it true that by trusting the Almighty Father you can stop asking why? The answer is yes. Asking why is an entirely volitional response I've already said that some why should be asked, right? Ignorance of the things that God has freely revealed to all is not good. Yet some people still choose not to ask why and live on in that ignorance. However, some wives are sinful. Why hast thou made me thus? Paul tells us is wrong for the creature to ask his creator. Somewise cross the bounds between creator and creature. And if I'm honest, this is why I've chosen to focus on this part of the text this morning. Since my own conversion, I've had to do a lot of thinking about being a creature. For while I was an unconverted sinner, I was too much given over to the first lie, told our parents, that we won't die but be like God. Capital G Like God is a biblical truth, but it must be understood biblically. Biblically, we are and always will be preachers. Therefore, some wise are just off limits to us. And all wise are only so useful. They don't change anything, not inquiry, right? They don't change her future. They may change the uh alleviate some of the present grief or the complete utter darkness and despair and to see God's hand, but they haven't changed what the Lord's doing to her through it. And I don't want to minimize Don't hear me set up Rebecca as completely wayward here and or whatnot. And and don't miss also the Lord's comfort given to her and shedding that much light. I just want to dwell on the point that lies are only so useful to us. And that often, if not always, inquiry is not the thing we most need in our situations, but just faith and trust in God. This faith, our Lord Jesus Christ supremely exemplified. Let me read you again the words there of Matthew 26, 24. The Son of Man goes as it is written of him. But woe unto that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It had been good for that man if he had not been born. Did you notice what the Lord said about his life there? It was written down. Have you ever considered that about Jesus' life? You know, you've read the gospels, you're familiar, and so he fulfilled this text, and so he fulfilled this text. Have you ever considered he walked in a completely predestined, foreordained, written down life? And he trusted God in it. Our Lord's whole life was planned by God, yet he trusted his father in this plan no matter what. He didn't need to inquire right through Why am I thus not listened to by this generation if I am the Messiah? Yet Isaiah to tell them, This people honor me with their lips, for their heart is far from me, albeit in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. Or he had David to tell him, right? What's our Lord going through the scriptures to make his inquiries? The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, so I make thine enemies thy foot. So this he knew nobody in his day could grasp. Too great was the mystery of godliness that the Messiah wasn't just David's son, but also David's Lord. And as Paul says, great is the mystery of God in this world. Great is the mystery of our religion. God manifested in the flesh. And you know, as far as I'm aware, besides using it rhetorically, Jesus only asked why once He cried out from the cross, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And even here he wasn't expressing frustration in God's plan because it looked different than he had expected it to. We just read, he just testified, I go as it's written of me. He cried out why that you might search the scriptures and find Psalm 22, and know that he underwent the darkness of every agony that gives rise to the question, why, so that you might be saved from a sinful life. of unbelief, with its endless wise of frustration. He died for you to walk a predestined path to glory. For every why is answered by conformity to Christ's image. Why is this happening to me? Because God is making you like his son. If you are in Christ, that's the answer to your question. Because God is walking you and leading you down that predestined path to be conformed to the image of His Son. He died for you so that you might be safe from the restless question of why am I so? And instead find peace in your heavenly Father's will. If you are outside of Christ, if you haven't turned towards God, sorrowful for sin. You have believed in his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Do not kid yourself that God is leading you down some great path. And that all I'm saying to you is that you have to trust God no matter what. No, you are rebelling against him. You are running away from him into a pit of destruction. Do not hear me say this morning that all you need to do is trust God as if that's easy. As if that's something you're able to do apart from Jesus Christ. To trust Almighty God like a pot, trusts the potter. Think about that image, right? That potter has entire control over that potter. That pot is absolutely made at the good pleasure of that potter. To trust Almighty God, like a pot, trust a potter, is the hardest. And scariest thing imaginable for you, a sinner, to do. It means death to yourself. It means death to your desires. It means death to your plans. It means death to your career. On and on and on it goes. You name it. And this is why I'm convinced. I'm also convinced because it's God's word, you cannot convert yourself. You are too scared to die to self. It's very simple. You are too scared to resign your plans for your life. You are too scared to let go of the things that you are grasping onto or the things that you are grasping after. Your only hope is to cry out to Jesus and ask him to put your old man to death and to raise you to new life in Him. To discard your old life plans and to give you new ones. To open your hand. That you might let go of this world. What bliss it must be to recline yourself entirely upon the Father's bosom, even while enduring the agony of the cross. What bliss it must be to have no other will but the Father's will, even when it means drinking a bitter cup. And this bliss, it can be yours. The Savior endured the cross to take away your sins and to make your cross-bearing manageable. The Savior drank the bitter cup to give you the cup of the new covenant in his blood, and to make your bitter days serve your endless glory. To be revealed at that last day. I think the scariest thing in the world is not your present trial, but not having God in this world and not knowing God in Christ. Even if God told you all your future, which I indicated much of it that He's told you in Scripture, even if He told it to you in detail, you'd still have to walk through it Like Rebecca still has to walk through it. Knowing the future does not mean that there's no longer any need to trust God. There will always be a need to trust God. Take the Father's word of reconciliation to you in the Bible. Take the full access that He makes of Himself to you by prayer in Jesus Christ as pledges of His goodwill. and of his faithfulness to you. And beloved of God and all believers in Christ Jesus, go on the path Even if it is perplexing to you that your Almighty Father is now leading you down in Christ. Find peace there in His will. And know that you are thus because it is His good pleasure. And put your faith in that. And may the peace of God that surpasses all understanding guard your hearts. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord, we readily admit to you that at times it is very hard for us to trust you. There are so many things we want for our life, so many things we want to do. Lord, we look at your life and we see there the complete trust that you had in your Father's will A life entirely written down and foreordained, and yet full of so much sorrow and suffering and grief. And we bless you, Father, for this foreordained life, which is our salvation. The life of your Christ and Him crucified, that we might be saved from utter despair and darkness and living in this world without God, which is truly frightening. So help us, O Lord, this morning to continue to believe in your goodness to us, to trust and wait upon you in all times. And to believe that your good pleasure and goodwill to us is right in all that we need. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.