Please open your Bibles to the book of the first book of Samuel, where we will read chapter nine. Verses 1 through 27 and then the first half of the first verse of chapter 10. 1 Samuel 9, 1 through 27 and 10, 1a. There was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abel, the son of Zeror, son of Veccherah, son of Aphaiah, a Benjamite, a man of wealth And he had a son whose name was Saul, a handsome young man. There was not a man among the people of Israel more handsome than he. From his shoulders upwards he was taller than any of the people. Now the donkeys of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. So Kish said to Saul, his son, Take one of the young men with you, and arise and go look for the donkeys. And he passed through the hill country of Ephraim and passed through the land of Shalisha, but they did not find them. And they passed through the land of Shalim But they were not there. And they passed through the land of Benjamin, but did not find them. When they came to the land of Zuf, Saul said to his servant, who was with him, Come, let us go back, lest my father cease to care about the donkeys and become anxious about us. But he said to him, Behold, there is a man of God in this city, and he is a man who is held in high honor All that he says comes true. So now let us go there. Perhaps he can tell us the way we should go. Then Saul said to his servant, But if we go, what can we bring the man? For the bread in our sacks is gone, and there is no present to bring to the man of God. What do we have? The servant answered Saul again, here, I have with me a quarter of a shekel of silver, and I will give it to the man of God to tell us our way. Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come, let us go to the seer, for today's prophet was formerly called a seer. And Saul said to his servant, Well said, come, let us go. So they went to the city where the man of God was. As they went up the hill to the city, they met young women coming out to draw water and said to them, Is the seer here? They answered, He is. Behold, he is just ahead of you. Hurry. He has come just now to the city because him. Before he goes up to the high place to eat For the people will not eat till he comes, since he must bless the sacrifice. Afterward, those who are invited will eat. Now go up, for you will meet him immediately. So they went up to the city, and as they were entering the city, they saw Samuel coming out toward them on his way up to the high place. Now the day before Saul came, the Lord had revealed to Samuel, Tomorrow, about this time I will send to you a man from Benjamin, the land of Benjamin. And you shall anoint him to be a prince over my people Israel. You shall save my people from the land of the Philistines, for I have seen my people because their cry has come to me. When Samuel saw Saul, the Lord told him, Here is the man of whom I spoke to you. He it is who shall restrain my people. Then Saul approached Samuel in the gate and said, Tell me, where is the house of the seer? Samuel answered Saul, I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for today you shall eat with me, and in the morning I will let you go, and will tell you all that is on your mind. As for your donkeys that were lost three days ago, do not set your mind on them, for they have been found. And for whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for you and for all your father's house? Saul answered, Am I not a Benjamin? From the least of the tribes of Israel? And is not my clan the humblest of all the clans of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then have you spoken to me in this way? Then Samuel took Saul and his young man and brought them into the hall and gave them a place at the head of those who had been invited, who were about thirty persons. And Samuel said to the cook, Bring the portion that I gave you, of which I said to you, put it aside. So the cook took up the leg and what was on it and set them before Saul. And Samuel said, See what was kept is set before you. Eat, because it was kept for you until the hour appointed that you might eat with the guests. So Saul ate with Samuel that day. And when they came down from the high place into the city, a bed was spread for Saul on the roof, and he lay down to sleep. Then at the break of dawn, Samuel called to Saul on the roof, Up, that I may send you on your way. So Saul arose, and both he and Samuel went into the street. As they were going down into the outskirts of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Tell the servant to pass on before us. And when he has passed on, stop here yourself for a while, that I may make known to you the Word of God. Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it on his head and kissed him and said, Has not the Lord anointed you to be the prince over his people Israel? The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Before we listen to the sermon from 1 Samuel Let us turn to Romans 13, 1 through 7, which will have some bearing on part of the sermon. Romans 13, 1 through 7. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God. And those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed. And those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval For he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain, for he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. For because of this you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them. Taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect from whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. ode. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that as we study this portion of your word today, that you will apply it to our own particular situations. As you are the God who governs everything and knows every one of our days. They were numbered before we were even born. And you know this full well. So we pray that you'll help your spirit, that your spirit will help us to hear your word and apply it correctly through Christ our Lord. Amen. There are just two points that you will see on the outline in your worship folder if you would care to follow along. The first one is that God works out his plan through lost donkeys The second one is that God is preoccupied with the care of his people We should take a moment to review where we are in the story of God's redemptive work. Last week we studied in 1 Samuel 8, and there we had As it's laid out for us in verse 4. Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah and said to him, Behold, you are old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us And Samuel prayed to the Lord, and the Lord said to Samuel, Obey the voice of the people in all that they say to you, for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them. According to all the deeds that they have done, from the day I brought them up out of Egypt, even to this day, forsaking me and serving the other gods, so that they are also doing to you. Now then, now then, obey their voice, only you shall solemnly warn them and show them the ways of the king who shall reign over them. And uh we're not going to read it all, but Samuel did warn them about the way the kings would take over and take and take and take and take and take and take and take. And they would be slaves. Then at the end of that section, verse 22, the Lord said to Samuel, Obey their voice and make them a king. Then Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go every man to his city. So now we come to this place where we have the story of the lost donkeys. And again, verses 1 and 2, there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abel, the son of Zoror. son of Bechariah, son of Aphaiah, a Benjaminite, a man of wealth, and he had a son whose name was Saul. Stop right there. A Benjaminite. We know by that that this is not the Messiah. This is not the Messiah. He is not the true and perfect king. Why? Because he is a Benjaminite. And back in Genesis chapter 49, when Jacob blessed his twelve sons. He said in verse 9 of chapter 49, Judah is a lion's cub from the prey. My son, you have gone up. He stooped down, he crouched as a lion. And as a lioness, who dares to rouse him? And then in verse 10 said this, the scepter. That's what a king holds in his hand when he rules. The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, until tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples. So there was a prophecy saying that the king, the great king that will come someday, must be a member of the tribe of Judah. So it's not a Benjaminite, even though this guy, Saul and Kish, his father, are Benjaminites And it goes on to say in verse 27: Benjamin is a ravenous wolf in the morning devouring the prey, and in the evening dividing the spoil. But nothing about him being a king or being the father of kings. So, stop there, but go on now. And he had a son whose name was Saul, a handsome young man, and there was not a man among the people of Israel more handsome than he. From his shoulders upward he was taller than any of the people. What do we have here? We have an outward appearance. We have a worldly standard being shown forth. Nothing is said about the godliness of Saul here, just how handsome he is and how tall he is. In fact, we shall see that he seems to be completely oblivious to spiritual matters. In contrast to this description, this tall, handsome guy, we see that the future Messiah in Isaiah 53 will be someone who it says has no form or majesty that we should look at him, no beauty that we should desire him. Hmm That's interesting. So go back to the story, verse 3. Now the donkeys of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. So Kish said to Saul, his son, Take one of the young men with you, arise and go look for the donkeys. And he passed through the hill country of Ephraim and passed through the land of Shalisha, but they did not find them. And they passed through the land of Shalaim. But they were not there. Then they passed through the land of Benjamin, but did not find them. When they came to the land of Zeof, Saul said to his servant who was with him, Come, let us go back, lest my father cease to care about the donkeys and be anxious about us All that he says comes true, so let us go there. Perhaps he can tell us the way we should go. Stop and notice this. This tall, handsome, rich Saul is completely unaware of Samuel's presence and ministry Evidently, his servant is far more spiritually perceptive than he is. Back to the story. Verse 7. Then Saul said to his servant, But if we go, what can we bring the man? For the bread in our sacks is gone, and there is no present to bring the man of God. What do we have? Saul offers objections to going to see the man of God. He says, we don't have a clergy fee. How can we go? But evidently the servant had planned ahead, and he had the money. Verse 8, the servant answered Saul again, Here I have with me a quarter of a shekel of silver, and I will give it to the man of God to tell us our way. And then verse 10, and Saul said to his servant, Well, well said, come, let us go. So they went to the city where the man of God was. And as they went up to the hill, they went up the hill to the city, they met young women coming out to draw water, and said, Is the seer here? So all these things are kind of happening. You get your donkeys lost and you go look for them. You work around, you circle around. And then this servant says, let's go into the city. And here's some more of these wonderful circumstances. He said, is the seer here? And they answered, he is. Behold, he is just ahead of you. Just happened to be coming right quick. Hurry, he has come now to the city because the people have a sacrifice today on the high place. They didn't have a sacrifice every day, but this day they did. As soon as you enter the city, you will find him before he goes up to the high place to eat. For the people will not eat till he comes, since he must bless the sacrifice. Now I understand that's why pastors have to bless the meal, right? Before we eat fellowship lunch? No. You weren't listening. Sorry. Okay. Afterward, those who are invited will eat. So evidently this was a fellowship offering, a peace offering, not a sacrifice for sin or something like that. And so they waited for the prophet to come and bless the offering. Now go up, you will meet him immediately. So he went up to the city, verse 14, and as they were entering the city, they saw Samuel coming out toward them on his way up to the high place. Wonderful circumstances here. And more of the story, we're not going to go through all the details, but more of the story will lay out amazing, amazing, providential details, leading finally to Chapter 10, verse 1. Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it on his head and kissed him and said, Has not the Lord anointed you to be the prince over his people Israel? And you shall reign over the people of the Lord, and you will save them from the hand of their surrounding enemies. What we can see here is this. Lost donkeys, travels around, a feast day, a high place. The prophet just coming into the city as they arrive and all this stuff. These are amazing events. Providence is everywhere and providence is always. Not just in certain special situations. God works out his purposes, my friends, when you apply for a job and you get it or not. When you try to buy a house in this neighborhood or that neighborhood, when you brush your teeth, or not When your car breaks down, when it rains or not, when you sit down in a restaurant and order this or that. When you lose your car keys, as I sometimes do, and are made late because you were searching for them, how do you know that God is always at work in all kinds of circumstances? Because God works out his great big plans through lost donkeys. We don't have to go looking for instances of God's providence. They are everywhere, but they are often hid in ordinary things And yet, God is at work for the good of those who love him. For the true remnant of Israel long ago, God was at work for those who loved him And for the church today, who love him, and for the moments of your life, all are governed by God. His great plan. And so we come to that wonderful verse in Romans 8, verse 28. And we know that for those who love God, How many things? All things work together for the good of those who are called according to his purpose The moments of your life are governed by his plan. That's point one: the amazing providence of God through lost donkeys. The second point that you need to see from this wonderful text, and I could preach much longer on this whole text, I'm sure. But this is the point. God is preoccupied with the care of his people. We see this in verses 15 and on. But especially verses 15, 16, and 17. Listen again to these words. Now the day before Saul came, The Lord had revealed to Samuel, Tomorrow about this time, I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin. And you shall anoint him to be prince over my people Israel. He shall save my people from the hand of the Philistines. For I have seen my people because their cry has come to me. When Samuel saw Saul The Lord told him, Here is the man of whom I spoke to you. He it is who shall restrain my people. You see what's going on here? The people of Israel have rejected God as their king, and they have rejected Samuel as their prophet and asked for a worldly king. But God, because he's good, is still Israel's true king, even though they have rejected him. And Samuel is still God's prophet, even though they have rejected him as judge and asked for a king like all the other nations. Because God still cares, still governs, still provides for his erring people. And that's why we have this phrase, He it is who shall restrain my people Now think about this. The number one job of civil government is to restrain evil and encourage good. To restrain evil against theft, murder, perjury, sexual anarchy, etc. For true godliness and civil righteousness. That is the purpose of civil government. Romans 13 Verses 1 through 4 say the same thing. Listen to it. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God And those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority, resists God, what God has appointed. And those who resist will incur judgment Rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good. And then the same thing in 1 Peter 2, verses 13 through 17. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the Emperor as supreme. Or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and praise those who do good. For this is the will of God that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free, using your freedom not as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. Honor everyone. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor. says Peter to the scattered churches around Asia Minor. And then we are told by Paul, this is letter to Timothy, 1 Timothy 2, He says, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings, and all who are in high positions. that we may lead peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. And so what you see here in this chapter is that God is providing a civil ruler for his people. He knows that People who have no ruler are unrestrained and chaos ensues and how crazy it would be if we had no police to govern the roads of our county. No one to enforce the laws of the land. It would be utter chaos. God is good and he is providing civil authority for his people. And more than mere civil temporal care, God cares for the ultimate and eternal care of his chosen people. God is eternally first purpose, he listen to this, he repairs Our prayers. He repairs our prayers. Because it says in that section, For I have seen my people, the Lord says, because their cry has come to me. There's no record of their cry coming to him. There was a record of it in a sense back in Exodus when they were slaves in Egypt, and it says there that God's heard their cry had come to them, but we don't have any record of the cry actually. And we don't have a record of it here. Do you think the Israelites have been praying for the Messiah or something? Maybe some faithful ones were. But they asked for a king, like all the surrounding nations. But here's what God did: He took their prayer Their desire, and he fixed it. He defixed their defective prayer and answered according to what he knew was best. Where do I get this notion that he repairs their prayers? I'll tell you where. Romans 8, 26, because we're told by Paul that he does that for you and me. He fixes our defective prayers. Verse 26 of Romans 8, likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray as we ought. We get it wrong. Our prayers are wrong sometimes. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints, not according to their foolish prayers, but according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together. There's that verse again. How does all things work together? Because God takes our prayers. That are defective. And he repairs them on the way up. He fixes them and makes them prayers that fit the will of God for us. And that's what was happening here. The elect of Israel were praying. Somehow they were praying. They were praying for a stupid king, like the nations. But God said, no, I'm going to fix that prayer and give you a civil ruler to restrain you, to govern you, to care for you in the interim until I send my true Messiah, the true King, who will bless the world with righteousness. You do not secure your destiny by your prayers By your repentance, by your amendment of life. God alone secures your redemption. And he did it long ago. Let's look for a moment at John chapter 10. Where Jesus is talking to some people, John chapter 10, verses 27 through 30, he says to them, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. And then verse 29. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. That's a wonderful verse, just as it is. But Dr. Davis gives an alternate reading from a textual variation, which is pretty interesting. And he has it this way, verse 29. He says, this, as for my Father, what he has given me is greater than all. And no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. Let me say it again. As for my Father, what he has given me is greater than all. And no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. This would indicate God's love for his people, his preoccupation with the care of his people. At this moment, giving them a temporal king to govern and restrain them. But his greater purpose, his wonderful future purpose, is to give his true people as a gift. From the Father to the Son to be redeemed by him. And they will never perish. No one is able to snatch them out of his hand. For that purpose, he will eventually send his anointed king. He gives them Saul for now, but he will send his anointed king. And so we have the story as it goes on, and as it ends at the great feast, and then in the night on the roof and then get up in the next morning and leave and it goes with um Samuel saying to Saul, tell the servant to pass on before us. And when he has passed on, stop here yourself for a while that I may make known to you the word of God. The servant is sent on ahead, a stop, and the prophet makes known Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it on his head and kissed him and said, Has not the Lord anointed you to be prince over his people Israel? Israel. And you shall reign over the people of the Lord, and you will save them from the hand of their surrounding enemies, a temporal ruler, until he sends his final son eventually. He is anointed here, my friends, and anointed, the word anointed literally is the word Messiah. The story of God's care for his erring people with their errant prayers that needed repair. It's found in those words, the cry that came to his ears. And we see God in love stooping down to help his people, though they did not deserve it. This is a small episode we're looking at today in the larger story of God's care for all those who were given to Christ, the true anointed one. Given by the Father to be purchased out of death and hell and slavery to sin and Satan. And you need to hear this today, I believe. Israel's true king and your only savior is preoccupied with you and your salvation. Everything that's gone on in your life, all the little things that seem hidden and insignificant, God has been orchestrating because He's preoccupied with you and your salvation. You are his glory. You are his treasured possession. Through no merit of yours. He chose you. And the Father gave you to Jesus to be redeemed by him. That's how much he cares for you. In that sense, you are precious. You are beloved. As the children's song goes, red and yellow, black and white, you are precious in his sight. Jesus loves you. And as another hymn of ours says, though he giveth or he taketh, God, his children ne'er forsaketh. His the loving purpose solely to preserve them. pure and holy. If you belong to Christ, if you are the precious great possession given by the Father to the Son, then you can and must see yourself and your life in the wonderful big picture of what God is doing to save the world and to make all things new. And to bring heaven down to earth, and to reconcile all things to himself in Christ. Believer, your life matters. Every bit of it. Every day. Every decision. Every faithful obedience matters. So live for Christ. Believe in God's purposes, in God's plans, and God's providence over all things. And live for Christ joyfully because you are loved. You are the beloved of the Father and the Son. Live for Christ Only one life twill soon be past. Only what's done for Christ will last. Live for Christ. Amen. Lord, as we see this little bit of your amazing providence in giving your errant people a king, a temporal ruler. Help us to believe and know that you are working in our lives and that nothing is happening out of mere circumstance or chance, but you are the great sovereign governor of all things. And help us to know that your ultimate purpose for those who are in Christ, for those who love Him and are called according to His purpose, is our salvation, our good, and that we are precious in your sight, beloved. We rejoice in that wonderful truth. Amen.