We're going to read from Acts chapter 2. That'll be our text tonight as we look at it. Acts chapter 2, and we'll read together verses 41 through 47. As we uh see again the great working of the Spirit and poured out and uh what that is done in the life of the early church. So Acts chapter 2, verse 41, hear the word of the Lord. So those who received his word were baptized, Peter's word, and there were added that day about 3,000 souls. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. And awe came upon every soul. And many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common, and they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts praising God, and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number, day by day, those who were being saved. This is the word of the Lord. Our confessional reading. We're going to read Article 17, which we've been looking at for the last two weeks, and we'll probably look at at least uh one more week tonight in another week. So Article 17 This is the final article in the this section, the third and fourth main points of doctrine dealing with human corruption. Conversion to God and the way it occurs. Our fallen Adam, original sin, the spread through the race, and God's grace in regenerating us through the gospel of Jesus Christ and the reconciliation that He has wrought for us in Christ and putting our sins away and making us new. And when we've been focusing on the great supernatural work that is, but then driving home, and I think so wonderfully I have been so helped by these sermons and meditating on it that as supernatural and powerful this work of regeneration, God uses very ordinary means. a human voice, uh bread and wine, uh water, uh, and through that blessed by the power of the Holy Spirit to work his his grace in us. That's what we're dealing with tonight on God's use of So Article seventeen as it says, just as the almighty work of God by which he brings forth and sustains our natural life does not rule out but requires the use of means by which God, according to his infinite wisdom and goodness, has wished to exercise his power. So also the aforementioned supernatural work of God by which he regenerates us in no way rules out or cancels the use of the gospel. Which God in His great wisdom has appointed to be the seed of regeneration and the food of the soul. For this reason, the apostles and the teachers who followed them taught the people in a godly manner about this grace of God, to give him the glory and to humble all pride. And yet did not neglect, meanwhile, to keep the people by means of the holy admonitions of the gospel. Under the administration of the Word, the sacraments, and discipline. So even today it is out of the question that the teachers or those taught in the church should presume to test God by separating what he in his good pleasure has wished to be closely joined together. For grace is bestowed through admonitions, and the more readily we perform our duty The more lustrous the benefit of God working in us usually is, and the better his work advances. To him alone, both for the means and for their saving fruit and effectiveness, all glory is owed forever. Amen. That is simply a marvelous statement on the means of grace and their importance. Um praise God for the canons adored and that synod which met to deal with these issues as the teachings of Arminius because this does not come out of uh when people take the reform faith and spin up bad views saying, oh the Calvinists teach you don't need the sacraments, you don't need the word. You don't even need to be in church because God's just gonna do it Nonsense, right? You can see how wonderful it is that in the God will use the truth and a synod, a lawfully called body of the church and a g its government to lay down a The scriptural truths here for our edification 400 years now later. I just thought reading through it. Not only those that teach, obviously, but those who are taught, it's out of the question to divorce it. To distance yourself from the means of grace and think, oh, well, all will be fine with me and Jesus and my walk. I do not need to gather to the public worship. And sit under these means, how how common that is today as you speak to people that say they're churchless members of Christ is a term I suppose I've heard it's coined. I've never actually heard it, but Daryl Hart says it exists in his book with John Meether on about reformed worship and recovering it. I read their section on the means of grace. Yeah, people there's a such thing as churchless Christian. And that is to go against God's ordinance. And really, as I think Canon Zedor here is saying it, it's to test God and to put Him to the test. To say, I'm going to get. Through this difficult life. Remember what Paul Peter says. If the righteous are scarcely safe, I'm gonna get through this barren wilderness to use the energy of the wilderness. I'm going to get from here to Emmanuel's land in the kingdom, and I don't need to sit under the ordinances. I don't need to receive from God in a regular fashion. the manna from heaven that he would give to bring me. That's the significance and the importance of the means and grace as we're looking at tonight and what it means to test him, to say, I'll he'll just do some miraculous work and I'll just get there. And I don't need to use what he has provided under Christ's command and ordinances as the proper means for any Christian or any person aspiring to salvation and making it into heaven needs. So there you go. It's not a problem obviously here tonight because you are here, but you may meet people You may have an opportunity as you live in St. Mary's County, as you go to college, you go to workplaces, you talk to people, you find out they're Christians, you ask them what church they're at, and they're not in church. Well now you can begin to get and lay out the seriousness as we'll look at a a little bit here tonight. So uh again why I am speaking You know, my purpose in these is to encourage you all in the use of these means of grace, as I know that you have found useful and have found blessing in them To continue to use them no matter the season of life. And if any of you stop using them, right? To recommit yourself to the Word, to the sacraments, to prayer and church discipline. All right. We've looked the last two weeks, the last two times we've been here, really driving home this important point and establishing for us the truth that God does use me. Unquestionably, God uses means. And that is not any way derogatory to his power, as some people say. I was reading this week, in fact, preparing for next week's sermon on the Lord's Supper Studying Calvin's doctrine of it and his debate with Zwingli and others. That was some of the debate with Zwingli and his view of the sacraments and being kind of empty signs is he thought it was a g Derogatory of the Holy Spirit that God would be so tied down to earthly meaning. God doesn't need these, he can just do it with his spirit. Now, nobody's not saying that. The question is, what is God pleased to do? So this isn't a small thing. People have raised stink about it in the church that it somehow makes God less powerful to use me. Again, why I love the wisdom of these men. It is in the wisdom and goodness of God, because I'm sure everybody here likes making pancakes for breakfast. Who enjoyed the food today? I know I loved everything I ate and going down the line, seeing it, smelling it, delighting in its look, tasting its textures And that's how God has planned by those means that we would continue in life. And that is in no way taking away his power from him. God uses means. We establish that in in we might want to say our first creation, our natural life. It's hard to find an appropriate word for it. But he uses it to regenerate as we looked at that last week, ordinarily. Now we know we confessed already in Dort. And we are to judge by God's word, and according to the tender of the covenant grace, that God is that God has promised to us and our children, our children die in infancy. We ought not to doubt That God has regenerated them. They are with Christ and belong to Him forever. But ordinarily, as we live in this life, God sows that seed of grace and does that transforming work in us Through the word. First Peter said that. It was through the ministry of the gospel that all flesh is grasped for God's word endures forever. That's the word of the gospel. He said, That word is sown grace in your heart. And then he says you're to be like new babes and to laugh up that milk of that word all your life, eagerly drinking it, because God doesn't just use the word to begin It uses the word and the means to perfect and continue your Christian growth and maturity. So we've established the means. They are there and God uses them. This week we'll be looking at then, well, what are they? As Dort lays out then that wonderful analogy between creation and redemption of God's use of means in our natural lives, God's use of means to bring us to regeneration. And then the apostles making an argument from that, well therefore the apostles kept the people under these means of grace. And that's why I read for us there in uh Acts chapter two. This uh these verses was a sort of um Framework, a basic framework for the reformers, as they were looking at what are the essentials to a church, and they looked at this passage and said, hmm The people devoted themselves, the apostles' teaching, so ministry of the word. The fellowship, you could probably have in there some form of church discipline in that they were united to one another As I I didn't so much develop in the sermon, but as I read you in Hebrews, that mutual pastoral oversight were commanded to keep watch amongst each other We can see when people are slipping back, right? That's the time to come along and say, I haven't seen you in a while. What have you been doing? Is there something going on? Is that Bitter root coming in there that you're seeking to nip that bud before. That's the importance of corporate communal. It is obviously done by the elders of the church, but everybody has responsibility for it So church discipline, the breaking of bread, the sacrament. The apostles kept the people under the sacrament and equally prayers. As a means of grace. So he said, okay, if we're going to have a church service, here's what it's going to look like. Here are the essentials. I read to you a number of weeks ago, but in the Belgian confession of faith They actually acknowledge in a in a chapter in there on Article 29 the marks of the church, which they name these marks being the word, sacrament, and uh church discipline. So it's So both the means that God has appointed and the marks of a church coincide. Now you know that you are at a faithful church, at a true church, when you see a ministry of the word, a ministry of the sacraments, and church discipline. being enforced. So what I want to look at kind of two parts on this is the how and the what And the point we're looking at tonight is that therefore the apostles kept the people under the means of grace. How did they keep them under there? The Synod says it was by the holy admonitions of the gospel, so we'll look at some of those real quick. How they kept the people under means of grace, and then what those means are Well, how do they keep people under the means of grace? I already briefly mentioned it to you, the importance of this doctrine. I want to maybe read to you real quick from the our own confession of faith in chapter 5 on providence, article 3, that God in his ordinary providence makes use of means. That's something we confess in this denomination. Yet he is free to work without them. So, should I take the medicine the doctor gives me? Well, God ordinarily works to means. But he might not work with those. He might work against them. Might not use what they're intended to do, or he might work above them. He might make better results come out than they're intended to have And he does this at his pleasure. So God ordinarily uses means, but he's not tied to means. That's what we profess as Reformed Christians. God ordinarily makes use of them, but we don't tie them to him. But also want to read from you in the Belgian, again from the Belgian Confession, in Article 28. These words might be familiar to some of you, talking about the obligations of church members It says that we believe that since this holy assembly and congregation, that's everybody here, is the gathering of those who are saved, and there is no salvation apart from it, no one ought to withdraw from it. Content to be by himself, regardless of his status or his condition. And also in the again in the words of our own confession of faith In chapter 25 on the church, Article 2, the visible church, which is also Catholic or universal under the gospel, not confined to a nation, as reformed to the law, consists of all those throughout the world that profess the true religion And of their children, and is the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ, the house and family of God, out of which there is ordinary no possibility of salvation. Reformed, do not tie God down to me, and yet they come down very strongly on It is foolheartedly to think you will attain to salvation if you are not a united member of Christ Church. And I guess that's the way to say it. We're not going to say it's impossible and God can't do that. But it's foolheartedly intesting God to think that I do not need to maintain and be united to his church. And make use of the means of grace he has graciously provided. I say to you again, I am just the silly man he's put here. This is Christ's ordinance. It's his gift, his office, it's what he's appointed. That's his table The elders and their callings in the church and everybody watching out, this is his gift, this body that cares for each other's souls and has the difficult conversations and reaches out That is the gift of Christ for our salvation. Let us make full use of it. Okay, well, how do they keep them under these things? The language there is a holy admonitions. Uh Hebrews chapter three, Hebrews has a a few of them, uh but Hebrews chapter three is is a s is a One place where he Paul reminds them of um we find where he says it here Verse 12, take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God. By distancing ourselves, not coming to the assembly, you expose yourself. So there's a warning of Being exposed, there's a warning of coming under the insensible hardening of the heart. You want to be aware of it Sin is so deceptive to you, but your heart will be hardened as you distance yourself from the body of Jesus Christ. So that's one of the admonitions. By the way, an admonition is a warning Well you like Jesus gave to Judas today, it will be better for you if you never had been born. Right? That's a warning of what's to come. That's what an admonition is, remind somebody to warn them, to put before them this serious nature of their course that they're heading down. And the apostles said, you are putting yourself in risking exposure And a hardening of your heart if you are not faithfully attending the assembly and sitting under God's means of grace. So that's one admonition they give. Pastor Tyson preached on Ephesians 4, and Paul talks about the ministry God Christ gave gifts to the church. Some pastors and teachers today, cause all the other ones, evangelists will you have mentioned and they are are the extraordinary ones, the apostles But that ministry is for the perfecting of the saints, the edifying of the saints. So Paul's saying, warning them that you will be ill-equipped, you'll be Torn down, you'll be not built up, or you'll be weakened and vulnerable if you distance yourself from the ministry of Christ in his ordinances. Again in Hebrews 10 verse 25, Paul says, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some But encouraging one another all the more as ye see the day drawing nearer. Paul saying you'll be playing with fire Because the day of the Lord is drawing near, and you will not be ready for that living to meet the Lord Jesus Christ. So you're playing with fire to go out from the church and distance yourself from the ordinances of Christ. And then 2 Peter. 2 Peter, the the whole purpose of 2 Peter is to exhort the saints to grow in grace. The whole Purpose of 1 Peter is making clear to them the nature of that grace, the sufferings of Christ and the glory to come in our sharing in both of that, the sufferings now and then the glory. Second Peter is about growing of grace And he says, therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to confirm your calling and election. For if you practice these qualities you will never fall Peter's saying, if you distance yourself and you fail to do these things and you fail to go, you're exposing yourself to the danger of falling. So those are some of the admonitions of which the apostles in their writings spoke to the saints to keep them under the ministry of the word. To keep them united to the church. You are playing with fire. You are exposing yourself. You're weakening yourself. The question to you, beloved, is that how you speak to people outside of the means of grace? How are you accustomed if all if if it's your station and place and opportunity to speak like this? Are you prepared? Are you convinced? Or do we kind of secretly think, right? Because I think that's what we secretly think God's sovereign, He'll just take care of it. I know that's something I've had to really wrestle through with I'm studying this. Am I really convinced these are real means? Or is it just, well, God's sovereign will take care of it and whether I tend or not? Is that our kind of generality? Or or we do we have that kind of fear, maybe that holy trembling when we meet a Christian who says he's not in church? Are we sort of frightened for him, going, What are you going through? That must be terrible out there. Because that's the way the apostles spoke and warned the saints in their day, at the admonitions they use and warned them about. Well, what are these means? So that's the how laying before them these dangers, they're exposing themselves to of a great fault. An insensible hardening of your heart by the deception of sin. Because it is only the Word of God. It is only Christ who can pierce, right? How many of you have said under the ministry of the word and your heart's been found out? But sin's not spoken about Except in the community of Christ. Whether it be officially gathered or in homes, wherever, but Insensibly hardened to the deception of sin. Okay. That's how. But what are these means of grace and what are means? I used the illustration last time A means are what you use to accomplish your purposes with. If you want to get the grass cut, you could use a lawnmower. You could use a riding lawnmower, you could push lawnmower, you could roll some only doesn't matter, but the idea is A means is something in which you use to achieve your purposes. In uh our shorter catechism Question 88. It asks, Well, what are the outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicates to us the benefits of redemption, right? God purpose of redeeming us in Christ, that's his end, redeeming us in Jesus, making us to bear that glorified heavenly image of him perfectly one day How does he achieve that purpose? What are the means that God uses to achieve that purpose of our redemption? Well, the outward and ordinary means revere Christ. Notice it is Christ who is communicating to us the benefits of redemption are his ordinances, especially the word. sacraments and prayer, all which are made effectual to the elect for salvation. So the first one is the word I just want to say there's kind of two parts to the word, right? There's feeding, some feed and some eat, right? So there's the feeding and there's the eating. What we're talking about in the ministry of the word, uh, it can be the ordained ministry in the church. uh as ministers of the word expounded in in the public assemblies, uh it can be Christian education and books, it can be small groups, it can be Bible studies, uh even I would say personal devotions, and I guess personal devotions, but Again, that's some of the pushing thing, right? It's all personal devotions, and I don't need the ordinance of Christ and to be under his ministry, right, as far as he has called the man and given to do it. So there's a balance. I'm not saying don't read your Bibles On your own? Norm and Norm saying only go here. So I'm just making that clear that that again that's kind of the day we live in in well I read my believe me, I meet people Oh, I read my Bible. Oh, I listen to sermons online. And do not go into churches. So that's all I'm saying about that is the importance of all the ministry of the word in every way. In 1 Thessalonians, right? So there's a and this is something I've been growing in as you appreciate that God really uses means. How many of you like to prepare food for others? There's a lot of joy in that, right? They want to call that the plating part? You make it all wonderful. I I guess I'm learning as a pastor, you know, there's a plating part to it too, Damon. That know the content, but if you just slot the meat and potatoes together and put it out there, people may be turned off by what you're giving, right? So there's a wisdom. In fact, uh the Westminster Divines and their Directory of Public Worship on Preaching talk about that. There's a wisdom in which way we are to convey these truths to people so they are edible. And and most readily be taken in. So how to pray for your pastor? Lord help him plate the food. That would be a very helpful prayer to me. Help him to plate the food. Um but remember too parents right you're plating food for your children. You're shepherds and teachers over your children. Have you ever thought about that? And given time to thinking, you know, how do I really make this edible to my children? You know, that's part of it too. Not just knowing the right things they need to eat, but also giving some time of, and maybe that's consulting good books, maybe that's asking somebody that has an experience that, hey I'm looking to give good counsel in this situation. Maybe I'll go to somebody you might have dealt with and say, how did you get that across? Again, as a way in which to plate and deliver God's word so that it will be readily received, because we all eat with our eyes first. We look at that and say, nasty, I'm not going to eat it. It just looks gross. Okay. But also, you know, brethren too, the church. You know, yeah, you might need to go talk to somebody. You gotta give a world a hell. But think about how you're gonna say it too. So that they'll eat it, make it a matter of prayer. Um again, seek out wise help uh and how to do that. So that's all I gotta say about the ministry of the word as far as the feed goes. Well what about the eating, right? I mean Who likes steak dinners? Or in Zoala, you know, don't you love when you find that commentary and it's like a steak dinner commentary and you are so glad And just excited at the devouring of this book. There's a joy. Think about the way in which God has given us to consume his word. It's wonderful to sit under powerful preaching of God's word, of men filled with the Spirit, who are caught up in the message and the experience that take them and if they are moved by the truths, if they behold the glory of Christ. Think about the Again, the goodness and wisdom of God and the means of which He's done the way that taking the Word is a joy, or getting that delightful commentary or book or or devotion or monograph, whatever it is, what a joy it is to read and take in the word to uh audio books or written books or anything like that. So again Praise God for his goodness in the Word, but also marvel at His wisdom and goodness in the way in which He gives us to take it. Because isn't it wonderful to have that just the feel of a book? Do you smell books? I smell books Just walk by them. My wife knows they when I'm it if it's been too quiet in the house, she knows the books have got me. And and I Just smelled one and you pulled out, but you could touch that page, you can underline there, just the joy again, right? I'm trying to stir us up To the delight in which God has given to us both to feed and also to eat is word. That it is a delight. So pray for that too here. Pray that the eating would be great Because there'll be good feeding at grace and peace. So that's the word, what we might call the spoken word. But let me also talk about now the sacraments of what we call the visible word. And the reformers are adamant And building off of St. Augustine, but adamant that what we get in the sacrament is no greater or different grace than what is delivered to us in the preaching of the gospel. Worked in us by the Spirit, received by faith. So we're not going to the sacraments, because there's a higher, greater grace there, according to sacramental teaching and other things like that. But we're getting in a different way. God's now using all of our senses. We just use our ears in the in the hearing of it, but now there's the taste. the touch, the smell, the feel even, as you feel the elements, but if you were sitting at Jesus at the original Passover, you would be feeling each other because they're leaning on each other They're the closeness to it. And so God and in the sacraments, we're getting the same grace But we're getting it in a heightened way, you might say, and a greater experience to ourselves as as humans, as as creatures, that and they would speak about the sacraments also as illustrations of the gospel You know how wonderful that we get to see a washing to know, oh, that's what God has done for me in Jesus Christ is washed all my sin and guilt away. made me new, right? Washed me and clothed me and brought me into his family, right? That's who I am? A blessed fellow of Jesus Christ Christ keeping Passover fellowship with him, the risen Lord, as I sit with him and his people and sup with him and receive life-giving power from him through these elements. So there's a wonderful thing as he shows the gospel that he's made me one with Christ. And in that made us all one, so we're one body and one family receiving from our risen Lord. So we're getting the same message of the gospel, but You're getting it clearer, you're getting it pictures, you're getting it in ways that are illustrated for us. And that's why they always said there's no sacrament apart from the word, because it's not dumb speech that you mumble and laugh and that nobody understands that makes to the sacrament. But the sacrament is always interpreted and explained by the word, by the gospel, telling us what these signs and symbols mean. I'll just say two brief points about the Reformed view of the sacrament, and you could sum it up in two C's, confirmation and confession. Cal and Luther agreed on emphasizing confirmation as the first part of it, meaning that the first and foremost view of the sacraments is God's grace. And these sacraments are confirmations of his grace to us in Jesus Christ, and they're really seals upon that. And so it's confirming the grace that God has bestowed upon us in his gospel and uniting us to Christ. So again, it's God is saying there is real grace for you being bestowed through the ministry of the word, even through the means of these sacraments, as a confirmation that God really gives to us What he holds out to us, the body and blood of Christ. God really performs for us what he does in washing us. So it's a confirmation to our faith. And what God has declared in the gospel, signified in these signs, interpreted by the word, and sealed, it's to strengthen our faith. That God truly has given and done for us what these symbolize. Now then you can understand and see why they're meaningless and mean nothing if you don't have faith. and don't believe, but they are confirmation to conf for us to confirm our faith and even increase our faith. That's their primary use. The second use, and this is where Zwingli came down in his emphasis, and which Luther so upset with, uh, and emphasizing it is just about the confession aspect Me confessing my faith to God and attesting corporately together that we are the one new people of God constituted by the death of Jesus Christ as we sell the mercy. So that is a part there That is a, but I agree with Luther and I agree with Calvin. That's a secondary part. It's a real part, but the emphasis is on God's grace. And these confirming to our faith is grace. But there is a part of which we are testing our faith and making confession in Christ and receiving his Lord and who he is and in his death. So you could sum up Sacraments and we form you by confirmation and confession, confirming to us that God has truly bestowed upon us the grace He declares to us in His gospel. worked in us by his spirit, received through faith, and also a confession of our uh faith in Christ and in the one God and of belonging to him and being uh of his people. And I'll just quickly say a word about discipline and N. I got a wonderful quote here to you from uh Richard Baxter. We wrote the Reformed Pastor, which was a plea to his brethren, who had neglected their duties and left the sheep untaught, ignorant, and scattered. Brothers, we need to do the work of pastors We need to teach the sheep. We need to go in their homes. You know, I read that before I was even in seminary. And he said some words that I think are true. Obviously, he was a man of means of grace, but he said he had more fruit, and he thinks more fruit came from in-home private catechism where you could personally deal with people than the public minister of the word. He's by no means downplaying the importance of sermons and hearing them. But I'll tell you, as I've walked amongst you and asked people just to find out, some people hear you didn't say that, and that could be your fault Some people got this and some people got that and some and it's hard to know sometimes uh are you being an India sac, but with you go into their home And if people graciously let you in and you start asking questions and instructing, you can find out in a personal helpful way to bring them up in the faith. So don't take that as any detraction from what I've said. Take it as what he's saying is adding to it the full pastoral work includes also personal visitation and dealing with the sheep. But of course, that always that wasn't always well received. Here's this quote from him. As the impure used to reproach the diligent by the name of Puritans Oh, you Puritans who are so diligent and zealous for holy. Puritans was a derogatory term, just as much as probably Christians was, but Puritans, just as much as the impure used to reproach the diligent by the name of Puritans, so do they reproach the faithful pastors by the name of disciplinarians. If only it were understood how much of pastoral authority and work really consist of church guidance. Then there would be so much less prejudice against the proper exercise of discipline, For to be against discipline is to be against the pastoral ministry. And to be against the pastoral ministry is to be against the church. And to be against the church is to be against Christ. You can see then the importance. Some of this was reactionary. Rome had abused it in its system of penitence and confession. And when the reformed, particularly Martin Bucer, wrote a work called On the True Care of Souls, the first work done by a reformer, on what then is the true pastoral work to be done. It was not very well received, the people in Strasbourg, because they thought they were just putting back a papal yoke on us. That there would actually be a church father, if you will. Who would be keeping watch over me, asking me difficult questions? Don't understand that that guidance is so necessary For the care of them, and they push against it in in in Baxter's making a plea that if people got That the pastoral authority and work really how much consists in this church guidance, then there'd be so much less prejudice against it. That they just want to keep us under their control wrongly or Whatever the case, I don't know all the things they could come up with. George Herbert, the wonderful English poet who wrote only sacred poems. has a work called The Parson, and he calls the minister the deputy of Christ Appointed to reduce the people to the obedience of Christ. I find it challenging. Do I find myself as that person whose job is to go around and see people are really obeying Jesus Christ? Or do I want people to just like me? But he says, that's the opposite. You are Christ's deputy? To reduce the people, meaning to bring them down to the level of obeying their Lord? So he says, That's that's the ministry. That's a pastor. So that's a church discipline. I've said to you before, it begins in the pulpit, the silent discipline of the word. But it continues through our fellowship hours, and it continues by elder visits, pastoral visits, and its care. So let me just encourage you, dear saints, to receive continually as you are, and encourage those you know who are to receive the manna of God. His ordinances to make a use of them, thank God for them, and come to the assembly expecting blessing from it. Add to your prayers on Saturday night or through the week. Lord bless us as we come. You've appointed it. This is not man's ordinance. So give us what you have intended out of this ordinance. Add that to your press. Amen.