Now let's pray and ask God's blessing. Holy Father, we your children, adopted by your grace, who come before you now asking that through the word and the ministry you've appointed in your church for our feeding and nourishment, that we will be built up and edified now, that you would work through your spirit. To give us grace and humility to receive your word, that we may honor it, love it, and cherish it, and it may be carried forth and bear fruit in our lives. All For the glory of your name and the exaltation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 1 Peter 1, beginning at verse 22, hear the word of the Lord. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, Love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Since you have been born again Not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, to the living and abiding word of God. For all flesh is like grass And all its glory, like the flower of grass. The grass withers and the flower falls. But The word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good news that was preached to you. So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander. Like newborn infants long for the pure spiritual milk That by it you may grow up into salvation, if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. This is the word of the Lord. Our confessional reading comes from Canons of Dorot. We'll be reading in the third and fourth head, Article 17, God's use of means in regeneration. Our confessional reading reads: just as the Almighty Work of God, by which He brings forth and sustains our natural life Does not rule out but requires the use of means by which God, according to his infinite wisdom and goodness, Has wished to exercise his power. So also the aforementioned supernatural work of God, by which he regenerates us. In no way rules out or cancels the use of the gospel, which God in his great wisdom has appointed to be the seed of regeneration. and the food of the soul. For this reason, the apostles and the teachers who followed them taught the people in a godly manner about this grace of God. To give him the glory and to humble all pride, and yet did not neglect, meanwhile, to keep the people. By means of the holy admonitions of the gospel under the administration of the word. The sacraments and discipline. So even today, it is out of the question that the teachers or those taught in the church. Should presume to test God by separating what He in His good pleasure has wished to be closely joined together. For grace is bestowed through admonitions. And the more readily we perform our duty The more lustrious the benefit of God working in us usually is, and the better his work advances. To him alone, both for the means and for their saving fruit and effectiveness, all glory is owed forever. Amen. Now this is part two. If you remember a few weeks ago we we started looking at this and we only got through uh eating natural food uh by and large, which is a great delight, I assume, to everybody here. So what we're going to be talking about tonight is God's use, how God uses. Notice the key emphasis there. It's not just man, it's God uses these means. Almighty God has decided ordinarily to use these means in bringing about the work of the new creation, new life. What I'm aiming at then tonight again is to encourage all of you in your use of those means. And to continue making a use of them. And if you've made if you've stopped using them for any reason, to recommit yourself, To God's means of grace. I'll remind you of the argument in this paragraph. It goes something like this. That both in his almighty work of creating and sustaining our natural lives And in his supernatural work of regenerating and growing us, God works through means ordinarily. What we mean by that is We've already looked at it in Canada's adore, but as reformed Christians, acknowledging the covenant of grace that God has made with us and our children. We do not doubt in God's word that the infants of believers who die, you know, at infancy are regenerate and and with Christ. Now obviously there's no seed sow, no word or anything like that there. So we say Ordinarily, that this is how God works, to bring about regeneration, new birth, and to sustain us and nurture us in our Christian life So God works by means which is evident to us all in our natural lives, if you want to call it naturalized, just the lives we know on earth now. If we were to stop drinking, stop breathing, if we the air was taken out of this room, gone. If we stopped having water provided, gone. If we did not eat food, we would die And what it's really wonderful in saying to us, this is something that really struck me as I went home last time and was reflecting on that evening. Nobody's doubting God's power, right? If God just wanted to uphold us, he could just uphold us, right? I really love what the what the what the confession is saying here. Not just his wisdom, because this was the best way, but in his goodness, because who likes to eat to keep your life going? It is a wonderful thing to prepare food, to delight it, to taste all the flavors that God has made. in the combinations of those flavors and to discover those and to improve in them. So it it's acknowledging that That in his almighty power, nobody's doubting it. It's not that he's saying he's not strong enough that he has to use these means. It's acknowledging God's great goodness in doing it. But what really struck me was He really uses means, right? He's not, if you will, picking up your hand and putting the potato in your mouth What we're saying by that is, the Bible teaches us God is a distinct being from you and I. Now not so distinct, I mean in the sense that he's we're not in him and he doesn't uphold us at every moment, but he's not you and you're not him. That's pantheism This gets into the great mystery, right? We've already looked at the relationship between the creator and the creature and all that and our wills and choices. It's at the bottom of it mysterious And yet, unless you decide to drink water, unless you decide to eat and nourish yourself. Your natural life will be lost. It's just driving home the reality that God really uses need. And he really uses him in the ministry of the gospel and bringing about regeneration. Yet let us pray. For revival. Let us not pray for revival and not go set a table before our neighbors to eat of the gospel, because there'll be nothing. He uses means. He uses means. So that's what we're going to look at at that first Peter tonight. That may be all we get an opportunity to look at. Because those really wonderful truths. in this statement here that are of of great importance. But that just struck me in a visceral way Because when you come out of darkness and you come to the Reformed Church, which rightly puts the sovereignty of God where it belongs, And his power and everything, you can go to an unbiblical view, and this is really the dividing line between Calvinism according to the Bible Which I really think Dort sets forward in hyper Calvinism where you don't use means and what you need to wait is until you actually find a regenerate person and then you can give them the gospel Yeah, that that struck didn't it? Because that's what they're really saying. You show me an elect person and I'll give them the gospel. Absolutely, ready to give it to them. But that's not how it works, is it? Jesus stands up amidst and says, if anybody's thirsty, come. We can have no less of a call. He's the feast, and we tell everybody, we don't look at people and think, hopeless. We just say come to Jesus. They may come, they may not So God really uses means, really uses the gospel call. Just struck me in a visceral way. the other week and and how God does this. So let's turn in your Bibles if you're still there at 1 Peter. And that's what we're going to look at tonight is is this proposition that God makes use of his gospel as the seed of regeneration. and as the food of our soul to carry out his supernatural work of regeneration. So we see all that here in 1 Peter. We both see regeneration through the instrumentality of God's Word, and we see nourishment for those born again and regenerated for their Christian lives. We see both of those through the means of grace, through the Word So if you look at your Bible in 1 Peter, having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for sincere brotherly love Peter starting with the visible effects of purification that happens after regenerate. That's one of the things that happens when God regenerates us. We start tearing down the idols, right? Start clearing out his temple. We're his temple. Where his body we clear out. Now Peter says souls here, but Paul will say clear the flesh too. It's not as if we can just We're embodied spirits, but he's probably talking about what Jesus says. You need to clean out the inner cup, right? It's not just a matter of washing your bodies and staying away from certain foods. You need to really cleanse out the heart. And that's going to lead to a clean bodily living and bodily life, etc. So Peter starts there with The visible effect of purification, your your obedience to truth, again, this is the gospel message, the truth being preached there As what Peter's already talked about in 1 Peter, beginning with the Fatherhood of God revealed in the gospel. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. See now that God has had an eternal Son. This truth revealed to him, Peter's talk to him about Jesus' incarnation, how he has given himself on the cross as a ransom for us of his sufferings and death. Then he talked about being born again to a living hope through his resurrection, to the truth of the resurrection of Christ, and then his ascension, because your inheritance that is imperishable, underfather, unfeigning, is kept in heaven for you. So this truth of the gospel message preached to them, and this is something if if you're unaware of in scripture, often faith and obedience are used simultaneously or synonymously, because think about it. If God reveals to you truth, the only proper response, you might say, of obeying that is to believe it, right? Then that's what faith is, right? Believing what God has said. He's revealed something, and you respond with your whole heart to that. And so that's how you can say obeying the truth Because God has shown you the light and you respond to it in yourself. He's saying as you have obeyed this truth, you believe the gospel that has been preached among you This has brought out this purification in your souls. What have you purified yourself to? This sincere brotherly love I'm not going to expound on that, but Jew, Gentile now, getting rid of envy, getting rid of jealousies. Calvin had a good word here because it's one of the hardest things to really brotherly love people brotherly, right? Because it's easy to love ourselves for our own advantage. But to love for really the good of others is very hard. That just pure goodwill benevolence towards others. He's saying you've purified yourself for this since you have been born again. Now You'll notice that in the article it says that the word of God is that seed of regeneration, and they may be borrowing from Jesus' parable of the sower, where he likens the word to a seed. But here in Peter, what it's talking about in 1 John 3. 9-2, when it talks about an abiding seed in us, it's talking about God implants a principle of grace in his children. It is a, what we've been looking at through this, it is an act of his creative will to regenerate you. But if you go on in the next statement here, in the rest of verse 23, God planted even born again, not of a perishable seed, but of imperishable seed. through the living and abiding word of God, through the preaching of the word, the instrumentality when God gives his blessing to the instrumentality of actually sowing that seed of his grace in us is through the preached word of God. And as Peter ends here, this word of good news, that's what's preached to you. So through the actual preaching of the gospel and the instrumentality of preaching it, when God blesses and waters He plants a seed of grace in us, an imperishable seed of grace, because it is a creative act of his done. It's a new creation that he does in his children. So you see that like Peter says, you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living and abiding word of God. That is why the most important thing we can do for the world into helping it and ourselves, our children, our family, our friends, is continue to preach the gospel to them. Read the Bible. Believe in it as a means of grace for yourself. Believe in it for your children. Believe in it for your family. Just open it and read it. Open it, read it. If you're ahead of a house, spend some time in prayer maybe before for his blessing, but open it and read it. God uses this gospel recorded for us as the instrumentality of sowing an imperishable seed in us. We also see here that God we go on there in the chapter two and in Peter, not only uh is does God use the means of the gospel in bringing about new life and regeneration, but he also nourishes us and nurtures us in it. So chapter two verse one says, Ye now you've been regenerate, you put on the new man, get rid of all this old stuff, malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, slander. Like newborn infants, and this is an important image he's playing here. I think most people in this room have seen a newborn infant. But a newborn infant, have you ever seen a newborn infant that wants to feed? Have you seen with much enthusiasm he looks for mama's nipple? How hungry he is, and if you've seen a child just start sucking away, he's using a very visceral image we most know about to show This is the heart of God's regenerate children. They should be longing for the pure milk of the word, sucking it up. Because this and this alone, the grace of God revealed in his gospel, is what is going to grow us. As commentators point out, Paul in some of his epistles will set up you need to have milk and then you need to grow up to maturity. That's not what Peter's doing here. And it's it's actually found in these words when he's talking about pure spiritual milk. What he's what he's saying is, and even spiritual is how do you interpret it If Logan Cos comes from Lagos, it can be translated as rational or reasonable. And the idea is Christians aren't to be constantly nurtured on just the basics, right? So they need to have thoughtful, quickening, intelligent word of God's grace and grow in that It also can't go so far to then be mixed in with other things and need to stay pure or simple. But it's to be the constant milk of which we're nurse. So Peter's not dealing with you grow up as a child and eventually eat strong meat meat. What he's just trying to say is our attitude should never change from an infant who wants to feed. And the feeding which you give to infants obviously is the milk, and the milk here being that that same gospel. We will continue feeding on that same gospel. And isn't it wonderful? It doesn't change. You grow in your knowledge of it, your depth of it, you grow in your appreciation of it, you grow in your delight in it. But that gospel must be for God's children the constant thing that we feed on. And Peter says, why do you need to do that? That you may grow up. Again, God is a means of grace and how God grows us is the word. So Yes, listen to sermons, find good preachers online, buy good Christian literature, read confessions, read catechisms, study your own Bible, all any way And people helping you, bringing you to the knowledge of God's gospel, use and and not just use, but acknowledge Dear Father, this is your appointed means of grace. I've bought this book because I think it will be helpful to me Please bless it. Let me grow up into maturity as I use this book and be nourished by it because you have appointed this as long as it's dealing with the gospel truth and whatever facet will nourish and feed me. So so go also praying in the knowledge and asking for the blessing of the Lord. If indeed you've tasted that the Lord is is good. So God uses means of grace. You see, Peter there stated very simply to the saints: we preach the gospel. God sowed this imperishable seed in you. You have now obeyed that truth we preach to you. You begin purifying your lives. Keep going and never leave that word of God. From Genesis to Revelation, continue feeding on it like newborn infants yearning for it. Now I want to go on with that because really the next thing that that that and we can deal with it is what Dorton says is that therefore here's the here's the conclusion then. That if God has clearly appointed this to be a means, to use means in regenerating us and feeding us, they say, therefore the apostles kept them under the means of grace. What are those means of of grace. What what is it means? Maybe you're running what a means is. If you want if your purpose is to go out and cut that grass out there What instrument are you going to do it with? If you're a four-year-old boy, you're going to get your scissors out. Because he loves cutting grass with his scissors. If you're a trustee here, you're going to go to the shed and get the mower out. So it's that instrument you use For the end that you have, right? The end that God has in regenerating us and conforming us to that full risen, resurrected, glorified image of Himself in Christ Is the Word of God. That's the means with word, sacraments, and church discipline. I won't read it to you, but you can read it yourself in the Belgian Confession of Faith, Article 29 When they were dealing with the split from Rome, what are the true they have a confession, what's the true marks for the church? That might be really important to know if you've grown up in a corrupt church and you're now wondering, well, what is the real church according to God's word? They give the three marks. The purity of the preaching of the gospel, the purity of the ministration of the sacraments, and the church discipline being used to correct faults If you're in a church that's not preaching the gospel purely, now it's more or less, but if they're just not preaching the gospel, they're not it if they're making the sacraments Ex opera operato, turning these things into baptismal generation or you just gotta take it without faith, all the abuses of it Rome being the case here, then that's not a true church. They're not administering the sacrament according to the word of God. And if they're not in Disciplining you if pastors, the elders, your own friends aren't disciplining you, then that God also uses that as a means of grace. We'll come back to that because we're running shortly, but we'll come back a little bit uh next time and deal with that. But let me read you this quote you know on that about uh discipline. Now I'm going to save that quote for the next time because it goes better with admonishments. Grace is bestowed through admonishments. We'll save that to the next time. But dear brothers and sisters, I know you love the means of grace because you're here. And I know all of you can testify to how You have grown in Christ and are growing in Christ through the preaching of God's word, through the listening of it, to the studying of your own Bibles, to the edifying conversations you have with friends, to the reading of good literature. Continue on because that is God's appointed means, together with using the sacraments, and together with uh the this church discipline to bring you to that mature man and to grow up in your salvation. So continue using it and may God Bless you in it. And maybe the trick is, right? We all love to eat food. So ask God to help me to love these disciplines. I want to add prayer to it Because many will add prayer as a spiritual listen the word should really and really right, if you're reading the word, you're praying, right? It's hard even to read the Bible and not enter into a dialogue with God, right? Because that word is meant to be taking you there, because you're either going to be saying, Forgive me Help me, bless me, or you're going to be caught up in the rapturous glories of God as he's opening your eyes of scripture and you're going, this is greater than I ever thought. So it's really hard to tie prayer away from the word, but it does happen, so we encourage you not to forget prayer as a means of God's grace. God give you his grace in the use of his means of grace. Amen.