Well, first we'll read the text for tonight, which is Psalm 15, and then we'll turn to Deuteronomy chapter 10 and read verses 12 through 22. First then, Psalm fifteen. Only five verses. O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart, who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his name. Nor takes up a reproach against his friend, in whose eyes a vile person is despised. But who honors those who fear the Lord, who swears to his own hurt and does not change. Who does not put out his money at interest, and does not take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be Now Deuteronomy ten at verse twelve. And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you, but to fear the Lord your God to walk in all his ways? To love him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and to keep the commandments and statutes of the Lord which I have commanded you. And in you today for your good. Behold, to the Lord your God belong heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth with all that is in it. Yet the Lord set his heart in love on your fathers and chose their offspring after them. You above all peoples, as you see. See this day. Circumcise, therefore, the foreskin of your heart, and be no longer stubborn. For the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who is not partial and takes no bribe He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing. Love the sojourner, therefore, for you are sojourners in the land of Egypt. You shall fear the Lord your God, you shall serve him and hold fast to him, and by his name you shall swear He is your praise. He is your God who has done for you these great and terrifying things that your eyes have done. seen. Your fathers went down to Egypt seventy persons, and now the Lord your God has made you as numerous as you as the stars of heaven. Well Lord, we thank you for the unity of Scripture. And we thank you even with with its uh faults, no doubt, that our hymnal is also pretty closely united to the scriptures, so that the things that we could say Tonight are for the most part, as far as we can tell, what it is that you have told us in your holy word. And we thank you that as a denomination we are going to To be producing very soon a Psalter hymnal which will contain the entirety of the Psalms. And we're preaching through them now. Then we shall be able to sing them all. We thank you for that. And we pray, Father in heaven, that you will help us to hear your truth tonight, and will you apply it to our hearts and show us within where We sin and where we need the Savior. This is not news to us, but it is new in the sense that we must face it again, for we've lived another week. We have no doubt failed you in some way or other, many ways, no doubt. Please forgive us and bless us tonight as we are here in your house with you You, our God. In Jesus your Son's name we pray. Amen Wow, just five verses. That's a new one. Where do we get to Psalm 119? We're going to need a few a few Sunday nights for that one. Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. We all like to receive guests into our homes, don't we? At least that's true, generally speaking, because there just might be occasions when that gracious invitation might not be appropriate, such as when we are accosted by Mormons. Or Jehovah's Witnesses, who would like nothing better than to be given the chance to peddle their wares in our living rooms. But that would not be the case when it comes to kind neighbors and fellow church members. So we would say that, yes, most of the time, our welcome mat. It's prominently displayed and advertises our desire to have others share in our hospitality. And that's good. At the same time, a question arises regarding God's acceptance of people into his home. Or to put it in allegorical terms, does the Almighty Sovereign of the universe have a welcome wagon on display? That puts out to the entirety of the human race a grand invitation to come on in and sit awhile, or even for eternity for that matter. with me. Not just in a formal sense, namely that of entering the house of God, a church building But more importantly, that of actually being received into the very intimate presence of God Himself. Could it be that he is that hospitable? What do you think? And if so, are there possibly any regulations that would exclude some people from ever responding to what seems an open invitation Well, actually, somebody beat you to it. King David has exactly that question, which he poses in Psalm 15, our Psalm for tonight. He begins by inquiring, O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? In one sense, David's question here is figurative. Though he, like the sons of Korah, may have wished to live in the house of God, we began this service in the This evening with Psalm 84, they wrote, I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. It was at the same time something impossible for David, because he was not a priest. Still, he wants to sojourn, to visit, to receive the hospitality of a tent-dwelling host. In this case, Yahweh himself. The Lord God. And since the tabernacle was the place where man met with God through the administration of the priests and sacrifices, David's longing to sojourn in your tent is actually a desire to abide, to live in the presence of God David has in mind a life that lives on God's holy hill, one that walks in close fellowship with God, because the heart and mind are both in step with the heart and mind of God Himself. That's what he wants. But the question remains, and David poses it, is that possible for anyone? Including me. May anyone be received as a guest into God's tent, enjoying all the protections of his hospital Who may live as a citizen on his holy hill? Or we could put it this way, does God indeed have a welcome wagon for Anyone? Actually, the answer to his question comes. He doesn't write it in the Psalm. But I find it elsewhere in the Bible, from paying attention to something that comes immediately into view when any visitor approaches the door to that Old Testament tabernacle. That tent, that house of Yahweh, the Lord God. What was it? An altar, a brazen altar upon which animals were burned as sacrifices. That means that you cannot even consider knocking on God's door unless something is done about your sin, your uncleanness. Unless the wages of sin, death, is paid for you for your violation of God's law. Don't knock. Now, when we come to that Old Testament picture of this situation, the tabernacle, and We must realize that it was just that a picture, an illustration of what alone can serve as an acceptable sacrifice. For the sin of man, namely the atoning sacrifice, sufferings, and death of the Lord Jesus Christ That means that God's welcome wagon applies solely to those whose sins are washed away And whose rightness to come into his house is provided by the alone Savior that God the Father has provided in his Son Jesus. But there is a necessary caveat, as David recognizes. Such blessed people who trust in God's saving grace, are you listening? Do not do so by a bear A lonely faith. They show that they have received it by a faith that is demonstrated by their behavior And David spells it out in the remainder of this psalm, doesn't he? Who can, and thus, who may be welcome in God's house David answers that question in verses 2 through 5, the rest of the psalm. To put it another way, perhaps more clearly, and this becomes our consideration for tonight. The proposition. Only those who show by their negative and positive behavior that they have received the Lord's grace Are welcome in his house. Did I say faith and works? No, I did not. I said, a faith that works. Let me repeat that proposition again because it's what I'm going to be talking about. about for the next fifteen minutes. Only those who show by their negative and positive behavior that they have received the Lord's grace are welcome in his house. First, then, what are the negative characteristics of the godly behavior that true faith demonstrates. Well let me just first of all indicate that we will come back to verse 2 in a moment But first, let's consider the things that people who are godly reject. That's verses 3 through 5. These are the things that they don't do. Verse three. They don't slander by the tongue That David here understands that an upright and righteous life is known by the way someone speaks, and especially by what they don't speak. They don't use their voices to put down another person by groundless reporting. That's gossip. Or by passing on of a false accusation against him or her. That's slander. And both of these corrupt uses of the tongue reveal a corrupt heart lying behind the bad behavior. Jesus also put it, recorded in Matthew 12, 34, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. James Montgomery Boyce has written, I think more damage has been done to the church and its work. By gossip, criticism, and slander, than by any other single sin. I agree And I say to you tonight in God's name, don't do it. Bite your tongue before you use it this way. Slandering with the tongue and doing evil to the neighbor. So let's continue then with that next clause Doing no evil to the neighbor, nor taking up a reproach against the friend. David also knew that righteousness is expressed in the way you treat one another. Especially by the way you talk to each other. In other words, it's wrong not only actively to harm another person, especially someone whom you know intimately It's wrong also to agree with the wrong that other people are doing in groundlessly hurting your friend. And it must be noted that you can be guilty of doing that merely by not saying anything. For silence often means consent. In other words, you can take up a reproach by not uttering a word. Isn't it striking that the Bible knows so much about the intimacies of personal and social relationships between people? But then again we know the identity of the true author behind Furthermore, you might have thought that David, the psalmist, would have given greater priority to religious obligations such as sacrifice or Purification ceremonies, which certainly have their place, but are useless without the practical godliness of being good and honest and honorable. To neighbors and friends. But he's not merely the psalmist. He is the human instrument of the Lord in revealing his law for the life of his creature, man. And especially that summary of the second table of his law. You shall love your neighbor As yourself. And even in these words of David in Psalm 15, we cannot escape their deeper application, brought to light by Jesus. Jesus Christ, who commanded us not only to love our neighbor and friend, but also to love our enemies, and those who spitefully Use us. That hurts when you stop and think about the things that you've done to violate that command. thinking of myself. Well then he goes on in verses four and five to say that our character In civil life, must be righteous and godly. He starts off by saying, in whose eyes a vile person is despised Now David knew that we cannot love good unless we despise evil. As it says in Psalm 97:10. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil. And that may mean taking an unpopular position and clearly opposing evil. If you live in 21st century United States, you'll come across this often. That may mean taking an unpopular position, as I say. In other words, you may not just retreat into your own private religious cubbyhole when evil takes the upper hand. all around you. It's not enough only to fear the Lord. You must hate evil as well, whether or not the majority holds with to you. Yet this righteous man also, David goes on to say, honors those who fear the Lord. He makes his judgments about men on a godly basis, not from favoritism, flattery, or corruption. You must be as honest in paying respect as in paying your bills. Paying honor to whom honor is due. To all good men you owe a debt of honor, but you have no right to support vile persons who happen to be in high David continues, he swears to his own hurt and does not change. The idea behind this is that this righteous man keeps his promises even when it is no longer in his advantage. to do so. Remember Joshua and the elders who kept their oath to the Gibeonites, though to their own personal inconvenience. Again, the law prohibited the substitution of another animal sacrifice for that which had been vowed in Leviticus 20. And our psalm uses the same word for change, with evident allusion to that prohibition which must therefore have been known to David. Keep your promises, not only if you're intending to be President of the United States, but just a citizen. Then he goes on to say, and this one should interest us, and we might wonder why it's in the Bible. He does not put out his money at interest Nor does he take a bribe against the innocent. Well, the second part we understand, but what about the first part? Here David actually describes the man who is concerned to live a righteous life when it comes to To money, yes. Many people who would be considered godly in other areas of their life still have not decided to use their money in a way that honors God and shows love and care to others. Now this Hebrew word translated in our version as interest could also be translated usury. Specifically. That I believe is what is condemned in the Bible, and it's condemned here. Not putting out your money and interest in general. But putting it out in the context of trading on someone else's misfortune, particularly a brother in the church or sister. The concern of this verse is not with receiving interest for money loan, even my retirement fund is dabbles to a certain extent in the stock market. And uh I wondered when I read this song whether I gotta tell them I don't one But the concern of this verse is not with receiving interest for money loaned, though it seems to say that. You first read it. But rather, it's is the one from whom the interest is taken. That's the concern of the psalmist. In other words, the verse concerns greed. eclipsing justice. The best Old Testament illustration that I can find of the abuse that David is talking about here Is in Nehemiah 5, where all the wealthy were taking advantage of the poor among the exiles, when all should have been helping one another. like we heard about this morning in diaconal ministry. So here we have in some the character of the person who is qualified to accept God's welcome wagon invitation to dwell in his house And that summary highlights the kind of behavior that this person rejects. Don't do these things. The one God welcomes into his home doesn't do certain things in David names a number of them. And you have listened to this catalog carefully with me. That David has presented. Hopefully, you will search your hearts as I mine when I prepared this message and consider my behavior, your behavior. But now let's take a look back at verse two, as I promised before, and I'm supposed to keep my promises. He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart. So the godly visitor to God's house will show a positive as well as a negative righteousness. So we turn now to the positive character of the godly person. Now, first note that the godly person here in verse 2 will be characterized characterized as one who walks blamelessly. Hmm. Blamelessly? Now we have to be honest with dealing with the Word of God. And don't tinker with its words. The word here translated blamelessly means what you think it means, without blame. Not mostly without play. Apparently, God does not mark on a curve. There must be 100% compliance in every respect to his law, without blame. Not mainly godly, not godly for the most part. Blameless. Blameless in all aspects of life. This person walks blamelessly. That is, he lives, however, that life is investigated in such a way that there is not found one spot of deviation from or marring of the presided prescribed law of Almighty God. Now humans may be satisfied with a 85% or 90% or so. Performance. In fact, they might praise you for getting so close to perfection. But not God. David says, and remember He's speaking God's word, he who walks blamelessly. Now, as if that were not enough, he goes on secondly to note that the godly person will be characterized. As one who does does what is right. In other words, it's not simply a matter of not doing the wrong things that he's going on to We've already considered that when we listen to verses 3 to 5. But now the identification of the godly person goes a step further. Not only what he or she doesn't do, but also what he or she does is going to be the Test. That means God will have a look not only for the perfect avoidance of unrighteousness, there will be no sin on the record, absolutely But there will be more. He will have a look for a perfect and complete righteousness. The godly person will be w be one who not only has not done what is wrong, but who has also done what is right. Now this is getting difficult, isn't it? Blameless, walking, righteously, doing what is right Right? But he's not done. Thirdly, note that the godly person speaks truth in his heart. Uh oh. Intention as well as outward action apparently is demanded. Righteousness is not only a matter of behavior. That is visible. It also involves what is thought. When God judges you He is concerned not only with what you do, what is outwardly observable, but with your motivation in what you design. And that is not visible to other people, but it is jolly well known by him because he can read. That's why we read that passage from Deuteronomy 10. Did you notice it in the middle of that passage? God requires circumcised Hearts, not just circumcised bodies. Okay. Where does that lead In trouble. It is easy and proper to look at these lists. The one in verses three through five, and now the one in verse two. And see where you fall well short. You have done the things that David says you should not do You are unrighteous. And you have not done the things that David says you should have done. You are not positively righteous. And that leaves you clearly unqualified, doesn't it, to respond to God's welcome wagon. You're not welcome in his house Yet seeing in this psalm your true state should drive you to Jesus For then you will see this whole psalm through the grid of the new covenant. This psalm is not a worksheet. Designed to enable you to become qualified to enter God's house. Not a worksheet Its purpose is not to tell you how to shape up to God's requirements by your own determination and performance. That's simply impossible. You never will be able to climb that ladder. For you've already sinned, and you will continue to do so. And you simply don't have the positive righteousness by which no man shall ever see God So seeing Jesus is seeing the only one who can take the punishment for your sins. That's that brazen altar. And he is the only one who can provide the righteousness you don't have. To see Jesus, to believe the gospel, is to see him as dying for your sins and as having perfectly fulfilled the requirements of the law. for you. You have thus become a Christian by God's grace and not by your effort. He has given you his Holy Spirit to enable you to put your trust in Jesus Christ. And your sins are forgiven on the basis of Jesus Jesus' atoning work, and by faith, his obedience is accounted as yours. Then, and here is the point that David wants to stress at the end of verse 5. He who does these things shall never be moved. These ones are being transformed so that the fulfillment of this psalm should more and more mark their lives. They've not done these things in order to become welcomed in God's house, but because they have already been welcomed by Him.