Please open your Bibles to the book of 1 Samuel, 1 Samuel 15, 35 through 1623. And Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death. But Samuel grieved over Saul, and the Lord regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel. The Lord said to Samuel, How long will you grieve over Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided for myself a king among his sons. And Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul hears it, he will kill me. And the Lord said, Take a heifer with you and say, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. And invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do. And you shall anoint for me him whom I declare to you. Samuel did what the Lord commanded and came to Bethlehem. The elders of the city came to meet him and trembling and said, Do you come peaceably? And he said, Peaceably I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Consecrate yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. And he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice. When they came, he looked on Eliab and thought, Surely the Lord has anointed, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. But the Lord said to Samuel, Do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as man sees Man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart. Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither has the Lord chosen this one. Then Jesse made Shama pass by, and he said, Neither has the Lord chosen this one. And Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not chosen these. Then Samuel said to Jesse, Are all your sons here? And he said, There remains yet the youngest, but behold, he is keeping the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and get him, for we will not sit down until he comes here. And he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy and had beautiful eyes and was handsome. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him, for this is he. Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. And the Spirit of the Lord rushed upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up and went to Ramah. Now the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and a harmful spirit from the Lord tormented him. And Saul's servant said to him, Behold, now a harmful spirit from God is tormenting you. Let our Lord now command your servants. who are before you to seek out a man who is skillful in playing the lyre. And when the harmful spirit from God is upon you, he will play it, and you will be well. So Saul said to his servants, Provide for me a man who can play well and bring him to me. One of the young men answered, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Bethlehemite. who is skilled in playing, a man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and a man of good presence, and the Lord is with him. Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, Send me David, your son, who is with the sheep. And Jesse took a donkey laden with bread and skin of wine and a young goat and sent them by David. to his son by David his son to Saul. And David came to Saul and entered his service. And Saul loved him greatly, and he became his armor bearer. And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David remain in my service, for he has found favor in my sight. And whenever the harmful spirit from God was upon Saul, David took the lyre and played it with his hand So Saul was refreshed and was well, and the harmful spirit departed from him. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Our New Testament reading is from Romans 1, verses 1 through 6. It's also likely to be a text in next Sunday's preaching because I'm going to move to the book of Romans. Romans 1, 1 through 6. Hear God's word. Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus. called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the holy scriptures concerning his Son. Who was descended from David according to the flesh? And was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the spirit of holiness. By his resurrection from the dead. Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship To bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for your word, a record of your divine working throughout all historical time. From the beginning in the Garden of Eden to the very present moment, you are king and sovereign over everything in history. So we pray now that as we consider this portion of your word, we will understand it according to the Spirit's inspiration and illumination. Amen. Today, folks, we are finally being introduced to David. David. We hear his name for the very first time in verse 13 of our text. David makes his appearance. David is absolutely the most important person in the Old Testament. He is preeminent in the Old Testament. The Old Testament is filled with forerunners of Jesus Christ. It is filled with types. Of things to come, pictures that show forth something not yet realized. It is full of promises to Abraham of a descendant. Who would come and bless the whole world? The Old Testament has institutions like the tabernacle and the temple and the sacrificial service. And it has sacrifices that show how man and God can be reconciled and come together and have fellowship. All these things, however, do not fulfill the purpose for which they are made unless they point forward to something better, because they are all less than good enough to do the job. We see in the Old Testament little Saviors that appear from time to time in the history of the Old Testament. Deliverers who deliver God's people from trouble. And we see little rescues that come and go in time in the Old Testament. And we see partial fellowship, but not complete and ultimate fellowship in the Old Testament. The writer to the book of to the people of the Hebrews in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 1, says about the law and what we mean here by law isn't just the Ten Commandments, but the whole of the Old Testament is the law. It says, for since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these realities. Now we're getting closer as we see David come on the scene to the fulfillment. But we're not there yet. The greatest of all the forerunners, as I said, is David. And we see late in the Old Testament, in Jeremiah 23, verse 5, we see The prophet Jeremiah, in the troubled days of Judah's going into exile, we see the prophet Jeremiah looking ahead prophetically by the Holy Spirit. He says, He says, listen. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David. A righteous branch. And he shall reign as king and deal wisely and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. And we see about four, well, more than four hundred years later, several hundred, more than, way more than four hundred years later, in Matthew chapter one, verse one. We see the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew says, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. And Romans 1, which I just read, Paul gets all excited about the mission that he's been given after having been a persecutor of the church, having been Saul who persecuted the church. and was confronted by Jesus Christ on the road to Damascus. Paul says in Romans 1, Paul, a servant, a bondservant, a slave of Christ Jesus. called to be an apostle, that is someone sent with a message, set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets, in the holy scriptures concerning his son who was descended from David according to the flesh. So you see how important David is. As Paul announces the gospel, he speaks of David, because David is so central. And even in our own times, we can look at the flag that flies over the modern nation of Israel. Is it a flag with some symbol of Abraham or Moses and the Ten Commandments in tablet form on the flag? No, it's the star of David. Ever since eighteen ninety seven, when the first Zionist Congress took place. The flag over that nation, that modern nation, is the star of David. David is the most beloved character in the Old Testament. But David is not perfect, as we have said several times already. He's better than Saul. He's better than Solomon. He's better than every subsequent king. Except one. David points to that better king who will occupy David's throne forever. So as we come to this text today, we see three things. And the first thing that I want to show you Very deliberately, the Lord sees and chooses his king. He sees and chooses his king. In 1 Samuel 15, 35, we get the first image of seeing, or in this case, not seeing, and Samuel did not see Saul again. So Samuel, being kind of God's eyes, doesn't see Saul. He did not see Saul again until the day of his death, but Samuel grieved over Saul, and the Lord regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel. And then in verse 1 of the next chapter, verse chapter 16, I have, it says in our ESV text, I have provided for myself God, saying, my king. A king. But the actual Hebrew is I have seen. So he didn't see Saul anymore. His prophet didn't. But now God says, I have seen for myself a king. The Lord said to Samuel, How long will you grieve over Saul since I have rejected him for being king over Israel? God. Like our prophet Samuel grieves over human sin and failure. So Samuel grieves over the sins of Saul. And you know what? Those who are close to God, who have his heart, will also grieve over sin and wickedness. It says in Ezekiel 33 that God takes no pleasure in the ruin of the wicked. He says, As I live, declares the Lord, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live. And Samuel, having God's heart here, is grieving as we open this chapter, grieving over the king, Saul, and all his trouble. But Samuel must not get stuck in God's pathos and neglect God's purpose. God has always had a plan. And God's plan is being unfolded here. God is not surprised by Saul's disobedience. God's plan is going forward. So let me just stop for a moment and apply this to you. As you look around and see a broken, grieving, hurting world, sin-cursed world, you should grieve over sin too. It's not really funny. We shouldn't joke about sin and all the awful stuff it brings. You should grieve over sin, yours and the sins of others. You should grieve over the lost, but you should still trust God's plans and God's greater purpose. So God now says to his prophet, Fill your horn. Don't stick it stuck in grief. Fill your horn and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite. The Bethlehemite. You've got to remember that for a second. For I have seen for myself a king among his sons. This is the same Bethlehem of Christmas. This is the same Bethlehem as the little town of Bethlehem that we sing about in our Christmas carols. It's the city of David. That the an angel announced, for behold, born unto you in the city of David is a Savior, Christ the Lord. This is being done a thousand years later when the angels sang that or said that. But he's been sent. Now verse 2, Samuel says, back to God, and he says, How can I go? If Saul hears it, he will kill me. Why is that? Because the political climate at this time is very rough You see, Samuel has been the bearer of bad news to King Saul, and Saul has become an angry, bitter king whose kingdom has no future. Samuel is evidently afraid of public events. He's afraid to go out in public and be seen because Saul might come after him. But he has bigger ears than fears. I couldn't find a picture. I was going to use this as a child children's illustration today. I was going to try to find a picture of someone who has huge ears. And say, you know what, we need to have really big ears. Samuel has big ears for God's word, bigger than his fears of Saul, the wicked king. And the Lord goes on and he says, take a heifer with you. This is his solution. This is God's solution. Take a heifer with you. This is your job. You're the prophet and priest here. So take a heifer. That's a young cow. And say, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. And invite Jesse to the sacrifice. And God says, I will show you what you shall do. And you shall anoint for me him whom I declare to you. Verse 4. And Samuel did what the Lord commanded and came to Bethlehem. The elders of the city came to meet him with trembling and said, Do you come peaceably? They're not sure what's going to happen here. Why do they tremble? Probably because they're afraid of Saul. That Saul should hear that Samuel was received by him, he might send in the troops and cause all kinds of trouble. Maybe they heard what Samuel, the prophet, who's coming to them now, did to King Agag. No wonder they trembled. We are all sinners and are subject to the fear of temporal punishment if we are self-aware. These Bethlehemite rulers trembled in reaction to Samuel. Reminds me of long ago when I was in ninth grade in junior high school in Hollywood, Florida. I had a teacher named Mrs. Toman. She was a truly fearsome person, in appearance as well as deeds. She enjoyed confiscating unauthorized items that she might find on one of her pupils, which she donated to her favorite charity herself. Mrs. Thoman kept a stack of referral cards on her desk. And it seemed that she really liked to fill them out and hand them out. If she caught you so much as whispering in class, she would call you up to her desk and happily fill out a referral card and then send you off to the dean's office to get a whack That is a whack is corporal punishment, which means bodily punishment. That doesn't happen anymore, I don't think. I got a referral once. It was just a whisper, as I remember it You know what? When I got that referral, I ran home. It was just a few blocks home. And mom said, go back to school. And I got a whack. Which is probably why I remember Mrs. Tolman so well. Back to our prophet. They're afraid. This is very fearsome. What's going to happen? Is Saul going to send in the troops? Is this Samuel going to do something like he did to King Agag? We're afraid of this whole thing. But Samuel did not come to enact judgment. He came in peace for a noble purpose under God. Verse 5, he says, peaceably I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh. Consecrate yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice And he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice. What does this mean to consecrate? It means it involves preparation. It involves washing, various kinds of purification, removal of anything that would make a person ceremonially unclean and unfit to participate in this worship. It might take some time. Sometimes you had to wait a while to be purified and ready for sacrifice. A day or two. Verse 6, and they came and looked on, when they came, that is, he, that is the prophet, looked on, there's that seeing again. He looked on Eliab, that's the first son, and thought, surely, this is the Lord's anointed. Why? Because if you look back in the text, you'll see that Eliab reminds Samuel of Saul. Saul is tall in stature, head and shoulders above his peers, and he's really good looking. He looks like a king. We care too much about human appearances. But God does not care much about human stature In fact, in Psalm 147, verses 10 through 11, it says there, His delight, the Lord's delight, is not in the strength of a horse, nor his pleasure in the legs of a man. But the Lord takes pleasure in those who fear him and those who hope in his steadfast love. So in response to this Eliab coming and being shown and And Samuel thinking, oh, this must be the guy. Verse 7, the Lord said to Samuel, Do not look on his appearance or the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as man sees. Man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart. Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel. This is kind of like a police lineup, I guess, you know. And he said, Neither has the Lord chosen this one. Then Jesse made Shama pass. And he said, Neither has the Lord chosen this one. And Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel, and Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not chosen these. Then Samuel said to Jesse, Are all your sons here? And he said, There remains yet the youngest, but behold, he's keeping the sheep. This is kind of interesting, isn't it? He's keeping the sheep. A shepherd. This is a lousy job. Somebody has to do it. It's a dirty, tiresome sometimes dangerous job. Don't think of shepherds in beautiful flowing robes, uh just sitting out in the the field and and and it's all just placid and peaceful. No. It's a dirty job. There are attacking lions. There are thieves. There are all kinds of dangers. And the sheep are dumb. They do stupid things. Maybe some of you have seen the Discovery Channel show Dirty Jobs. Well, they could have a whole episode on Shepherd. But listens, God Himself is willing to take the dirty job of shepherd. Listen to the late prophet Ezekiel in verse chapter 34, verses 14 and 15, where God says this. I will feed them with good pasture on the mountain heights of Israel shall be their grazing land. There they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on rich pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep. I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord God. He's willing to be a shepherd. Just like this last son of Jesse is a shepherd. And Samuel said to Jesse, send and get him, for we will not sit down till he comes here. That's gonna be a big delay. Gotta go get him. Got to get somebody else to take care of the sheep. He has to be washed and cleaned and made ready, purified, so that he can participate. But we're gonna take the time Samuel was absolutely insistent. So verse 12, and he sent and brought him in. Now that sounds like a short time, but it probably wasn't. And it says, now he was ruddy and had beautiful eyes, and he was handsome. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him. For this is he. Second point: the Lord provides and empowers his chosen kings. Verse 13, then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. All those brothers that passed by and were not chosen, they're there. And this prophet takes out that horn of oil and anoints, pours it out on his head, anoints this youngest one, David, this shepherd boy, in the midst of his brothers. It literally says in the Old Testament Hebrew that Samuel Christed him. Because that's what anoint is. It's Christ. Christ is the anointed one. He messiahed him. He christed him. The general purpose for anointing was to set apart for service. It was a rite of inauguration into each of the three Old Testament offices. Prophets were occasionally anointed to their office and were called messiahs because they were the anointed ones. This is recorded in 1 Kings 19, if you want to look it up, 1 Chronicles 16, and it's mentioned in Psalm 105. Priests at the first institution of the Levitical priesthood were all anointed to their offices. Exodus 40, verse 15, and Numbers 3. 3. And kings. Kings. Anointing was the principal and divinely appointed ceremony in the inauguration of Jewish kings. And that's what happens here to our shepherd boy, David. And then after this happens, after the oil flows down from his head and perhaps his young beard, if he's old enough. It says that the Spirit of the Lord rushed upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up and went to Ramah. The Spirit of the Lord rushing. This is not regeneration. This is the Spirit coming to empower David for service. In fact, David will later pray, after he sinned, he will pray, take not your spirit from me. He's not saying, please don't take my salvation away. That's not the problem. It's not a salvation issue, but an empowerment issue. He's saying as king who has sinned, don't take your service spirit, your empowering spirit away from me as your king. Restore to me the joy of serving you of your salvation. Verse 14, now the Spirit of the Lord departed. So the Spirit comes on David, rushes on David, empowers him. But verse 14, in contrast, the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. And a harmful spirit from Yahweh tormented him. This is depression. This is anger, bitterness stewing down inside the king. Verse 15, And Saul's servant said to him, Behold, now a harmful spirit from God is tormenting you. Let our Lord now command your servants who are before you to seek out a man who is skilful in playing the lyre. And when the harmful spirit from God is upon you, he will play it, and you will be, well. Evidently, music sued this savage beast. Verse 17. So Saul said to his servants, Provide for me a man who can play well and bring him to me in God's providence. One of the young men answered, Behold, and here it is again, this seeing thing, behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, who is skillful in playing. A man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and a man of good presence, and the Lord is with him. This is the third time we've got that seeing thing. Verse 1, I have seen for myself a king. Verse 7, about Eliab. The Lord sees not as man sees. And then here in verse 18, Saul's servant says, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse. Verse 19 now. Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, Send me David, your son, who is with the sheep. And Jesse took a donkey laden with bread and a skin of wine and a young goat and sent them by David, his son, to Saul. And David came to Saul and entered his service. And Saul loved him greatly, and he became his armor bearer. That's a really important job, bearing the king's armor. Carrying it around. It's like being a caddy for a really famous golfer, you know. And Saul sent to Jesse saying, Let David remain in my service, for he has found favor in my sight. Whenever the harmful spirit from God was upon Saul, David took the lyre and played it with his hand. So Saul was refreshed and was well, and the harmful spirit departed from him. I want you to notice this. God's wonderful providence here. God's choice is also Saul's choice, but in a different way. Saul was depressed. He was tormented. He was full of anger and regret, but not repentance. And David is sent in God's amazing providence to soothe Saul. with music. Let me just stop to apply it this way for you who are here today and for all who might listen You and I cannot take away the pain of sin in this world, but we can sing God's songs in it. We can bear witness to God's salvation in it. In a few minutes after we have eaten and drunk at the king's table, I will dismiss you and send you into the world to make a difference by serving in this disintegrating world, a world divided and coming apart because of sin and disobedience to God. But every Christian child who obeys her parents, keeping the fifth commandment, sings God's songs in a broken world Every adult who honors elderly parents sings God's songs. Every husband who loves and keeps faithful to his wife Every wife that respects and keeps faithful to her husband, every honest business transaction, every merciful act of kindness sings God's songs. In a sin-darkened world where things are coming apart. David will have a much greater role than that in the years to come. But for now, he simply takes the gifts that he has been given. And the opportunity set before him, and sings God's songs to soothe the fading king. So I ask you to think about this. What can you do to serve God's purposes in this sin-twisted world? You too have been anointed by the Spirit, set apart for service. What has God put in your way to allow you to sing God's song David, like Jesus, will be tried and tested. David, like Jesus, will be rejected by his own brothers. David will be loved without jealousy by Jonathan, who Jonathan, who might have been king if not for Saul's disobedience. David will have to be on the run and in hiding in the future for a very long time. He will make many mistakes and commit some terrible sins. But even in these, he will use them to glorify God by writing and composing wonderful songs of God's mercy. The shepherd of Bethlehem will become the shepherd of Israel and will be the distant father of the good shepherd. Who lays down his life for his sheep? Jesus, the anointed, the son of David. John chapter 10, verses 14 and 15, Jesus says, I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. And I lay down my life for my sheep. It's a dirty job, but he's willing to do it. If you would be empowered to bear witness about him in this messed up world, you must first believe into him. That's how we come into union with Jesus Christ. We believe into him. We receive him by faith. He joins with us, and we join with him by faith By belief and trusting in him. We believe into him by faith. And then we believe him in what he says. And we're willing to do it. So believe today that he is the true king and the true shepherd who can and will heal the world. And who will ultimately sing a song of victory over his people. Amen. Lord, we thank you and praise you that you were willing to be the shepherd of lost and straying and broken and bruised sheep. And you are willing to rescue them from the jaws of death and destruction. We praise you and thank you for this picture that you've drawn for us. of your great saving work in Jesus Christ. Help us to go out into the world, Lord, and to sing your song. To a broken and bruised and hurting and grieving world. Amen.