Please open your Bibles to the book of Exodus, but we'll read chapter 20, verses 18 through 21. Exodus 20, verse 18 through 21. Now when all the people saw the thunder and the flashes of lightning and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking, the people were afraid and trembled. And they stood far off and said to Moses, You speak to us, and we will listen. But do not let God speak to us lest we die. Moses said to the people, Do not fear, for God has come to test you, that the fear of him may be before you, that you may not sin. The people stood far off while Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. For a New Testament scripture lesson, we'll be turning to the book of Revelation, chapter four, verses one through eleven. Again, we'll be turning to the very last book of the Bible, the book of Revelation, chapter 4, verse 1 through 11. This time, let us give careful attention to the reading of God's holy, inspired, and inerrant word. After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven. And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. At once I was in the spirit, and behold, the throne stood in heaven With one seated on the throne. And he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments with golden crowns on their heads. From the throne came flashes of lightning, rumblings, and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass like crystal. And around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures, full of eyes, in front and behind. The first living creature like a lion. The second living creature like an ox. The third living creature with the face of a man. The fourth living creature like an eagle in flight And the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, are full of eyes all around and within, and day and night they never cease to say, Holy, holy, holy. is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. And whenever the living creatures give glory, and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, who lives forever and ever. The twenty-four elders fall down before him, who is seated on the throne, and worship him who lives forever and ever They cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things. And by your will they existed and were created. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us come to the Lord in prayer at this time. Heavenly Father, we thank you that in these last days you've spoken to us by your Son, and have revealed yourself through the Scriptures. You have sufficiently shown yourself mighty and powerful through the created universe, but have shown yourself as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit through the Word Reveal yourself so that man could be made right with God. We pray that as we read the scriptures, and we've sung the scriptures, We now look to hear you in these words. O Lord, help us, strengthen us, confront us, comfort us, all for the glory of Christ, and that we might be conformed more into His image. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Now the story of Exodus, the second book of the Bible, will always be one of the great gems in the library of Scripture. If you're familiar with the Bible, then you may already know that in God's plan of redemption, he did not simply liberate Israel from Egypt. Because he didn't like the situation they're in. There are many other peoples in similar situations who did not have God's hand intervene in the manner in which he did with Israel. Instead, what Exodus reveals to us most clearly is that God is maintaining and fulfilling his covenant promises. His covenant promises begun generations ago with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And these very promises were budding into fruition before Israel's very eyes If we fail to understand this overarching covenant framework today in our reading, We're failing to see the whole story. You see, this is what makes Exodus so very special for us. Never before had God revealed himself as he had on Mount Sinai. God had manifested himself empirically and sensibly to all the people. He did not reveal himself merely to his prophet Moses Nor merely Aaron, but to all of Israel, the whole nation. The Lord spoke audibly for everyone to hear They heard each and every commandment. Before our reading today, we find the Ten Commandments. Later, as Moses would look back on these events near the end of his life. He would recount the very words of the people in this moment. We turn to Deuteronomy chapter 5 in our Bibles to see that ourselves. If he would do that, that would be helpful. If you don't do that, less humble. Deuteronomy chapter five contains The second giving of the Ten Commandments. And again, we have the response of the people at the great revelation of God Himself. It says in Deuteronomy 5, verse 24 and 25. And you said, behold, these are the words of the people, behold, the Lord our God has shown us his glory and greatness. And we have heard his voice out of the midst of the fire. This day we have seen God speak with man, and man still live. A little further. If we hear the voice of the Lord our God anymore. We shall die. This event given to us today in sacred scripture was not a symbolic work of fiction. It was not an exercise of mass hysteria. Instead, we have before us this morning an unprecedented revelation of the holiness of God. As we consider this text today, then, we are shown that God's word is accompanied by God's presence In addition, we are reminded from the outset that the law of God is a proper reflection of the holiness of God. And that as the law of God comes forward, we must hold it in the highest of esteems and commit ourselves to what God has proclaimed. Or as Deuteronomy tells us in Deuteronomy 5. 22, to what God wrote on the two tablets of stone and gave to Moses. It is not enough for us simply to know how to regurgitate the Ten Commandments or to say them thoughtlessly. It is easy for us to do that if you are in church long enough. We must know what happened after the giving of the Ten. We have to see how God delivered these words. How Israel responded to these words. How Moses responded as well. We have to combat the idea that the function of church is data exchange or information transfer, or that scripture is merely a series of propositions. Instead, Scripture is the unfolding of the story of God's redemption of his people in time and space. In other words, we'll never be able to value what God has given to us in His Word if we fail to recognize that His Word came to ordinary people made of flesh and blood like you and me. To that end, what I would like for us to do this Sabbath morning is to spend our time looking at our passage under these three heads or three points to help us not only follow the natural progression of the text But also to help us organize our thoughts. And so we'll be using these three points or heads. The first is God's power unveiled, which will be on verse 18. Second will be God's people recoil, which will be verse 19. Lastly, we'll look at God's prophet draws near, verses 20 to 21. Let's begin with the first then. God's power unveiled. In verse 18. There is no word but power to describe what's coming before us in our scripture reading in the Old Testament. As mentioned already, each of the manifestations of God's presence on Mount Sinai are intended to be both visible and memorable for the people of God, as Moses will clarify later on. But I'd like for us to slow down our reading today and ask a more broad question. What is God revealing to us by means of these images? Why does God use thunder, lightnings, the sounds of the horn, and a smoking mountain? Now we could presume that God is merely utilizing these vibrant and audacious symbols because they're most likely to grab his people's attention. But such an answer fails to recognize the interwoven nature of Scripture. If we could look at the Bible and see how everything is connected, we would see an almost infinite series of strings that would look like a flat wall Because of the amount of connections that are in the Old and New Testament. We have to learn when we read our Bibles to ask ourselves: where else in Scripture do we find similar images? If we were to look at Exodus as a whole again, we would see that the word thunder came across as a symbol of God's judgment earlier in the book. I'd invite you now to turn with me in your Bibles to the book of Exodus, chapter 9. We'll be looking at verse 23. As you turn there, I'll tell you a little bit about that section. We are recounting the seventh plague of God upon Egypt, which was the plague of Haal. We read these words then in Exodus 9, verse 23, which I think helps us see what's going on. Then Moses stretched out his staff toward heaven. And the Lord sent thunder and hail and fire ran down to the earth. Again, thunder and fire. Same images we saw in Exodus 20. Later, Pharaoh considers the thunder as part of God's plague, and he begged Moses to intervene. Now we're going to verse 28 of Exodus 9. Plead with the Lord, for there has been enough of God's thunder and hail. And so in the display of God's glory and mastery over creation, he utilized thunder and fire in that passage, not only to demolish Egypt, which he did in fact do. but also to symbolize his judgment. And so thunder symbolizes God's judgment. What else does it symbolize? Well, the thunder also symbolizes God's mastery over creation. Boy, do we have a lot of thunder and lightning this week, didn't we? I keep being told as I'm visiting, it's not normally like this. It's not normally this hot. It's not normally this this uh stormy. But it is fact uh impressive and amazing. I don't know about you, but but often if I'm in my home and there's a a beautiful thunderstorm, I'll peek out the window and just see how the light dances over the heavens. I think it's pretty cool. I can't do that. I presume you can't do that. This is something that's unique to our Creator, God. And that's what's being displayed in this thunder and lightning imagery here. And we see that in verse 29, if you still have your Bible open to Exodus 9. It says there, As soon as I have gone out of the city, I will stretch out my hands to the Lord. Moses is speaking. The thunder will cease, and there will be no more hail, so that you may know that the earth is the Lord's. Thunder is a symbol of God's judgment. Thunder is a symbol of God's power over creation. But there's also one more aspect to this heavenly ruckus. And now I invite you to turn with me to the book of Ezekiel, chapter 43, verse 2. Ezekiel, and that's a tough one to find if you're trying to do it quick. It's after the Psalms, after the big prophets. Ezekiel chapter 43. Now, Ezekiel is not a very popular book in many circles today, as you would find in John or Romans, but in it you find some of the clearest displays of God's mercy. His power, his holiness, his justice, even himself. And so in the midst of this, we find this visible demonstration of God, or what's often called a theophany. Ezekiel writes these words in Ezekiel 43, 2. And behold, the glory of the God of Israel. was coming from the east, and the sound of his coming was like the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory Now we're at a disadvantage here because in English we see the word sound instead of thunder. But it is the same, in fact, Hebrew word there. It's the very same root for the word thunder that we find in Exodus 20. How do we put this in perspective? I've never been to Niagara Falls. I found in the first service a lot of people went to Niagara Falls. Have any of you gone to Niagara Falls? Okay. Everyone likes to be involved and volunteer. Great job. But Niagara Falls seems like a lovely place to visit. But I hear it's it's rather loud. From what I saw online, the falls themselves actually come in at about 95 decibels. What is that That's louder than your lawnmower. It's louder than your food processor. And I think of a very specific one my wife received from her grandmother. It's about yay big, but it will liquefy anything. It's about as loud as a rock concert In short, it's loud. And so these cataclysmic thunderings that are coming forward on Mount Sinai, that are bursting over and over again for the people of Israel to hear is loud. It's thunderous, it's booming. It's the sort of noise that makes your core shake that you might actually feel it before you hear it. But they are a symbol of God's presence. And so when we look at those different portions Of Scripture together, what we find is that thunder here is a symbol of God's judgment, a symbol of God's power over creation, but also a symbol of God's presence. If time permitted, we would do the same sort of biblical threading or tracing throughout the history of God's revelation of each symbol present in our passage of Scripture. But all of them provide demonstrations of these three realities of judgment, power, and presence. Alright, we have an idea of these symbols, but we have to ask a broader question. Now, how do these symbols connect to the Bible as a whole? Come to the second point. God's people recoil. Old Testament scholar Meredith Klein helps us answer this broader question with his very confusing book, Images of the Spirit. No sense. When you read it your first time, that's the one to do it. There, he finds a similar event of God revealing himself to his people, utilizing the very same language that we find in our text today. And what's most interesting is you find it in the Garden of Eden. You have the same response there from Adam and Eve as you do of the Israelites on Mount Sinai, and I don't think that's accidental. In that very work, Meredith Klein writes, in Genesis 3:8. They heard the voice of God. The voice or sound of the Lord's coming was heard. What Adam and Eve heard was frighteningly loud. It was the shattering thunder of God's advent in judgment. We're used to hearing the language of God coming in the cool of the day. It sounds like grandma's coming over with cookies at night. But that's not the idea that's coming through there. Instead, we find the voice or thunderings of God accompanied with judgment, power, and judgment. And presence. Adam and Eve recoiled at the thunderous presence of God because it was a symbol of judgment, which makes sense. Because they had just sinned against God. Can the same be said for Sinai? Absolutely. And that's the most interesting part for our understanding of Scripture. But what do I mean? What we find throughout the scriptures are progressive foreshadows of God's plan of redemption, which includes both the glory of God's Son coming to save his people. And also the reality of God's final work of defeating evil in the culminated destruction of Satan, sin, and death. In other words, what we find in the Garden of Eden then is nothing other than God's pronouncement of judgment, which is a foreshadow of what we'll find on the very last day. We find a preview then of the last day in the Garden of Eden. We find a preview of the last day in the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. We find them in the ten plagues in Egypt. We find them in Mount Sinai. We find them in the death of the nation of Israel. We find them in the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. under the Romans. Which Jesus prophesied of in Matthew 24. Though unpopular to discuss, the reality of God's judgment has always been a central pillar in considering the total message of the Bible. We are a reformed church, and that means that we have standards that guide us in our teaching and discipleship. One of them is called the Westminster Confession of Faith. The very last chapter in that Confession of Faith, chapter 33. Ties these three themes together of judgment, power, and presence. I'll read from there now. It says in chapter 33. God hath appointed a day wherein He will judge the world in righteousness by Jesus Christ for the manifestation of the glory of his mercy in the eternal salvation of the elect and of his justice which shall come forth from the presence of the Lord. These themes are interwoven together because to be in God's presence is to experience the magnitude of His power and holiness. To go back to Niagara Falls, if you're in a dinky little boat getting close to the falls, by necessity, you are going to experience the magnitude Of the presence of those false. To be in the presence of God is to experience the magnitude of His holiness. And such holiness is absolutely overwhelming for us. Have you ever been to a church service where you felt like the preacher was speaking to you You ever felt like you were in a church service where you were just overwhelmed with the reality how God demands perfection and you fail miserably? You ever came to that portion in the confession of sin when you are privately confessing your sins and you are grateful that God is not setting up a PowerPoint behind you to show you what you're thinking about? The holiness of God is overwhelming to us because we are unholy by virtue of our nature and wills, by virtue of our hearts. This is why we find in our text today these self-damning words of Israel, because they see the holiness and power of God. And they want to flee from it. It says in verse 19 of Exodus 20. So they said to Moses, You speak to us, and we will listen. But do not let God speak to us, lest we die. You see, what happened in those moments was that God's promises of mercy and forgiveness and love were forgotten. God had promised them in the chapter before in Exodus 19, 5 and 6, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. You know, it's interesting. In order to be a priest, at some point you have to talk to God. He's not a good priest if he doesn't talk to God. In order to be a kingdom of priests, they had to be in his presence. It's not very good if they're not willing to be in his presence. They drew near to God with their lips, but by their actions they showed that they did not desire him. They had said, all that the Lord has spoken we will do. They said that in Exodus 19:8. But as soon as they begin to experience God for themselves, To see and feel the sheer power and glory of his presence. They begged to be anywhere else in the universe but near him. Inevitably, their desire would be granted, as this generation is most famous for dying in the wilderness, because of their hard hearts, because of their unwillingness to believe. God's people recoiled when they should have rejoiced. But that's not the case for all of Israel. We find this unique moment of hope, with the man known as Moses. And now we come to our third point then. God's prophet draws near. We see this in verses 20 and 21. Moses had already experienced the awe of the presence of God. We remember the burning bush where God's presence and flame had come forward on the very same mountain. Moses had experienced the faithfulness of God, the power of God. As a godly shepherd of God's people, Moses exhorted them. He says in our text in verse 20 and 21. Do not fear, for God has come to test you, that the fear of him may be before you, that you may not sin. The people stood far off. While Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was. I don't know about you, but if I was in that moment, in that place, I would be full of fear. To see a mountain on fire, draped in darkness, thunderings, lightnings, horns getting louder and louder, my body shaking beneath me. Don't imagine I would be as cool as a cucumber. If we're honest, perhaps none of us would be. Yet the command of Moses was to one of faith and obedience. To trust the God who had worked miracles for you over and over again, did not just bring you out here to snuff you out. He said, believe that God has ascended for your good. Believe that he is fulfilling his promises to you. He called them to obey the Lord. He was instructing them on how they must live if they were going to belong to him. God was testing them. He wanted to show them what was already set in their hearts. We find the same sort of testing with Abraham as he's called to sacrifice Isaac back in Genesis 22. We see this sort of testing had already been experienced by the people of Israel themselves back in Exodus 16, in the manna or bread of heaven. These tests always show what is already in the hearts of people. It's not that God is uncertain. God is not learning. God knows all things, Scripture makes very, very clear. He's making it clear to the people themselves what is already going on inside of them. But even more than that, what God makes clear through his prophet Moses. Is that the fear of God is meant to guard us against sin? There is such a thing as healthy fear. A healthy fear of heights can help prevent many people from falling helplessly over a cliff. A healthy fear of wasps can help prevent many people from being assaulted by winged beasts. I was at the men's breakfast yesterday. It was a healthy fear of hot peppers that kept me from eating great quantities. of Scott Ostrow's spicy peppers. Maybe you know that yourself because you are uh gastro intensity challenged. Uh If we can recognize these things in the ordinary realm, the physical realm, the natural realm, why don't we do that in the spiritual realm? A healthy fear of God has been lost today, friends. We don't conceive of God as powerful or even as ferocious Or bearing the ability to exemplify the utmost brutality with his enemies. We've made him proper. We've made him decrepit. We've made him forgetful even. I do believe that this loss of a sense of God's ferocity has led many to trivialize the commands of God. And we spoke earlier of the book of Ezekiel. If you were to take some time this afternoon, a nice cup of tea, cup of coffee, or something else And just simply read through the first ten chapters of the book of Ezekiel, you would see this unbridled outworking of the justice of God against wickedness. God's promise of famine, of desolation, of sword and sickness are not just empty threats But reminders to us that if we commit ourselves to running away from God, He will grant us our wish. And we'll be cast headlong into destruction. Destruction of our bodies, destruction of our minds, destruction of our hearts. God here in Mount Sinai pulled back the cosmic veil for a moment to warn Israel. That God was not somebody to be trifled with. He is the Lord God worthy of both our adoration and our fear. The image was to follow them all their days, this image of God on the mountaintop. But it was not enough. We know that 99. 9% of them completely disregarded God's word. Israel's action of standing at a distance from God in our text was not merely an expression of their physical distance from God, but also their heart's distance. From God. Moses alone drew near to the Lord, even though God was covered in thick darkness. Moses, the man of God, threw near, but this drawing near is not merely a model. It is most importantly a foreshadow of the Lord Jesus Christ and his work for his people. Yes, Mount Sinai foreshadows God's judgment, but it also demonstrates the presence of God. We read today the very last book of the Bible, the book of Revelation. A great comfort to us is that we're promised to be blessed if we read it. So we read it. We're blessed. But God in that section invites us into his very throne room and takes up the very same imagery. If you would turn with me in your Bibles to the book of Revelation. Now this one's a lot easier than Ezekiel, it's at the very end. We find this in chapter four, verse five. Have Mount Sinai in the back of your minds as we read the words from Revelation 4, 5. From the throne came flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. Instead of the fear of Israel, which we found in Exodus, we have the joy of the elders. Instead of dread, which we found amongst the Israelites. There is praise of God and his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, symbolized as a slain lamb. And there in the midst of heaven we receive This new glorious song. Turn to chapter five now of the book of Revelation, verse nine. Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals. For you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed peopled for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. And you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth Like Israel before Mount Sinai, we find thunder and lightning. We find fire in God's presence. We find the promise of a kingdom of priests. But here we have the Lamb. The Lord Jesus Christ. We can come into the presence of God today solely because of the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. We should tremble and fear because God's holiness is coming to reign against every one of his enemies, whom we naturally are. Because we're born in sin, and we delight in sin and flee to sin and dream of sin and daydream about sin. But the blood of Christ has come that we might be cleansed. And no longer fear drawing near to God. Maybe some of you here today remember The days before you were Christian, before you rested and received Christ I remember one of those first days how sweet it was to lay my head on the pillow, knowing that I was right with God. And I pray tonight that all of you know that yourselves. The peace of belonging to Christ, the peace of knowing that your sins are forgiven, the peace that if you should die today, you would be in his presence and glory. Never suffering again or worrying about sickness again or anything like that, resting in the beauty of his presence. Our text is not a call to be like Moses But is instead to point us forward to see how Moses foreshadows Christ, who enters the presence of his Father and leads his people with him. And the Lord does so for our sake, O Church. By means of his shed blood we draw near to God. And by no other means. What did it say in Revelation 5:9? By your blood you ransom people for God. And so I lay the question forward to you again. Have you been ransomed by the blood of Christ? Or are you hoping that your good works are going to work out for you? Are you hoping that your church membership will be sufficient? Have you been ransomed by the blood of the living Christ? Here are some questions to consider. Does drawing near to God frighten you? Or does it encourage you? If you are terrified of standing before God today, Then perhaps you've never really understood what God is offering to you today through Christ. Christ extends unto all the offer of forgiveness and a new life in Him. Christ extends peace with the Father forever. Christ promises the gift of His Spirit. Do you have this peace today? Or are you running from one thing to the next, constantly dissatisfied? Be not like Israel today. Do not believe the lie that God could never accept you because of your past or your present. Do not believe the lie that His presence is only for your destruction and ill. The saints who were rejoicing in heaven today needed God's grace just as much as we do. We are a people in need. And God is glad to provide everything in His Son. So let us draw near them in hope. And in faith, believing in the promises that God extends unto all who repent and believe, to all who confess their hope in Christ. As the author of Hebrews reminds us, whoever would draw near to God must believe that He exists and that He rewards those who seek Him. This is for you today, O church. Rest in the grace of our King Jesus. Amen.