Jonah chapter 3 and 4. Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying Arise and go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you. So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, three days' journey in breath Jonah began to go into the city, going a day's journey, and he called out, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. And the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them to the least of them. The word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, removed his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes. And he issued a proclamation and published through Nineveh, By the decree of the king and his nobles, let neither man nor beast, herd, nor flock taste anything. Let them not feed or drink water, but let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and let them call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands. Who knows? God may turn and relent and turn from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish. When God saw what they did. How they turned from their evil way. God relented of the disaster that he had said he would do to them, and he did not do it. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry. And he prayed to the Lord and said, O Lord, is not this what I said when I was yet in my country? That is why I made haste to flee to Tarshish. For I knew that you are a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love, and relenting from disaster. Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. And the Lord said, Do you do well to be angry? Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city and made a booth for himself there. He sat under it in shade until he could see what would become of the city. Now the Lord God had appointed a plant And made it come up over Jonah that it might be a shade over his head to save him from his discomfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant. But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that attacked the plant so that it withered. When the sun rose, God appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun beat down on the head of Jonah so that he was faint. And he asked that he might die and said, It is better for me to die than to live. But God said to Jonah, Do you do well to be angry for the plant? And he said, Yes, I do well to be angry. Angry enough to die. And the Lord said, You pity the plant for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in a night, and perished in a night. And should not I pity Nineveh, that great city, in which there are more than a hundred and twenty thousand persons who do not know their right hand from their left, and also much cattle? Turn to Romans chapter five, one through eleven Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by his life. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. The third chapter of Jonah contains the high point of this remarkable story, not fiction story, fact. For however remarkable the preceding action has been, and however great the miracles Swallowed, alive, and whole by a fish, spit back up again onto dry land, none the worse for where. The most remarkable action and the greatest miracles are in the results of Jonah's preaching. Never again has the world seen anything quite like the result of Jonah's preaching in Nineveh. This, my friends, is divine election, pure and simple. Predestination of sinners to salvation. Irresistible and unprovoked grace. There is perhaps no other text In all of Scripture that sets before us in such graphic and unmistakable terms, what happens when God determines to save sinners They get saved. Then the third and fourth chapters of the book of Jonah rehearsed in your hearing a few moments ago The third and fourth chapters, I say, of the book of Jonah, the foot-dragging prophet of Israel. When the word of the Lord came to that uncooperative prophet the second time after he got out of the fish. It came with the same commission that he had received the first time. By the way, know this congregation that if you try to run away from God Sooner or later, he will catch up with you, and you will be right back where you were before. But truth that is, it does not constitute the point of the book of Jonah. Something else does. At last Jonah obeyed and went to Nineveh And proclaimed to it the message that God gave him. Yet 40 days and Nineveh will be overthrown. And then what happened? Are you ready for this? We read, the Ninevehes believed God Yes, they declared a fast, and all of them, from the greatest of them to the least, put on sackcloth. I guess that's a very itchy gown of some sort. It makes you very Here we have a citywide display of unparently genuine repentance. It looks like God, if not his recalcitrant representatives, loves Nineveh. Has chosen its inhabitants up and down those dingy 8th century BC Assyrian streets for salvation. I cannot help but wonder if today's Iraqi elementary schools Chronicle for its children, this amazing event in their history. Though I seriously don't Not all of Iraq is Muslim. The Christian Church is there, to be sure. But even if they don't do that as such, this account forms an unprecedented and unparalleled display of unconditional election. For us who believe the Bible's record of salvation history. And the point of the whole three and four chapter, third and fourth chapters of Judah. is that a great city responds with unexpected repentance to the message of coming judgment All as a result of the unprovoked, unprovoked love of the God. Whose name is Yahweh. I am. Now, congregation, observe in the first place as we seek to discuss this theme. A judgment that was imminent. When Jonah entered Nineveh, he began to proclaim this message: yet 40 days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. That was a very short sermon, but powerful. This does not seem to be a very impressive message For in our English Bible it's a it's only eight words. And in Hebrew, five The words were a simple prophecy of judgment, yet they were blessed because they were God's words and not those of a visiting, foot-dragging preacher. From out of town. But what a sermon. Can you envision it? Yahweh says And then he moves on in the city to another spot. Yahweh says, The IM says He goes a bit farther. Your God's name are we aren't. His is I am. And this is what he says to you. Short, but wow, so very powerful. We can almost see Jonah as he completes a day's journey in that great city and cries out his warning over and again. Short and anything but sweet. Now what would his reception be? Would the Ninevites laugh? Perhaps they would dispose of him speedily and consign him to the city dump. We don't need this. Never mind. This is the word of the God of heaven, who is, who made the sea and the dry land. Whether or not Jonah added his own personal testimony, ever been inside a fish? I don't know. But his sermon was singularly clear, uncomplicated, and carried its own powerful application. You Ninevites have offended the holy God with your horrendous sinning. Now what are you going to do about it? Well, there was no opposition, at least it's recorded. No debate Because of this, Nantas Ton Thaon, knowing God. That's the Greek. Nantas tontaon. Knowing God. They worshiped him not as God, but they heard about that God in Jonah. Sermon. And they listened up. As he preached, the people stopped to listen. The hum of commerce died down, and a holy hush stole over the collecting multitudes. Soon there was heard weeping. And other signs of apparently genuine repentance for sin that had been surfaced and faced their consciences. At last the message of Jonah entered even the palace. Yeah And the king of Nineveh, divesting himself of his magnificent robes, took the place of a mourner beside his repenting subjects. The Ninevehes believed God. Then we get verse ten. Up there in the top three or so of my favorite Bible verses. Jonah 3. 10 When God saw what they did and how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that he had said he would do to them. And he did not do it. My brothers and sisters and boys and girls, if you're looking for a Bible verse sometime on the grace of God. This one will do. You found it. Jonathan 310. Memorize it. Jonah proclaimed the message of an imminent judgment. He cried out that message. Like Jeremiah's, Jonah's message was not an easy one. To destroy and to overthrow. But then Jonah went on to say, and then to build and to plant. But Jonah never even got to the good news. The bad news was, in this case, alone enough for God to use in his unsearchable wisdom and matchless power. For when he decides to save, save he does, by whatever means it pleases him to use. The same is true today, my friends. Christianity is not soft and mushy. It's realistic. And if the Orthodox Presbyterian Church is going to be any help to this sin-sick nation, it's going to have to preach the message that begins. I say, with Jonah's sermon. You see, there is a time when a negative message is needed before anything positive can begin It often is the case that folks must first be brought to the place where they understand what's wrong. Unless they do, they won't be ready to hear what's right about the remedy. Unless we put first things first, we only tempt people with a hollow hope I'm afraid that's what is often presented. For when we speak of the negative side of the Lord's message, we are not merely proclaiming that something's wrong. Everybody knows that. But what they will not face, however, is why something's wrong. Sin. I'm afraid that sometimes our testimony, if not ours, certainly it's around us all. everywhere. That testimony is not effective simply because we're or they are too anxious to get to the answer without seeking to have people confront their true guilt. Nineveh faced that squarely. Believe you not, because Jonah was faithful At least after all his attempted diversion to Tarshus, he was faithful, I say, at least in proclaiming a clear message of judgment to the inhabitants of Nineveh. One of our daughters-in-law came to Christ under circumstances not unlike those described in our text. As she tells us, hers was not that she was caught up in a mass urban revival, but that she heard preaching similar to that which the Ninevites heard from the lips of Jonah. A friend witnessed the gospel to her in much the same truncated version It was a message of judgment exclusively. It echoed that of a television evangelist who would sometimes invite his TV viewers to touch their screens in order to connect with his preaching. Preaching that was almost exclusively fire and brimstone, as he generally sought to scare unbelievers into the kingdom of God. Still, the Lord used what I can only say was a crooked stick to lead her to cry out to God for mercy. And she received it in Jesus Christ and is today a firm believer, led by God into the full Arb Reformed faith. Whatever fallacies or omissions there were in the introduction she received. Something like Jonah, don't you think? Here too was something less than a commendable tool in God's hand, but he used it nevertheless. Don't pay too much attention to the preacher's motivation and manner. Listen to his words. Yet, forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. A treasure and a broken vessel in truth. It reminds us of the cartoon. You no doubt have seen it, that story of typical sandwich board. Carried by the wisened, bearded old man parading up and down the sidewalk, his advertisement declaring triumphantly, the end is near. Yes, the gospel is indeed good news, but the very thing that makes it good news is that it is the only answer to a bad reality that is faced A message of judgment, though unpopular and hard, is necessary. And you and I must deliver the complete message, never cutting it short by skipping the hard part. In order to get to the happy part. Remember last week's sermon? The gospel is not just a fast. It's a feast. But you can't get to the feast before you recognize the fast. John the Baptist had to preach a message of repentance. And then and only then could he say, Now believe the gospel, and the one whose coming is greater than I. I must decrease. And he decreased. Must increase. The good news is coming, but it is good news that's built upon the foundation of a bad news that has to be resolved and faced and dealt with. Nineveh. How many of the one hundred and twenty thousand fasting inhabitants actually enjoyed ever the feast of full salvation. We're not told. We do know of one, Nebuchadnezzar. He would come along later and say that he that sits in the heavens Does whatsoever he will among the armies of heaven and the inhabitants of the earth. Who can stay his hand or say to him, What are you doing? Whether Nebuchadnezzar understood how God was going to save him is not clear. But we knew that he bowed before the I am. And today the Christian gospel lives in Iraq still. And we need to pray for our brothers and sisters, saints. Who feast upon God's word in that modern day, Nineveh. So much for the judgment that was imminent. Now, secondly We need to pay attention to the repentance that was unforeseen. The Bible says the people of Nineveh believed God. They believed God. It was truly unexpected. What actually happened was what we never thought would be the case. Here we see a thing that we hardly judge possible today. Huh? A whole city? Bowed in contrition. Well, the Holy Spirit is that powerful, yes. Notice the breadth of it. The people, from the greatest to the least, repented. Can you imagine the situation if such were repeated today where we are? Carried on the front pages of all our regional papers in 108-point bold type, Southern Maryland contrite. Lexington Park Town Council declaring a community-wide fast, inviting the naval station to follow suit. The lead story on Fox, Bill O'Reilly with uncharacteristic humility, utters an unscripted Wow, folks! Listen to this. It's reported that we've gotten a route for revival of true Christianity from DC to the mouth of the Potomac and everywhere in between. Millions Are seemingly repenting of their evils. Billboards everywhere being repainted and lit up with Jesus' Lord and symbol similar exclamations. Every local bus festooned with praise for God for His grace. Mailers filling our postal boxes, computer screens, and smartphones. Folks, you don't need to win the lottery since God's lavish grace has fallen upon us. In fact, all the restaurants closed. Olive Garden, McDonald's, even Pizza Hut. Everyone apparently fasting Seeking rather the bread of life. Well, enough of that. You get the point. Back to Nineveh. Even the animals had to fast. And yes, the king was involved. In fact, he led the way. And notice he doesn't bind God or demand pardon from him. Did you get that? Who this is the Bible. Who knows? He reasons. God may yet relent and with compassion Turn from his fierce anger so that we will not perish. That, my friends, is genuine repentance. And then notice the length of it. They turned from their evil ways. It was not in word only, but also in deed. There's an old Ann Murray country song, huh? Nobody robbed a liquor store today. Nobody OD'd anywhere today. In the streets of Ireland, all the children had to do was play. We sure could use the little good news today. Apparently something very close to that happened in ancient Nineveh. And what does Jesus say about that city? By the way, when he said what he said, he didn't say in the story of Jonah. He said in Nineveh. Our Savior made a powerful application of this event to his own hearers and to us also. The men of Nineveh, Jesus said, will arise in the day of judgment and witness against a generation that stands off and demands proof of the promised judgment. Nineveh repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, said Jesus, something greater than Jonah is here. Jesus agrees with John the Baptist. I must decrease, said John, and he must increase. That's Jesus. Have you repented? Have you fasted? Have you said, who knows, perhaps God will be merciful to me? Do you have the Holy Spirit planted that in your heart? It doesn't come from you. It comes from outside you. You never could But now repent and believe the gospel. Go to the feast. Partake of the Word of God, which says that Jesus. Died for sinners. Did he die for you? If you confess him and believe him and ask God to forgive you for his sake then you may feast. Indeed, the love of Christ constrains us, as we know the terror of love. the Lord. Have you looked at what God had to do to Jesus to save you? The good news is this, that none who come to Jesus in faith and repentance will be denied. And none who come to God by Jesus will be cast out. out, but will receive forgiveness and eternal life. The gospel, my friends, does truly begin with a fast Repent, but it moves to a feast. Believe the gospel. Now, Nineveh doesn't mean that all cities will repent any more than Sodom means that all cities will perish in a conflagration before the Last Judgment. But Nineveh does mean this by comparison, our cities, our municipalities, and townships Are judged by Nineveh because of the amount of revelation. Nineveh believed with only the message of judgment impending. Whereas we have heard the whole message, including the hope of the gospel, which is well known in Southern Maryland. Steve Doe told me yesterday that there are 140 Napark churches in the whole district. Hundred and forty. They heard only Jonah in Nineveh, but we have had the Lord Jesus Christ preached everywhere, clearly, by many in Southern Maryland The Mid-Atlantic Presbytery of the OPC and Grace and Peace Church are, I trust, determined to see more OPC churches planted that will herald the full gospel. Pray and work for that. Now lastly We need to say something about the love that was unprovoked. Nobody told God to save Nineveh. It was out Out of his mere good pleasure. As our shorter catechism says in number 20, did God leave all mankind to perish? And the answer is, out of his mere good pleasure. pleasure. He determined to save many. God loves Nineveh Let us be open to confess this great truth that forms really the theme of the entire prophecy of Jonah. God loves Nineveh. Jonah himself, though he was a prophet, that means a seer, somebody who sees. Really didn't see that. Chapter 4 describes Jonah's consternation at God's forgiveness of Jonah. That gourd, remember, upon which Jonah had compassion. He loved it. A plant. Just one of the trillions and trillions of shade shrubs the ground has produced. But God, what are you doing loving 120,000 people who can't tell their right hand from their left and much cattle with them? And the reason for that forgiveness was simply the unprovoked And unconditional love that God had for that city. There was no explanation for it to be found in those ancient Assyrians. You have to look elsewhere. You have to look to Yahweh Himself for the reason. And that exactly was the thing that Jonah found so hard to believe. But it was so. God didn't send Jonah to Nineveh to announce the destruction of Nineveh only. But to announce that it would happen in 40 days. That means not right away. Did you catch that? There was to be a period of grace. The people of Nineveh were given time to call upon the Lord and be saved. If God didn't love Nineveh, why send them a Prophet at all. Why warn them? Just let the fire fall. Nail them today without hesitation. They're terrible people. Doing terrible things. Why bother at all to tell them? Just destroy them now. But God says, no. I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked We read, however, that when Nineveh repented, Jonah of all people became angry. It displeased him. He was not just angry, he was greatly angry. He was sore, really ticked, because God spared Nineveh. And he was The preacher. Can you imagine such a thing? That didn't stop God from saving Nineveh. Aren't you thankful? That God's plan doesn't await your enthusiasm, your cooperation, and even your outreach, it will go on out of his good pleasure anyway. But I ask you, Grace and Peace Church, how is it with your Do you believe that God loves Southern Maryland? Not only that God feels kindly disposed toward it, but that He is both able and willing to do something about it, if that's His will God's love is not a mere piece of warm wishing. The Bible says, in this is love, that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. He did something. And then when he sent his son, he sent you You have the privilege and the commission Jonah had. Don't flee to Tarshish. Go to California. I gotta get used to this. That's the town, by the way. And warn his people. Your Lord commands you because he loves this place too Do you doubt that people in your Nineveh could repent and turn to Jesus Christ in saving faith in great numbers? None can, by human strength and resolve, but we are dealing here with divine strength and resolve. We're saying that it is God who loves Nineveh, not us. And when God gives new birth to a heart, to a human spirit that has been heretofore dead to grace, when God does that, people not only can, but will Repent and believe him. This grace is, after all, you know, in truth, irresistible. That can happen here with many. For there is, after all, my friends, precedence. Check Jonah 3 and 4. Are you sure that God plans to leave the entirety of our nation to face his wrath and judgment? Are you sure that he has only a very few here? God once told the Apostle Paul that he had many people in one of the cities that he visited, Corinth. Many. Like Nineveh, except that with Nineveh apparently it was everybody. Corinth was bad enough, and God had many there. Nineveh was the capital of the ancient Near East's foremost raping city, and God had all of its inhabitants, at least The people of that day repent. Yeah, I know a hundred years later their descendants did fall under God's judgment, but not this generation. This generation in Jonah's day responded in genuine repentance to the call of his preaching. Brothers and sisters, you need to let the simple message of this book of Jonah sink down into your souls. God loves sinners. This is the scarlet thread that runs through the whole Bible. And when he elects sinners to salvation, saved they become. That's what our Lord Jesus Christ perfectly revealed to us by his death on the cross, the most solid proof that God loves Nineveh. Jesus died for sinners. And boy oh boy, did the Ninevites ever qualify for that designation So do you. God does not desire sinners to die, says the Bible, but to turn to Him and live. And He has acted. to bring about that very thing. So I say to you at this church and to the churches of the Mid-Atlantic Presbytery of the OPC Let there be a renewed dedication on our part to be concerned about our city. Let our city know that you're in this with them. And don't consider yourself a special group that is in with God and therefore doesn't need or want to be involved with Him. It was while we were still sinners that Christ died for us. Remember that. Your city needs to repent, not that city and those people. This Nineveh, which God loves It is, after all, part of this world which the Bible says that God so loved that He gave His only begotten Son that whosoever believes on Him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. And who knows? Perhaps the Lord will have mercy and send you to this nation, headed for judgment. Perhaps even having recently experienced something of the flood Taste of that coming and final judgment in all these recent terrorist attacks. Perhaps the Lord will use you, the churches of the Mid-Atlantic Presbytery This church to declare what's wrong and where hope is to be found America needs healing. America needs to repent. America needs more churches preaching Christ, the only hope for sinners. You have that message. Your sandwich board, while proclaiming the end is near on one side, has on its back, why will you die? Let the OPC live in Southern Maryland today to proclaim that Christ Jesus bore the punishment of sinners upon himself. Yet forty days and judgment fell upon him by God's grace You who believe that may live. Amen Dear God, how wonderful you are. Our souls sing out the praise that you are the one who is. And you are the one who is gracious and merciful. Have mercy upon us sinners. We believe the gospel. We trust in the Savior. Hallelujah. Thank you, God. Help us now to proclaim it fearlessly, faithfully, and as universal as as we possibly can. Amen.