Hear the word of God, first from the Psalter, the nineteenth Psalm. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words whose voice is not heard. Their measuring line goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun. Which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and like a strong man runs its course with joy. Its rising is from the end of the heavens and its circuit to the end of them. And there is nothing hidden from its heat. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eye. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous. More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold. Sweeter also than honey, and drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned. In keeping them there is great reward. Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. And now, 2 Timothy 3, 14 to 17. But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly believed Knowing from whom you learned it, and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Christ Jesus. All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. That the man of God may be competent, equipped for every good work. Let's pray. God of all wisdom and knowledge, we come before you as the Creator, the sustainer of our lives, and the one by whom alone we can know the way. That we should go. And we thank you that you have revealed to us your holy word, both the law and the gospel, by which we live And we thank you that you have sent the Lord Jesus Christ as the Savior and Redeemer of mankind and ours. And that we've believed in him, and that we come here tonight to worship you with the Spirit and the Father, the Son, and that you will hear us and guide us. And open our minds unto your word, that we may understand and approve it and obey it. We praise our Lord and Savior. Amen. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. As we have seen in our study of these initial psalms, And indeed, throughout the whole of the Bible, God's kingdom is administered through the covenant of grace, revealed in the Word of God. And that covenant of grace can be traced throughout both the Old and the New Testaments So understandably, we have found Christ in these Psalms, haven't we? These Psalms are not descriptions of an old Jewish religion that would later be superseded by the new Christian gospel. Not so at all. David is our brother in the faith. He does not look for salvation to any supposed keeping of the law. God, but looks to God to provide atonement for his law breaking and provision of the righteousness that he simply does not prove. That faith commitment to God alone is the ground of David's hope of forgiveness and acceptance by his Creator and Redeemer. And we tonight, who bask once more in the light of the further revelation of that grace That will be apparent as we consider Psalm nineteen Actually, you don't find Jesus in Psalm 19 right off the bat until you get to verse 14. When David calls Yahweh his rock and his redeemer. The previous verses provide the background for David's need of deliverance because he is in real bad trouble. As a sinner who has turned away from, ignored, and violated the clear revelation of God's glory as his divine. Creator, as well as God's will, as His divine authority. And David knows that his only hope of being saved from eternal damnation is found in the gospel of Yahweh's grace in Jesus Christ. Christ, whom I remind you, he did not know by name, but he knew of the coming Messiah. Psalm nineteen, therefore, is one of the clearest and most fundamental statements that I know of in all of the Bible. It's all here. The proposition I set before you tonight for your consideration and thought and meditation Is this. God's glory is evident in the wordless revelation presented by the universe he created And as well by the word revelation presented by his law and gospel. Both of these two form the basis for the Christian's faith and for your faith. Note then in the first place, in verses one through six, the wordless revelation. Sounds like a contradiction in terms, doesn't it But here David focuses on the skies. And within the space of these six verses He tells us much about what revel natural revelation reveals to you. Chiefly, the natural world about you. Affirms the existence of the Creator God, who is full of glory. Verse 1 The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handwork, handiwork Refers to the heavens and the sky, which is translated elsewhere in the Bible as firmament or expanse. Thus, the entire universe really represented by the sun and the sky, without speech Voice or words is sufficient evidence of the existence and the glory of God. all he needs. At the same time, the whole wondrous creation does provide the foundation for man's knowledge of God That he both is and that he is glorious. Therefore, the knowledge of God available in creation Is a common ground that you share with unbelievers, to which we can appeal to defend our belief in the existence of the Christian In fact, natural revelation is so plain that it takes conscious suppression to deny As is seen in David's use of the bridegroom analogy in verses four and five. Which comes out, particularly verse five, like a bridegroom leaving his chamber. You see, when a bridegroom left his chamber on his wedding day in the ancient world, his entire village would See him coming out of his house to go to the house of his bride. And everyone would pay attention to his joy as he would approach his bride. Only liars or people intentionally indifferent could claim ignorance of what was going on. It was a citywide event. Similarly, the rising and the setting of the sun each day testified clearly to the Lord's work. The sun should make us happy, and it does. Additionally, natural revelation tells us that judgment is coming. Old Testament references to the anger of God in the English Bible are often idiomatic translations of the Hebrew phrase, his nose. was hot. That's the way Hebrews spoke about anger. They have a hot nose That nothing is hid from the sun's heat in verse six is a reminder that God's nose is hot, that no sin can escape the fire of our Creator's anger. There will be no shade to protect violators of his glory from that judgment. Now the philosophers throughout all of human history have been looking for a rock. Something firm and foundational upon which people might rest their understanding of whom they are, where they came from, and where What they're here for. They call it epistemology, the word of knowledge. How we can know anything For sure. The ancient Greeks did it. You've heard of Plato and Aristotle. Those two old dudes struggled with it. They looked for a rock And I'm afraid that they simply were unable to present an answer to this basic question. Just guesswork They had only a theory, and it proved never to provide satisfaction that would grip the minds and imaginations of the generations following them. Actually, it came down eventually to the modern philosophers, most of whom depend on the thinking of a certain Frenchman. Living in the first half of the 17th century, by name René Descartes, D E S. C-A-R-T-E-S Descartes. Perhaps you've heard of him. He's important in the history of political In fact, he has been called the father of modern philosophy. Descartes thought that he had finally come to an answer. That he'd come with a dictum that summarizes the entirety of rational knowledge. You perhaps have heard of his three-word Latin clause. Say it with me. Cogito, ergo. Sum. Cosito ergo sum, said Descartes. I think, therefore I am. My friends, that affirmation of Descartes is exactly the opposite of David's affirmation in verse 1 of Psalm 19. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handy fort work. There's your rock, not that you think can think As you thought was the case. Descartes' mind was his rock And his rock was his proud mind, and that has summarized much of the thinking of modern man since him. If there is a God, and Descartes did believe that, the basis upon which he believed it was not that God revealed his glory in the creation that he had made. made. It was in the power of his own rational mind and thought In a sense, Descartes was his own divine foundation. Logical arguments found a basis for the existence of God. God existed because Descartes could Figure it out. I think, therefore I am. But David doesn't agree. David says, God thinks, and therefore everything, including me, is God, not my mind, is glorious. And that glory is powerfully presented to us creatures of His in the universe that He has created. Created. Particularly, says David, the sun and the sky. If you want a basis, if you want a rock for your thinking, look up. All the proof you need that God is, and that He is glorious, is right there before your wondering eyes to see. Every day, as the sun rises and sets there before your eyes, and the stars shine Now, I hope you've seen that this little excursion into the realm of philosophy Though it might have proved somewhat novel for you, and maybe you're not used to it in the sermons that you hear, my friends, but it is not usual really for a church sermon. For I hope you grasp the point of it tonight as we look at Psalm 19. The ancient philosopher, King David, has by revelation from God presented us with the rock that we need for all our epistemology, all our doctrine of knowledge. We start with Yahweh, the I Am, with his being and glory, as did David the Psalm. All we need to do is look up. There it is that we are preached to. By words that are not susceptible to Webster vocabulary or syntax Day to day, the sun and sky, and even the twinkling stars, pour out speech and reveal knowledge. David. There is our argument for the existence and the glory of our God, not Rene Descartes' brain. But what of today's philosophers? Well, many of them subscribe to what's called logical positivism. Now, logical positivism tries to understand each of the many particulars in our universe scientifically. They claim that there is no final standard or ultimate criterion of transcendent truth, so we might as well give up our search for any God. If he exists, he cannot be empirically tested. You can't put him in a chemical lab. There's no way for our five senses to verify him But think about it. The trouble with modern philosophy is that it is self-refuting. According to its own standards, it cannot be. It totally fails as a viable worldview because its basic tenet, what's that, that everything needs to be available to our senses Is not itself available to our senses. It's not verifiable. But David disagrees. Our psalm tonight states that there is empirical evidence to support the existence of God. The whole of creation testifies to his reality. And even to his transcendent glory. Yes, transcendent. We would never have been able to grasp it Had it remained outside our mind's grasp. But God has shown Himself to us by the products of His divine mind. And hand. Just look up. That I take to be the point of the first half of the song. Then when we turn to the second half of the Psalm, beginning at verse 7, we read about word revelation. First half was about wordless revelation. Now, word revelation. The law of the Lord. The testimony of the Lord. The precepts of the Lord, the commandment of the Lord. The rules of the Lord. This glorious God, you see, is very merciful to us He has spoken in words. For not only is he spoken without words, in the physical creation he has brought into being. But he has added to that wonderful donation yet one blessing further. He has talked to us. By his word in didactic sentences. We have not only the sun and the sky to wordlessly show us his glory We have also his law and his gospel in words that we can grasp. First is words of law. The law of the Lord is perfect. Perfect, reviving the soul. I don't think that David is thinking here about the Ten Commandments only But really, all of his commands by which we are to direct our minds and lives. The Bible. Adam and Eve had not only the sun and sky as clear evidences of their divine Maker's existence and glory. They had as well very clear indication in cognitive words that could not be misunderstood of exactly how the Lord determined that they should proceed Think and act. God said to Adam and Eve, Go right ahead and enjoy all the fruits and vegetables that I have laid out for you. With just this one exception, the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. If you want to know about good and evil, then know this that you can't eat from that tree. You shall not partake of it lest you die. So it appears that just as our first parents could not escape the wordless revelation of the glorious creation about them there in the Garden of Eden, they could not escape without consequence. from the word revelation that came from above them. But sadly they did so attempt to escape. It without consequence. Sadly they failed. Now their hearts, as well as their hands, were defiled, and it could not be anticipated that they would know how to think. Think, let alone act. What did God want them to do and to avoid? The sun and sky would not suffice to give them direction But would serve only to give them proof that they lived under the constant gaze of a powerful deity. And how to avoid further violations of his will. Only via further instructions in words from their divine commander. That they had already received in the moral law which was written in their hearts. Clear intimations of how God wanted his creature man to behave. But more was needed. And in time, God blessed those upon whom he had grace with actual didactic sentences. We call them the Ten Commandments. And David sets forth in glowing terms just how wonderful those commandments are. Folks today might think them those Ten Commandments overly oppressive and narrow-minded But not David. And in verses 11, 8 through 11, he details what a blessed gift they are to people of his day and to us as well. Hear them again, my friends. The precepts of the Lord are right. Rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean. Moreover, by them is your servant warned. In keeping them, there is great reward. Now notice that David doesn't say that he uses the law of God as a means for getting anything from God. Not what he says. Just the opposite. God uses his law to bring joy and blessing to David, the target of his grace. But there's more than just the law of God by which words he comes to us. He comes to us in the words of his gospel. Yes, here comes this important piece of Revelation in verses 13 through 15. Hear them again. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be blameless and innocent of great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. Now, David is not even aware of the depth of his hidden failure to keep God's law, nor even of the strength of temptation. to lure him into transgression of it. All he can do is cry out for forgiveness for strength to obey and protection from total loss. This is where we are let into the sight of the true nature of David He is a man who has been totally bathed in the light of mercy, and he is under no apprehension whatsoever of any Merit on his part by which he could expect to stand innocent before Yahweh. Yes, the great I am is going to have to do it. For David. Otherwise, it won't happen. Do you see it in the meditation of his heart And do you hear it in the words of his mouth? Verse 14: Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock. and my Redeemer. He pleads for their acceptance by the Lord, not on the basis of any righteousness of his own. But solely on this. Yahweh is his rock and redeemer. David needs redemption from outside himself, if ever he is going. To be delivered from the depth of his fall. He's a sinner and has descended deeper into misery than even he. Can understand. And that, my dear friends, tonight brings us right to the gospel of grace. To Jesus, David's Messiah, who brings all this blessing to pass. And don't you see how Desperately you need him too. You too need the light that is him. More than the sun that above your head shines, you need the one Who is the light of the world, Jesus Christ. He is in himself the sole argument you have for the existence of the Of God. As he said, He that has seen me has seen the Father. And because he is that light, he is also the rock that David had. What more evidence does anyone need of something solid upon which to base all his thinking and doing? Than this. You listening? The God who is there has come down here Indeed, God's glory is evident in the wordless revelation presented by the universe Created, as well as by the word revelation presented by his law and gospel, both of which form the basis for your Faith and mine. Amen. Let's pray. Thank you, O Lord, for what you showed David of yourself There he was, an ancient man who didn't have the possession of the world's assembled thinking and philosophy, but didn't need it. He had you, the I am. And he believed you and trusted you and based and staked everything on the fact that you were merciful To him. And we pray that we will have the same faith tonight. That we will trust in Jesus, the light of the world. World, the one by whom we see the Father, and the one who alone can provide the atonement and the redemption that we so desperately need. We bless you for him, for your Holy Spirit, who brings these truths into our heart of hearts. We thank you in his name. Amen.