Hear now the word of God. But God remembered Noah and all the beasts and all the livestock that were with him in the ark. And God made a wind blow over the earth, and the waters subsided. The fountains of the deep and the windows of the heaven were closed. The rain from the heavens was restrained, and the waters receded from the earth continually. At the end of 150 days, the waters had abated And in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat. And the waters continued to abate until the tenth month. In the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen. At the end of forty days, Noah opened up the window of the ark that he had made, and sent forth a raven that went to and fro until the waters were dried up from the earth Then he sent forth a dove from him to see if the waters had subsided from the face of the ground. But the dove found no place to set her foot. And she returned to him to the ark, for the waters were still on the face of the whole earth. So he put out his hand and took her and brought her into the ark with him. He waited another seven days, and again he sent forth a dove out of the ark. And the dove came back to him in the evening, and behold, in her mouth was a freshly plucked olive leaf. So Noah knew that the waters had subsided from the earth. Then he waited another seven days and sent forth the dove, and she did not return to him anymore. In the 601st year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried from the earth. And Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and behold, the face of the ground was dry. In the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth had dried out. Then God said to Noah, Go out from the ark, you and your wife, and your sons, and your sons' wives with you. Bring out with you every living thing that is with you of all the flesh, birds and animals, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, that they may swarm on the earth and be fruitful and multiply on the earth. So Noah went out, and his sons and his wife, and his sons' wives with him. Every beast, every creeping thing, and every bird, everything that moves on the earth, went out by families from the ark. Then Noah built an altar to the Lord and took some of every clean animal and some of every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar. And when the Lord smelled the pleasing aroma, the Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground because of man, for the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth Neither will I ever again strike down every living creature as I have done. While the earth remains, Seed time and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night, shall not cease. This is the word of the Lord. And now we turn to God's word from the New Testament, Hebrews 11, 1 through 7. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen, for by it the people of old received their commendation. By faith, we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. By faith, Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous God commending him by accepting his gifts. And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks. By faith, Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death. And he was not found because God had taken him. Now, before he was taken, he was commended as having pleased God. And without faith, it is impossible to please him. For whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him. By faith, Noah being warned by God concerning events as not yet As not yet unseen, in reverent fear, constructed an ark for the saving of his household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Oh God, we thank you for your word in all of its various genres, form. Poetry, prose, history, genealogy We thank you that you have breathed it out and caused it to exist, and that it is faithful. We may rely upon it. Now, as we approach this portion of your word, help us to understand it and us understand ourselves in the light of your word. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. So we think about the passage that was read, Genesis chapter eight. Think about our own lives and The fact that in our own lives, ordinarily, life rolls on and on and on. It's a river of events. One thing follows another Seasons come and go. Holidays come and go. Birthdays Come and go. Vacations are planned and they are gone off on and they are enjoyed. They are photographed and remembered for a while. And if you really want to remember them, do what my wife does and put the pictures in a book so that you can get that particular book out and remember that particular vacation. That's not part of the sermon. That's just a tip. Children grow up. Parents go gray. Each day brings just a little change, not much. Our lives go on pretty much as expected, mostly fairly predictable. But if some major event intrudes A serious illness, a natural disaster, a pandemic Or some terrible accident takes place, then ordinary life with all of its ordinary things suddenly grinds to a halt in a fashion, at least in our minds. And nothing else matters except that major intrusion into the ordinary. All our energy is focused on that major event. And it's hard to get on with life as before until we have dealt with it as much as possible. The flood. The great flood was such an event for Noah and his family. Just think of it. Building an ark for many, many years, preaching for many, many years, for a hundred years, the text tells us. And then the flood finally came. The long-promised storms of God's wrath against a wicked world came The fountains of the deep were opened. Swift currents and mountainous waves and The atmosphere gave up all of its moisture and poured forth rain storms relentlessly. And the ark was buoyed up. The ark, probably shaped like a giant shoebox, was buoyed up above the flood of God's wrath. And no doubt, when that all took place, Noah and his family, who had developed their own routine, were in a state of ongoing shock. As the waters rose and lifted the ark, their old neighbors pounded on the door. Let us in, let us in, let us in But the Lord has shut the door. The Ark was both home and prison now, floating above a tide of judgment In the murky waters below were devastated cities, uprooted fruit trees and forests, and the bodies of their neighbors. Noah and his family probably continued in shock, their thoughts riveted on judgment, wondering if God would continue to spare them. After all, they knew themselves to be sinners. They were not demonically corrupt like some of the others, but they were sinners nonetheless. On the other hand, as they thought about the situation, the shocking situation, they looked around and considered how much they had lost. Perhaps they even questioned God's justice and doubted his goodness and his love. Even Christians may doubt God's goodness and justice and love when everything in life is falling apart. We have to guard against that. So, Noah and his family in this shocking situation needed to regain the big picture. God's covenant of grace. That wonderful promise that God Would send a man called the seed of the woman in Genesis 3. 15 to bruise or crush the serpent's head and undo the curse of sin and death. And that's what we begin to see here in verses 1 through 19, as we see the end of this horrible flood, and God's grace comes shining through that judgment. As the clouds parted and as the sun appeared, God's grace was again seen. It says in. Verse 1, but God remembered Noah and all the beasts and all the livestock that were with him in the ark. And God made a wind to blow over the earth, and the waters subsided. When it says God remembered, it doesn't mean that God had forgotten for a while. It means that he remembered in the sense that he took action. He remembered his covenant, his plan, his loving kindness, and so he took action. Verse 2 tells us the fountains of the deep and the windows of the heavens were closed, and the rain from the heavens was restrained, and the waters receded from the earth continually. At the end of 150 days the waters had abated. Then the sixth hundredth and first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried from off the earth. And Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and behold, the face of the ground was dry. By the way, this is not the description of some mythological event This is history written. And we must receive it that way. In the second month, on the 27th day, very specific, isn't it? Of the month, the earth had dried out. And God said to Noah, Go out from the ark, you and your wife, and your sons, and your sons' wives with you. Bring out with you every living thing that is with you of all flesh, birds and animals, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, that they may swarm on the earth, and And this phrase, and be fruitful and multiply. Where did we hear that before? At creation. It's a reiteration of the original mandate. This is a new creation, a washed creation, and now the same. command is given, be fruitful and multiply. Verse 18, so Noah went out, and his sons and his wife, and his sons' wives with him, every beast, every creeping thing, and every bird, everything that moves on the earth, went out by families. From the ark. So we put these things together and we see that Noah and his families and the animals came out alive. The great flood judgment was passed, and they were alive and free. One solid year in an ark. That's plenty of time to meditate and to be thankful for deliverance. And to get a true idea of the wrath of God, and to wonder at His justice, and to think about having been saved by grace. Have you ever wondered why you are alive to God? Why you will survive the coming judgment? While others around you, not so different in appearance, others around you will be condemned. It makes me think of the hymn that we sing often. How sweet and awesome is the place with Christ within the doors, while everlasting love displays the choicest of her stores. While all our hearts and all our songs join to admire the feast, each of us cry with thankful tongues Lord, why was I a guest? Why was I made to hear thy voice and enter while there's room when thousands make a wretched choice? And rather starve than come. Well, after the flood, things have changed. But not completely. No doubt the surface of the earth had changed, but some things had not, because before the flood We have this statement of God concerning the moral situation of the world. In verses In chapter six, verse five, every inclination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Very, very bad. That that's A statement in fact of why the flood had to come. But after the flood, it's interesting that we see in chapter 8, verse 21. God says, though every inclination of his heart is evil from childhood. The difference is not in you and me. It's not that Noah was better. The difference is in God's grace, his electing love, his sovereign care for us. And this creates deep humility, first of all. Humility Humus is the root word of humility in Latin. It means dirt. Great dirtness, lowliness, humility. And it creates also overflowing gratitude. I have been saved by grace. One Even as we regularly repeat here in our creed, He shall come again to judge the living and the dead. We have to have humility when we say that, not triumph that he shall come again to judge those bad people. No, he shall come again to judge. And in humility I'm low, but in grace I will be delivered Some change has happened here, some real change. There's faith that brings about change. There's trust in God that brings about a change situation. In 2 Corinthians 5:17, therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. There's a change. The old has passed away, behold, the new has come. And so we see, as Noah no doubt saw, that we are saved, and that we are still being saved from this judgment. So much for that one. Let's also look to see what else we can see from this account. And as we ponder the The great thing that happened here, we see that grace also shines through sanctification. Sanctification. If we look back to chapter 7, we see that the flood continued on the earth for 40 days. The waters increased and bore up the ark, and it rose high above the earth. The waters prevailed and increased greatly on the ark, and the ark floated on the face of the waters, and the waters prevailed so mightily on the earth that all the high mountains under the whole heaven were covered The waters prevailed above the mountains, covering them fifteen cubits deep, and all flesh died. That moved on the earth, birds, livestock, beasts, all swarming creatures that swarm on the earth and all mankind. Died. Everything on the dry land in whose nostrils was the breath of life died. He blotted out every living thing that was on the face of the ground. Man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, they were blotted out from the earth. He says it so many times. Only Noah was left and those who were with him in the ark, and the waters prevailed on the earth 150 days. I think we can see here in this the removal of the old world, which was a form of sanctification. Not just judgment, but sanctification. For Noah and family, I believe it was a painful sanctification, somewhat like we will read later about Lot's wife. Who left Sodom and Well, she got judged, but for the rest of them who left that place where they were accustomed and had neighbors and friends, the loss of it was A kind of sanctification. In this case, the earth was being purged and purified and sanctified. The earth was being cleansed, washed by water. But Noah and his family were also being sanctified after having been saved from judgment. Sanctification is the process of being set apart by God. We're justified by faith. That is a once-for-all act. We are made right with God, righteous, standing before God, perfect. But sanctification is a process by which we are gradually set apart for God's service It involves putting off some things and putting on other things, doesn't it? Augustine, fourth century pastor in North Africa, was saved from a life of promiscuity One day he crossed the path of one of his former prostitutes in the city. And she called out to him, Augustine, it is I, it is I, it is I. And he said, yes, but it is not I. He had put off his old identity. He was no longer the same Augustine. All the things, if you think of it, all the things that in the past had tempted Noah and his wife and his sons and his wives Sons, wives, all those things were washed away in the judgment. And I imagine it was a bit of a painful loss. Can you imagine things in your life that God could take away, things that you know ought not to be there, really? And it might be a painful loss. You kind of cherish some things. Wouldn't it be nice if sanctification were easy? If we could just do these three things. Just do these three things, or read this booklet. Or pray three times facing east, and then it'll be done. You'll be perfectly holy. No more doubts, no more temptations, no more pride. No, it doesn't happen that way, does it God uses the events of lives, the events around us and in us To shape us and change us and sanctify us. For Noah and family, the process of being separated unto God, separated from the old world, was painful. They lost the old world, didn't they? They lost their old work. They lost their home. They lost the world They gained a fresh insight into God's holiness and justice and grace. Sanctification. It's a struggle, you see. Saying no to sin is painful. The writer to the Hebrews says in Hebrews 12, 5 through 11, And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him, for the Lord disciplines the one he loves. And chastens or chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons, for what son is there whom the Father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of Spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share in his holiness. That's what sanctification is, that we may share in His holiness. Verse 11, finally, for the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant. But later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. So this was God's grace shining even in the sanctification of Noah and his family. It is by that grace that we care at all, that we struggle to be free. And it is only because we have been delivered. In the ark of Christ, that we are then going on to be sanctified. And then thirdly, I want you to see that Grace shines through sacrificial worship. Back to the text. Grace shines through sacrificial worship, verses 20 through 22. two. I'll read it again. Then Noah built an altar to the Lord, and took some of every clean animal and some of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. These were, by the way, the animals and the birds that were preserved in the ark that came through the judgment, some of them. And when the Lord smelled the pleasing aroma, the Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground because of man. For the intention of man started evil from his evil Youth. Neither will I ever again strike down every living creature as I have done. This is the second recorded sacrifice in the Bible. Where was the first one? When Cain and Abel brought their sacrifices, right? Cain brought fruit, Abel brought an animal sacrifice God rejected Cain's sacrifice and he received Abel's sacrifice. What's going on here is that Noah By grace as remembering God's covenant. He remembers the covenant of life. In that covenant, man earned death because he broke the covenant of life in the garden. He remembers the covenant of grace. By which God supplied skins to cover their nakedness, their shame. And God promised to be gracious to Adam at the expense of an innocent victim. Animals, you see, were not sinners. They served as God ordained for them to serve. They are made subject in man's sin, they are made subject to frustration. Now these animals are offered. Noah raised his knife against an undeserving animal, and I, in return, received the mercy of God. The innocent dies. The sinner goes free. We see it more clearly now, don't we? We know that an innocent animal could not really absorb the judgment for our sins. Hebrews 10, 3 through 7 says About such sacrifices. But in these sacrifices, there is a reminder of sins every year, for it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, Christ said, Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sin offerings you have taken no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I Christ says this, I have come to do your will, O God. It is written of me in the scroll of the book. The seed had to come. Human sacrifice had to happen. The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world had to be offered. And so we see in Hebrews 6. 19, we, we, you and I have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul. A hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having been sacrificed. And what happens when this sacrifice is made here in Genesis 8? What happens immediately after? Verse 21: And the Lord smelled the pleasing aroma. The Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground because of man, for the intention of man's heart is evil from his evil Neither will I ever again strike down every living creature as I have done, while the earth remains seed time and harvest. Cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night shall not cease. No doubt. These words, after that sacrifice, these words of God, these words were comforting words for Noah. Grace, security, hope in the new world God's not going to punish it again. He's not going to destroy it again the way he did. But we, you and I here today have better words, better words. In the one that John the baptizer saw, when he said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. That's better. Much better. So for Noah, the world will go on. It will be renewed. God's saving purposes will succeed. And for us, as we see it now, through Christ, Christ will build his church, and the gates of hell will not be able to stand against it. And on a personal level, you are hidden in Christ. And Christ says to you, I will never leave you or forsake you. Take you. Those who come to me I will never drive away. Such words of wonderful assurance Grace shines most of all, therefore, not through judgment or even through sanctification, but it shines through sacrifice. The sacrifice that Jesus made. If this does not lead you to worship him, To gratitude and to love and serve him, nothing will. May it be so for you In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Let us pray. We thank you, our God. That the flood of wrath is already past for us who are sheltered in Christ, united to him by true faith We thank you that the sacrifice has been made and you are pleased with us in Jesus. We are a sweet smelling aroma. We thank you that you are washing us daily, tearing away the old sins, remaking us in the image of Christ. We thank you that you are pleased to build your kingdom through us. We thank you that we shall escape the coming wrath by your grace. The wrath that we say when we repeat the creed, He shall come again to judge. We thank you that the ark of safety in Christ is big enough for a world of sinners. Give us the fear and the love to invite others to come inside as you are calling them to safety in the ark of Christ. Amen.