Please open your Bibles to the eighteenth chapter of Deuteronomy, where we'll read verses 9 through 22. Deuteronomy eighteen, verses nine through twenty-two. When you come into the land that the Lord your God is giving you, you shall not learn to follow the abominable practices of those nations. There shall not be found among you anyone who burns his son or his daughter as an offering, anyone who practices divination or tells fortunes. Or interprets omens, or a sorcerer, or a charmer, or a medium, or a necromancer, or one who inquires of the dead. For whoever does these things is an abomination to the Lord. And because of these abominations, the Lord your God is giving them out, is driving them out before you. You shall be blameless before the Lord your God. For these nations which you are about to dispossess, listen to fortune-tellers and diviners. But as for you, the Lord your God has not allowed you to do this. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers. It is to him you shall listen. Just as you desired of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, or see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the Lord said to me, They are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth And he shall speak to them all that I have commanded him. And whosoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name that I have not commanded him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die. And if you say in your heart, how may we know that the word of the Lord has not spoken? When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the word does not come to pass or come true, That is a word that the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You need not be afraid of him. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. John 13, beginning at verse 36. So we're in the middle of this conversation. After Jesus has washed the disciples' feet, and Judas has departed, and Jesus has given the command to love one another. Here we are at verse 36. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered him. Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow afterward. Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going, Thomas said to him. Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my father also. From now on, you do know him and have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does the works, his works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. Truly, truly, I say to you Whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do, and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Lord, we pray that now you will attend the preaching of your word as you have attended the reading of it. Help us to consider carefully what you teach here. In Jesus' name, amen. Again, we are jumping into the middle of a conversation. And Jesus is making some very interesting statements, and he's being asked to clarify his meaning. Four statements jump out at me as I study this. Four things. Greater weakness. Greater dwellings, greater understanding, and greater works First, let's look at the greater weakness. Verse 36, 37, 38. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered him, Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow afterward. Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. And if you read in John chapter 18, he indeed did deny Jesus three times at the gate of the house of the high priest. A servant girl, nobody important, asked him if he was one of Jesus' followers, and he said, no, I'm not. And then a little while later, he's standing around a fire in the courtyard of the high priest, and he's questioned, aren't you one of his disciples? And he said, No, I'm not. And then somebody there said, this was somebody who was a relative of Malchus, the guy whose ear got cut off by Peter with a sword. He said, I saw you. You're the one in the garden. No, I'm not. He denied him three times. Greater weakness, Peter. Greater weakness. Famous New Testament scholar C. H. Dodd observed it is part of the character and genius of the Lord of the Church that its founding members were discredited men. The church owes its existence not to their faith and their courage and their virtue, but to what Christ had done with them. And this they could never forget. Once you have seen yourself as a failure and you've seen God's grace lifting you up and strengthening you, you never are the same. All your confidence is no longer in you, but it is in God who raises the dead, so to speak, and literally. Don Carson said, the fact that the church still exists today, in spite of the many failures of its members, is to the glory of our Lord. Peter was really willing to die for Jesus. He really was. We see him in John chapter 18, in the garden. And there Simon Peter in verse 10, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant and cut off his right ear. He's ready to go to battle. He's ready to die. The servant's name was Malchus. Jesus says to Peter, put your sword into its sheath. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? Yes, Peter sincerely is resolved to die for Jesus if necessary, but he plans to die fighting. He plans to die fighting. Dying for a defeated, arrested, disgraced failure of a Messiah is quite another thing, and it is not in his plans. So greater weakness. It's a tribute to a musician when he can take an imperfect instrument and use it to play great music. That reminds me of a movie that I saw some time ago and still think about frequently, The Pianist. The story of Wadasław Spilman, who was a Polish virtuoso, Second World War Over the course of many months, Warsaw was destroyed and abandoned, and in the frigid winter, Spillman, who is starving to death. He is left alone to search desperately for shelter and supplies among the ruins. He eventually makes his way to a mansion where he finds a can of pickles, the only thing left. to eat in the whole place. While he's trying to open the can of pickles, he makes enough noise to be discovered by a Wehrmacht officer named Wilm Hosenfeld. Who doubts that Spillman is a pianist. He's ready to kill Spillman, have him arrested and killed. But Spillman says, I'm a I'm a pianist. He doubts it and asks Spillman to play on a piano. in the house. The decrepit, freezing, starving Spillman manages to play Chopin's ballade in G minor And Hosenfeld lets him live and hide in the attic, and he begins to bring him food. Yes, it's a tribute to Our Lord, that He is able to take weakness, starving, freezing, weak believers, and use them to play beautiful music. music in his kingdom. To establish his church. Even the apostles who were the foundations of the church were not strong, not brilliant. Not unusually gifted men. They were weak men who often failed. Sometimes they were so clueless that you just can't believe it. And we are cut From the same cloth. I think that's what the Holy Spirit is saying here. It's not just Peter. It's all of us. We're the same sort. We're so sure of ourselves. But we're very weak. Therefore, the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 says, reminding people of Israel's history and how they were destroyed in the wilderness, he finally says in verse 12. Therefore, let anyone who thinks he is standing take heed lest he fall. Know your weakness. Human weakness is a reality. To think that you're so strong that you would never fail your Lord is to be vulnerable and to let your guard down. But God in his glory uses weak things to shame the strong. He displays his power in human weakness. This is not a reason to remain weak, but to seek God's strength alone. So we have the greater weakness, and now we go to the greater dwelling. Dwellings, greater dwellings. Chapter 14. Let not your hearts be troubled. In the midst of that, he says, You're going to deny me, Peter. Things are going to happen that are bad, but let not your heart be troubled Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you to myself that where I am you may be also, and you know the way where I am going. These words refer to the greater dwellings. The extent of the Father's house in which there should be and will be abiding places for all. Now, children, remember what happened in Bethlehem when Jesus was born? There was no dwelling place. For him to be born in. No guest room for his birth. He was born in a part of the house where the animals were stable at night. And here is the context. Even while Jesus is speaking these words to his disciples, the Passover pilgrims were crowded into Jerusalem with many lacking dwelling places. And anyone who had a bit of space made it available without charge, because that was the law of Israel. But many had to set up tents in the squares or other open places during Passover because it is estimated That even though the normal population of Jerusalem was between 80,000 and 100,000, at Passover there would be three million people in Jerusalem and surrounding environment. But there will be room enough for all in the Father's house. Many dwelling places, spacious dwelling places, no lack of dwelling places Jennifer and I like to watch home and garden television sometimes. It's amazing to see young couples with million-dollar budgets looking at houses. The interior spaces of five or six thousand square feet, with huge kitchens and soaring great rooms. And uh spacious acres outside with gardens and a pool and all that business, outdoor barbecue. All this, usually plus a hilltop view where you can see sweeping out over 20 or 30 miles of land and sea. It's easy to begin to think how nice it would be to live in such a place, such a grand house, to wake up every day with such lovely space And if you get to do so, great. Enjoy it to the glory of God. You still have to think about the utility bills. And the routine maintenance costs and the landscaping and the pool and the insurance and the long-term mortgage debt. However nice any house may be The Father's house will exceed anything you could ever imagine. Jesus here makes the wonderful promise that there will be no lack of spacious dwellings for his believers in the Father. Father's house. And the maintenance will be included and the mortgage paid off. There will be room forever for you more than you can imagine. That's the message that he says here. So greater dwelling and then greater understanding Here we go back to the conversation. Thomas in verse 5. Lord, we do not know where you're going. How can we know the way? Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you do know him and have seen him. Wow. And then he says, Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father. It is enough for us. Jesus said to him, have I been with you so long? And you still do not know me, Philip. Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Father. Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority. Ah, that reminds us of Deuteronomy eight. 18. But the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on the count of the works themselves. Greater understanding is expressed here. Deeper understanding of God and of the relationship between the Father and the Son, and eventually the Holy Spirit will be included in this. The church from the earliest days has been by heresies distressed, as we sing in our hymn 1 John chapter 2, the same John writes: Who is the liar? But he who denies that Jesus is the Christ. This is the Antichrist who denies the Father and the Son. No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son has the Father also. Same teaching. This is so important and it's so important and necessary to understand this doctrine, greater understanding. I used to work with a very well known and eminent scholar, Dr. Robert Letham. We served together in Wilmington. And uh when I was taking the sh church history course with him, we were studying the doctrines of the Reformation and so forth, um, I asked him Once, what is the most important single doctrine for the Christian Church? We were studying the Reformation, and you know, many people say that the doctrine of justification is the The doctrine on which the church stands or falls. There's some truth to that. So I fully expected him to answer that the most important doctrine for the Christian church is justification by faith. But he did not. He said the sine qua non, or the without which there is no Christian church, is faith in the Holy Trinity. The Holy Trinity. That's what Jesus is teaching. This is the deeper understanding, the relation of the Father and the Son. The Son is in the Father. The Son says. He is that prophet. who has God's words, and you must listen to him. So we we say the Apostles' Creed, we say the Nicene Creed We say other similar doctrinal statements regularly, repeatedly, repeatedly, repeatedly. Why? Because it's so easy to get messed up in our understanding of the relation of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. It's so easy for our minds to have these ideas twisted and turned and replaced by heresies. And the integrity of our faith depends first upon this truth. Dr. Lesson said, you will never get to the doctrine of justification by faith without the Trinity. And he's right. Right. Because you cannot have a Savior, a Godman, who dies and gives his life for you and justifies you by his blood unless you have a unity between the Father and the Son. and the Holy Spirit working together for that glorious salvation. It's absolutely necessary. Greater understanding. So don't think it's It's useless to keep repeating these doctrinal truths. It is not. We need them. We need to sing them. We need to say them. We need to think of them. We need to pray them. In our lives. Greater understanding. And then we get to these final things, the greater works, verse 12. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do, and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father. Now, the faith healers, the health and wealth gospel preachers have been using this verse to gain followers and money for many decades. The idea they promote is that when they came on the scene, God was finally doing the amazing stuff that was promised in this promise of the greater works. The Word of Faith movement, the name it-claim it movement. It started in 1867 with E. W. Kenyon, who was usually given credit as the originator of the Word of Faith teaching And then Kenyon's principal disciple was uh Kenneth Hagan. You might have heard of him. He's the recognized father of the Word of Faith movement. He died in 2003. He believed that it was God's will that believers would always be in good health and financially successful and happy. I wonder how he died. And then Hagen's principal disciple was the Kenneth Copeland, who, with his wife Gloria, is the unofficial leader of the Word of Faith movement now. And Copeland remains the leader, but there are several newer mass media word-of-faith preachers who have eclipsed him in popularity, namely Joel Osteen, Benny Henn, Joseph Prince, and Joyce Meyer. Word of faith. Greater works you will do. And here they are. Are they right? John 14, 12 gives us an important clue to the meaning of the greater works than these. He says, because, and that's a causal clause in the Greek, because I am going to the cross and the ascension and the Father. You will do greater works. The fact of the death, the resurrection, and ascension of Christ would make the greater works possible. And what is the work of Jesus that he said you'll do greater? What was he doing principally? He was going around Galilee and Judea, proclaiming the coming of the kingdom of God. And so the greater work of the disciples is this, going around the world for the conversion of all peoples. Jew and also Gentile, through what? Through the preaching of the gospel. The gospel is what brings the greater work of salvation One commentator says this, the apostles did not exceed in doing greater miracles than Jesus did. And regular Christians did not have the ability to produce miracles, the apostles did. Paul in 1 Corinthians 12 asked the church, are all workers of miracles? Do all have gifts of healings? And his answer is no. They did not feed the five thousand or still the storm. No apostle ever duplicated walking on water or had another group of people walk on water. No apostle ever relocated themselves from one place to another. No apostle resurrected himself. No apostle healed a person from a far, away distance. They had to be there. Not even the apostles who were personally trained by Jesus were able to exhibit power over nature as Jesus did. They did not duplicate everything Jesus did. Like Jesus, the apostles healed those brought to them. However, the apostles' miracles were limited in variety, mostly to casting out demons and healing diseases, and there were a couple of resurrections From the dead. Peter raised a female disciple named Tabitha in Acts 9. And Paul raised Eudychus from the dead when he fell asleep during a sermon, be careful, and fell out the second-story window. Paul preached all night. Greater here is the word maison, which adverbially means greater in degree. The works that I do, greater in degree. More extensive ministry is what is being taught here. So Jesus is not saying that we will do greater miracles than he did, but that our effect on people, our influence, will be greater. That is the fulfilling of the Great Commission is the greater work Jesus spoke of. Our message is still the same. The message of God's kingdom coming through the death and resurrection of the Savior. And we follow Jesus' commission to preach the gospel. We send missionaries and we go. We disciple and teach people. This is the greater mission of God. And there's this one more bit, this curious thing in verse 13. Whatever you ask in my name. This I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. Now, what does that mean? There was a song a long time ago when I was quite young by a female vocalist named Janice Joplin. She died of a drug overdose way back when, but she had this song when she would sing with her gravelly voice, O Lord, won't you buy me a Mercedes Benz? My friends all drive Porsches, I must make amends. Work hard all my life, no help from my friends. Oh Lord, won't you buy me a Mercedes-Benz? Ask anything in my name, right? No. When we're talking about anything and Jesus' name, we have to consider carefully what that means. Name means in accord with who Jesus is and what are his wise and holy and good purposes. If we ask anything in accord with who he is and what he came to do and his wise and holy purposes, if we keep that in our framework of asking, he will do it. He will do it. James, little brother James, Jesus' little brother, says this: You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. Then he says, you do not have because you do not ask. Well, okay, I'll ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly. Now that's not in Jesus' name Wrongly to spend it on your passions, like Janice Joplin. Then he says, You adulterous people. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Friendship with the world means that we're not going to ask Correctly, even if we throw the tag on the end in Jesus' name. We have to have concert and be in sync with Jesus. As we ask. The greater things is not just anything, but it is that is what is keeping with what is good and holy and right, that promotes the glory of God and our good In Christ. So this is the truth, these things, these greater things. Al Moeller says this: I am entirely confident That beauty of the gospel will indeed save the world because nothing could be more beautiful than the work of Jesus. And because Jesus' work is beautiful, it is also true. And because his sacrifice is true, it is also good The atoning work of the Lord Jesus is the epicenter of all that is true and good and beautiful. The cross of Christ may not be pretty, but it is It is certainly beautiful. And so to just recap, it is beautiful that God uses weak and stumbling people like Peter and you and me. Greater weakness, but greater grace in weakness. It is the beautiful thing that God is making room for you in his amazing dwelling. There will be no light It is beautiful that he has revealed himself as the personal, loving, holy trinity whose unbounded love overflows for you. That wonderful interpersonal love of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit overflows to redeem lost sinners. And it is a beautiful and exciting thing that he allows us the privilege and the responsibility of doing greater works, telling the beautiful story of his wonderful grace. And asking for things in keeping with his name. Take those things, ponder them. Amen. Lord, we pray that you will bless us as we consider what you taught the disciples then and what you teach us now, because this is the living and active word of God. That divides and pierces to the thoughts and intents of our hearts. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.