Congregation of the Apostles' concern here is that God's people not to fall away from their steadfast commitment to the Lord. In the measure that he gives to counteract this, falling away from your steadfast commitment to the Lord. Is to grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Really, the message of these verses, if I can put it in one sentence for you, is this. In order not to fall away, you must be growing every day. We can remember that, can't we? In order not to fall away, you must be growing every day. That's the message That the Apostle Peter is giving the message that the Lord is giving to us, the Apostle Peter, in order not to fall away. You must be growing every day. And in looking at the text here this morning, what I want to do is first tell you why You're to grow every day, which I've given you one reason there. What growing in the Lord looks like And how you're to grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So why, what, and how, as we consider growing in grace. As I mentioned right there in the little ditty, the first reason that we are to grow in grace is because growing in grace, congregation, is a means of perseverance. Growing in grace will keep you from falling away from your commitment to the Lord. That commitment you made when you were baptized. That commitment you made and affirmed when you professed your faith and became a communicant member in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Growing in grace preserves you by keeping you strong and healthy A growing tree, as you know, is not likely to die, to fall away. A growing movement, right, is not likely to die. Only growing things are strong things. Healthy things. But the Apostle Peter is saying neither is a growing Christian likely to fall away. He puts it this way. Therefore, brethren, be even more diligent to make your call and election sure. For if you do these things growing in grace, you will never Stumble. That's a promise. You can be certain that if you are growing in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Jesus Christ, you will never fall away. For so an entrance will be supplied to you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Peter's saying, growing as a Christian will guard you from falling away. It will ensure that you enter into the Savior's kingdom. I like to think of it this way: we know we've been called to a narrow way. It's a good way. We we like the one that we're on the way with, the Lord Jesus. We like the company of the assaints that we're on the way with, but it's a narrow way and a difficult way. But he's saying if you stay on this way and grow in this way, that narrow way, you know what that turns into? A very big door for you to enter into the Savior's kingdom. But in order not to fall away, you must be growing every day. Another reason, congregation, that you and I are to grow in grace is taken from the command itself to grow. We are to grow because this is what God has planted us in Christ for. You plant your seeds. In springtime. What do you say to them? Grow. Because you don't want them to die, you want them to grow and bring forth fruit. God has planted us in Christ Adam, his dead soil. But Christ is living. As we are united to the risen one, we are to grow in Him. God wants this congregation to grow as his children. He waters us daily and weekly and nourishes us from that bread from heaven of his word and spirit coming down upon us. Given to us through the means of grace, God wants us to be growing as Christians. That's why He planted us, graciously planted us in the Lord Jesus Christ. Because I think we all understand that something must be off if a tree isn't growing, if a Christian isn't growing. Here's how Peter describes a Christian that's not growing in grace. He says For if these things are yours, right these the fruits of growth and grace and abound, you will neither be barren, right? A tree, a barren tree, nor unfruitful And the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For he who lacks these things, a Christian without these, a barren tree, he is short-sighted to blindness. He can't see further than this. And has forgotten that he was cleansed. From his own sin. So near-sighted he can't even look back to his baptism. Can't look back to last Lord's Supper when he professed to belong to the Lord and nourish on him and turn away from sin and live for the King Jesus. So nearsighted, living in these things. Because if you're familiar with the New Testament congregation, you you'll understand then by these words how wrong it is for a believer to be called blind. And unclean. Because at our conversion, right, Christ opened our eyes. We are called in Hebrews 10:32 those who've been illuminated. You know that as a Christian, right, the beginning of it in your in your baptism that you've been signifying you've been washed from your sins. So so then to be defiled, is like Peter will say later in this letter, it's like the dog that returns to the vomit. It's like the style that's been washed and keeps going back to the mess. And and Peter really has a strong warning here. If that's you It is worse for you to fall away after having known the Lord's way than never to have known it first. So we want to take this to heart, that growing in grace is a means of perseverance. Christian growth is a is a very hard thing, as you know. It doesn't just look like a happy smiling trajectory like this. My wife likes to say, you know, even if you f just fell down sinning again, but you instead of falling away from the Lord this time, you fell towards the Lord, that's growth. But it's not an impossible thing. Notice how Peter starts the letter, right? He assures us to those who obtain like precious faith in him. That God has given us by His divine power everything that we that pertains to life and godliness. Right? If you are a believer, you have in you what's needed to grow God's spirit. That doesn't mean you won't continue to pray and ask for an increase of it. It just means you won't be able to have excuses for being barren and unclean and unfruitful Because with that saving faith comes the grace of God's Spirit and power to grow as Christians. Now I am very certain, congregation, very certain, that for most, if not all, of you here this morning This command to grow in grace comes to you as a very welcomed word. That this is in fact what you are already doing. And this is a fact what you want to continue to keep doing in the Lord, growing in grace. But did you know that that is exactly What Peter said about the people he wrote to. That he knew this is what they wanted to do, and yet he still wrote this to him. He says For this reason, this reason of making sure that you don't fall away by growing every day, I will not be negligent to remind you always of these things. Always reminding Christians to grow. Though you know and are established in the present truth. Yes, I think it is right as long as I am in this tent to stir you up. By reminding you, knowing that shortly I must put off my tent, he's gonna die and go be with the Lord. Just as our Lord Jesus Christ showed me. Moreover, I will be careful to ensure that you always have a reminder of these things after my decease. If you have ever sat at the bedside congregation of a dying person, then you know how important their last words are. My own grandfather at his told me that he just wanted to be together with all his family in heaven. That is what was on his heart. He had wandering children. That's what he longed for and desire. Peter longed for and desired the same thing. He yearned for these sheep that Jesus says, if you love me, feed them. And he l yearned for them that they would enter into the Savior's kingdom. So he did not hesitate To write them a letter, risking their ire, because they already knew all these things, and in fact are already doing them He did not hesitate to tell them again to keep growing in grace. In fact, right, it's kind of funny. He says, even when I'm die, you're gonna still hear these things from me. It's going to be a part of Holy Scripture. And when you gather on the Lord's Day, you can open it up and read it. Because I don't want you to forget this. That you need to be growing in grace every day. Well, what is that then? That's why we're to do it. God's planted us to do it. It's a means of preserving us we don't fall away. It's wrong for us who've been illuminated and washed not to be growing in this way. But what is growing in grace? Honestly, I think there's a Bible gives us lots of metaphors to understand this, and you could look at this from a lot of different angles. I'm going to pick out two Here I think it gets at the core of it, and it's a very easy, a very biblical way of thinking about growing in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And that's to think of it in terms of repentance. And faith, we've all heard those terms, right? Repentance, turning from sin, and faith, trusting God and taking Him at His Word, and relying upon Jesus Christ. Growing in grace means, on the one hand, continuing in the repentance and faith that you professed when you were baptized, that you professed. When you became a communicate member of the church, right? Growing things are things that continue, right? So one way to think about growth is you continue in that faith, and that repentance that you professed when you became a Christian. But on the other hand, growing in grace means increasing in these things. Not just continuing, but increasing in faith and increasing in repentance. Going deeper into faith and deeper into repentance As you grow in grace, congregation, your faith is to become more sure. We've all doubted God's word and doubt God's word No, I can't live that way. It will cost too much and I'll look too strange and I just don't know if you'll come through. As our faith becomes more sure, I becomes more childlike. It's a joy being a parent, isn't it? Seeing the ready trust your children give you? If we could just give that to our own Heavenly Father, right? Of course they still struggle giving that trust. But in wonderful ways, they just come straight to you and say, Mommy, Daddy, help me fix it, solve it. Growing in faith will mean an increasing readiness to turn to the Lord and your need. Increasing readiness to take him at his word. No matter the situation, because we do not walk. By what we see, what the world says, and how it operates, but we walk by what we believe, what God says to be true. But not only is this an increase in faith, but an increase in repentance, right? Repentance should go further. Repentance should last longer. I've always found growing in grace, dealing with repentance kind of like peeling an onion, right? There's always another layer of pride to strip off. Envy, jealousy, impatience, anger, lust, right? You go through a terrible time, a wonderful, terrible time. Of growing in these ways of repentance to find out there's still more pride left. The root is deeper than you thought The second way is the way Peter shows us here. Peter depicts the process of growing in grace as one of addition. You're going to be adding things to your life. As God is taking things away, the sinful things, you're going to be adding the right things to your life. When babies grow, right, God adds the perfect number of their parts to them, brings them to perfection. That's what the Heavenly Father is doing to us, adding to us. Bringing us to perfection. Christian addition starts with faith. So Peter says, add to your faith And that means that it starts with grace. Because he said at the beginning of this letter, God, not we, added faith to our lives. Came not through merit, but through the righteous choice of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. All authority has been given to him. He can choose whom he wants to reveal himself to savingly or not. Faith comes to the sovereign choice of Jesus Christ. It's grace. The Bible calls this coming to faith our calling. Have you heard that term before? Calling? Or maybe if you know our standards, effectual calling, because many people hear the gospel call, but not everybody comes to faith. We're called through that gospel, affectionately called and brought to faith and repentance. If you just stop and think for a moment about this process of calling, you'll know how gracious it is You can just think of the apostles, the first ones called, right? Paul says he was the chief of sinners. And God called the chief of sinners. To belong to Jesus, to be a part of his fellowship, even to be an apostle, to make known God's will to the nation. But if you're here this morning and you have faith in Jesus, that is because of God's grace to you. Now, why does Peter put grace before knowledge? He says, I know I am entitled to grow in grace, but it's really grow in the grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Why is it put grace before knowledge? It's because grace comes first. But it only really comes first logically as we think about the order of things. An actual experience when you're being called by the gospel, we begin to know Jesus as Lord and Savior, the same time That he shows us grace in our manifold sins that he finds each one of us in and calls us to follow him. He saw an eat and write not meet and should be Ezekiel. God brought his people in the land and washed them clean and what they do utterly defiled themselves. And his judgment he dispersed them He says, What did you do? I'm going to in grace call you back, wash you clean, put you here, and then what's going to happen? Then and only then are you going to be ashamed of your ways and overwhelmed because of my grace and love as you see your uncleanness. In light of my abounding and unchanging grace and love. For every true believer, this is the most thrilling part of being alive, of being a Christian, to know Jesus Christ. If Christianity were mere Bible knowledge or catechism memory, I would have stopped being a Christian a long time ago. Besides God's grace, you know what keeps me being a Christian? Jesus. There's nobody like Jesus. I don't want to know anybody else like I know Jesus. You know, the gospel gives us the record of those men who first came to know him as Lord and Savior. Times they were very amazed by him. The times they were frightened by him, wondering who is this person in the boat with me? The times they were rebuked by him because they're kind of thick-headed numbskulls. And taught the same thing, kind of over and over, a little slow to get it. But at all times, they were loved by him. And they knew they were loved by him. And they always wanted to be with him. That's what they all said. No, Jesus, no, we won't deny you. None of us. None of us will. We want to be with you. They were all sad to hear that he was departing and going away because who is there like Jesus? And they did not run him out of their life. But we now know in light, and they know in light of Pentecost and resurrection, how good it was for him as he's come back to them, and back to us, and back to his church by his spirit. So with Jesus in his congregation, this growing, this growth, this adding to our lives is possible because He's with us to teach. He's with us mediating the knowledge of himself, the experiential kind of knowledge of knowing him by his word, his written word, and his spirit. Peter says, after this gracious gift of faith comes virtue or the the power right towards upright behavior. Did you s you did you hear that when we sung in uh I think it was 0,000 tongues, or might have been one Psalm 138, or I can't now it talks about That virtue quickening us when we came to know the Lord Jesus. That power for upright moral behavior living in us comes not from ourselves, but from Christ in us. On top of this, we had knowledge, right? Knowledge of the truth after godliness, right? We grow in the knowledge of being able to discriminate in every situation. What is good? in what is evil, to choose what's good, and the best for each situation, and to shun what's evil. We go on the knowledge of our Heavenly Father's will in every situation, how we are to carry ourselves. That's just adding knowledge To our virtue. On top of knowledge, we had self-control. The proverb says that a man lacking self-control, he's like a defenseless city. You can imagine how quick a city like that's going to fall. To self-control, we add perseverance. Because it's one thing, and it's a good thing to have self-control for an hour. A day, a week, a month, a year But what about when that lust starts burning again? What about when that hunger awakens? What about when accountability starts to wear off? Do you have perseverance? Can you stay the course and endure it? Because on top of self-control, we have perseverance. I was asked by a man in great desperation, because he as he knows the struggle of lust, as many as you I'm sure knows it, wanted to know, does it ever become easier? And I assured them then and I'm as more assured of it now. It becomes easier in any sin, not just sexual, any bad craving. When you become a better fighter, God's making sons. We heard in the Hardware Catechism, he'd been anointed as kings to fight against sin and Satan. He's not going to do it for you. He's going to help you in it. He's going to love you through it. He'll show you grace. But he wants you to say no as his son. And that perseverance that we add to, or what we add to our perseverance, is godliness. You know, as I as I said before to you as well, I once had a professing Christian express to me her surprise When I asked her if she had taken her situation about living with her boyfriend and having sex outside of marriage to her Heavenly Father, and she thought, you can talk to God about those things? We aren't in this alone. Godliness is not doing it yourself, it's trusting in the Lord. We go to God with our sins. We go to God with our failures, our struggles. We go to God and say, Yeah, I really did want to do that sin. That's my heart. Please change it. Because I can't. Jesus died while you were a sinner. Don't let your sins keep you from God. And I'm not yelling at you, I'm just really passionate about this. Don't let your sins keep you from God. Go to God in your sin. Because you're going to go somewhere, you're going to do something with them. And the only thing to do with them is confess them and turn to the Lord, and he will receive you. To this godliness, we add brotherly kindness. This godly people, we're called to live near to our God But that doesn't mean we're to be far away from our brothers and sisters in the Lord and our affections towards them. We probably all met airy-headed Christians Living in the Ivory Tower, who are quite miserable people to be around, like is there a kind bone in you? Because Christians that are inaffectionate, unaffectionate And unforgiving and just aren't warm, have growth to go in brotherly kindness And on top of this brotherly kindness, lastly Peter says, we had love. And I don't have to say anything about love because we spent all summer going through love, and you all remember that. I'm certain you do. Those eight things were not to do, those seven things were to do, and on all that, add love in thought, word, and deed. We are to do towards others only what we want them to do to us. You know, as you think about this, right? This takes hard words. How do you do this, right? That's what it is. How do you do this? Well, Peter says, give all diligence. There is not a quick fix here. There's not ten easy steps. There's not get slim in a minute Hard, lifelong, committed work. Giving all diligence means spare no pains, spare no efforts in doing this work. Because, right, it's worth it. You don't want to fall away You want to grow in grace. You want to be assured of that entrance into the Savior's eternal kingdom. Whatever the cost here, the reward is worth it. Growing in grace, right? You'll hear this church, you'll hear that you've heard this and you'll hear this term a lot, right, in Presbyterian Reformed churches. A diligent use of the means of grace. God's given you what you need to grow, that Spirit in you, but by His Word, His written word, through prayer, through abiding in the church and its discipline, and through the use of the sacraments And since that's where I want to end is rightly using our baptism, right? That's why I picked our larger catechism this morning because of the baptisms to be performed in the moment. Today, three young boys, Calvin Knott, and Kenai, are going to begin their life in Christ Church, growing in grace. And then with them, two young ladies, Joanne and Jordan, are going to begin officially, they've been doing it, but officially they're going to begin that life of growing and grace with us, as they're going to unite with us in fellowship. And one way that can help us all to do this is if we improve upon our baptism. Because baptism as a right Ended once you were dunked or sprinkled or had water poured on you, it's done then. But its meaning and its significance for your life never comes to an end. Every day you're called to wake up and say, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who lives, but Christ lives in me. Every day, but especially when you're tempted or present in others' baptism, you're to say, How shall we who died to sin live any longer in it? Because don't you know you've been baptized, you've been baptized into Jesus' death, you've been buried with him. There is a definite end to that old life You've renounced the world, the flesh, the devil. You've died to sin that you might live to God. To him, congregation, You belong to the Lord now, and you're to live for Him every day. Every day we are to draw strength from our union with Christ, depicted in Baptism. Every Every day by his death we are to die to sin. Every day, by the power of his resurrection in us, we are to live to God in obedience to his commandments. And what that then really boils down to is this. Improving your baptism is putting on Christ every day. When is the last time you said, I'm putting on Christ? Don't walk around in the old man. You're not in the old man anymore. Put on Christ and live in him. Because if you do that, You will have great help to grow in grace. Never ever forget, congregation In order not to fall away, you must be growing every day. Amen