Congregation, let's hear God's word. First of all, from the prophets Isaiah chapter 40, verses 6 through 8. Listen, this is the word of God. A voice says, Cry. And I said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of the Lord blows on it. Surely the people are grass The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. And now from 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 22 through chapter 2, verse 3. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth, or a sincere brotherly love. Love one another earnestly from a pure heart, since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable. Through the living and abiding Word of God. For all flesh is like grass. And all its glory, like the flower of grass. The grass withers and the flower falls. But the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good news that was preached to you. So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy. And envy and all slander. Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up to salvation If indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good, this is the Word of God. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ And you may wonder why I use that connective word and because what I'm going to say here in this sermon It's just a continuation of what you heard this morning in Pastor Damon's sermon. He told us what Jesus meant in his parable of the sower and the seed. That those who listen to the word of the gospel must listen immediately. Deeply and exclusively. And we heard that. Still, there asks a question That remains unanswered totally, although he hinted at it at the end of his sermon. How is this going to happen? That people will hear and believe the gospel. Well, the interesting thing is by the providence of God I'm due to preach tonight on 1 Peter 1, 23 through 23, in which text Jesus answers that question which arises in our hearts when we hear the parable of the sower and the seed, namely, how is this ever going to happen? And he uses his apostle Peter. Who, by the way, you'll remember, was there when Jesus told the parable. And now Peter finishes it tonight. So that's why I began the sermon with Anne. Botany is the science of plant life. Growth is one of the fundamentals of this science. The seed becomes a tender shoot The shoot becomes a strong stalk. In time the stalk yields its lovely flower. They grow, furthermore, as they are fed. Living souls, people. Desire and grow by eating spiritual food, no less than living plants And in the spiritual realm, God is not satisfied until the one who takes in his word by faith brings forth fruit. Zoology is the science of animal life. Since man in his physical nature grows also We may study and describe that development whereby the body of the infant becomes that of the full-grown adult. Lack of growth sends a chill into the hearts of parents who must observe a baby that isn't developing normally. Again, Christians are living and growing in Christ. And it is contrary to God's purpose for them to remain stunted or dwarfed. Our text tonight, as well as being a continuation of our text this morning, is in this case the second division of the passage In 1 Peter on sanctification or holiness, which is both the momentary implantation of new birth and a lifetime growth. We may take two clauses out of our text, one at the beginning and another at the end, to summarize what we are saying here. First, from chapter 1, verse 23, you have been born again. Then coupled, secondly, from chapter 2, verse 2 You may grow up to salvation. Together, those two clauses, you have been born again And you may grow up to salvation, yield this complete picture of the drama of a sinner brought out of death of mown grass To the marvelous flowering of salvation. Yes. You tonight, having responded in faith to the good news that was preached to you May hear the Apostle Peter's magnificent and thoroughly comforting summary of what has happened You have been born again that you may grow up to salvation. Take that thought home with you tonight. Chew on it as you fall asleep in your bed. And close this Lord's day with a grateful prayer of thankfulness to your God and Savior. For salvation only begins at conversion. It continues as a lifelong process. God is to be greatly glorified in you believers in Jesus as you demonstrate more and more the grace of genuine conversion. In the midst of what we might call the daily routine of life, and also in opposition to intense pressures and trials. Because you are not plaster saints. You're living people who have to learn how to get along lovingly with one another. Using the resource of the Word of God to develop truly Christ-like character. Thus, Peter identifies two conditions of sanctification Or growth in holiness. Number one, which we observed two weeks ago on Sunday evening, love for other Christians. Remember that? And number two, which we will underline tonight, faithful use of the Word of God, the Bible. These two surely work together and unitedly serve to demonstrate what God has accomplished in saving you out of death and decay. And bringing you into life, growth, and ultimate flowering of eternal salvation. So our proposition tonight is just this. Catch it, please. Spiritual growth unto holiness begins with the implantation of the seed of the imperishable Word of God. And grows unto the fruit of a completed salvation, all the product of God's goodness. And we set forth this theme under three headings. First, the need for new birth. You must be born again. Many, if not all, of you will remember that two weeks ago we centered our attention upon the verse just preceding our text for tonight. Namely verse 22. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere, brotherly love Love one another from a pure heart. Verse 23a, since you have been born again. I pointed out then that the little Greek preposition ace, for, for a sincere brotherly love, ace a sincere brotherly love. was crucial to the understanding of the point that Peter was seeking to lay upon the hearts of his readers. And that was a point that the Holy Spirit of God was seeking to lay on your hearts two weeks ago, namely this. The purpose of your having been saved Was for brotherly love. Yes, it is. God delivered you from the estate of sin and misery Not to mention eternal damnation, with a specific outcome in his divine mind that he graciously destined for you. That you might be part of the family of his church and love the other members of it. Mind you, not only feeling love for them, but doing it. Doing love. It's a verb. All that and more is packaged in that 1 verse 22. But you notice that that verse does not end with a period. We didn't have time two weeks ago to pay a particular attention to that piece of grammatical detail, that comma, but we're going to make up for lost time tonight. By God's grace, we intend to do just that because without that crucial comma, and what follows it in the conclusion of the sentence in 23a You will find yourselves unable, not to mention unwilling, to accomplish the duty that was laid upon you In verse 22, and at the same time, you will find that's the only way in which you can hear this morning's sermon and respond To the preaching of the gospel of the seed, and do something about it. So underline the very first word in tonight's text. The word since. Since you have been born again. The Holy Spirit is saying here You've been saved, yes, for brotherly love, that will take place only since you have been born again. And we could add also in connection with this morning's sermon: you will only be able to listen and respond effectively to the seed of the word of the gospel planted. Since you have been born again, or if you have been born again. Without that new birth, forget it. Don't even try to practice brotherly love for Christians And even non-Christians, for that matter, by means of your old fallen nature, you simply cannot pull it off. Outside of regeneration by the Holy Spirit of God, you are unwilling and totally incapable of generating any kind of Sincere, active, and heartfelt love for the church and even unbelieving neighbors. You need to be born again. Regeneration. What Jesus said to the Pharisee Nicodemus, Peter, by inspiration of the Holy Spirit, reintegrates. Truly, truly, I say unto you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And the apostle has already underlined the grace of God, which has fulfilled that absolute necessity, when he writes in this very letter, chapter 1, verse 3. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope. Through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed. Now Peter goes on to add at the conclusion of tonight's text, chapter 2, verse 20. That you may grow up to salvation. Now, what's the sum of all this? You need to be regenerated. You need to be born again. If ever, not only can you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ for justification, the forgiveness of your sins But also for sanctification, growth in holiness, and the practice of extending brotherly love for brethren. Not only being saved from the just penalty for your sin, but also saved from the deadness Of a life devoid of any true, sincere, and heartfelt love for other Christians. Because of your fallen nature, you need new birth for both. Now that brings us to the second point. Not only do you need to be born again, but you need to observe the cause of the new birth. Now maybe some people would say, now he's going to tell us what we need to do to get born again. I'm not going to do that. Peter writes to these elect exiles of the dispersion in verse 23: You have been born again through the living and abiding Word of God. He doesn't even say you've been born again by believing the living and abiding word of God. He says you have been born again by the living and abiding word of God. Their regeneration, therefore, was brought about by God's word exclusively. How in the world are you to understand that amazing statement Think about it. Born again through God's word? Well, think for a moment about the analogy he adduces from natural science. Quoting from Isaiah 46 through 8. All flesh is like grass, and all its glory like the flower of grass The grass withers and the flower falls, but the word of God remains forever. Like then, so now, grass depends, doesn't it? Upon a new birth, every year, you will observe it, look out your window at your lawn. Absolutely. Grass needs fertile soil, abundant rain and sunshine, if it is to be expected to spring into flowering fruit. Even grass's root, if unnourished thereby for an extended period of time, will die and pass away. That's when you get deserts. If regeneration is needed in the natural realm, it is all the more needed in the spiritual. Exactly there, Peter says, You believers in Jesus have been born again, but in this case, born again, not of a perishable seed. But imperishable through the living and abiding Word of God Yes, there is something profoundly different between the cause of grass growth and that of salvation growth. For people who believe the good news of the gospel that has been preached to them come to salvation through a powerful and lasting gift of God's grace, regeneration. New birth that enables them at all to respond in faith by putting their trust in Jesus. You see how you have to keep things in order. And that gift is exactly the living and abiding word of God. What God in His grace has planted in the hearts of those He has chosen unto salvation is not merely a truth, though it is that, but it is much more. It is a living person. The Apostle John, in the first chapter of his first letter Light of that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and have touched with our hands Concerning the word of life. He's talking about Jesus, God's Son, my friends. He who is himself the Word of God is the very seed that, when implanted in your soul, becomes the imperishable source of your eternal life. Can I put it any clearer than in this sentence? You ready? You were not born again because you believed the gospel message Not true. The opposite is so. You believed the gospel message because you had been born again. Huh? Now hear an amen. Almighty God was the divine farmer who sowed living and abiding seed, none other than his own son, in the dry soil of your dead heart. Doesn't that produce, if not out loud, at least an inner cantata of praise from you unworthy sinners? Praise God. That's what we do every Sunday morning here at Grace and Peace, and in many other Orthodox Presbyterian and maybe other denominations too You celebrate the miraculous donation about which we're speaking when you partake of the Lord's Supper. You give him nothing. He gives you everything You take, eat, remember and believe that the body of our Lord Jesus Christ was broken for you. You take, drink, remember and believe that the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ Was shed for you. Yes, all this, because the suffering and dying Messiah has become the seedbed of your new life. He is the very ground, the very soil of your regeneration. No other patch will sustain this crop, because the living and abiding Word of God, Jesus Himself, is your life. Your nourishment and your cultivation unto eternal growth and salvation And behind that gracious, undeserved cause hovers the eternal electing love of God. Whose mercies endure forever. Well that's the second point, the cause of the new birth God, Jesus. Thirdly and lastly, we have to say something about the fruit of new birth It appears to me that sometimes folks consider the Christian religion to be primarily a matter of concern about life after death. Wouldn't you agree? Going to heaven, then, rather than perishing in hell, captures the attention of some people, and it is that which they would like to be sure of before they die. Consequently, they respond hopefully to any assurance of a happy eternity that they might receive. Well, as for their daily life is concerned, well, that remains a matter of trying one's best to be good. Thus being saved, or accepting Jesus as your Savior, is thought to take care of life after death. Whereas life, well, before death, that's considered to be a personal matter, up to you. The problem, however, is right here. If living a successful, worthwhile, yes fruitful life is up to you, know that such is impossible. You are out of that league. Because by nature you are dead in trespasses and sins. And apart from a new birth, you have no hope whatsoever of life. Before death, let alone after it. But it is exactly that situation that Peter addresses in our text. He speaks of Christians As growing up to salvation, growing up to salvation Not just getting snatched out of the pit of hell at the end of life, but living a truly fruitful life before death. This, too, is the effect of the living and abiding Word of God that you blessed believers have and enjoy every day of your lives here upon this earth You have the Bible, my friends. The Holy Scripture is right at your hand And is the seabed, the fertilizer, the sun and the rain by which you can grow up to salvation. Read it often. Read it thoughtfully. Memorize it Attend regularly to it as it is preached to you. Then you will be fruitful in your new life as a regenerated person. Now, Peter says that Christians are like newborn babies. As such, they are commanded to long for, to crave for the pure spiritual milk. The Word of God. You must have a desire for it. You must have the drinking of the Word of God as your primary concern. You've already, indeed, specifically tasted that the Lord is good. You've learned that God is good in granting you eternal life through Jesus your Son. Surely then there will be in you a desire to go on in that word of sanctification in your daily life. You will want a continuation of that grace day by day, won't you? As the psalmist encourages you, oh, taste and see That the Lord is good. How blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. You need that just like you need three good meals every day. There are no shortcuts in spiritual growth, beloved brothers and sisters The Spirit who brought you to new life by his word still works with that word. The Holy Spirit says, take up and read Take up, eat, and live. Let me end with this. You might not have heard it But there is a relatively new worship song that, unlike so many of them, I'm afraid, sad to say, in this case does hit the nail on the head. We won't sing it now. I won't even try. But listen to its lyrics. This is the air I breathe. Your holy presence living in me This is my daily bread. Your very words spoken to me. I'm desperate for you. I'm lost without you. That hymn didn't make it into the new Trinity Psalter hymn, although if I'd been on the committee, I would have put it in. I believe it does capture the message of our text tonight. Well, there it is, congregation. You need new birth if you're going to live now and evermore. And you have it. By the word Jesus. Living in your hearts by faith, enabling you to bear fruit for God's glory. Amen. Let's pray. Thank you, Lord God, for enabling Peter, who listened to Jesus. Parable of the sower and the seed, to also in time write a letter to us and fulfill that which he only began in that parable. We recognize that we are called upon To desire, to long for, to hear and listen and believe the word of the gospel Now, thoroughly in our hearts, deep and exclusively avoiding Any other hope than Jesus, the Word of God. Now Peter says, you have it. We have it. And we're grateful It is our prayer, O God, for each one of our brothers and sisters in this congregation to hear this message. To respond to it, to eat it, to digest it, and to praise you for it. And we do that in Jesus' name. Amen.