Anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment. On himself. That means that you need to judge Jesus' body rightly You need to know what went on there at Calvary. And one thing in particular. The Holy Spirit considers it necessary to tell us specifically is this That the Roman soldiers, when crucifying Jesus, removed and divided among them all of Jesus' clothing. The proposition of today's sermon is just this Jesus' passive and active obedience for your salvation is displayed in what the soldiers did with his clothing at the cross. That. So we need to pay attention first To Jesus' passive obedience. You're passive when something is done to you. That was the case when Jerusalem's Jewish officers arrested Jesus of Nazareth, brought him first to Annas. Then to the high priest Caiaphas, and finally before the Roman governor, Pontius Pilate. for examination on the charge that Jesus claimed to be the King of the Jews. Our text this morning begins with John 19, verse 16, saying that Pilate Giving in at last to the hateful pleas of Jesus' enemies, delivered him over to them To be crucified. Your Savior Jesus was crucified E. D. crucified. Theologians call it his passive obedience Because it was done to him. The Apostle Paul says in Romans 4. 25 that Jesus, your Lord, was delivered up Or your trespasses. Your sins cried out for punishment to be delivered to you You had already done enough, and it was now time for something to be done to you, and Jesus for you. Was delivered up to be crucified. There and then he would passively Passively bear the iniquities of all God's redeemed ones. Jesus would have Exhausted upon himself, upon his blessed body and soul, the sanctions of God's holy law resting upon you believers. Jesus was crucified for your sins. That was his passive obedience. Understand? Now, whenever you observe communion, Jesus' supper, commemorating his crucifixion, you are commanded by God the Father Through the Apostle Paul's instruction given to you via his second letter to the Corinthians, chapter 11. To discern the Lord's body. Discern it. And doing that is so important that Paul goes on to say in verse 29 Anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment upon himself. Therefore, we had jolly well better understand what it means to discern the Lord's body, don't you think? What is the body? Is that the church, which is sometimes referred to as the body of Christ? No, it is not the church. It is the body by which the second person of the eternal Godhead was incarnated upon planet Earth. 2,000 years ago, that body, the body and soul, the person of Jesus of Nazareth. that was crucified. Disern that body. If you want to partake of the Lord's Supper, then Without fear of condemnation, along with the world, you're going to have to discern exactly that body of Jesus Christ. And it means discerning what it meant for the incarnate Son of God, Jesus Christ, to suffer passively to crucifixion You had better know what went on there at Calvary And actually, the answer to that question, what went on at Calvary, was already prophesied hundreds of years earlier by King David In the 22nd Psalm, which you heard Elder Seth read. When he deterred by divine inspiration, the psalmist did The exact passive suffering of Jesus, David's coming Messiah, there in that beloved poem Psalm 22. We have laid out the whole gamut of the crucifixion, which we won't repeat here, for it will take more than one sermon. But which culminates, you remember, in verse 18. Were you listening? They divide my garments among them And for my clothing they cast lots. That detail, that specific Of the crucifixion of Jesus seems to bring the account of that whole gory execution to a climax. At least by David's inspired perspective. Maybe you never thought about that before. But it is not ignored by the Apostle John when he sets out to chronicle for world history. The event known as the crucifixion of Jesus of Nazareth, for searching the scriptures for some prophetic anticipation Of Good Friday's history marked event, the apostle, once more by divine inspiration, chooses One detail of Psalm 22's rich telling of the crucifixion of the Messiah to highlight He tells us that the stripping off of Jesus' clothes happened In order to fulfill the scripture of Psalm 22, they divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. Now let's think about that for a while. People generally pay more attention to the clothing in which Jesus was swaddled in the manger. than to the clothes in which he went to the cross, and which were brutally taken from him by the soldiers. Nevertheless, such a division of our attention is not right. Yes, the swabbling clothes were given to the babe. by the providence of God. And the garments which were taken from him on the cross were taken from him also by the same providence of God. The manger clothes, for their part, are not so much a sign of Jesus' poverty as the manger itself. But at Golgotha, the garments alone are made a sign. The disrobing of Christ was a special symbol And spoke a unique language of the deity. This shall be the sign unto you You shall find the man robbed of his clothes and hanging on a cross. A merciless robbery exhibited his nakedness to the eyes of the delicate priest and the youth of the great city of Jerusalem. Think of that. Disern that body Now I know we would turn our eyes and hurry away from the place. But all four gospels cry aloud. Our text, one of them. All four. So the soldiers did these things. With the clothing. Yes, they did. Now discern that. Disern that I know, of course, that you would rather not look this fact in the face. But Jesus was thus humiliated. And if, like John, you are unworthy to loosen the laces of his sandals, how shall you dare to approach him at this moment? Yes, the scripture says, before you come to communion, be sure that you judge the body rightly. Why ever is clothing of the body necessary? Well, Genesis 2. 25 says of our first parents That before their sin, such was unnecessary, since the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed Only then did God give Adam and Eve clothes to wear after they sinned. Only then. But now he strips his incarnate son there He who put clothes on the first Adam after he descended into the estate of sin and death takes clothing off the second Adam upon which the curse descended. That, my friends, was the path of obedience of your Savior. He who was rich became poor for your sake. Even his seamless robe, apparently an undergarment, was stripped off Never perhaps is that fact more apparent than it is in our text this morning. His seamless robe went to. Remember the tax money that Peter had to take from the mouth of a fish at Jesus' bidding? Don't you think that Christ could have provided for himself all the clothes he might have fancied? Of course he could, but he did not. This is his passive obedience. And he obeyed here at the cross. When even what clothing he had was taken from him. This he suffered, for so the soldiers did. These things. Discern not. But there's more. More than Jesus' passive obedience is seen in the taking away of his clothing this. This active obedience. Active I announced earlier that more than Jesus passive obedience was displayed in what the soldiers did with his clothing at the cross. Now we look at his active obedience as well. For this, we need to turn to the uniform teaching of Holy Scripture regarding sin. Sin, you will know, is more than doing what God forbids. It is also failing to do what God prescribes. Think of the Ten Commandments. Not only don't murder, don't lie, don't steal But do have the Lord as your God alone, do keep the Sabbath day, and do honor Your parents. You need to do what the law prescribes as well as refrain from doing what the law forbids. Jesus fulfilled both of those aspects for you, believer. He not only died to remove the sins, you did do. He also lived to provide the obedience you did not do. He not only took the punishment you deserved for the wrong you did He also provided the perfect record of the right that you did not do. We discern that, I would say, when we meditate upon the Lord Jesus enduring the suffering of the cross and paying the punishment for our sins, but also when we pay attention to this detail Carefully recorded by the Apostle John in our text this morning, the Lord Jesus, stripped of his clothing Whatever does that mean? Well, in more than one place, the Bible connects clothing With righteousness, doing the right things. Job for one does so, saying in his defense, Job 29, 14, I put on righteousness. And it clothed me. Psalm 132, for its part, speaks of God's priests as coming in clothed with righteousness. In numerous places, righteousness is described as a breastplate. If ever there is a clothing, that's a breastplate, or a robe. By Isaiah the prophet, and later by Paul, in his letter to the Ephesians. But in all, that righteousness, that perfect account, is never found native in any person since the fall. We're undressed We don't have any clothing of righteousness. Not now at least, since the fall of Adam. Paul says In connection with that, in Ephesians 6. 14, not of works is our salvation. Lest any man should boast. You can boast of your works, but you ain't got any. Yes, righteousness is not of works, indeed. Not of yours, that is, or of mine. As for works There were plenty, but they were performed by somebody else, not you. They were performed by Jesus in his life in 32 years. Another 32 years in Jesus' performance of righteousness. The Founder, one of the founders of our Orthodox Presbyterian denomination, J. Gresham Machin Is recorded by one of his biographers who was there at his deathbed as saying in his final words Thank God for the active obedience of Jesus Christ. That's what he said. Now this scene set before us by John is an inheritance scene You realize that? Oh, the divine irony in the soldiers casting dice or whatever they used lots to determine who gets what of the clothes. They thought that it was just a bit of necessary gambling to determine who would get which piece of the pitiful belongings, the earthly wealth of the Nazarene. Not much, but at least let's settle it fairly, fellows But I say, oh the divine irony. What they saw, yes, was just one more day's work concluded with somebody getting the seamless undergarment. Which Jesus wore, the only piece of clothing worth anything measurable. They thought that that's what they did, these soldiers. But not the Apostle John. He in his writing knows better. He sees by inspiration beyond the mere haggling of Roman soldiers. He sees prophecy. Being fulfilled. And he understands, I'm sure, what lies between the lines. An inheritance scene, I called it Jesus bequeaths his wealth, his clothing of righteousness. Oh, not an inheritance seen specifically in the destination of these physical articles of clothing bequeathed by dice to executioners. But rather just in the fact that those clothes were given to others. Taken from Jesus, they were, but not then discarded in the mud. No, no. Given to unworthy soldiers, to be sure, but given to others nonetheless Yeah, I know that they didn't believe in him. Those soldiers probably didn't care a hoot about the one they had just nailed to a cross who was at that very moment suffering and dying hanging above their heads. Their attitude might have been jovial, monstrous as it may sound, grinning at the meager pickings. From this one. Yes, why else do the scriptures say? This is what the soldiers did Why emphasize this detail in each and every gospel account as it is? Not for nothing. You can be sure of that. I know why, dear brothers and sisters, because the New Testament, in its preaching of the gospel, will use this figure, that of clothing. clothing representing righteousness given by another. And yes, you with John J. Gresham Machin By Jesus' active obedience, receive your Savior's righteousness. That was Jesus' act of obedience for you. Yes, that robe, the white one In which you will stand in the day of judgment, you who believe in Him as your Savior. That one, God's hand me down to you Hand me down? I debated using that phrase. My wife didn't challenge me on that one when she read the sermon. You probably thought about it, as I hope you will think about it too, and see that it's okay to say that. Lest I be misunderstood because of the concept of hand-me-down clothing being all worn out And not particularly desirable. But I will not hesitate to speak thus, because the point lies on the fact of the biblical record getting another's clothes. God prepared a cloak of righteousness there for you. The soldiers hardly thought it worthwhile Something to do until our shift is over. But now I may inherit his white robe, me, the executioner. Yes, I put him there. My sins put him there. And the Bible says, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. You need him. You need his righteousness. You need his act of obedience. His clothing. So don't turn your eyes from his shame. It's yours. You are the naked one. And you need to be clothed. John the Baptist said, if you have two coats and somebody needs one Give one of your clothes to him. Give one, mind you, and then you still have one left. Of the Savior, however, it must be said, all his clothes are gone, given to others. Laid breathtakingly upon my unworthy shoulders. This thing I know And thus, by the work of the Holy Spirit, through this our text today, I You understand, discern Jesus' precious body, and I rightly come to communion Amen. Let us pray. Lord our God, do we ever need clothes? These clothes, the only ones that matter. Jesus, act of obedience. He who died on the cross and took the penalty for our sins also lived his life. To provide what we've lacked so miserably. Hallelujah. Thanks be unto you for the glorious gospel. which is so clearly laid out for us in Holy Scripture. And may the Holy Spirit of God Inspire us now in these moments before we approach the Lord's table. Drink of the wine and eat of the bread. pictures of his body, that body, which was stripped of its clothing, so that we may have some. Amen.