Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the ninth chapter of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy chapter 9, the first five verses. Here, O Israel, you are to cross over the Jordan today, to go in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourselves Cities great and fortified up to heaven, a people great and tall, the sons of Anakim, whom you know and whom you have heard it said, Who can stand before the sons of Anak? Know therefore today that he who goes over before you as a consuming fire is the Lord your God He will destroy them and subdue them before you. So you shall drive them out and make them perish quickly, as the Lord has promised you. Do not say in your heart, after the Lord your God has thrust them out before you, it is because of my righteousness that the Lord has brought me in to possess this land Whereas it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord is driving them out before you. Not because of your righteousness or the uprightness of your heart are you going in to possess their land, but because the wickedness of these nations The Lord your God is driving them out before you, and that he may confirm the word that the Lord swore to your fathers. To Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. New Testament reading from the Gospel of John chapter 12, 36b through 50, as we continue our journey through John. Hear the word of God. When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him, so that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might Lord, who has believed what he heard from us. And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Therefore, they said they could not believe Therefore, they could not believe, for again Isaiah said, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their hearts. And turn, and I would heal them. Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory and spoke of him. Nevertheless, many of the authorities believed in him But for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue. For they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me sees him who sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. If any one hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. But the one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. For I have not spoken on my own authority. But the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Oh God, you inspired Jesus to say these things to the people who were around him. Help us now to understand them. In the context and spiritually, and make application. Be with the preacher. May the words that he speaks be the words that you want The main interpretive question is this What is the message for John's audience? If we start there, then we have a foundation for Extrapolating and applying to ourselves. But first, what is the main message for John's audience? And as I've told you many times previously, John's purpose throughout the gospel is to challenge his hearers and readers to believe in Jesus as the Jewish Messiah. True God and true man, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, that is the main focus of John's gospel. Now, as we come to this passage today, some of his audience would object to this and say, if Jesus was really the Messiah, The Jewish teachers and leaders would surely have recognized him. Their thought process is something like this As they look around, with few exceptions, the only people who have believed in him are the common folks. In Hebrew, they're called the Amha Eretz, the people of the land, the country folks, such as these Galilean fishermen. Therefore, he can't be the Messiah. And John begins now to answer these objections. The first answer he gives is this. That the unbelief and rejection of Christ on the part of many of the Jewish leaders was predicted by the prophet Isaiah. Verse 36. When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. And though he had done so many signs Before them. They still did not believe in him, so that the word of the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. Lord, who has believed what he heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed. And so, what in effect John is saying is: you who are doubting, do you want to join the rejection that was predicted by the prophet Isaiah? Do you want to be in that crowd? The prophet Isaiah said more than just what was quoted here, and the whole context would come into the mind of the hearer. Do you Let me expand a little bit. Isaiah 53, 1. Who has believed what he has heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant. The Messiah is like a young plant. Not very impressive, not very sturdy, not very strong, a young plant. Easily knocked down. And he says, and like a root out of a dry ground. What happens to a root if you pull it out of the dry ground? Well, it wasn't very good in the dry ground to start with, but now what's going to happen? It's going to fade and shrivel. So he's not very strong and he's not very sturdy. It says, Isaiah says he had no form He wasn't a bodybuilder or a great man in terms of ordinary people's way of thinking. He had no majesty that we should look at him. He wasn't a gentleman's quarterly photo guy. And no beauty that we should desire him. You're rejecting this Messiah because you don't think he's very impressive, strong, handsome, powerful, and all that stuff. You're making a big mistake, John is saying. He was not like some expected him to be. He was not impressive in the way the Jewish leaders wanted him to be. He was not like Judas Maccabeas. who uh who routed the Seleucid Empire who had r come in and taken over Jerusalem and uh he threw them out and rededicated the temple. That's where the feast of dedication comes from that was recently celebrated. In fact, Isaiah goes on to say he was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. As one from whom men hide their faces, who wants to look at him? He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely, he says though, surely, faithfully, surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. This is who he is Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. Oh, John is saying, don't reject him because he's not impressive, because look who he really is. Look who Isaiah shows us that he really is. He's this wonderful messiah. Messiah. The only Savior is Jesus. Those who reject Him do so to their own destruction. So John is saying, don't reject Him. And then he gives another answer, or actually it's more of a furthermore answer. The unbelief and rejection of Christ by many of the Jewish leaders was ordained. By God as part of his greater plan for the salvation of the nations. Here it is in John verse 39. Therefore they could not believe, he says, For again Isaiah said, He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes and understand with their heart and turn, and I would heal them. This has been predicted by Isaiah. This has been designed by God. This is an explanation as to why some of these people have not believed in him. So, what will you do? Well, what he quoted from Isaiah doesn't sound fair, does it? We live in a radically egalitarian society. No one should have an advantage. No one should be blessed above another. According to the cultural elites, the playing field must be absolutely level Is having a loving family uh an unfair advantage? This is the question that was posed in a recent article published by the Australia Broadcasting Corporation where I fully Philosopher named Adam Swift commented that parents who read to their children at night might want to consider the long-term effects. After noting that the difference between those who get bedtime stories and those who don't, the difference in their life opportunities is bigger, he says, than the difference between those who get elite private schooling and those who don't Bedtime stories have a greater effect than private school. Swift goes on to suggest, and he says, this is a quote. I don't think parents reading their children's bedtime stories should constantly have in their minds the way that they're unfairly disadvantaging other people's children, but I think they should have that thought occasionally. Now, the next part is a satirical comment by another person, not me. Here it is. Adam Swift must be criticized for stopping short of demanding that parents dumb down family time for the sake of the greater good. To build a truly egalitarian society, this is precisely what we must do. And here are three more things parents must do to crush the prejudice of nature and raise truly egalitarian children. He gives three more First, stop bathing your children. We must begin leveling the playing field now by keeping our children out of the tub. As such, well-intentioned bathing culturally conditions our children to believe that it is bad to smell bathing. Bad, and because this might give them an unfair advantage with others who have a bias against unwashed people. Second thing, he says, stop giving them fruits and vegetables. Since an individual's eating habits are established at an early age, it is of paramount importance that those who would feed their sons and daughters healthy foods Recognize that they are unfairly disadvantaging the children of parents who believe that a balanced breakfast consists of a couple of slim gems and an Oreo McFlurry. Third, stop teaching your children manners. Of all the people you've known who were late for a job interview, or who were arrogant, angry, or vulgar during a job interview, how many of them were passed over in favor of someone who showed up on time and exhibited virtues of humility, kindness, and decency. We must stop teaching manners in order to level the playing field. Egalitarian. Exaggeration? Yes, it is, maybe. But egalitarianism really is rampant Is God egalitarian in his view of humans? Yes and no Yes, he views all humans as equally fallen and condemned. And he owes them nothing. No, because he gives the gift of faith and repentance to Some undeserving sinners, and leaves others in their fallen condition. This is not equal, true, but it is fair Because all sinners deserve condemnation, and God is not obligated to intervene in the natural course of the rebellion of sinners That's the teaching, if you want to read it on your own of Romans 9, 10, and 11. It's very clear there. And I won't take the time to take it apart now. But instead of us or them in those days listening to Jesus, instead of criticizing God for leaving some sinners in their natural condition, you and I should be thankful that God has intervened to send. You and me from our natural course of unbelief and rejection. The same thing is taught in John chapter 6 We've already been through this part, but uh John chapter 6 where Jesus says I'm the bread of life and so forth. And then he says, but I said to you who have seen me and yet do not believe, that's the natural condition. And then he says, all that the Father gives me will come to me. That's divine grace. That's God not being equal, but being fair. And whoever comes to me, I will never Cast out. If you want to know if you're one of those that have this special grace given to you, come to Jesus. And if you come to him, he will never cast you out. You don't have to ponder over to puzzle about it. Just come to Jesus. He will never cast you out. And you can say, the reason I came to Jesus is because he, in his sovereign mercy and grace, drew me. Thanks be to God. He drew me Through me. It's wonderfully true that God sent Christ as the Savior of all people, and that heaven will be filled with all kinds of people. It's described in Revelation seven as as the People that are innumerable. And they are from every nation and every tribe and every people and every language. So it is a wonderful thing that God is doing, saving the world. But this passage in John, and many others like it, really do teach that God chooses something persons for salvation and leaves others in their fallen state. There is no way of blunting it or getting around it. I checked several good commentaries and there was not one who could find a solution other than this is the way God God is and the way He has done. Those who believe and are thereby saved should be thankful to God who chose them and enlightened their hearts and their minds and their wills and drew them to Christ with accords of love. And we hold this truth even as we equally hold the truth expressed in Ezekiel 33, where God says this As I live, declares the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn back, turn back from your evil ways. Why will you die, O house of Israel? So God does not love to send people to hell to condemn them. He does not. So now the third message that John is bringing to the focus here. There is a price to pay for not confessing Christ. See, some of these people were saying Well, I may believe in him. He might be the Messiah. I'm not sure. I don't know, understand why the Jewish leaders haven't recognized him. But he has done some miracles. Maybe he might be the Messiah, but I'm not willing to Put myself out there. I'm not willing to confess him. Here's what it says. Nevertheless, many, even of the authorities, believed in him, verse 42. But for the fear of the Pharisees, they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue. For they love the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. When anyone, then or now, believes But fails to confess Christ, fails to come out into the public for Christ, that person experiences a split Between faith, which calls for witness, and fear, which calls for hiding. Now, years ago, I went um to Brazil with my son Isaac on a mission trip. We were, I was not playing soccer, but it was a soccer team. I was just one of the adults that was along for the for the trip to supervise and help and enjoy, too. So we were in São Paulo, Brazil, one of the largest cities in the world. And one evening we were going to a soccer game at at the San Paulo Stadium. And I had gone to the mall before that as a tourist, you know, and bought a soccer jersey, you know. I've got it right here. I'll show it to you. I've got this uh San Paulo, uh it's San Paulo Futebol Club. That's uh SPFC. And so uh we're going to this game and the San Paulo team is playing some other team and uh I come down from the hotel room and missionary associates there and I'm wearing this jersey. He says What are you doing? I said, I'm wearing my jersey. He says, do you want to have beer and urine thrown on you And I said, no. Go change. And don't wear any jersey. You see, if you go to one of those games, those people are very riled up about their team. And if they see someone wearing a jersey of the other team, guess what they might do? That would have been a mistake to identify with the San Paulo Futebol Club that night But it is never a mistake to identify with Christ. Never a mistake to come out publicly for Christ It's what we're called to do. Jesus said in Matthew 10, everyone who acknowledges me before men I will also acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven. is in heaven. So when anyone then or now fails to confess Christ because they love something else more, a conflict will ensue. They'll have a split soul, a sick soul. When a Christian fails to honor promises that they've made before God, they have a sick soul. A split soul. The soul, you see, I'm learning about this recently. The soul holds mind and will and body together in harmony with the Holy Spirit who indwells believers. And when we fail to do what we should do, to live what we should live, to say what we should say, to come out in public, whatever it is, when we fail these things we we develop a sick, split soul Maybe you're here today with a sick soul, a split soul. James says to those who he wrote, If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given to him. If you've got a healthy soul, that will be given to you. But let him ask in faith, that's wholeness. With no doubting. For one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. That person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. That's a split sick soul Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you, chapter 4. Cleanse your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts, you double-minded, you split-soul, sick-soul people And we pray this prayer recently in one of our services. Grant, we beseech thee, merciful Lord, to thy faithful people, pardon and peace. that they may be cleansed from all their sins, and serve thee with a quiet mind. A quiet mind. That's what we have when we have a healthy soul. Everything is held together, and there's peace. There's a quiet mind. God is good. And he wants you well. He wants you to have a healthy soul, and he wants you to repent of double-mindedness. And John is calling these people. To confess Christ and not be double-minded. And then fourthly, he says: you cannot separate faith in God the Father from faith in Jesus Christ. Some of the Jews there would say, Well, I believe in God the Father. I always have believed in God the Father, who revealed himself to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Moses, so forth. But not so much this Jesus. What did Jesus say to that? John records it. And Jesus cried out and said, Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And whoever sees me and sees him who sent me, sees him who sent me. I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness. If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him. For I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me, has himself given me a commandment to say what to s what to say and what to speak, and I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say, as the Father has told me, I'm I'm going to boil that down for you. I am in complete agreement with the Father. The Father is in complete agreement with With me, what I say the Father says, what the Father says is what I say, we are in absolute sync. You can't receive the Father and believe the Father and reject Jesus. Can't be done, won't be done. And you'll be judged, he says. Your own, the words that he says will judge. We have this kind of situation today. Many people want to claim belief in God, a God, but the God they believe in is a God of their own creation. A God that approves of their morals or lack thereof, a God who will be available nearby, but not too close, if they need a booster rescue And after the boost or rescue has been helped or gotten, whatever, then this God will retreat and let them manage their life as seems best to them. You can't separate God, the Father, from Jesus, and you can't make up your own God. It will not be the true and living. God. The Athanasian Creed from the fifth century begins this way: Whosoever will be saved. Before all things it is necessary that he hold the Catholic faith. Catholic here is compound word kata halas, which means the faith of the whole church. You want to be saved, you better hold the faith of the whole church. Which faith, except everyone, do keep whole and undefiled. Without doubt, he shall perish everlastingly. And here it is. And the Catholic faith is this, that we worship one God in Trinity and Trinity in unity, neither confounding the persons nor dividing the substance. For there is one person of the Father, another of the Son, and another of the Holy Spirit, but the Godhead of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit is all one, the glory equal, the majesty co-eternal. You can't divide the truth. Trinity, and you can't make up your own God. And Gregory of Nazianzan, lived 329 to 390, said this, and it's very worth quoting When people talk about believing in God, think of what Gregory said, maybe quote it back to them. He said, When I say God, I mean Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Nothing less. Nothing else. When I say God, I mean Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. So to the Jews that were listening, and what Jesus says here, what John records, you can't Pick and choose. You've got to have God as He's revealed. John's purpose throughout the gospel is to challenge readers and hearers to believe in Jesus, the Jewish Messiah. The true God and true man, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He is this one. Even though unrecognized and rejected by Jewish leaders, should be no such Surprise was predicted by Isaiah. He is the true Messiah who was received by those whose minds and hearts have been opened and whose wills have been freed by the gracious working of the Father and the Holy Spirit. Again, predicted by Isaiah. He calls his own people to own him and proclaim him as Lord and Savior. And he calls his people to know and confess, not some vague deity out there, but the three-person God, one God from all eternity. No other. This is the one and only God who says you shall have no other gods but me in the first commandment. And in the second commandment, you cannot worship me by false imagination. Imaginations, whether graven or mental. So, brothers and sisters, gather here today. There is no other God. There is no other Savior. There is no other Lamb to take away our sins. Let us worship him in his congregation on his day as we have promised. And let us bear witness to him in our public lives because we love him. And are not ashamed of him. Believe in Christ, honor Christ, worship God, confess to others that he is your precious Savior Amen. Oh God, we thank you for these words, recorded by John, by the Holy Spirit, said by our Savior Jesus We thank you. We pray that you'll help us to follow you and confess you and love you. Deepen our private love for you as well as our public expression of that love, we pray. O Lord Jesus Christ. Amen