We will read Psalm 68 verses 1 through 20. Psalm 68 verses 1 through 20. To the choir master, a psalm of David, a psalm. God shall arise, his enemies shall be scattered, and those who hate him shall flee before him. As smoke is driven away, so you shall drive them away. As wax melts before fire, so the wicked shall perish before God. But the righteous shall be glad, they shall exult before God, they shall be jubilant with joy, sing to God, sing praises to his name, lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts His name is the Lord. Exalt before him. Father of the fatherless and protector of the widows is God in his holy habitation. God settles the solitary in a home. He leads out the prisoners to prosperity, but the rebellious dwell in a parched land. O God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the wilderness, Salah, the earthquaked, and the heavens poured down rain. Before God, the one of Sinai, before God, the God of Israel, reign in abundance. O God, you shed abroad. You restored your inheritance. as it languished. Your flock found a dwelling in it. In your goodness, O God, you provided for the needy. The Lord gives the word The women who announce the news are a great host. The kings of the armies, they flee, they flee. The women are at home divide the spoil. Though you men lie among the sheepfolds, the wings of a dove covered with silver, its pinions with shimmering gold. When the Almighty scatters kings there, let snow fall on Zalman O mountain of God, Mountain of Bashan, O many-peaked mountain, O Mountain of Bashan, why do you look with hatred, O many-peaked mountain? At the Mount of God desired for his abode, yet where the Lord will dwell forever. Yes, where the Lord will dwell forever. The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, thousands upon thousands. The Lord is among them. Sinai is now in the sanctuary. You ascended on high, leading a host of captives in your train, and receiving gifts among men, even among the rebellious, that the Lord God may dwell there. Blessed be the Lord who bid daily bears us up. God is our salvation. Selah. Our God is a God of salvation, and to God the Lord belongs deliverances from death The word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning comes from Paul's letter to the Ephesians, chapter 1, beginning at verse 15. Through verse 23. Ephesians chapter 1, beginning at verse 15, hear the word of the Lord. For this reason. Because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you. Remembering you in my prayers that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, May give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened. That you may know what is the hope to which He has called you? What are the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints? And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe according to the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Far above all rule and authority and power and dominion And above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet, and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body. The fullness of Him who fills all in all. And our gospel reading this morning comes from Luke. Chapter 24, beginning at verse 44, through to the end of the chapter. Luke 24, beginning at verse 44, hear the word of the Lord. Then he said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you. That everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. And he opened their minds to understand the scriptures and said to them, Thus it is written. That the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead. And That repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things. And behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you. But stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high. Then he led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands, he blessed them. While he blessed them, he parted from them And was carried up into heaven. And they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy And we're continually in the temple blessing God. This is the word of the Lord. You might be wondering why anybody would get emotional over such words. Did you hear what he said? What Luke says happened then? He departed from them. The Lord Jesus had been with them for three years. Love them untiringly, ceaselessly, as God in the flesh, gathering his flock. They never knew such glory. They've never seen such glory. But that phase of our Lord's life came to an end at that moment And the Church of Jesus Christ lives in that glorious and grateful expectation to bodily be with him again. This morning, congregation You dear saints of Jesus Christ, we are remembering this event, the ascension of our Lord, and we'll be looking at it in our preaching this morning. The gospel of Jesus Christ, as you all know, is the gracious message of what God has done. Through the sending of His Son, Jesus, into this world to restore it, to save it. The world which God had made, the world which belongs to him, and the world which by its sin has turned from him. And remains estranged and hostile to him, ignoring him and seeking to get on without him That's the world God loves. And we might ask ourselves, well, how does the ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ into heaven Which, as I mentioned, we're remembering and celebrating today, fit in to this gospel, fit in to what God has done in his love to save the world. We're looked at one way, the ascension confirms the world's rebellion. Jesus, while in the world, and still not in the world, but as he still lives in this way, followed a very different course than that of the world. He followed God, loving him and submitting himself to the will of God. This, of course, resulted in his crucifixion, which is another mark of just how different his life is from the world. Which crucifixion he submitted himself to as the Father's will. Through his life in the world, he revealed to us the name of God. And it was through his obedience, this life that he lived on earth, that he overcame the world. In his faith and his God and his promises, resting on the power and provision of the Spirit that his father gave to him. It was through his life of obedience, even what appeared to be defeat on the cross, that he overcame this world. And his ascension marked that victory. It was the exclamation point to highlight his very different history from ours. Adam and all in Adam disobeyed. Israel, even that special chosen people of God called in Abraham, delivered out of Egypt, brought to God and saw his glory at Sinai and given the law and holy oracles of God, disobey But Christ alone obeyed. And in that one word, you have the very difference of his history from ours. Because he loved and did the Father's will. So then, on the one hand, Christ's ascension to the Father, leaving this world behind him, as he says in John 16:28. Marks the contrast, also seen at the cross, between Jesus' life and the sinful life of the world, which has decided it doesn't need God. But, for seen also on another way, Jesus' ascension into heaven. to be exalted there at God's right hand as the leader and savior of God's people. To give unto God's people repentance and the forgiveness of their sins continues his mission into the world. As the one sent by the Father's love for its salvation. For Christ's ascension led to his enthronement. The inauguration of the Messiah's everlasting kingdom, which led to the sending of the promised Spirit by Him. We read that in Luke. Pentecost, which is we'll be remembering next week, when my father-in-law, the Reverend Maurice Slimas, who will be visiting us, will be preaching to you next Lord's Day morning for Mark Pentecost. Which led to the worldwide mission of the Church still going on today, the Great Commission by which fulfillment God is pleased to save his people out of the world until he sends Christ to consummate The kingdom in power and in glory in a new heavens and earth So then the ascension marks the beginning of Jesus' heavenly ministry, which is a continuation of his Earthly ministry, which we'll see for the salvation of the world. And this morning I want to focus on the event of the ascension itself I want to unpack or explain the meaning of the creedal statement. He ascended into heaven from the Apostles' Creed. That we might all know what we believe and confess when we make this confession. And I want to do that and I will do that under three points. The prediction of the Messiah's ascension into heaven The proof of Jesus' ascension into heaven and the place of Jesus' ascension. I'll say those all again if any of you are jotting furiously notes down and want to keep Look at that under three points. And then after looking at that, using the passage there from Ephesians 1 that we read. To show us some of the significance for the ascension today for us believers. So then, what are the facts of the ascension? Well, you see them there right in Luke 24 that Jesus after 40 days in his resurrected estate, Talked with his disciples, explaining to them the things of the kingdom of God. And then together they went out as far as Bethany and Acts. Jesus tells us it was the Mount of Olives. And you can see the picture. Our Lord Jesus beg, this was the moment he was, we'll see, ascending into heaven. to commence his high priestly reign there as it was the duty in Israel for the priest to raise his hands and bless the people, standing on the Mount of Olives with his arms up raised, blessing his little flock. Look how small and weak that little flock is, and look at it today. It fills the whole world. There is a church across this whole globe and it's still going into this globe. That blessing, you are living in the fulfillment of that blessing. And while blessing them He was taken up into heaven, bodily ascended into heaven, and a cloud received him out of sight. So those are the facts of the ascension. The bodily ascent of our Lord Jesus Christ into heaven. That's what we're going to be looking at this morning. Uh Ephesians colors out a little bit in its grandeur, as the Apostle Paul tells us. there that God had raised him and seated him at his right hand, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion. That's referring to, as Paul refers to those again in Hebrew later in the chapter, in chapter 6, verse 12. Those are the powers, rules, and authorities, the evil ones that we war against, not against flesh and blood. For the saints of Christ war and overcome and conquer, but these evil spirits, Jesus has ascended above all of them. They are under his feet. Above every name that is named. Right? Names are named of honor in this world. Names are named in the apparently the heavenly places. For the highest name there is, no higher name. is the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, not only in this age, but the promised one to come. All things under his feet Head over all things to the church. That's something of the grandeur through which his church is his body, the fullness of him which spills all in all. That The ascension of Christ is what set that in motion in which you and I joyfully, gladly, graciously know and live in the kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ. So let's look at these three points together. The first one I said that we're going to look at as we understand the meaning when we confess. That he ascended into heaven is the prediction of the Messiah's ascension into heaven. The prediction of it. And this prediction was predicted in two different ways God predicted it in the law represented through or typically through the high priest in the Day of Atonement. So the Messiah's ascension into heaven was predicted Through the high priest or typically represented to us through the high priest and the Day of Atonement given to Israel at Mount Sinai. In Leviticus chapter 16, verse 2, we read, Tell Aaron your brother, or the Lord said to Moses, Tell Aaron your brother, not to come at any time into the holy place, Aaron being the high priest, inside the veil. before the mercy seat that is on the ark, so that he may not die, for I will appear in the cloud of the mercy seat. Aaron could not go into that inner veil any time he so chose but only once a year on the Day of Atonement, the holy place. And we see that what was typically represented We see that fulfilled in Hebrews chapter nine, in verse eleven, in verse twelve Hebrews 9 verse 11 says, But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, Even through the greater and more perfect tent, not made with hands, that is not of this creation, oh, the glory of Allah of an eternal temple that he's entered that will one day be down here. If anything, this sermon should make you an Joyful and entirely excited of the glory that is ours in Christ. He entered once for all into the holy places. not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood. Thus securing an eternal redemption. And I wish I could preach to you for two hours on the eternal redemption. I wish I could preach to you for three hours today. And I know none of you want to preach for three hours today there's So much glory that we're covering in this so we could just get it in us and live with for the rest of our day. But that so what God Represented typically in the Iranic priesthood and on the Day of Atonement of the high priest going into the holy place, Christ has fulfilled and entering into that in heaven Through the offering up of himself, presenting himself as the crucified one, alive forever by an indestructible life, securing eternal redemption. So wonderful. So that's the first way God predicted to us that His Messiah would ascend into heaven. The second way we read about in our reading this morning. By elder Spaulding in Psalm 68, verse 18, God also prophetically declared this. And you read it there in the words, Psalm 68, verse 18, you ascended on high. Now this is David speaking, but David never did this. Leading a host of captives in your train and receiving gifts among men even among the rebellious, that the Lord God may dwell there. So that's Psalm 6818. And in Ephesians chapter 4 In uh verse eight, the Apostle Paul tells us that this has been fulfilled in Christ. Therefore, or I'll go back to verse seven, but grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ. Gift. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, that is Christ, Christ led a host of captives, and Christ gave gifts to men. And saying he ascended, what does it mean? But that he has also descended into the lower regions of the earth. So the Apostle Paul tells us what God prophetically declared in Psalm 68 through His Holy Spirit. Speaking through David, Christ has fulfilled when he sended on high, and each of you have received your gift from him. Now that gift meaning particular, all of us, Paul just talked about the great unity we have in the Spirit and the common life, and on top of that, particular gifting That have come to you from your covenant head in Lord Jesus Christ, who shed his blood, that he might give you that gift, and that God might dwell amongst you. Oh, glory to Jesus Christ. So that is how God has predicted to us that his Messiah would ascend into heaven. represented it typically to the high priest and Day of Atonement fulfilled in Christ, and proclaimed it prophetically in Psalm sixty eight and other places that Christ would ascend on high and give gifts. fulfilled in Jesus Christ as we read about today, 40 days after Yasin. Second point then Well, the proof. We all confess that Jesus is the true Messiah. What is the proof that the Bible gives us for this ascension? First and foremost, I want to make one point from John. Chapter 20, verse 17, we read, and this was Mary after the resurrection. She turned and said to Jesus in Aramaic, Raboni, which means my master, my teacher. It's a term of endearment and of great love. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father The resurrection is not ascension. They are two different events. I have not yet ascended. See, Jesus, she clung to Jesus here. And Jesus is saying That time and my ministry here on earth has come to an end. You cannot cling to me in that old way. And I hope all of our hearts burn to the day when we can bodily cling to him and hug him. Give him a holy kiss. I know we all kind of cringe at the idea of kissing another male, but happens in the world. It's happened in ancient times. You can do it in a right, holy, godly way. And I hope and pray and know and believe we'll all get to kiss our Lord Jesus and thank him for what he's done. Because we are raised so high by what he's done. We have fallen so low as a race, but in God's grace we are ascended so high even to sit at God's own right hand, yet to be fulfilled. So the resurrection is not essential What does it mean then that Jesus ascended? It means he was transferred or translated locally Because he raised bodily from the earth to heaven. It was a translation or a transfer as a local, he was here locally in this place. Some of you may be that may be flashing signs, the ubiquity doctrines of our Lutheran brethren and the celebration of the Lord's Supper locally Talking about where is Christ present in the supper? Locally translated bodily from earth into heaven. Therefore the reform doctrine is he is locally in heaven bodily, he is spiritually present at the supper. to be received in the elements. A local translation from earth to heaven. Now that's what we read about in Luke's gospel. And uh you didn't read Acts 1. So I'll read to you the verses from Acts chapter 1. And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. So what's the proof for that event? Well, it says right here, and when he had said these things, as they were looking on, who is the They, right? His apostles. So if you're looking for proof of Jesus' ascension, you've got to be looking for the testimony, the eyewitness testimony of his apostles who saw it and told the whole world about it that Christ is ascended into heaven. So the proof of it, yes, he has done it. You and I weren't there and we didn't see it. But it is testified to us by his apostles, made effectual to our believing by the work and inner testimony of the Spirit, that we do truly believe and confess. That on the authority of God's word and through the testimony of his apostles, that Christ has ascended into heaven. But there's more proof. Look at what verse 10 says. This is Acts chapter 1, verse 10. And while they were gazing into heaven, As he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes. They apparently weren't standing there before. That's why Luke says Behold, when the Bible says behold, it means there's something stunning, surprising, unique that you need to take a look at. They're watching this great event, and the next thing they know, there's two men in white robes standing beside them. and say to the men of Galilee, Why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus who is taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven Now what is that all about? Why did God send two angels down to earth dressed in white, the appearance of men, to tell his disciples that Why are you still standing here? He's going to come back the same way. What's that about? Well, that we read what it says here. A cloud took them out of their sight. They lost sight of Jesus at some point They lost sight of him. But where did he go? How do we know he's in heaven enthroned? God sent the angels who saw it. The angels saw his receipt into heaven. They were there when the crucified, risen Christ And an utterly unique, never-to-be repeated event in the history of this world, taking apart at our Lord Jesus' true history when he ascended. We didn't get to see it, the angels saw it. And God sent two of them down here to tell us he is surely received into heaven. And he is coming back in the same day. How wonderful. So this event was witnessed by the apostles. This event was witnessed by the host in heaven. Don't you love when we sing in our communion liturgy and all the host of heaven rejoined together praising you, singing? They had their own part in witnessing. Aren't they truly Spirit sent ministering for those who inherit salvation, sent down here to say, men of Galilee, we saw it. He is in heaven in throne. He's there. God sent us to tell you. Now stop looking there because you have work to do. So that's the proof. The eyewitness of the apostles and of the angels. So the prediction of the Messiah, typically represented the Day of Atonement, the High Priest. prophetically proclaimed by the Spirit through David in Psalm 68, seen the actual event of that seen by his apostles and testified by two angels to be received by us. by faith. To say God is true to what He's testified in His Word, with the authority alone of God speaking, I receive it and I believe it Third, what is the place of Jesus' ascension? But he ascended into heaven, but does the Bible fill that out for us in any way? What is this place? And notice what I'm saying. Place. Heaven isn't a state. Jesus didn't ascend in mind so that salvation is some Gnostic idea of being free from these bodies and in some disembodied state. He ascended bodily. Heaven is a place. He's there bodily. It's a eternal. It's God's eternal dwelling place. It's what's true and eternal. It's what one day will clothe this earth in power as it's brought down here when the throne and the lamb, which is vision In the Revelation and all through the book, as being in heaven, God says in the end, we'll be on earth, the throne and the lamb. Heaven's a place. A real place that Jesus is entered into. Full of glory and delight and what not is what's not corruptible. Well, what is this place? In 2 Corinthians 12, 2, Paul tells us he didn't know if it was in body or out of body, but in some vision he was raised to the third heavens. So we know there's at least three heavens, and we're certain we can be certain that Jesus ascended at least that high. But does the Bible say more? Hebrews chapter four in verse fourteen we read Since then we have a great high priest who has passed Through the heavens. So now we've got Jesus going through the heavens. How many heavens are there? He's passed through the heavens. Jesus the Son of God. So we read in Hebrews 14 that Jesus has passed through the heavens in Ephesians chapter 4. I know I'm doing a bunch of Bible flipping today. You'll just bear with me. Ephesians four chapter ten. Uh he who descended is the one who also ascended Far above all the heavens. So which one is it? He's ascended through the heavens, but he's ascended far above all the heavens. So where is the Lord Jesus? Now that by the way, I've done some reading of the last few weeks. He's in heaven, okay? But where that is, the medieval scheme and the patristic scheme developed in the medieval ages had a very we're below and the heavens are above ideal But with telescope and the Copernican Revolution and seeing how far we can go out at kind of not the same world we live in and understanding the heavens, it doesn't dispute what God's saying. That's not the point. The idea was He's in heaven. That's what uh it says so that Jesus has both ascended through heaven And above all the heavens, yet he is still in the heavens, in or still in heaven. Hebrews 6 verse 19 says We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain, is talking about our hope also as Christians is behind that veil in the place of the holy of the holies, because our forerunner Jesus has gone there. We have that hope because we read in Hebrews 9. 12, he entered once for all into the holy Places. And then in Hebrews 9:24, for Christ has entered not into holy places made with hands which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself. So Jesus has ascended through the heavens. He ascended far above all the heavens, and he is in heaven. That's how the Bible depicts it to us. So we might say in one way And I'm borrowing off the top of my head a quote. I'm going to butcher it so it'll be a paraphrase now. He has ascended Or entered into the holiest place of all places which are called holy. He's in the holiest one. He has ascended into the highest place of all highest places. He has taken his seat on the highest place of honor of all places of honor. When we go before a magistrate, we say, Your honor. That is a place of honor in our nation. God is the one who judges men. God is the one who has judgments. God is the God of order and law. And yet, highest place of honor, our Lord Jesus is at. That's what he's entered in. And aren't we so glad for him? Because we should always remember first how far he descended. What is it to be a worm? How many of you, besides little boys, love worms? And pet them and cast them. Don't we just leave them in the ground and trot over them? What is it? Come to live amongst your own works of your hand. And speak words of grace. And say, God is so loving and forgiving. His kingdom's here. You don't have to do anything to buy it. You just come. Just take me. Be my friend. Accept me. Live with me. Live under my arms. Join my disciples. Doesn't cost you anything. And to be despised. Hated, stripped naked and shamed and nailed to a cross. That's his descent. Why did he do it? We might know God. We might be raised from death. The death fight no more. It's not even a saying for us. Um Tim Keller passed away this week. I'm gonna try to remember another quote off the top of my head that my wife sent me that he used to say Death used to be our executioner, but now under Christ he's just our gardener. That's what we have. That's ours because of God's grace. That's ours because of what the Lord Jesus Christ did. It's free. You just take it. You just believe it. Just call upon Jesus. Love Him. Receive Him. You get it? Just trust in Him. Turn to Him. Let me apply real quick, beloved, what it means then to belong to this ascended Lord Jesus Christ from Ephesians chapter 1. Paul here is praying for the church, praying for Christians. And his prayer in particular is they already have the Spirit, but Paul seems to think Christians need more of the Holy Spirit. That God would give them that spirit, spirit of knowledge, spirit of revelation, to know three things: hope, riches, and power. Paul says he wants believers to know really the hope of their calling. God has called you effectually to Jesus Christ, united him, you to him. by faith. And that means something. Let me real quick give you a working definition from Scripture on what hope is. Because I know we often say, oh, I Hope it turns out well, and what we mean is hope is just well-wishing, and that's a watered-down idea, but hope it. Hope in the Bible is something that God has promised. That Christ has achieved, all the promises of God are yes and amen in Christ, which is ours by faith that we must then patiently wait for. Is that clear? Hope is something that God has promised. What we hope for is something God's promised. Christ has achieved, because he's our new representative man, our covenant head We have which we have by faith in him, but we don't, but we must patiently wait to receive. That is what hope is. And you, if you are a Christian and believe in Jesus, have hope Hope. You have something that God has promised to you that Christ has achieved, it's yours by faith that you don't yet have, and I hope you're patiently waiting for. And I would be okay if some of you weren't so patiently waiting for I think it's a bad thing when a church isn't patiently waiting for Jesus and not saying, Come, Lord Jesus, so we can have the hope. I think it's a poor spiritual state in a church. But doesn't want what God's hoped for because I know when my dad promised me to the kid I wanted it. Because we want the things we hope for. I hope we want the thing. Well what is this thing? John 14, 1, Jesus tells us this is Jesus' farewell discourse in John's gospel, spoken in the upper room on the night they had their last supper together. Told them not to be troubled. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? If I go over a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am, may you be also. Now where is Jesus? We've seen this unpacked for us. Heaven. Heaven is his father's house. That's the place Jesus is preparing for us, a room for you. Apparently the house is built. But he needs to make your bed. Set it up for you. Get it ready for you to come and enter. Now he's talking about here the second coming when he comes and really brings it here, but either way, we enter into that house That's the hope of entering into that eternal dwelling place of God. The city of the living God. Now I also say in Hebrews 12, by faith, this is that already not yet. Realized eschatology, something of the ages to come we as saints in Christ already have. Paul will say we have not come to Sinai as God's people, but we've come to Mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. So By faith in Christ in our conversion, we've already, in a way, come to that in its own. We're waiting for the fullness of that hope. What is hope for? Why does God give us hope? As Christians, we have the same path to trot as Jesus Christ. That's why Jesus says, take up your cross and follow me. But it's all worth it in the end. It will be worth every pain, every tribulation, every trial to enter into that place. And you will know it because many of you have tried very hard to get a job you wanted. Tried very hard for a relationship or tried very hard so you know the benefit. You hope for this relationship, you hope for this job, you hope for this internship, you Hoping for something, and you're so willing to suffer for that, suffer for Christ to enter into this hole because it's worth it Paul says, and by the way, we need the spirit. We should be praying, as Paul's saying the spirit is what needs to really cement this hope in him. Paul also prays that we would know the riches of the glory of God's inheritance. In the saints. What is that all about? What is God's possession for inheritance? It's the possession of his people Paul saying, I want you to know the absolute wealth of glory that is yours as a Christian, as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ. Let me read to you from Psalm 99. The Lord reigns, let the peoples tremble, he sits enthroned upon the cherubim. Now remember that was right, God made the tent and the ark and the cherubim. Let the earthquake, the Lord is great in Zion. Now why do I why did I read you that? Because if you know Revelation, where is Christ at? Is he in an earthly tabernacle? But the eternal or the real cherubim, that's the glory we need to know about, not anything of an incorruptible kingdom. Not a glory to be found in earthly things here. It's not a and this isn't a rant against earthly things and possessions. It's just a reality. What's seen is not the eternal glory. But you need to know the wealth of the glory of where Christ is at, but seen already. What is the great glory today? I'm sure it's many things. One of the things is the people. One of the things is the Spirit regenerating new hearts. And these new hearts bearing the image of Christ And you and I getting to live next to people who are Christ-like. That is great glory. I remember when I first became a Christian. I thought I made a big mistake, but I thought who are these ugly people that society doesn't like to have all these problems? You see how far I fell. I praise God He's raised me up to love Christians. There is great glory in the saints. There's great glory in Jesus Christ, but don't look for it in outward things that are passive. But there is coming outward things. There's coming a kingdom and a temple you and I can't even fathom. Know that glory. Thirdly, power. Paul wants saints to be known or have made known to that they would know what's there to those who believe. The immeasurable power of God. That same power. Now think about this, what Paul's meaning here. Did not the world in its power put Christ to death? Did it not seem like he was utterly powerless? Wasn't he not mocked by the rulers saying, you saved everybody else, you can't do it yourself? Have you ever been in a situation like that where you just felt powerless? The situation was not in your hands. You had no control of yourself. They had the power. Now what does the resurrection say? What does the ascension say? Who has the power? God, who raised Christ and seen the world, Satan, everything they could throw, exerted all their might and power. And yet God has showed himself more powerful and raised up Christ and exalted him to heaven. And Paul says, that power God makes available to you. And why do you and I need that power? I go back to what I just said and what Mark is telling us from beginning to end onwards. You and I carry a cross. You and I need power to love the world, to overcome it by good and not evil. You and I need power not to run from the world and hide and withdraw from it. The Christian life is not about going out of the world. It's not about setting up a camp over there, and we'll huddle together as God's elect and pay no attention to the fortunes of this world. God has sent you into this world. Christ has sent you. Christ has sent me. Christ has sent every believer into this world. You can't get out of it. You're not of it in Christ. You have a life to live here. You need power to learn to make food and share it with others because food is so good and wonderful. You need power to learn because being clothed in nice clothes is great to share that blessing with others who can't clothe themselves. You need power to learn to open up your house and show hospitality to strangers. Because God opens up his house and shows it to strangers. Yeah. The flesh can't do that, can it? Flesh doesn't want to do that, can it? It wants earthly treasures, it wants to build barns. It wants to hold it on to it. It doesn't know how to love by Christ. It doesn't know how to go into Jerusalem. To gather it as hymns, to love them and tell them of the grace of God to death. You don't have that power in. God gives it to you. And you need it. Because again, as a Christian, if you don't want that life, leave the church Leave it. There's no place for you in the church. If you don't love the Lord Jesus Christ and want to bear his name in the world and tell everybody about it. I know that sounds harsh But Paul says it, if you do not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema, a curse. Do you pray this for the saints to your grace and peace? Are we just trotting along, afraid of the world, afraid of what they're going to do to us, just wanting to eat by and skate by and not be molested and bothered? Or do we want to live the life of Jesus Christ, our ascended Lord, by his power and love this world and love each other to death and care for each other? It's that power of holiness, that's holiness. Not running, but engaging in love. Even the unlovely, even the enemies, even the hostile. I was going to read to you Psalm 97. It talks about a kingdom contested. We live in a time when Messiah's reign is contested. It's been contested since he ascended. God's kingdom is being contested. Not everybody owns that Jesus Christ is Lord and submits himself and acknowledges him The kingdom is contested, but we need power to fight, not in the flesh, but in the spirit. Not against flesh and blood, but against the evil powers behind all this working, to put on the armor of God and live in Christ. So let me close, brethren. Let us firmly, all of you firmly believe in Christ's bodily ascension into heaven In his reign as our high priest king, believe also that he shall come and let us overcome too. By our faith in him, in hope, and in love. I love living and fighting with you, dear saints. May God give you all grace. Amen.