Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah, Isaiah chapter 53, verses four through twelve. Hear now the Word of God. Surely He has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed. He was afflicted. Yet he opened not his mouth, and like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? And they made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring, he shall prolong his days. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul, he shall see and be satisfied By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore, I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong. Because he poured out his soul to death. And was numbered with the transgressors, yet he bore the sin of many, and makes intercession for the transgressors. This is God's word. Thanks be to God. The larger text is 2 Corinthians 5, 16 through 21. The sermon text, which you find printed In your worship folder, and I think maybe in the sermon outline too, is verse 21. 2 Corinthians 5, 16 through 21. From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself And gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them. And entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ. God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. For our sake, He made him to be sin, who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness. of God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, hear our prayer as we seek now to understand more perfectly your word, your gospel, your reconciliation. May it come home to our individual hearts. And may we come away with the message of reconciliation for all around us We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The verse that we're focusing upon is just this one verse. And let me just say before I go on that I intend to begin a new series in 1 Samuel shortly. I'm not sure exactly when, but I hope to have most of you back here in so that we can start together. I know there's lots of travel and so forth, but I really like to begin when we can mostly catch it together. uh in first Samuel. And we'll begin looking at Samuel and Eli and uh eventually get into David and so forth So this and a few other things like it, very important texts that we need to focus upon very clearly. If you're not familiar with this verse, verse 21, you really ought to be. When I was a kid We used to mix orange juice from frozen concentrate. Do some of you remember the things the frozen concentrate, you know? And you pull the plastic tab around the edge and then you pull the lid off and so forth, right? I used to love to lick the lid. Because it had a few drops of that frozen concentrate, that strong stuff. It was an orange flavor bomb, you know. Okay. Well this verse, in its context, is gospel concentrate. It's gospel concentrate like the very famous John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. That's a wonderful concentrate, isn't it? God so loved that he gave That whoever believes in him has everlasting life. It's all there, really. But this is too. This is really fantastic, verse 21. And we'll unpack it, but it says this, for our sake he made him, Jesus, to be sin, who knew no sin. So that in him Jesus we might become the righteousness of God. That's gospel concentration. And just two points, and then some application. The first point is in verse 21a, the first half of that verse, what Jesus was receiving from us. The second point is the second half of the verse, what we receive from Jesus. And then we'll go backward to verse 20. And see what God has given to us to do, how God makes his appeal through us. First, what Jesus was receiving from us. Some people are under the very mistaken idea that Jesus needs us to do things for him in order to win his favor. That if we're good and if we cross our T's and dot our I's and other such things, if we try hard, that we will win Jesus' favor because He needs us to be good for Him. That's not true at all. He doesn't need us to do anything to win his favor. The only thing Jesus receives from us In the beginning, with reference to our salvation, is he receives our sin. For our sake, he made him, God the Father made him. To be sin. He receives our sin. He who knew no sin. He makes us to receive He makes us, he gives us his righteousness. We'll get to that in a minute, but he takes our sin. What does this mean? God's terrible judgment against sin has been executed on Jesus. That's what it means. God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself. How through all the terrors of the cross. God the Father worked in and with God the Son, reconciling a world of sinners to himself. The Father and the Son worked together on the cross. The fact that God was reconciling the world to himself is all the more amazing when understood in the light of what happened on the cross If you think back to the narratives of the cross, at some point before Jesus died, before he cried out, it is finished, a great transaction took place. The Father set upon the Son all the guilt and wrath we deserved. He became sin and took all the penalty of it And he bore it in himself perfectly. That's what Isaiah was saying in Isaiah 53. He bore the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors. Totally satisfying the justice of God for us, he receives our sin. As horrible as the physical suffering of Jesus was on the cross, and it's been described in various ways medically and so forth. The spiritual suffering, the act of being judged for sin in our place as God's enemies. was what Jesus really dreaded about the cross. And he dreaded it. This was the cup The cup of God's righteous wrath that he trembled at drinking. That cup is described in various places. It's described in one place in Psalm seventy five, verse eight, where God is threatening to give that cup to all the nations, all the r all those who hate him, all those who refuse him. He's going to give them that cup, and they're going to have to drink it down. Here's what it says. For in the hand of the Lord there is a cup with foaming wine well mixed, and he pours out from it And all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs. That's God's threat. And Jesus had to drink that cup. He received our sin and all the guilt and all the punishment of it. Isaiah 25, verses 15 through 18 describes that again. Let me read it. Thus the Lord, the God of Israel, said to me, Take from my hand this cup of wine of wrath, and make all the nations to whom I send you drink it. They shall drink it and stagger and be crazed because of the sword that I am sending upon them. So I took the cup from the Lord's hand, and I made all the nations to whom the Lord sent me drink it. Jerusalem and the cities of Judah, its kings and officials. to make them a desolation and a waste, a hissing and a curse, as at this day. Hissing and a curse, they drank the wrath of God, as the weeping prophet Jeremiah had to deliver it from God's hand to their lips. But that wrath of God, Jesus feared to drink in the Garden of Gethsemane. Luke 22 tells about that. Luke 22 verses 41 through 44 says it this way, and he withdrew from them his disciples. About a stone's throw, and he knelt down and prayed, saying, Father, if you were willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will but yours be done. And there appeared to him an angel from heaven strengthening him And being in agony, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground. He anticipated drinking the cup of the wrath of God against your sin and mine. You see, on the cross, Jesus became, as it were, an enemy of God, who was judged and forced to drink the cup of the Father's wrath, so that we would not. We would not have to drink that cup. He made him to be sin, who knew no sin. Here's the way Martin Luther describes it. He says, all the prophets did foresee in spirit that Christ should become the greatest Transgressor, murderer, adulterer, thief, rebel, blasphemer, etc. , that ever was For he being made a sacrifice for the sins of the whole world is not now an innocent person and without sins. Our most merciful Father sent his only son into the world and laid on him the sins of all men, saying, Be thou Peter, that denier. Paul that persecutor, blasphemer, and cruel oppressor, David, that adulterer, that sinner which did eat the apple in paradise, that thief which hanged upon the cross And briefly, be thou the person which hath committed the sins of all men. See therefore that thou pay and satisfy for them. And here now cometh the law, and saith, I find him a sinner, therefore let him die upon the cross. And Spurgeon says it this way, more briefly. Yea, Christ was not only treated as a sinner. But he was treated as if he had been sin itself in the abstract. This is an amazing utterance. The sinless one was made to be sin. Another commentator says, we obviously stand at the brink of a great mystery, and our understanding of it can only be minimal. But notice, this is not child abuse. This is not the father abusing the son. This is Work together. He, the Father, made him, but this is the work of God Himself, the Father and the Son and the Spirit. Jesus said. If it's possible, let this cut pass, but nevertheless thy will be done. He's willing So there's perfect cooperation in the work of the cross. This means that the work of atonement on the cross is the work of God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Yet at the same time, Paul makes it clear that God, through this, was reconciling the world to himself, a whole world of sinners, as they worked together. Though Jesus was being treated as if he were an enemy, he was not personally an enemy. Even as Jesus was punished as if he were a sinner, he was performing the most holy service to God the Father ever offered. in the history of the world. And this is why Isaiah can say, yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. And in and of itself, the suffering of the Son did not please the Father, but as it accomplished the work of reconciling the world, it completely pleased the Father. Famous commentator A. T. Robertson says, We may not dare to probe too far into this mystery of Christ's suffering on the cross. But this fact throws some light on the tragic cry of Jesus just before he died when he said, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? In that cry, Jesus expresses both his partnership With God the Father. He says, my God, and the agonizing feeling of receiving the wrath of God that we deserve. That was the cost to Jesus. And that is what Jesus received from us. Now, what we receive from Jesus, what we receive from Jesus, the second half of the verse, so that, it says, so that in him We might become the righteousness of God. Now, I need to mention this. Some recent New Testament commentators have criticized the idea that we can be given the righteousness of God. And they've criticized it, calling it legal fiction. One writer I'm thinking of thinks that the word righteousness means the covenant faithfulness of God. And that's fine, but that's not what's being talked about here. And this writer says that God cannot give us his own covenant faithfulness. Well, Jesus certainly can. This is not legal fiction, as some have said, it is legal justice. The penalty for breaking the law, the law that stood against us, you and me, has been satisfied. For many of us, many of all nations, by our legal representative Jesus Christ. Let's think back to the garden for a moment, where we see something very similar. Very different in a way, but very similar. Back to the garden. All humans, the Bible teaches us, sinned in the first Adam, and this sin was imputed to them, legally. Legally imputed to them. It's legally imputed to all who are united to the first atom, and guess what? Everybody that was ever born is united to the first Adam legally. So we all automatically are born with, conceived with, as As David says in Psalm 51, we're conceived in sin. We're all born that way. It's imputed to us from the very beginning. But God, in his love and mercy and his desire to reconcile the whole world of sinners to himself, sent a human, a second Adam, a perfect human, a human that didn't sin in the garden Jesus Christ, He's the second Adam according to Romans 5. He did not sin, but he chose to take the place of sinners on the cross. And your sins and my sins If we trust in him, we're imputed to him, legally credited to him as he suffered on the cross And now God is just and the justifier of anyone, you, me, anyone who has faith in Jesus. And in that transaction, we receive from Jesus what he had to give us. His perfect record of righteousness. Righteousness. That's why Paul says, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Not by trying hard, not by accumulating good deeds. We might become the righteousness of God by imputation, by legal transfer of his righteousness to our account. In one fell swoop, not by a long life of trying hard, as many falsely think. So Jesus took our sin, but gave us his righteousness. He gave us his perfect record of obedience to the law of God. It would be like, imagine this, if you had a huge debt, far more than you could ever pay. And you got these statements in the mail, this huge debt. And not only do you have this debt, but interest is accumulating to make it bigger and bigger and bigger as days go by. Then one day you look at your account, and behold, all the debts are gone. And you have been credited with a huge fortune that is earning daily interest. That is what God does for us He became sin for us who knew no sin, so that in him we might become rich with a right Righteousness of God legally imputed to us. Not because we try hard, but because He just does it. He gives it. He puts it in our account and we have it. Surprise! You're a hundred percent. Everything you ever needed to be is there for you. In him you have a perfect record, a clean bill of spiritual health. As though you never sinned once, not even once. You need this, don't you? I know I do. You know, you look at different versions of even the Christian faith, and they mix efforts in with grace, and try to say, well, we need both, efforts and grace. We need grace. Efforts are just gratitude for the grace. Efforts are not going to get us anywhere. We never get more righteous by our efforts. We receive it all by grace It's a tremendous exchange prompted by the love of God for those given to him by the Father. Not only does the believer receive from God a right standing before him on the basis of faith But Paul says that in Christ the believer has some real sense, actually shares the righteous character of God Himself. I'll give you another example. Say, well, that was just one verse, Pastor. Let's get another one. Philippians 3, 7 through 9. Paul says this about himself: whatever gain I had from trying hard. Whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. Paul was a very observant Jew. And before he became a believer in Jesus, he would look at his account of efforts and think, oh, I think I'm pretty good. But he says, I count it all but loss. It's a bunch of dirt. It's worthless. He says, for his sake, I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish. And the word rubbish there, frankly, that's a nice word in English. It's a nasty word in Christian. I count them as well I'm not going to say it, but in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him not, listen, not having a righteousness of my own. Paul says, I've given up on having a righteousness of my own. It doesn't work. So not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, from trying hard. But that which comes through faith in Christ, listen, the righteousness of God that depends on faith. That is such good news. God gives it to those who have faith in Jesus, who trust in Jesus, who cling to Jesus. He says, There, you got it, it's 100%. Spurgeon says this. The righteousness which Adam had in the garden was perfect. Think back. Adam was made perfect, wasn't he? He was created sinless, undefiled. The righteousness which Adam had in the garden was perfect, but the righteousness of man, it was just the righteousness of man that Adam had in the gar It was just the righteousness of a man who hadn't sinned. But he says, in contrast to this, ours is the righteousness of God. Would you rather have the righteousness of a man who never sinned or the righteousness of God? Poole says, this is the whole truth of justification stated simply. Our sins were on Jesus, and his righteousness is on us. And as Christ was not made sin by any sin inherent in him, so neither are we made righteous by any righteousness inherent in us, but by the righteousness of Christ. Imputed to us, legally accredited to our huge debt, wiping it all out by his death on the cross for us And then accrediting a huge fortune of his righteousness to our account A few weeks ago, Ben preached from Zechariah 3, and this text really illustrates it very well, this text that was preached from Zechariah 3, when this picture is painted for us. It says there, then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, that's the one who was supposed to represent Israel, standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him, because Joshua's not a very good priest. And the Lord said to Satan, O Lord, the Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was standing before the angel clothed in filthy garments. That's what we all have in Adam, filthy garments. Filthy, smelly, ruined, rotten garments. And the angel said to him, to those who were standing before him, remove the filthy garments from him. And then to him he said, Behold, I have taken away your iniquity from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments. And he said, Let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord was standing by. That's a beautiful picture, isn't it? He takes away our filthy garments and clothes us with clean garments. This is the biblical message, as straight and clear as it can possibly be. Jesus received our sin and its punishment, while we, by personal faith, Receive his perfect record of obedience and the rewards that go with it. So that's the two points What Jesus received from us? Sin. Guilt. Punishment. What we received from him? Right. Righteousness. And then the application. Goes back to verse twenty Verse 20 says, Therefore we are ambassadors for Christ. God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. Please note this. We are not commanded to do the work of reconciliation between others and God. God has done it. It is merely ours to embrace and receive it personally and then to proclaim it to others. That is why he says we are ambassadors for Christ. Paul sees that he serves in a foreign land as a representative of a king. And the king has a message to everyone around him. The message that Paul is delivering is from God, and it is the message: be reconciled to God. Be reconciled to God. This is what God has done, and you must be reconciled to God. An ambassador does not speak to please his audience, he doesn't make up things. That makes scratch their itching ears. He doesn't speak to please his audience, but to please the sovereign who sent him. An ambassador does not speak on his own authority. His own opinions or demands mean very little. He simply says what he has been commissioned to say, to deliver what the king sent him to say. But an ambassador is more than a messenger, he is also a representative, and the honor and reputation of his country are in his hands. We are called to be ambassadors. And we bear the honor of our King as we deliver the message to all around us. And they are not reconciled, so we need to tell them this message: be reconciled. It's a glorious title for Paul and for other apostles and for you and me. However, it is not more glorious or more stunning than the thought that God out of love Pleads. That's what he says. God is pleading through you and me. He's pleading to people be reconciled. He's pleading. Why should God plead with us? Only out of love. The love that chose us from before the creation of the world We implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. So as an ambassador, Paul makes a simple and strong and direct plea: be reconciled to God. This makes it clear that the work of reconciliation mentioned previously in this chapter does not happen apart from human choice. Who are the ones reconciled to God? Those who are being entreated to make a decision. We're Calvinists, yes. We believe in God's sovereignty, but we also believe that humans make decisions. Those who have responded to Jesus' plea made through his ambassadors are indeed reconciled. This makes it clear that it is we, we in the world, who must be reconciled to God, not He to us. We're the ones who are in the wrong, and He is the one who is in the right, so we need to be reconciled to Him. I think he was reminding the Corinthians that this is their task, and so I remind you, Congregation of Jesus Christ, here today. This is your task. You are commissioned to tell all around you To be reconciled to God, to plead with them, to be reconciled to God. Years ago, as a very young man, I worked for a farmer. I may have told this story before, so please forgive me if you've heard it, but I worked for a farmer in Iowa. His name was Jim. And in the course of working with Jim, he was very curious and asked me a lot of questions. He likes to ask the preacher's kid a lot of questions. So I explained to him about Jesus taking our sin and giving us his righteousness. For those who trust him by faith. And you know what his response was? He said, I'll carry my own bucket. Which by that he meant, I'll pay for my own sins and I'll stand on my own righteousness. How sad. I replied to Jim, Your bucket is full of holes Girls, boys, men and women, we need someone to pay our sin debt and to give us a perfect record of obedience We have plenty of sin debt, too much to pay in all eternity. And all our righteousness that we have by efforts is filthy rags. And so we must tell others of their need to be reconciled to God because their natural state is that of an enemy that will drink that cup of the wrath of God when the judgment finally comes. We must be those who tell them that without being reconciled to God, they are not headed for a good place. As people so often like to say at funerals, he or she's in a better place. Not one, no. They are headed for the wrath and separation. That Jesus suffered for those who trust in him. If they won't have him and his death for their sin and his gift of righteousness, they will be on their own at the judgment. Their bucket of personal righteousness will be quite empty because it is full of holes. But as for you, if you trust in him, believers, you can sing as we're going to sing in a moment. Jesus, thy blood and righteousness, my beauty are, my glorious dress Midst flaming worlds, when the judgment comes, in these arrayed, with joy I shall lift up my head. Amen. Lord, we pray that you'll help us to appropriate what you Have called your people to uh to announce, personally and individually, appropriate the righteousness of Christ the forgiveness of sins and the righteous record of Christ by faith, by trusting in him, by saying, Lord Jesus, please give it to me. Not through some elaborate ritual, but by faith and by prayer of asking, Jesus, please take away my sin and give me your righteous record. I need it. Help us all to do that individually and personally, but help us who have done that to please help us, Lord, to be faithful, to be ambassadors. As you make your appeal through us, to all around us, saying, be reconciled. Please be reconciled to God. Amen.