Congregation, hear God's word. Hebrews chapter 2, beginning at verse 5. For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere, what is man that you are mindful of him, or the son of man that you care for him? You made him for a little while lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now, in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death So that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies, and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers. Saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I am the children God has given me. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things. that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil, and deliver all those who, through fear of death, were subject to lifelong slavery For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect. so that he might become a merciful and unfaithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. This is the word of the Lord. The text that I will be focusing on tonight is that last verse we read in chapter 2, verse 18. I'll read it again for you. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. We're going to look at that uh passage together tonight. Uh I don't think I hardly need to spend any time in the introduction to uh show you how relevant this is to your life. Every human being on this planet has been tempted, has fallen into temptation, hopefully has been rescued from it by the God. And is liable to it again and suffers under temptation. So the relevancy of this I imagine is known to each and every one of you as a son of Adam and also as a son of God in Jesus Christ about the reality of temptation. What we have in uh this passage is really what I what I like to refer to as a most comforting and encouraging advertisement for aid to tempted Christians. You read something like, right, an advertisement or an advertisement, right? He is because he himself has suffered when tempted, right? He is able to help those who are being tempted. Because he's been through it. He can help you too. I can imagine a big billboard with an advertisement on it. with this big text written across it, and very comforting and encouraging uh advertisement for aid to tempted Christians. That's what I'm calling uh this passage. That's the content uh contained uh in these verses, a very comforting, a very encouraging advertisement for aid to tempted Christians Now there's really two parts to this passage. I'm going to start with the first word for, and from there launch into a bit of the context just to remind you of where these verses come from. The word for, very often translated uh into our English, uh, when you read that word, uh it's telling you that uh it goes very closely with what came before it. And it's offered as some sort of supporting argument, some sort of strengthening argument for what uh has been said before. And in this case, verse 18 really kind of serves a twofold purpose. All the way back in verse 10, our preacher has been arguing That rather than the cross being a scandal, you remember that this is a letter written to Jewish Christians who are being tempted by non-Jewish Christians to go back into some form of Judaism Or to make a hybrid of it, uh, so they can alleviate them from some of the uh pain and sufferings that come with confessing Christ. Rather than that being a scandal, he has been arguing for the fittingness by God to bring our Savior to perfection through his sufferings. And has been arguing uh for that because Psalm 8 isn't so much about man in Adam as it is about man in Christ or man in Jesus, the new man. That man fell in Adam, and God's grace is to make his son a little bit lower than the angels Jesus, and that was so he might suffer and die. To therefore then because of those sufferings raise him to glory. And what we're going to look at tonight is the fruit of that through those sufferings. Raise him to glory so that he there from his throne can help his tempted brethren, and without the knowledge of those suffering. He could not offer the kind of aid that this text says Jesus can and has been and will offer to you who seek it. So it's sort of a kind of culminating demonstration of this argument of the fittingness of God and perfecting our Savior through his sufferings. Look at what he can do Because he himself suffered, he can help you too in your temptations. But it's also supporting the more immediate context of verse 17 as sort of a practical inference taken from the teaching that Christ uh therefore had to be made like his brothers in every respect. Verse 17 is not merely repeating what we read in verse 14, that since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, that's talking about Jesus taking on our human nature, flesh and blood. flesh and blood or flesh in scripture, besides being a um a word referring to human nature. And oftentimes a word referring to fallen, sinful human nature is very often contrasted with spirit. Flash is what refers to as something that is weak And mortal. And the spirit is something that is strong and powerful. And that's why Paul can talk about we wear fleshly bodies now, and in the resurrection we'll wear spiritual bodies. Not because they won't be bodies, but because they'll be so infused with God's spirit, they'll be immortal and strong. And so what he's saying is, right, Jesus wears the same flesh that you and I have that gets goosebumps. That uh fills the heat of the sun, that uh understands what it is to perspire, that understands what it is to just be fatigued and worn out after a long week, after a long day He wears the very flesh that you and I wear. That's what verse 14 is saying. But what verse 17 is is is saying is when he was made like his brothers in every spec That's not referring to his the nature, that's referring to his condition. You and I have been born into this world, and you and I, unless Jesus comes, are going to die and pass out of this world Jesus has been through every state that we've been through too, from birth to death, born under the law. Made liable to all the miseries of this world, as as the Bible teaches us, and our confession codifies it for us. When Adam fell, we fell in the human race fell into a state of sin Our birth sin, we are born unrighteous, we are born depraved, corrupt, bringing forth sinful things or actual sin, that's our sinful estate and we've fallen into misery. We've lost that communion with our God. We are liable to the sufferings and ills of this life. We are um liable to the curse and wrath of God and even the sufferings of uh hell forever. And obviously Jesus endured not hell and hell, but on the cross he endured hell. Jesus was born in that state, not a sinner But under the law as a sinner and bore our sins, but was born in the same miserable estate you and I are born into. And part of the exposition tonight, more than anything I want to get across to you, is why Jesus can help you. And I hope tonight it comes home to you more than it's ever come home to you, that he understands and knows you from the inside out. He gets it. He has been born. He has died. He knows the miseries of this life. And I dare say he knows them beyond any one of us. No matter as miserable as it gets. He knows it. He really knows it. So verse 17 is arguing that the reason why he had to be made like us in every respect, because he's our helper. He's the one who takes hold of us. In our fallen estate and has brought us from that moment of conversion, whether that was in the womb, whether that was at three days old, thirty days old, three hundred days old, three hundred years old Whatever point God got a hold of you and Jesus laid his hands upon you and is bringing you out from that darkness to that eternal glory and able to do that and be our helper, he had to be made like us because God is not Bypassing the reality of fallen man and the covenant he made with us in Adam and the state we fell into to save us. He's saving us out of it as one of us and bringing the fallen race to glory. I wish I could almost spend ten sermons on chapter two, but we're not, because it's just this thought Of how God is really bringing us to glory. We know what it is to sin and fail. And He's really bringing us to do righteousness and right so that one day God God can make us those glorified beings over the works of his hands that he originally made us to be. It is the wonder, most wonderful joy of being redeemed that what we've sinfully sinned away God has wiped that clean and is bringing us back to positions of prominence in his creation, of responsibility and service in his creation. And again, finally, as he's arguing, even to be over everything, even to be over the angels one day, mankind will be in Jesus Christ. And the only way that could happen is that Jesus had to be made like us in every respect to be our merciful and our faithful high priest in God's service. And also because it is only I'm sure you've heard the doctrine of imputation, of righteousness, right? That Jesus Christ imputes to us his righteousness, but that's not an abstract righteousness. That's not an attribute of God's being imputed to us. That's the real obedience from his birth To his death. That's that real human life lived out under the fallen effects of this world in misery where he really chose the right way. Where you and I are so often to tempted to choose the wrong way. He never chose the wrong way, he chose the right way, and that's what he offered up for our propitiation. bearing our penalty and offering a real, holy, righteous life for us. He never could have done that If he hadn't been born in our very condition, so in every place where we fail, he obeyed, he stood, and can present for us as that second Adam his life And by that count us righteous and bestow upon us those purchased blessings, not less his aid in our temptations. So it's out of this office as high priest in verse 18 comes by telling us that because he himself has suffered and tempted, he is able to help those who are being Tempted. So that I told you what the word for means there as far as it links to what's what's gone before it. But uh let's look at the first part. Uh the first part if you have an ESV Bible, you can see this passage is broken in half by a comma Uh and that gives us the two parts of the passage. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, because he himself has suffered uh with when he was tempted. And I I refer to these verses sort of Here, the preacher is giving us the Savior's personal qualification as a ground for his ability to help others. And that's common enough. We recognize that. Whenever you offer help to somebody, there's usually some grounds in which you're offering, right? Maybe you're just an interested party and you care for them and that's reason enough that you want to help But if you are someone comes to you because you're a tax expert, you know, that's a grounds, that's a reason, that's your qualification, that some might come to you and say, help me with my taxes because you're a tax expert For Jesus, the grounds uh of his ability to help us, the reason being presented and why he can help us, he is able to help us, is because he himself has suffered. That's his personal qualifications as a reason and grounds for his ability to help tempted Christians. Let's take a look at these words. First word, let's look at this word suffer. Told you the word because is is given as a ground. But this word uh suffer is the opposite of the word do in English. We do things to others. Sometimes we do things to ourselves. That'd be a middle voice. But when we have things done to us, that's really what uh suffering refers to Jesus had things done to him. Now, the Greek is actually uh it's actually neutral. Sometimes we can have things done to us that are great, they're very wonderful and pleasurable. But most uh often in particular I think there's only one place in our Greek Bible where it actually refers to something good. This verb is referring when things are done to us and they're painful, and therefore we probably call it suffering. And so what it's saying is Jesus had things done to him. His things done to his body, right? We've all read of the passion accounts. We know that things that were done to his body when he was crucified that brought him pain and suffering. Uh we know things that were also done to his body. He uh knows what it is to have hunger pain. It is so important, I hope this also comes across in the preaching tonight, to know the life of Jesus. Because that's how you're able to draw near him. You can say, you know hunger. help me in my hunger as I'm tempted to sin in it and grumble, or maybe do things that aren't so lawful to feed myself, as he knows what it is to suffer hunger pains. He has had hunger pains. He knows what it is to just be so worn out you can't take another step because they lashed him so many times and they kept him up all night. How many of you have been fatigued from sleep against your will? He knows it. You had that done to him. He not only had things, we could obviously we could go on and on. He had things done to his spirit. He was betrayed. The agony to be betrayed. He uh was mocked. You've ever been mocked. Doesn't it feel good? Ever been laughed at and scorned He suffered grief. He has had his father turn from him. He knows what it is to not have the face of God shine upon him. And cause him anguish. So he has had things done to him in body, he has things done to him in spirit. That's what it means, that he suffered. He really suffered But then the text says he suffered when he was tempted. Or the Greek reads, he suffered being Tempted. And what it's telling us is that his sufferings were a source of trial and temptation to him Now again, this is a another Greek word, peranzo, that also is uh neutral in meaning. It has a more general and it has a more narrow sense Generally in English, when we say the word temptation, we're giving it its very narrow sense. And by that word, we largely understand being enticed to sin. When we hear the word temptation, it generally means you're being enticed to sin. And of course, that did happen to Jesus. Satan constantly tried to get Jesus to go against God's will and take a less costly path to glory. He offered him the kingdoms, right, if he would worship Satan. He tempted him to sin. He came, tried to drive a wedge between him and his father Jesus trusted that his father would provide for him. He knew that his father, Jesus himself, being divine, had provided manna for 40 years for God's people. That they might know that man doesn't sustain himself by bread alone, right? We think just because we can provide food for ourselves, we can keep ourselves in existence, and God is able to feed us any of that. Satan's coming in and sin. You take the initiative and you turn these stones, the rocks, trying to drive a wedge between Jesus and and his father, tempting him, away from his father, and a perfect faith and trust in his God, because he knew that he was in a time of trial and testing. And so that brings me then to its more uh general meaning in scripture. It means just that, to try to test. And that's very neutral. Young people, young couples, courting couples want to test the relationship. You want to be with friends together. You want to see, besides just the mo you know, you're sometimes you can be so faturated with each other, you want to see what's this person like with friends. Be together with their family. What's the relationship like with their family? Open up the Bible and see how they interpret it. Sit down with the confession of faith and see test where they at theologically. Is this going to be compatible? So Testing in itself is good and right and and trying and that uh Jesus is, and I'm gonna say more on this later All of his life, not only the times when he was specifically tempted to sin, but all of his sufferings from being born Through his death, particularly in those last three years of his ministry, offered a source of temptation too. In fact Um you're gonna hear the name John Owen a lot tonight because John Owen wrote a seven volume commentary on this book and it's wonderful. He's known as the Prince of the Puritans. He lived in the seventeenth century. He also wrote a good little work on temptation that I happened to read a good bit this week, but I had time to finish. Let me give you his definition of temptation real quick. Temptation in general is anything. Anything any state, any way or condition that upon any account whatever, has a force or an efficacy to seduce To draw the mind and heart of a man from its obedience, which God requires of him, into any sin, in any degree of it whatever. You can see anything can become a temptation uh uh anything but a relationship uh a recreation uh an actual thing And and what for one is a temptation might and in no way be a temptation for anybody else. It can be a state that you're in, a state of wealth uh a state of poverty, a a state of health, a state of body, anything. In fact even says in in the in in in his statement, and he's right You cannot fully exhaust the scope of what things can tempt people and in what degrees In one sense, this world and what we live in offers to us a great temptation all around us. To lead us off the path of obedience and service of our God. He goes on to say in particular that is that is a temptation to any man which causes or occasioned him to sin. If whatever it is is causing you to sin, it's a source of temptation. Or anything to go off from his duty, either by bringing evil into his heart. or drawing out that evil that is in the heart, or any other way diverting him from communion with God, and that constant equal The universal obedience in matter and manner that is required of him, right? God does require of us that obedience and anything can become a source of temptation, is a source of temptation for you that causes you to sin. Jesus suffered, and his sufferings were a source of trial and temptation to him to divert him from that path of obedience. And that's what the author is asserting here for us. So that's his personal qualification. He's been through it. He suffered being tempted. And that is the reason given why he can then help. The second part Starting after the comma, he is able to help those who are being attempted. I like to refer to this as here's the actual, here's the aid advertisement, right? He can help Or he is able to help those who are being tempted. Let's look at this in more detail. Look at the words he is able. That is referring to his capacity Or his capability. That's what the Greek word there means. It refers to somebody as possession of some sort of capacity or capability to do something Jesus is, because he himself suffered when tempted, he has the capacity and the capability to help those being tempted We're going to come back to that a little bit later. I will explain more fully at I think a better time just what that capability is, just what the ability being asserted here is. So you need to wait a moment He is able to do what? To help. What is the aid that Jesus offers us? To help. What does this word help mean? This is a wonderful word. This word means the speedy coming in with relief. unto them who being in distress do cry out or call for it. We can think of countless examples of somebody in distress crying out for help and somebody rushing in to help them, right? If you are a parent with children, you know how quickly a child can find themselves in distress and cry out, help, help, help, help, help, wanting you to rush in and relieve them of Help. You could think of someone drowning and crying out to a lifeguard for help. Uh uh in this world, you you could think of uh someone calling 911, right? That's what we call the 911 and we say help Because we're in distress. And so we're crying out with help. And 911 comes speeding in to deliver us out of the trouble. That's what the word Help Jesus saying He can come to our aid. He can come running in with what we need to deliver us out of our distress because we're crying to Him. That's what the word help here means. Help. He can give help to those who cry out for help. And finally, he is able to help who who is the target audience. For his help. Who is he targeting with his ad campaign for help? Those who are being tempted As I already showed you the uh what that means, those who are in some situation by something in any way that is trying them and leading them away from the obedience that they want to offer to God That is a source of trial and temptation to them. He is able to help them. Now, in in some sense, right, that refers to any human being. He can help any human being. Because any human being uh is tempted in this life. But here uh in the context it is particularly referring to uh those who believe upon him Those for whose sins he died and made propitiation, those who have come to him and now because they are Christians and following Christ and made that baptismal covenant of renouncing the world, the flesh, and the devil, they find the world, the flesh, and the devil quite active as a source of suffering to them to lead them away away from their obedience, which of course is the context for this letter. They are these Christians that our preachers preaching to, writing to, are suffering and being tempted to Turn from Christ, to leave that good profession that they made, to make some sort of compromise which would be disastrous for them, and so they face a very real temptation, and Jesus can help. So you can see, I hope, how wonderfully comforting and encouraging uh What uh this advertisement for aid is that he himself has suffered Is able to help those who are being tempted. Now here is the teaching that I want to draw from this and spend the rest of our time speaking to you about. And that is this. Jesus derived from his own sufferings an ability to help his tempted brother. Jesus derived, that word means obtained, he derived from his own suffering an ability to help his tempted brethren. You know, God promised us. That this would be the case. If you want, you can turn with me to Isaiah. We'll look briefly at Isaiah chapter 50. Uh reading or beginning of verse 4, listen to what God foretold to the prophet about Jesus. The Lord God, this is Isaiah 50 beginning of verse 4, the Lord God has given me the tongue of those who are taught. Why did he do this? That I may know how to sustain with the word him who is weary. For the Lord God has given me the tongue of those who are taught. that I may know how to sustain with the word him who is weary. Morning by morning he awakens, he awakens my ear to hear as those who are taught The Lord God has opened my ear, and I was not rebellious. I turned not backward I gave my back to those who strike, and my cheeks to those who pull out the beard. I hid not my face from disgrace and spitting. You know, you begin this passage and you think, oh, God must have his servant sitting in a schoolroom, and he's instructing him from a book. On how to give advice to sustain the weary. And then you go on and you realize, no, what he's doing is he is making his servant obedient. That obedience is bringing pain and suffering to him because he is choosing for God in his life, and there are those around him who are not choosing for God. And he is giving his back to the smiters. Why is he giving his back to it? That he might then know how to succour and help his tempted brethren one day when God brings him to glory. That's the school in which the Heavenly Father learned Jesus how to sustain us through his sufferings on earth, Isaiah foretold him. But we might also reason about it for a minute how it is that Jesus derived from his own sufferings an ability to help his tempted brethren. I think all of us probably know by our our own experience in life that we are made more capable by experience than theory. We've all been to school and studied what we are going to employ ourselves with. And then we go to the workplace and we learn by experience that everything they taught me in the book is wrong. And here's how you really do it, right? That's not always the case. But experience often makes us more capable to help others than theory. In my own case, I can read books on homiletics. That's the science of preaching, if you will. I've learned far more about preaching in four years of doing it than reading about it. They're both helpful, but just doing it by experience, you learn how to do it. Same thing, right? I can read about pastoral care. I I learn a lot more about caring for um uh congregants by caring for congregants and just doing it Um maybe here's another e example to help um you know many you know my my wife lived on a Native American reservation. I talked to her about it ahead of time, but she lived on a Native American reservation I did But it is it is one thing to grow up living in a Native American reservation versus going to live on a Native American reservation versus reading about it or watching a documentary, right? Are you following me? It's one thing to grow up living on a Native American reservation It is one thing to go live on it for any amount of time, and it is another thing to just read about it and watch it. Now I imagine if you read about it and watch it, you're probably a l a little bit more disposed to help out the Native Americans in their plight. I imagine if you went there and spent some time living amongst them, you'd be more disposed and able to help them But in no way, or or those are ways, but it is the one who's lived in it, who has been helped and brought out of it, that can most effectively, capably, go back and give help, right? We were talking about this this morning, Elizabeth and I in the drive-in this morning, talking about what they they they need that outside help, right? They need help from outside, but the the but the gospel doesn't only give us help from outside, right? Help from above, it gives us insider help. It's not that just Jesus looked down from heaven and read about your life. It's not that he just came and lived, although we think I know he lived here for a little bit, he came and lived your life. He was born to the same birth canal you're born in. He lived in this same space-time planet you live on. He wore the same flesh and blood you live on. He has suffered Everything you're going to go through that can pull you away from the service of your God and cause you to turn from Him. And he did it. And he knows from the inside out how to give you help because it's by experience he has learned how to help tempted Christians. I imagine that you know if you're a person, you read about the stories all the time, right? People that grow up in poverty want to go back or are they grow up in a place and get out of that place and they want to go back and help that place Kind of think about the gospel back that, right? Jesus lived here. Was rescued out of it. He was put to death. He died. He's crucified. God vindicated him and raised him. He's come back in his spirit to help. He's here to help. From the inside out. To bring us to glory. A wonderful truth. So these preaching to these people, that's that's what's happening here. I I I again I I want you to understand the whole burden of this sermon is the I'm gonna keep you a little bit longer. I want you to get why I want you to understand why he can help you. I appreciate what John Owen had to talk about this ability. He calls it not a natural ability. It's not merely because of from Jesus' nature as the God man. You know, God's merciful and gracious. He can help. That's just by his nature. God made human beings. Remember, Jesus came into our fallen existence, but he doesn't have a fallen human nature. He's not a sinnerborn Adam. He's not born under that covenant. He wasn't as imputed to him as a special act of God's provision to give us a new man, a new Adam. He took his human nature from Eve, but not under that covenant He calls it a moral ability, which is dealing with his disposition. Listen to this wonderful quote. This moral ability that Jesus has, again, Jesus derived from his own sufferings an ability And what is this ability? It is a peculiar mercifulness derived from his experience which he had of suffering under temptation. It added not to his mercifulness, he didn't become more merciful, but occasioned his readiness to dispose it unto others to make it available to under, to put it in use for others, and to shut the door against pleas of delaying succor. And the Old King James Version translated as succor here, because succor comes from the Latin sucro, which means run to help, which is what the Greek word means, run to help We just doesn't carry much meaning to us today, so helps a good translation. What's it saying? You have all I know been in a situation where you see someone in need But there's these pleas that cause you to shut the door, right? I've got to get on with my life because I have busy things to do. This may be way too costly. I don't know if I'm willing to go for it And what it's saying here is all those pleas, those doors, those get slammed shut because Jesus has been in it. And he wants to come running to help because he knows what his brethren who are believing on him for eternal life have been through. He knows its misery He knows it's heartache, and he is utterly disposed to come help. There's nothing that's going to stand in the way for him coming to help and relieve them in their need I just marvel at how deeply John Owen and others can think about this. I want this to be in our hearts and lives as believers in Jesus Christ. Listen, this is another great quote. He says that Jesus had a particular experience thereby of the weakness, the sorrows, and miseries of human nature. Under the assaults of temptations, listen to these words. He tried it, felt it, and will never forget it. He's not under it anymore, but he'll never forget it. He tried it, he felt it. He'll never forget it In Exodus 23. 9, Moses encourages the Israelites to have mercy upon the strangers because you know what it is to be a stranger, right? You know what it is to live not in your own land. So he's saying, Therefore act in this way. Listen to how that same principle gets applied in the Old Testament, then it helps you understand what what took place through Jesus' sufferings. You know that the Jews picked elders to rule over them. It was too much for Moses, so they elected their own elders to rule over him. Well the here's how the Jewish people made their selection. They selected uh and this comes down to us from um the rabbis Jews selected as their rulers to put over themselves those most evilly treated by the Egyptian taskmasters. Remember those Egyptian taskmasters? Those most evilly treated by them, that from their own sufferings they might know how to exercise tenderness over their brethren, now put under their rule. Think about that in the life of Jesus. Who hasn't been more evilly treated by Satan than Jesus? Or evilly treated by this world who now God has put over us? That now he might know how to exercise tenderness over his brethren. This is such a delightful word to preach. But I think there might be an objection to this, because I think it is natural, because I've talked to people, talked to Christians, and this is how they reason. Are his temptations really like mine, right? Isn't he the God man? Isn't he sinless? How can he really have temptations like mine? How can he really know And therefore they almost feel taunted by these verses. They like want them to be true, but they don't think they can be. And so they they don't cry out. They don't help. They don't know how Jesus can help. Listen again to these words from John Owen. I want to remove this objection because it's real. I think we can easily fall into it to think that his temptations aren't like ours. In one way, you know, he doesn't have an evil, sinful nature like us. But in a moment I'm going to show you instantations are very much like yours. Because Jesus was always in the favor of God and in the assurance of the indissolubility of the union of his person between him and his God, we are apt to think that What came upon him was so overbalanced by the blessedness of his relation unto God as not to cause any great trouble to him But we mistake when we so conceive No sorrows were like to his, no sufferings like to his. He fortified not himself against them, but as they were merely, that means solely only, and nothing else, but penal. punishment for him, made bare his breast to their strokes, and laid open his soul that they might soak into the innermost parts of it. Then he quotes Isaiah fifty six, which I read for you All the advantage that he had above us by the excellency of his person was only that the sorrows of his heart were enlarged thereby, and he was made capable of greater enduring without sin. There's a quote by a different author. Sympathy with the sinner in his trial does not depend on the experience of sin, but on the experience of the strength of the temptation to sin. Which only the sinless can know in its full intensity. He who falls yields before the last strain. Now if you were wanted to be a Navy SEAL and go to budge training Would you go to the guy who washed out? Would you go to the guy who made it through for help? You see, I think where we get a little bit confused is that We we think we we want someone to come down and have a pity party with us in our sin. That's not what Jesus came to do. He came to raise us up where he's at He didn't come down to be like us sinners. He came down to make us like him, sinless, and lead us through these same temptations that once caused us to sin. Now no more to cause us the sin. And for that, we need one who never gave in because the honest thing is, beloved He knows temptation more than you. It's only the one who makes it to the end without giving in that knows the full breadth And he made it through without giving in. He knows the full breadth of temptation. He's felt it in all of his agonizing fury. Let me pull out some of his temptations for you because this is where it gets real practical, right? And remind ourselves, you know what, his life isn't so different than mine This has been the food for my soul. I have, I tell you, I have felt more temptations in these last three years as your pastor than I thought I ever knew as a Christian. Getting into the pulpit has tried my heart so much But knowing that, you know what, Jesus was responsible for preaching God's word. I bet he knows what it's like to feel tempted when people don't want to receive that word or potentially the praise of it. And so I've been crying out to him to help me and the preaching of the word because he knows what it is to have entrusted to him the ministry of God's word. That's me, but let me tell you some ways he's like you In his state and condition in this whole world, he was poor, he was despised, he was persecuted, he was reproached from the beginning, especially at the time in the beginning of his public ministry, in all those ways, Jesus was tempted and tried in his obedience How many people have been persecuted? How many people have been reproached for being Christians? How many people have been despised? How many people have lived poor and impoverished lives? Here's some other ones. Temptations from his relations in the flesh. He was disregarded and disbelieved by them. How many people find it a temptation to follow Christ because their family and friends don't How many people, because this is how we reason, we can see when we become Christians and our family and friends don't, we are tempted to stay And live like unchristians anymore to stay close to them. Remember, this is what Paul felt as his ministry was taking them away from Jews And he said, here's what I've learned to do though. Run for the Lord and know that through that, I'll make some of them jealous and bring them along too. It's a great temptation to us in our obedience to the Lord because we want our family not to withdraw from us. And so we're tempted. Do I live for the Lord? Or do I live for my unbelieving family? He has knows what it's like to have unbelieving families. Here's some other ones. From his own followers being forsaken by them upon the preaching of the mysteries of the gospel. Think about that. He starts getting up and preaching the gospel to them. And about the nail went in the coffin in John 6 when he preached he's gonna give uh his flesh for the life of the world, and we know that that pretty much ended all of his followers except the uh apostles All he did was preach God's word to them and he watched them tickle away. Imagine a great tempt temptation to a church of any size You might get elders, might be people saying, why don't you preach something a little more socially acceptable and people will stay, right? What a temptation the churches He knows he's been in it. His own d his unchosen disciples, they all left him, they denied him, they betrayed him, right He knows what it is to pour your heart out in love to somebody. Isn't love painful, right? Because you really got to give and then to get not back love but betrayal? Abandonment? Being left alone? He knows this. These aren't just nice things we read about over and over the gospel. These are real accounts of trials and temptations to him. From the anguish of his own mother when the sword pierced her own soul right in his sufferings. How many people faced, I was just talking to someone very recently about this. How many people face a very temptation to give God praise to draw near to him when they see loved ones suffering painful to watch loved ones suffering. And Jesus said to see his own mother suffer. He knows what it's like to see others that he loves suffer Obviously from his enemies of all sorts who made his life very miserable. And Satan even suffered God's own desertion. How many people write, you know, God sometimes can hide his face from us and that becomes a great trial to us. But Jesus knows what it is to be forsaken of God, and yet what does he do? He say fine, you're not my God anymore? That's not what he says on the cross, is it? Into your arms I commend my spirit, even when he thinks God doesn't want anything to do with him. See as Lewis wonderfully said one time, right, when the heavens feel like they're brass, meaning it's not getting through and God doesn't want to hear What should you do? Pray. Because at that point Satan can't do anything more to you, can he? If you're gonna pray when it's the hardest to pray, good But it's horse of trial and temptation to him. And all the temptations of the Lord Christ, though it says that he suffered under our under, they are innumerable He goes on to say, Whatever sufferings the soul of a man may be brought under by grief, sorrow, shame, fear, pain, danger, loss, by any afflictive passions within or impressions of force from without, he underwent. He felt it all. Let me see if I can sum it real quick like this and then apply it very briefly. The founder of our salvation, Jesus. As reconnoitred, that means that word means the survey. I was a reconnaissance, Maria, I know what it is. The reconnoitre. He has surveyed. He has reconnoitred the whole dangerous route to glory drawing the fire of every enemy of the cross, suffering every sorrow from friend and foe, and he now offers his expert aid to his tempted followers, who will make this dangerous journey to glory after him. That's what we're talking about. That our Savior went ahead and did for us. Here's an anonymous quote. Christ was made like unto us that he might be tempted, and we are tempted that we may be made like unto Christ. That's why God puts us through trials and temptations, that he might make us more like his son, as we call upon his son for help. We apply it this way to you. If Jesus has derived from his sufferings an ability to help those who are tempted, then God knows you can't come to glory on your own strength. So you need to make much of the provision of God's grace to you in his son Jesus. God never would have given us a founder of salvation. never would have made perfect through sufferings if in our own strength we could get the glory. So we need to be calling on Jesus when things in life are tempting us from the service of God. And secondly and lastly, if Jesus has derived from his own sufferings and ability to help tempted Christians, then you need to know and believe in your heart. That he stands ready and is disposed to aid you, you who believe on him for eternal life in your temptations, because he did it for you. So you need to battle through whatever we reasons we bring into our hearts and minds that think Jesus doesn't know and that Jesus doesn't care and he's a million billion miles away somewhere and he can't help me And we need to know that he can. And more than that, he stands ready to. He can give us strength to restand. So our temptations won't prevail against us. He can give us consolation to support our spirits under our temptations. He can give us deliverance out of them He'll do this by His Word, His promises to us, He'll do this by His Spirit, He'll do this by His providence, as God reigning on high, as He disposes everything to our good and to our abandoned. Now I know, beloved, and I've kept you a lot longer than usual tonight. Thank you for your patience. But I truly do hope that this sermon has ministered to you and will help you. And I hope the Church of Jesus Christ will make much of her Lord in her temptation. And call upon the Savior, because beloved it is such a marvelous thing that God would, for our salvation, do this for us. And give his son to do this. I'm blown away by the thought that the eternal God will eternally wear a human flesh. He's adopted it for all time. And he's brought it to glory so he could bring us. It's just astounding. So go to Jesus. He gets it. Call upon him, it it brings him joy. May God give you his grace