Psalm twenty-seven of David The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, It is they who stumble and fall. Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war arise against me, yet I will be constant One thing have I asked of the Lord that I will seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock. And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me, and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy. I will sing and make melody to the Lord. Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me. You have said, seek my face. My heart says to you. Your face, Lord, do I seek. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger, O you who have been my help Cast me not off. Forsake me not, O God of my salvation. For my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. Teach me your way, O Lord, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies. Give me not up to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait for the Lord. Be strong and let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. This is the word of the Lord. New Testament reading, a portion of which is the sermon text, which Pastor Doe may read again is in 1 Peter chapter 4 beginning at verse 12 and going through chapter 5 verse 7. Well five five through seven Oh, through verse 11, excuse me. We'll read it all. 1 Peter 4, beginning at verse 12. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial. When it comes upon you to test you as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings. So that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed Because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler If anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel? of God. And if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will. Let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. So I exhort the elders among you as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed. Shepherd the flock of God that is among you. Exercise oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you, not for shameful gain, but eagerly Not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another. For God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. This is. No, we go on, excuse me. Humble yourselves, therefore under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you To him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Pray. Lord, as David says, in your light do we see light? So please illumine our hearts and minds by your spirit. That we may understand your word, laying it up in our hearts and practicing it in our lives. Amen. The verse that occurred to me was the one from 1 Thessalonians 2, where uh the Apostle Paul um speaking to the Thessalonians uh said uh you've become very dear to me and this congregation has been very dear to me I'm glad to be back here and uh privileged to be with you this morning as we look at uh God's Word in uh first Peter. We're gonna be looking particularly at verses five, six, and seven. Um you know, uh Peter, uh if you didn't catch it, in those uh opening uh verses that uh your pastor read for you. Peter's writing to people who see themselves as strangers and aliens. In fact, what you were preaching on a couple of weeks ago that your dad was listening to. Ed. He's writing to people who are dispersed abroad. They're scattered throughout the area of what we call today Asia Minor. And uh the they're in a time when the persecution of the church is growing. And that's why this theme of suffering comes up so often in this letter. Uh if you just go through the letter, you begin to see more and more how Peter will talk about suffering and how we in this world uh respond to suffering. Now we're in a day where uh If you just look around and pay any attention, Al and I were talking about reading too much uh in the newspapers and listening to too much talk radio, you can really get overwhelmed by uh the the troubles that are in the world around us and yet At this time, uh this is the good time that God's given us to live and to be his people, and so I think this this letter is a wonderful letter for us to spend some time on. Now, uh I happen to uh be introduced to the gospel really through the ministry of the navigators. In the military, uh the navigators uh had an intensive program where they're trying to get young guys discipled and they would give you verse pacts and you were supposed to uh memorize the verses and uh give them uh a recitation every week. And one of the verses is the King James Version of verse 7. And we're going to hopefully come to that and kind of zero in on that after we do some preliminary thinking. And there it is, casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. And uh I couldn't think of anything better to think about as you all reflect on now the loss of a husband, a father, grandfather, father-in-law, friend. uh fellow saint here uh when Bill Cathy went to be with the Lord yesterday or earlier this week. So we're going to be thinking about that and thinking about these verses. The fact is, we're living in a world that is filled with care and stress. Things uh come to us and we don't control very much about the things that come to us and weigh us down. We get stressed about being husbands and fathers. You try and figure out what you're gonna do as a dad. I see that with uh my own uh son and sons-in-law as they uh try and deal with that. Many Christians are distressed by the recent Supreme Court decision and what that's going to mean down the road for us and what that means presently for us. We think about the salvation of those that we love, and they seem to be so indifferent to the gospel. seem to have no awareness that there is an eternity out there waiting for them and and they're just continuing on their in their lives. And so we're living in this broken world. This world where stress, anxiety, care comes upon us simply because that's where we are. This is where God's put us. And because of that, I think this verse, verse 7, might really serve us well. But we want to back up a little bit and take a look at the context because that verse 7 comes in the midst of a longer section, and we can't go back Now, Peter had begun this chapter, chapter 5, talking to the church about the structure of the church, elders and those whom they're caring for. And if you look at verse 5, you see that Peter begins this way, he says, likewise. Likewise means that he's connecting it to what he's already written, and so we're going to have to keep that in mind as we go through this verse. He uses again the same word he used earlier about elder. It's the same word, press buteroy. So he's talking in that context of elders. Now, whether he simply means those who are in authority in the church, those who have responsibility in the church, or he's talking more generally about those who are older, that's not completely uh certain. Uh and then he uses a word that talks about those who are new. Uh the word newos uh is joined to another word that that talks about the the young ones, the new ones. And so here he's talking in verse 5 this way. He says, likewise, pointing back, you who are younger be subject to To the elders, clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another. For God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. So we want to think about that for a second. What's going on here? Well, the elders, whether they are the elders of the church or those who are older generally, and the younger sometimes do have conflict. We can be easily impatient with those who are older. They don't seem to catch on to things. I have to ask my children and grandchildren, how do you operate all these V c these uh these devices, uh how do you program the TV, that kind of thing. Uh and he uses a pretty strong phrase here that he's used before. Submit is something that he's talked about. He's talked about it in terms of husbands and wives. He's talked about it earlier in chapter two, verses thirteen and uh eighteen. And it's the basic idea of remaining under or putting yourself under something. So here you've got the elders and those who are younger, whether they are simply the young men, could be, or it's those who are generally younger, men and women, they're to put themselves under. sometimes translated in a way that we don't really like, the word subjection. We don't like that word very much today, but it can be translated that way. And this is a command. This is an imperative. He says, do this, young people. Uh now this is something we're going to struggle with in our lives because we look around, we say, well, look, uh those old guys, whether they're the elders of the church or the older members of our family or older friends who are telling us things, sometimes we're kind of reluctant to listen to them because they're older. simply because uh they don't catch what we're facing. Uh so he he puts a situation there where it's going to drive us to think about verse 7. Now this is what you've got to think about. We trust ourselves to those who are above us because we know God's care under us. We know God's care holding us up. We want to think about that. We can live in this world with suffering and even with subjection to authorities because of God's care. God's care kind of is the foundation for all the relationships that we're going to face. And in fact, somebody said that God's uh recipe or his prescription for stress is to think of his character and his care and that that upholds us, that keeps us. Now now Peter, as he lays out a general idea, then comes to this idea of something that's very broad. Look at verse 5. He says, clothe yourselves all of you. So he's talking to everybody. And he's moved from that one discrete or sort of general relationship of elder and younger. And he says, all of you. All of you characterize your lives, or let your lives be characterized by this, by being clothed with humility. Again, it's a command We're to clothe ourselves with humility. Now what does this idea of humility mean? Well well, first of all, the idea of being clothed is to take something and to have it wrapped around you very tightly. It's to be enclosed and almost as though you're bound with humility. You've put it on as a dress, and that dress is tight-fitting. You're dressed now in humility. Now that's not the same thing as having terrible self-esteem. We live in a culture where we're told constantly to have a good attitude towards ourselves. uh children get uh medals whether they just show up for a uh soccer practice and whether they're on the team or not, they get a medal for that. We're told constantly that you have have to build up one another's self-esteem. And Peter's not talking about that. He's talking about the idea of humility as a characteristic of our lives because we know who we are before God. We have this idea. And that's the kind of attitude that comes because we know God cares for us, because we know of what God thinks about us. Now, God works through structure. He works through order. He likes to have us recognize that there is a structure to our lives. seen in the church between elders and the members of the congregation, seen in families, between parents and children, and so forth. And God wants us to clothe ourselves with humility, and and the word that he uses for humility comes up in the next verse. That means to be uh putting yourself in a lower position. Now that that's not the same as thinking I'm nothing. It means to recognize that God has put you in a certain place at this time because He's going to teach you something. He's going to bring something to bear on your life in that situation. When I was a new pastor, I served with a session of six or seven very, very experienced men. These men were so much more gracious and wise and gifted in leading the church than I was. I didn't know anything. And I I recognized that what I needed to do was to listen, just to pay attention, to To hear what they were saying, hear how they dealt with the church. And we see this in Jesus' life too, as our Lord Jesus Christ Live that out. Peter, remember, was the one who at that last supper said, Lord, you'll never wash my feet. Uh Peter had to learn that that esteem that he had of himself, that uh thing that he really was proud about, that he He was too good for Jesus to wash his feet. He needed to recognize that humility meant putting himself in the place where he could be Quiet, humbled before the Lord Jesus Christ, because Christ Himself is humbling himself. Here he is on the way to the cross. He's the Son of God and He's washing the feet of His disciples. He's about ready to take upon Himself the sins of His people and to die on the cross. And in that act of humility we see the mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ. And and Peter says that you need to bring yourself to the place where you recognize who you are before God and how God is structuring your life. and how God has put you in a particular place at this moment because he says God opposes the proud, the end of verse 5, but gives grace to the humble. He's going to bring that idea of humility back. And as he talks about that, he says, God is your foe if you raise yourself up. If you have a proud opinion of yourself, if you think you're too good, if you uh have a wrong understanding of yourself, you are fighting God because he's actually used the opposite word of that word submit. He's taken that and he says you're not submitting That's the word that he uses there. Now, of course, the idea of pride is something that one of the cardinal sins that Satan has exhibited is displayed in Scripture What is Satan saying? You know, he says, I'm going to lift myself up, if we take uh Isaiah 14 in that way, I'm going to lift myself up against the Most High. So So Satan's characteristic pride can fill our hearts where we are opposed by God. God is our enemy, you might say. He's against us because he wants us to bring low. The Lord Jesus Christ, though he is truly exalted, as as Philippians 2 will talk about, and you You can read that passage for yourself as we think about that. The Lord Jesus Christ, though he was exalted, brought himself low. He didn't uh uh rebel against the blows of the Roman soldiers or the spitting of the crowd or or the mockery of the Jewish leaders. The Father gave him the grace to endure that time of being brought low, even though he, as the Son of God, should have re received honor and praise from those who attacked him. The humble will look to God, in other words, because God cares for them. Because God cares for them, it doesn't matter so much what people around me think about me. It's because the Father is on my side. And we'll get to that when you look at verse seven. Now he comes next to verse six, and he says, Again, humble yourself therefore under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. He's tied in the same word about humility that he used in verse 5. He comes now and he says, as a command, humble yourself. Be humbled. Actually, it is a passive sense because you are now seeing yourself and you're putting yourself in that place. And it's that idea of of steel, as that steel goes into that blast furnace and and that furnace heats it up, it's now moldable. It now can be used, it now can be shaped and and put in some useful form And so we're to be humbled sometimes, we might say, in the blast furnace of our circumstances. This is a tough thing for us. We don't like it very much, but over and over again we're told that we have to to be aware of who we are because God's hand is mighty. That's a powerful image, isn't it? It says God's mighty hand. It's a commanding hand, and it's a sovereign hand. It's a powerful and judging hand for those who are opposed to God. Sometimes human beings think they can exalt themselves up against God, and God's mighty hand rests upon them and brings judgment upon them. But for the believer, God's mighty hand is the hand hand that holds them, that keeps them. He is the Father who cares for his children and and guards his children in all their circumstances and knows all their ways. That that wonderful psalm, Psalm 139, pictures that, doesn't it? Of how God knows us. And how God is with us and protects us in all those circumstances. For the unbeliever, that mighty hand will be a hand of judgment, bringing to bear upon them the wrath that their sins require. Um but for those who fled to the Lord Jesus Christ for refuge, God's mighty hand keeps us, holds us. It's the hand of a Father. That mighty hand of God brings all kinds of circumstances into our lives. We sometimes overwhelm by the stress, the anxieties, the cares of this world, but his mighty hand is there as a guard for us. as a protection force, even turning those situations that we don't like, those situations of stress and and trial in our lives, turning them around so that that they become to us uh situations of blessing. I remember one time I was uh working in a particular job and and uh walked by the boss's son and he was had all his buddies gathered around him and and he was making fun of me and humiliating me in front of them, his remarks anyway, and you know, part of me is just burning with, how dare that guy be so arrogant and then He realized, well God, you've put me in this position of being a servant. That's what I was. I was a servant to him. And was I willing to be humbled before somebody that I really didn't like. That's a tough thing that we face in our lives. We have jobs where we have bosses, and those bosses sometimes are just uh seemingly so inconsiderate of us, but part of the invincible, the the the perfect and eternal purposes of of God is to bring us to the place where we recognize our need for Him. Because His His desire in this is not to crush us. Look what he says there in verse 6. He says Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time, we'll get to that word in a minute, that proper time he may exalt you. This is something where God doesn't just put us under. God has the intention of raising us up. It's the idea of exalting us so that we're not looking at ourselves as doormats that everybody walks over, but he is setting us in a place of honor because this is the peace. picture that Jesus uses in in John chapter 3 verse 14. It's the same word that Jesus uses when he says the Son of Man must be lifted up. Now Jesus is lifted up on the cross. He's lifted up to die. But in being lifted up he's also being exalted because now Christ becomes in that cross, he becomes the victor. He becomes triumphant over sin and death, the devil and hell itself. So Christ being brought low and then raised up to the death of the cross is now set in the place of glory and honor. And at the proper time, at the Kairos, that appointed time, that time when God knows it's right, at that time he exalts his children. He cares for them. So let's look now at verse verse seven for a moment. Casting all your cares upon him, for he cares for you as the king. James says, or here casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Now this verse was a good verse for the Naves to have us memorize. It was really a good verse Because when you start to take it apart you see that he says, all. Now now think about your lives and and the things going on in your life. You're you're you're dealing some of you with the death of somebody you loved very, very much. There's an anxiety there. Some of you are dealing with, well, dad just doesn't get it. doesn't understand. He's got something he wants from me, and I really don't want what he wants. And some of you are in positions where you You're finding yourself pushed down. And instead of that advancement that you were thinking of, it's now you're locked into something that you're really not enjoying all that much. And it's all the anxieties of our life. It's not just one or two. It's all the circumstances of our life. When Dietrich Bonhoeffer was imprisoned, he said, or wrote, It is not our judgment of the situation which can show us what is wise, but only the truth of the Word of God. Here alone lies the promise of God's faithfulness and help. It will always be true that the wisest course for the disciple is always to abide solely by the Word of God in all simplicity. See, we look at situations and our judgment of situations as skew. Our judgment of situations is twisted by our own sin and by the pressure we feel and the unhappiness we may feel about the situation. situation. But those situations have to be seen in the light of the Word of God, because the Word of God will give us the wisdom. And that's what Bonhoeff idea is. The word of God can help us see things as they really are. Now when Peter uses this word anxiety, this is a word that doesn't come up very many times in the New Testament. but it's used in Jesus' parable of the sower. You may remember that parable. As that seed is sown, it's the seed of the gospel. It's sown in different places. Some seed falls in a place where there are thorns and thistles. And the thorns and thistles grow up and Jesus says they choke out the word, and he uses the word anxiety or care. Now, as you talk to people about Christ, and perhaps you feel this in your own life, There are so many things that want to choke out the Word of God, the profitable truth of God's word in our lives. It's because our lives don't have that simplicity and ease that we might want. We find the cares of this world, whether it's, am I going to have a job next year? I may have a job next month, or I'm saving for retirement, but you know, my IRA just got gutted. Or is there anybody who's ever going to love me and want To marry me and spend their life with me? And a child dies? Or there are no children at all? Or an illness comes that you don't count on, you haven't planned to have an illness at this time or an injury, and and you've got bills to pay, and how are you going to pay? pay those bills and the anxieties, the cares, the realities of this world that you don't escape simply because you say, I believe in Jesus. You can have faith in Christ and all sorts of things come into your life. That's the reality that we face in this world. That's what Peter is talking about. All the cares, the anxieties, the being pulled, the things pressing on that want to get us and draw us. That's the basic meaning of that word, the anxieties, to draw us, get us, pull us apart. That's where our lives are. The anxieties of this life press in upon us. They don't end because we become Christians. So Peter counsels us in this way. He says to cast all your anxieties on him. Now that's a participial form. I love the participles because they talk about the continuing action of our lives, the the patterns of our lives. What's the pattern Well, the pattern of our life is to be casting all our anxieties on him. Now, interestingly enough, this word cast occurs only once in the whole of the New Testament. It's used in the account in Luke 19, verse 35, of how people took off their cloaks and they cast their cloaks on the ground before Jesus as He entered Jerusalem. Now, why would that word and this word, the same word, why would they be used? Well, Peter was there, so Peter saw people doing that, but that word comes back to him in this place Because to take off your cloak, to throw it on the ground as Jesus on the donkey, Walks on it as the crowds around him walk on it, as the dust and the clothes tear in the dust and they get stained in the dust, you have just given it up That's the idea. You don't have any use for that cloak anymore. It's no longer any good to you because now it's gone, it's torn, it's stained, it's no longer usable So you see what Peter is talking about. He says, all these anxieties, all these things that are pulling you and carrying you, you cast them on God. Now our problem is that we cast them on and we take him back. You know, we say, Okay, Lord, I'm leaving it in your hands, uh Jesus. Jesus. No, Joni, uh my wife. Joni and I uh read about uh about praying at night that you have prayers of relief. You say, Lord, I can't do anything. I need sleep. Here it is. Here's the day. Here's what I'm thinking about tomorrow. Here it is. But the problem is in the middle of the night you wake up and you take it back. You know You don't leave it there, you know. You're going and you're saying, uh, well, let me think about it a little bit more, because we're prone to worry. We're prone to think about these things. So it takes faith to leave it there and say, I've thrown it on the ground. And the crowds are trampling on and the donkey's trampling on it, and it's torn and stained and it's dirty and it's no longer usable for me. I'm leaving it there. Because the key is the final part of it. I think, as I thought about it, that the ESV translates this probably a little more carefully than the King James, because the King James uses the same word. Because there are a series of different words. And this last word that he uses here, that word for care, he cares for you, uh, is is used just a few times, only ten times. in the whole New Testament. And Peter's only use is right here. It's used, for instance, in Matthew 22. There, Jesus talks about the Father, and he says, or the people are talking, and Jesus uses the word in the sense of being partial The the uh Pharisees come to him and say, we know you're not partial. But you see, if you think about what Peter's saying he says God's partial to you God's really setting you apart the disciples are in the boat the boat is filling with water and they say to him, do you not care? Are you not partial to the fact? Aren't you concerned that we're perishing? Martha comes to Jesus and and looks at Mary, Mary sitting at his feet, and Martha says, Lord, don't you care for me? Aren't you partial to me? Don't you have a concern for me? Don't you see my needs at this moment? When Jesus, when he talks about the Good Shepherd, he says that the hireling is not partial to the sheep, but the good shepherd is partial to the sheep. Later on, John will say the Jews. Judas doesn't care for the poor. He isn't acting towards the poor. He isn't partial to the poor. He doesn't have a concern for the poor. When Sosthenes is being beaten by the Jews in Corinth, Gallio is not concerned. He's not partial towards the death of anyone When Paul talks about being a slave or getting your freedom, he says, don't be concerned about Finally, in chapter nine of First Corinthians, he says God's not concerned about Oxenov. Obviously God is the creator is concerned about all his creatures, but he means God is not partial there. So that idea is the idea that God has a concern That's a deep concern. And and to me, this this connects to a great Old Testament concept. I'm sure your pastor has mentioned to you many times, is the concept of Hesitz. Hesed is the Hebrew word for that special covenantal love, that love that God has for his people, that sets his people apart from all the nations of the earth. around them. It sets his people apart among all the nations of the earth. How God cares for his children because he's made them his own. After all, in the first in second chapters of this book, First Peter, Peter will say, God has made you his own possession. God's taken you. Now if you're not a Christian, if you haven't returned from your sin and repented of your sin and come to the Lord Jesus Christ, then you You can't find that comforting at all. Instead there is that heavy hand, that heavy hand of judgment. But if you are in Jesus, if Jesus is the one who's drawn you, claimed you, given you that forgiveness and mercy and grace in the gospel. Then God's partial towards you. Isn't that amazing? Because I know what I am. I know who I am. I know how I sinned. I know all the unbelief and all the disobedience and all the self will and hypocrisy. hypocrisy and all the rest in me and yet because Jesus Christ has come, because Jesus Christ is my hope. God's partial towards me. God cares. God has a concern for me. And when I leave those anxieties there with him, I don't have to take him back because I can't do anything about him anyway. But in faith I say, this is yours because you care for me, because your concern and mercy is towards me I love the passage in Isaiah chapter 43. But now thus says the Lord, he who created you, Jacob. He who formed you, O Israel. Fear not, for I have redeemed you, I have called you by name. You are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers you They shall not overwhelm you when you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned, and the flames shall not consume you. For I am the Lord your God, the holy one of Israel, your Savior. I give Egypt as your ransom Kush and Seba in exchange for you because you are precious in my eyes and honored and I love you. What what a word from God. Because the ransom is not the nations, the ransom is the sun. God's given his son. He's redeemed us at the cost of that which is most precious to him, that we might be precious, that he might say, You were honored. And I love you. How foolish of us to lay those those anxieties and those concerns there and then keep taking them back When we hear what the gospel says to us, that the ransom's been paid and the love is ours, and that God honors. Treasures us for Jesus' sake. I love this passage in First Peter. I need to live it out. Because living it out in faith is a whole lot harder than talking about it. But that's what God calls us to, because he tells us. That we're his in Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Our God in heaven, we thank you that the Lord Jesus Christ has come. to deliver a people and to make a people your own particular possession to from all the nations of the world in all time gather a great hosts that no man can number to bring glory to your name, Lord God, and to honor the great gift of salvation in Christ. We pray our Father in heaven that we might trust you. And when those anxieties press upon us and pull us in different directions We would know what it means to cast them at your feet, all of them, to say, this is too much, I don't know what to do, I am overwhelmed. The stress, the cares of this world are overwhelming me, Lord my Father. That you care for us, you're partial towards us, your concern for us. That you're not the harling who flees when the wolf comes, but you, Lord Jesus, are the good shepherd who gives his life for the sheep. That you lay down your life for those that you call Call to yourself. Lord God in heaven, we pray that you might strengthen us so that we can truly lay these things before you and live lives of gospel, freedom, and joy. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.