Our first reading is from Exodus chapter 2. The reading is verses 11 through 25, although I preach only on 11 through 22. This is the preaching text. Exodus 2, beginning at verse 11. We continue our series in Exodus. One day, when Moses had grown up, he went out to his people and looked on their burdens, and he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew. One of his people. He looked this way and that, and seeing no one, he struck down the Egyptian and hid him in the sand. When he went out the next day, behold, two Hebrews were struggling together. And he said to the man in the wrong, Why do you strike your companion? He answered, Who made you a prince and a judge over us? Do you mean to kill me as you killed the Egyptian? Then Moses was afraid and thought, surely the thing is known. When Pharaoh to kill Moses But Moses fled from Pharaoh and stayed in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well. Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters, and they came and drew water and filled the troughs to water their father's flock. The shepherds came and drove them away, but Moses stood and saved them and watered their flock. When they came home to their father, Ruel, he said, How is it that you have come home so soon today? They said, an Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and even drew water for us, and watered the flock. He said to his daughters, Then where is he? Why have you left the man? Call him that he may eat bread. And Moses was content to dwell with the man. And he gave Moses his daughter Zipporah. She gave birth to a son, and he called his name Gershom For he said, I have been a sojourner in a foreign land. During those many days the king of Egypt died And the people of Israel groaned because of their slavery and cried out for help. Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God. And God heard their groaning and remembered his covenants with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. God saw the people of Israel, and God knew. And now we turn to Acts chapter 7, verses 23 through 35. And this is a commentary of the preaching of Stephen, the deacon. on the Exodus events that are under discussion today. So Acts chapter 7, verses 23 through 35 When he was 40 years old, it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel. And seeing one of them being wronged, he defended the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian. He supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not understand. And on the following day, he appeared to them as they were quarreling and tried to reconcile them, saying, Men, you're brothers, why do you wrong each other? But the man who was wronging his neighbor thrust him aside, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge over us? Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday? At this retort, Moses fled and became an exile in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons. Now, when forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai in a flame of fire in a bush. When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight. And as he drew near to look, there came the voice of the Lord. I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob. And Moses trembled and did not dare to look. Then the Lord said to him, Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground. I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt and have heard their groaning. And I have come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send you to Egypt. This Moses, whom they rejected, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge? This man God sent as both ruler and redeemer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. And then please turn to the Gospel of John, chapter one, two verses, and these two verses are also uh Serve as an as outline through the sermon John chapter one, eleven and twelve He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Oh Lord, you inspired these words to be recorded. They are flawless, and yet we are flawed. So illumine our hearts and minds by your spirit. That we may understand your word in all its depth, and apprehending your glory, lay it up in our lives, and lay our lives at your feet. Amen. Well listen, folks, think about your life with me for a moment. Whether you're young or old, think about your life The journey of your life. Think about, for instance, if you if you've been training for a particular job. You've gone through the educational process, you've gone through the training process, you're qualified for this job, you have applied for this job You think that you're very much likely to get the job. You're a shoe-in for that job. You are expecting a call anytime from the employer to say, start on Monday. But the call doesn't come. And finally you get an email or a letter saying, we found someone else. And you're back to the beat to find a job. Your expectations have been quashed. Or perhaps it was a relationship. You had a relationship developing, it was going very well, uh, you expected it to be beautiful, you expected great enjoyment, great pleasure, great things from this relationship But somehow things turn sour and the relationship is over and your expectations have been crushed. Whether it's jobs or relationships or health or whatever it may be, sometimes our expectations simply get crushed. Because God's path for us is not always the path that we would have wanted or expected. It is at those times that we need to believe what we have often said from Romans 8, 28 and 30. What is that? That God causes all things to work together for good to those who love Him. That nothing will ever go wrong in the ultimate sense because God is in control. It is at those times when we're disappointed, when our expectations are crushed, that we need to believe by faith that God is good, that his ways are wise and right and best for us. Yet in those times sometimes we we feel most like God needs our help in planning. God needs some advice from us because it's simply not making sense to us at that moment. Well, as we look at Moses today, as we see where he is today, what happens in today's preaching. We see that Moses found himself in just such unexpected circumstances. And he needed faith to go forward. First, let's look at this point. He came to his own. He came to his own. One day when Moses had grown up, he went out to his people and looked on their burdens, his people, the Hebrew people And he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew. These Egyptians were slave masters, and the Hebrews had become slaves, as you know. And it says, he saw this Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his people. You see, Moses has owned these people as his people. Even though he's been privileged to grow up as a son of Pharaoh's daughter in the palace of the Pharaoh, he identifies with his people. What has happened here since the last part of the narrative? Nearly 40 years have passed. We saw in the last narrative how he was born, how he was Weaned, how he was rescued, how he was named. But now, 40 years later, we see Moses in these circumstances Stephen, the deacon preaching in Acts chapter 7, tells us that Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians. And it says, Moses, Stephen says he was mighty in words and deeds. That's Acts chapter 7, verse 22. What does that mean? It means that Moses. had a top-notch education. Something that would be equal to, in our time, Oxford or Harvard or Princeton. That means that Moses, as we look back at Egyptian culture, we understand that Moses was educated in literature from various cultures. And especially the Egyptian culture. Moses was able to read and write in several different languages. Moses knew math, especially geometry. Because they had to have geometry to build those beautiful pyramids the way they did, you know. He was educated in architecture and in astronomy And he had also been taught some cultural studies, some social studies. And what did those studies teach him? Those studies every day, reinforced over and over, were studies to teach him to be thoroughly contemptuous of others who were not Egyptians Thoroughly contemptuous of slaves Philip Graham Riken says one of the primary goals of Pharaoh's educational system was to reinforce the pride of those in power. To instill a deep contempt for manual labor while stressing the priority of study. And so their studies would begin at age four. Age four. Did you hear that, moms? Age four? Well, some of you have started your homeschool studies at age four. And the Egyptians had a saying. The ears of a boy are on his back. What'd that mean? That means that boys listen when you whack them on the butt. The ears of a boy are on his back. And those boys started at age four and they learned to listen. The Egyptian text describes slaves. And this is the way they were taught to think of slaves. They describes them as, quote, the living dead, end quote, and compares them to donkeys. So this was part of Moses' upbringing, his thoughts about his people. In contrast to the ruling class, in contrast, this ruling class were to enjoy a life of ease. They were to enjoy the life of scholars. They had a saying that they would teach these aristocratic Egyptian boys, you call for one and a thousand answer you. You stride freely on the road, you will not be like a hired ox. You are in front of others. Well, that reminds me of the kind of educational, cultural, social uh ideal that was instilled in Hitler's Nazi youth. They were told that they were the kings of the world, that theirs was the race that should be ruling the world. They were told that everyone else was inferior, and particularly Jews. So it's similar, isn't it? So we see here that Moses, the Hebrew says, went out, and the Hebrew word is You don't have to memorize this, but the Hebrew word is Yatsa. Y-A-T-Z-A, Yatsah. It's the same word, by the way, for Exodus. He went out. That is he left the palace. He went out. And he didn't just go out for a stroll. He went out very intentionally. Hebrews 11, 25 says that Moses chose to be mistreated along with the people of God rather than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. And it says he went out to his people. See, he's identified himself. Contrary to all of his training and upbringing in the palace, he's identified himself with these slaves, his people. And why did he do that? How did he come by such a conviction, such a purpose? How did he come by it? Well, we know that he had those first years with his own mother, his Hebrew mother, who no doubt catechized him in the truth of God. And we also know that he bore the sign of the covenant. He was circumcised on the eighth day, according to the law of God. So he bore that sign to remind him. On and on again and again that he was different, that he belonged to another people, not these Egyptian people. He knew who he was, and he knew whose he was. And so he went out, Yatzah, Exodus, to his people. I think we could also see theologically that Moses believed God's promises that perhaps his mother and father had taught him, believed in God's mission And believed that he was the one drawn out of the water of the Nile to be the Redeemer. It's so parallel to Christ, isn't it? Christ was taught how he was born and how he was raised up and how he was rescued from near death in Egypt. And how he was raised up to be God's people's deliverer. Moses believed this. And I want to show you one more parallel. You know, when Christ begins his ministry after his baptism, He goes out into the wilderness, and he's there for how long? Forty days. And he is not fed. He is very hungry. 40 days. This is a person who came from heaven, the riches and palaces of heaven. And he comes down and he's tempted for 40 days. Tempted with what? With riches and power and prestige and rule. That's what the devil offered him. And he rejected it and identified with his people You see that? And this is what Moses is doing, isn't it? Isn't it amazing how God's gospel works backward and forward and all through the scriptures? Isn't it amazing? So again, we see another Hebrew word. He went out, Yatha, and then he saw Yara, Y-A-R-A. And Yarah doesn't just mean he saw, like you see the car going across the road, or you see the bird in the sky. It means to see with emotion. He went out to his people and he saw. He saw their burdens. And so he set his mind to act, to deliver. He had been prepared from Perhaps his earliest days with his mother, he had been prepared to be a deliverer. And so this is his mission. He understands it. He's been waiting for it. And he acts to deliver Stephen says in Acts 7. 25, when he was 40 years old, it came into his heart, you see. It came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel. And seeing one of them being wronged, he defended the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian. He's a defender. He's an avenger. This is his mission. He supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand. But Stephen says, but they did not understand. As he's delivering, as he's acting as an avenger, it says he, the text says he looked this way and that And seeing no one, he struck down the Egyptian and hid him in the sand. Now, commentators and preachers have Said that this was wrong of Moses to do this. And it certainly would be wrong of you and me to go out and take vengeance, to go down and strike someone down, but There is not one word of negative comment about this. There's plenty of preachers and commentators that have negative words about it, but there's not one word of negative comment about this in the Bible. And the Holy Spirit is not afraid to reveal Moses' weaknesses and sins. The Holy Spirit does that in other places and in other times. But it says nothing negative about this act of Moses. In fact, when it says he struck down, this reminds us of God's words in other places. It reminds us of God's words in Isaiah 59, 15, where it says there Isaiah fifty nine fifteen says, the Lord saw it. That's Yah, that's the emotional seeing And it displeased him that there was no justice. He saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no one to intercede. Then his own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him. Very similar language. Another case of that in Isaiah 63, verses 3 through 5. I have trodden the wine press alone, and from the peoples no one was with me. I trod them in my anger and trampled them in my wrath. Their lifeblood spattered on my garments And stained all my apparel, for the day of vengeance was in my heart, and my year of redemption had come. Then it says, I looked, Yah, but there was no one to help. I was appalled, but there was no one to uphold. So, this sounds like Moses, so my own arm brought me salvation, and my wrath upheld me. I think Moses is acting like God here. He's doing the God-like thing. Because God is looking in history. God is looking for a righteous mediator who will act to save. Creation has fallen into ruling, and God is looking for a righteous mediator to act, to bring justice, to bring bring vengeance. And this is the same word that is used of Moses bringing judgment and vengeance upon the oppressive Egyptian. So Acts chapter 7, Stephen, the preacher says, and seeing one of them being wronged, doesn't say he did a bad thing. It says, seeing one of them being wrong, he defended. That's a positive word, isn't it? And the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian. Doesn't say anything bad about it, does it? Now there's tension building in the story at this point. Because you think that Moses doing God's thing acting to avenge and defend, which is his calling. You think that that his people, whom he sees with emotion, who he's come out to deliver, you'd think That they would say, hey, here's our Redeemer. Here's the man we've been waiting for. Surely they're going to want to follow Moses at this point, right? You know that's not the case. It says that he went out the next day, and that Yatsah went out again. He went out the next day, and behold, two Hebrews were struggling together, and he said to the man in the wrong There was a man in the wrong. Why do you strike your companion? And then we see the second point of this sermon. His own received him not. His own received him not. He, the man, answered, Who made you a prince and judge over us? Do you mean to kill me as you killed the Egyptian? Then Moses was afraid and thought, Surely the thing is known. And again, Acts chapter 7 says, On the following day he appeared to them as they were quarreling and tried to reconcile them, saying, Men, you are brothers, why do you wrong each other? But the man who was wronging his neighbor thrust him aside, saying, Who made you a ruler and judge over us? Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday? So now the story has taken a very bad turn, hasn't it? The Redeemer, the Deliverer has acted, and he's being rejected by his own people. How can this be God's will? How can this be God's will? Moses is set for this. His education, his training. his preparation spiritually, his commitment. And he's in the prime of his life, about 40 years old How can it be that they're rejecting him? We may feel this way too. When things don't go the way we think they should go, as I said at the beginning. We need faith. So now to the third point. To those who received him. Verses 15 through 22. He flees. He flees to to where? Midian We don't know what Midian is. We think, yeah, well, so what? He flees to Midian. So then we look at geography. Well, it's out in the desert on the Sinai Peninsula. Yeah, so what Folks, for Israelites who read this story later for generations to come, they immediately say, he flees to Midian. That's the enemy land. Those Midianites are always God's enemies. These Midianites are not friendly people. Why does he go to these people? What is that about? This text says, When Pharaoh heard of it, he sought to kill Moses, but Moses fled from Pharaoh and stayed in the land of Midian. That's a bad place. And he sat down by a well. Okay, well there's something good in the story. He sits down by a well. If you are a Hebrew and you've been reading the book of Genesis, you see that a lot of good things happen at wells. A lot of men meet their wives at wells. Isaac met his wife at a well. I think Jacob did too. I can't remember them all, but there's several instances of guys meeting their brides at wells. So this is a place where romance happens, right? But we see something happening different here, which is in the character of God's work. And yet it's happening not with not with Moses, the the Hebrew, going to find a nice Jewish bride, a nice Hebrew bride by a well. That would sound romantic But here he is in Midian, and here is a Midianite woman, these Midianite people, and he's going to find a bride here. Terrible, terrible, terrible. Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters, and they came and drew water, and listened to it, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock. Then shepherds came and drove them away. That is, some other people came to the well and chased the women off. The women were doing their job. They were drawing water for their father's flocks. And these other shepherds came and chased them away. They can't get their job done. And in fact, their lives are in peril because these shepherds might do who knows what. But Moses, it says, stood up and saved them. That's his job. That's what he's been called to do forever. To save And so here he is. He stands up and saves them. He delivers them with vengeance. And he goes on to water their flock. That's another thing that happens in these romance stories. The guy does the woman's work. And so they go home and tell Dad about it. When when they came home to their father Ruel, he said, How is it that you have come home so soon today? They said, an Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds and even drew water for us and watered the flock. That is an amazing thing. Just an amazing thing that this guy would do. He would deliver the women and then do their job for them. And they got done so early that they came home early and told dad about it. And he said to his daughters, then, where is he? Why should you leave this? This guy is solid gold. Go get him. I'll give one of you to him. Call him that we may eat bread. And Moses was content to dwell with the man, and he gave Moses his daughter Zipporah. Now, our man Moses, think of it, with all his preparation, having been rescued from death in the Nile as a baby and raised to a place of honor and privilege, well educated, committed to God's plan, as we see him here, when he comes to his own, is rejected. His authority is rejected, his calling is rejected, and now he is exiled, and we find him here married to a Gentile. And is an exile in a foreign land, married to a Gentile. Where have we heard that before? Who came unto his own, and his own received him not, but then he went to the Gentiles. Jesus, our Savior, our Lord, is the one who did that. And so we see the gospel working backwards into this beautiful narrative. Moses did not forget his people, even in Midian. He did not forget his mission, even in Midian. Even for 40 more years, you know, we think, you know, if I don't get the call about that job within a week or so, I'm going to be really upset. And maybe our timetables are different now in culture. But Moses had to wait forty more years, but he did not forget his mission. He may have been perplexed about it, but he had faith that God was going to deliver his people. He had faith that he was doing the right thing even though it didn't turn out very well for him at that moment. He had faith, and so he did not forget his mission. He learned something that you and I need to learn. to wait. Have you learned to wait? Here's what he did that shows us his waiting. Small thing, but it's kind of interesting. Naming a child is a pretty important thing back then. And it says she gave birth to a son, that's Zipporah, and he called his name Gershem. For he said, I have been a sojourner in a foreign land. Gersham means sojourner. He knows that Midian is not home. He knows that he has a mission. To deliver God's people. So here again, Moses is typical of Christ, who is married to the church, a church of all nations, both Jew and Gentile. But like Moses. Who had to be exiled for 40 years, Christ had to be exiled to save us. Christ's exile was into death and hell. Separation from God, but it was also to save us. And so Moses knows what it's like to be a sufferer. He knows what it's like to be tested. He knows what it's like to be rejected. He knows what it's like to be sympathetic and And a mediator Jesus, our Savior, also had to go through exile in the world and in his life and in his death. He had to go through these things as a sufferer, being tested, being rejected, being sympathetic. in order to be our mediator. Do you see that? And the cross was the greatest of all tests, the greatest of all temptations, the greatest of all sufferings. The cross was unfathomable and unthinkable to some of Jesus' disciples. Do you remember Peter? Do you remember Peter? It's recorded in Matthew chapter 16 In Matthew chapter 16, it says, From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed. And on the third day be raised. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Now listen, here's what Peter says: Far be it from you, Lord. This shall never happen to you. But Jesus turned and said to Peter, get behind me, Satan. You are a hindrance to me, for you were not setting your mind on the things of God, but rather on the things of men. You see, we have our way of thinking about things, we have our way of deciding things, but God has another way, and Jesus understands his mission. And we see later, of course, that the cross with the resurrection is the greatest victory in all history. It seemed like the worst defeat, but it's the greatest victory. God's ways for us today are still mysterious. We cannot see how God is working. Perhaps you'll get some terrible news this week. Perhaps someone you love will be harmed or die. Or perhaps you'll get notice of termination from a job. We don't know. We hope not, but we don't know. What if that happens? What if one of your children, dear parents, dies in an accident or becomes sick. What then? God's ways are still mysterious. We cannot see how God is working But we can see in places like this that God was working, and we can believe by faith that He is working, that all things do work for the good of those who love God. And are the called according to his purpose. We can know that. Moses' life experience here is a foreshadow of Christ and a lesson for you and me Do you think the Lord has left your life to chance after coming down to suffer and die on a cross to save you? The people whom he had emotional attachment to? Do you believe that? No. By faith, understand that your problems are not overwhelming because the power of the Lord Overwhelms your problems. And so what should you do? Do what Moses did. Do what Jesus did. Lead the life God has assigned to you. And do not take any easy way out or throw in the towel. His ways are for your good and for your salvation. Be at peace with his sovereignty and the life he has given to you. Change what you can, sure, absolutely, but be at peace when you cannot and wait. For the Lord. Wait patiently for Him. Entrust yourself to God. Amen. Let's pray. Almighty God, whose dear son, our deliverer, did not go up to joy before he suffered rejection and pain. And did not enter into glory before he was crucified. Grant that we, walking by faith in the way of the cross, may find it none other than the way of life and peace. Through the same Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen