The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases, His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, says my soul, therefore I will hope in him. The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth. Let him sit alone in silence when it is laid on him. Let him put his mouth in the dust. There may yet be hope. Let him give his cheek to the one who strikes, and let him be filled with insults. For the Lord will not cast off forever, but though he cause grief, He will have compassion according to the abundance of his steadfast love. For he does not willingly afflict or grieve the children of men. To crush underfoot all the prisoners of the earth, to deny a man justice in the presence of the Most High, to subvert a man in his lawsuit, the Lord does not approve. Who has spoken and it came to pass unless the Lord has commanded it? Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that good and bad come? Why should a living man complain, a man, about the punishment of his sins? Let us test and examine our ways and return to the Lord Let us lift up our hearts and hands to our God in heaven. This is the word of the Lord. Our New Testament reading this morning comes from the book of Romans, chapter 3. Romans 3, and we'll be reading verses 19 through 26. Romans chapter three, verses nineteen through twenty-six. Hear now the word of God. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, for there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus This is the word of the Lord. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, I find myself in a very awkward position. I had no intention of filling this pulpit and reading a sermon written by someone else. It's very different. I've never done this before. But it is in God's goodwill, in his timing, that this is the word that he has prepared for you, people of God, to hear this morning. In preparation for events that are yet to come, beginning with our day of our national day of prayer and fasting national through the entire Orthodox Presbyterian Church on August 21st. Pastor Damon wanted to deliver this sermon to you. It is a very important sermon for you to hear from him, and he would be here to deliver it if he could be. Again, in God's good will and timing, that's not going to be the case. So I I do want to just emphasize that this is Damon's sermon. I am merely his mouthpiece this morning. I am his mouthpiece. messenger. Don't confuse that with angel or prophet, because I'm neither one of those. Let's let's pray, people. Lord God, you have uh brought to us great calamity in our country and in our world. In your good will. We have fallen uh for uh a comfort zone in our country a comfort for a very long, long time before my birth, when churches could just meet and come together to praise you, to worship you, without any kind of fear of anything. Yet we find a very different scenario in our current day and age around the world. Your church is being persecuted And around the world, your church is being purified by you. We pray, Father, that you would speak clearly to us through this word that Damon has prepared for us to hear this morning. We pray, Father, you would quicken our hearts, open our minds to the truths of your word, enable us to hear, to listen, and to take hold of what it is that you have for us this morning And now, Father, may the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable to you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The purpose of this sermon is to inform you of some of the biblical reasons to lament and to give you a model for how to do it. Just so there is no confusion, a lament is defined as a passionate expression of grief or sorrow This brief look at the Book of Lamentations is to prepare you all to participate in the upcoming day of prayer and fasting declared by our General Assembly for August 21st. Where we will take time to express our grief, among other things, to the Lord. To do this, I will begin by showing the ongoing need that the church has to lament. Then I will give some further reasons why the church should still lament today. And finally, I will end by showing from the Book of Lamentations the four elements of biblical lament. So, first part, we all have a need to lament, as demonstrated in Romans. In verse 9 of Romans 3 that I just read, Paul asserts that they, they being the Jews and the Gentiles, in other words, all of mankind. Are all under sin. He then proceeds in verses 10 through 18 to support this assertion with the weight of Scripture's testimony taken largely from the book of the Psalms. This sets him up to make his final move in proving that the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, in God's sight. For Scripture understood as law in verse 19, divinely revealed instruction has spoken to all mankind that there is none righteous, no not one. in order that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. The truth guilty before God, all men, is the context in which the gospel is preached to mankind. This gospel, as verses 21 and 22, declare manifests to sinful men the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe for there is no difference They are no longer guilty before God, who believe the Father's record, that Jesus of Nazareth is the Son of God, come in the flesh, that he is the suffering servant foretold by the mouths of the prophets. The Messiah, destined to die a cursed death on a cross to atone for the sins of his people. To everyone who believes this message, God imputes to them Christ's righteousness received by faith. That is, their legal record is no longer the long, long, long list of their secret faults, known faults, and presumptuous sins. But instead, Christ's spotless and perfect righteousness. Believers in Christ are legally before God as if they had never sinned. Wow, that is good news. Good news for all. Which is Paul's point here. He goes on in verse 23 to support his claim in verse 22 that there is no difference between Jew and Greek, for all have sinned. and come short of the glory of God. Now, I'm sure that Romans 3. 23 is a passage familiar to most, if not all, of you. It is the first step in the Romans' road to salvation. It declares, as that evangelistic tool says, that we are all sinners by nature and by choice. Can it be surprising then that Paul would say that all mankind comes short of the glory of God? That is No human being by ordinary descent from Adam has received from God praise or approval for his or her life. No son of Adam, by ordinary descent, has heard, spoken to them from a red clouded heaven, as the Holy Spirit has descended upon them. This is my beloved son And yet, you were originally created with God's approval upon you. And God saw that everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. What happened? Adam sinned. You've sinned and come short of the glory of God. Now what's my point in all of this? What's my point in contrasting you with Christ Jesus, the Son of God? To show you just how far short you have fallen and every other human being of the glory of God, to make sure that you understand what it means to come short of the glory of God. There is an inverse relationship between the depth of mankind's fall and the height of the sin that he perpetrates. Man's sin attained to the height of the unlawful slaying of God, that is, of God in the flesh, which is still killing God. Man did not kill the divine nature. That is impossible. But he did slay God incarnate. For it was the word, the logos, the second person of the Trinity who became flesh and dwelt among us, not the divine nature per se. The divine nature is immense and incomprehensible. It cannot be contained within the human nature of Christ. Thus, while on earth he was still in heaven, but the word did become flesh And he was taken, and by wicked hands was crucified and slain. That the crucifixion of the Son of God is how far we've fallen as a race. But if that event seems too remote, seeing that, well, you weren't there, seeing that it is not your personal sin after all. Well, what about the sin you still commit against Christ when you do not hear or obey those sent by him? For Jesus says, whoever receives the one I send receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me. What about the sin you still commit against Christ when you sin against his people? For Jesus said to Paul, on the Damascus Road when he was persecuting Christians. Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And finally, our Lord teaches us in the parables of the sheep and the goats that entrance into the kingdom of heaven is for those with faith working in love. Love that feeds, clothes, gives drink to, takes in, visits in sickness and imprison the least of Jesus' brethren, as if they were doing it to the Lord himself. What then about all these sins that you commit or omit when you fail to care for the body of Christ as you ought? Very simply, then, we have all come short of the glory of God because we've come short of Christ. In coming short of Christ, we cause grief and harm to others. And this should cause us grief. The incalculable pain and suffering in the world caused by this one fact that all men have come short of the glory of God should cause us to rend our hearts, not our garments. These words of Romans 3. 23 should not be quoted with dry eyes, but with a brokenness of heart that matches the brokenness of this world. Therefore, by coming short of the glory of God, we all have a need to express the grief and sorrow that it has caused us and others. You can learn how to do this from the Book of Lamentations. As we go into our next section, Why the Church Should Still Lament Today, please turn in your Bibles with me to Lamentations chapter 3. We're going to focus this next section on Lamentations chapter 3, verses 33, and verse 26. Brother Seth just read this, but I'm going to read those two verses one more time for us. Lamentations chapter 3 verse 26. It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. In verse 33, for he does not willingly afflict or grieve the children of men. The central verse of the book of Lamentations is Lamentations, chapter 3, verse 33 I just read, this verse says, the Lord does not afflict from his heart or grieve the children of men. Here the prophet Jeremiah is speaking to the people of Judah. And Jerusalem sometime after the Lord had visited them in his wrath, destroying Jerusalem and the temple and causing them to go into exile. Jeremiah's words in this verse are spoken in order to add further support to his previous statement in verse 31 that the Lord will not cast off forever. Therefore, these despised, miserable, bitter, angry, and confused sinners have ground to hope for a brighter future. He had already told them in supported that truth, that though he, the Lord, caused grief, yet will he have compassion according to the multitude of his mercies. Jeremiah can confidently say this because the Lord does not afflict from his heart or grieve the children of men. And further proof of this point is added in the following three verses in thirty-four through thirty-six, which categorically deny the Lord's approval of the injustice perpetrated by the Babylonians and other nations against the Hebrews. So at the heart of lamentations is a statement that the Lord God does not afflict from his heart nor grieve the children of men. Which is given by the prophet Jeremiah to the broken people of God to give them hope for a better tomorrow. Therefore, the first reason why the church should still lament today is to sharpen its focus on the hope of the resurrection. It's better tomorrow. The many afflictions that you will endure from God's hand in this life, to include COVID, will one day be replaced by a far more exceeding and internal weight of glory. In the Lord's great mercy, He has promised to show believers for all eternity the riches of His glory. You should lament and express grief and sorrow for your sins and for the afflictions of this life, so that you'll hope more in God's salvation. And that is the age to come wherein there are no more tears. Lamentations 3, verse 33 also teaches you. That if it's not from God's heart that afflictions arise, then it must be from some other heart. But whose? Yours. Now, not every affliction is for personal sin. The Bible does teach that some of your suffering in this life comes from the sins of others And it even teaches that your suffering might not come from sin at all, but from God who desires a closer walk with you, like in the case of Job. However, the predominant reason is for personal sin. So then, the Lord's heart is not bent on afflicting and grieving you. You are bent on afflicting and grieving yourself. If you persist in sin, you may ask yourself, then, whose sin caused COVID? That's a loaded question. I don't know But God could be using the same pandemic for multiple purposes to afflict hard-hearted sinners who will only grow more hard-hearted by it To afflict his church to cause it to repent and hope in the Lord's salvation with greater fervor, and to draw some extraordinary saints to a closer walk with himself. So then we find the second reason why the church should still lament today, its present affliction. which does not arise from God's heart, but very possibly from its own. Shall we say that God is pleased with the church's readiness to be divisive about non essential matters? Shall we say that God is pleased with its worldliness, that is, with its tendency to apathy, preoccupation with selfish desire, even a lack of love of one's neighbors? These reasons and more are sufficient to show that you have a need to lament for your present affliction. A third reason why the church should still lament today is because Christ encourages it. Lamentations 3, verse 33 is a word of a prophet. A prophet is a person who speaks God's word. The essential characteristic of an Old Testament prophet was that he was inspired. God put his word into the mouths of his prophets. Their job was to speak that word to men. Lamentations is really quite amazing. You would expect God to be done with his people after their 900-year love affair with the other nations. You'd think that after he poured out his wrath, that he'd have no place left for pity. Yet, God gave his church at that time Jeremiah. who describes himself in this way in the book. I am the man that hath seen affliction by the rod of his wrath. His the Lord's. wrath. That's chapter 3, verse 1. Jeremiah, a godly man who suffered so much at the hands of the evil and rebellious Jerusalemites, was sent back to these people. At least to the survivors, to encourage them to pour out their hearts to God and to draw near to him. For their God was a God full of pity. Out of his own ordeal of divine chastisement, Jeremiah was shaped to encourage the afflicted people of God in God's mercy and faithfulness. Now, doesn't that sound like the Lord Jesus Christ, the Word of God incarnate? He, God in the flesh, as well as an innocent man, suffered the wrath of God. Our chastisement was upon him. And he underwent this, that he might be shaped to come to you through his word, to encourage you to draw near to God in your affliction. He encourages you not to complain, but to search and to try your ways and to turn again to the Lord The sympathetic note between the prophet and the afflicted people of God in Lamentations is amazing. All through the book of Lamentations, we read of Jeremiah's broken heart for the people's afflictions. This is no less true for Christians today. Christ Jesus' sympathy for afflicted sinners is unparalleled. He is a compassionate high priest, touched by your infirmities. So the third reason why the church should still lament today is because Christ, its prophet, through his word encourages it. For example, James chapter 5, verse 13, is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. 1 Peter 5, verse 7. Casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Not to mention that over half of the Psalms are Psalms of Lament. A final reason why the church should still lament today is taken from Lamentations 3, verse 26. This passage asserts that it is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord. In this verse and the next, Jeremiah shows the goodness of such affliction, namely It causes a man to humble himself before God and to wait for God's salvation. But Jeremiah's understanding of the value of such affliction is rarely heeded today in the West. The practice by contrite sinners of both hoping and quietly waiting for the salvation of the Lord, or of sitting alone and keeping silent, because they have borne the yoke of their sin early in life. Or even of putting their mouths in the dust while there is still hope of divine mercy. These things are rarely seen in the Western Church and is largely forgotten by a church who, as one commentator puts it, is addicted to success and wealth and is influencing two-thirds world Christians to do the same. This same commentator goes on to say that people who value ease and monetary success will tend to ignore the Bible statements on suffering and grief. They will avoid confessing sin, since to do so would be to admit that they do not deserve to be happy and satisfied A lack of reality pervades this sort of Christianity, and its adherents are not likely to become very interested in lamentation. It is because the Church in the West is largely not concerned with Lamentations as a book that I think it wonderful that our General Assembly has declared a solemn day of prayer and fasting Quote, that we might lament our distress and unworthiness before the Lord, confess our sin, and commit ourselves anew to the faithful service of the Lord our God. This is a dose of reality that our church life in the West is sorely in need of Furthermore, it is a dose of reality that our children are in need of, seeing from their parents. Children in the church must see their parents lament before God. Just what that means will become clear in the next section here. Lamette, like the 19th-century Negro spirituals, has a value-informing group identity. The church shares an identity as humbled mouth in the dust, meek, contrite sinners who lament their sins and failures while drawing near to God through the mercy of God and the grace of Jesus Christ So the final reason why the church should still lament today is simply to show to the next generation that salvation is to be found in God alone. The church must say this to its children. Your only hope is in the Lord Jesus Christ. It takes us to the third part of our sermon today, the four elements of biblical lament. I hope that I have persuaded you of the necessity and usefulness of lamenting before God. But how should you lament? If you are convinced as to the why, you may still be wondering how. Well, the book of Lamentations gives you four elements that make up a lament The first is confession of guilt. Confession of guilt. Lamentations 1. 14 says, the yoke of my transgressions is bound by his hand. Furthermore, 118 says, The Lord is righteous, for I have rebelled against his commandment. Lamenting is not a time to blame shift, but to acknowledge that the Lord is righteous in his affliction of you. Now there is one affliction common to all mankind: death. Hear what Moses has to say about it in Psalm 90, verses 3 through 11. You may return man to dust and say, Return, O children of man, for we are brought to an end by your anger. By your wrath we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. For all our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. The years of our life are seventy Or even by reason of strength, eighty. Yet their span is but toil and trouble. They are soon gone, and we fly away Who considers the power of your anger and your wrath according to the fear of you? Does this mean that God no longer loves us? No. Does this mean that God does not delight in us, in Jesus Christ? No. But it does mean, as Jeremiah says in Lamentations 3. 39, why should a living man complain? A man about the punishment of his sins. Don't complain about God's affliction of you for your sins, but do what the next verse says. Let us search and try our ways and turn again to the Lord. Remember, Paul could tell the Corinthians that many of them were ill. And some even had died because of the sinful way in which they were taking the Lord's Supper. The New Testament identifies illness with sin. We read that from James chapter 5. How miserable then is a church that has no people in it willing to admonish others for their sins, or willing to examine and try their ways in the light of God's Word? A solemn day of prayer and fasting is just such a day to search and try our ways and turn again to the Lord. So the first element of biblical lamenting is to confess guilt and to acknowledge that the Lord who has afflicted you is righteous. On a side note, this is why we begin every worship service with a time of confession of sin. There is no drawing near to God without it. The second element is to pour out your heart to God. Pour out your heart to God. The same hand that afflicted you is the one that will heal you. Lamentations chapter 2, verse 19 is the key verse here, 219. As I said before, you'd expect God to be done with his people. You would expect him to say, I have no time for you irresponsible, stupid people. Your misery is your own fault. Deal with it as best as you can. I don't want to hear about it. But that is not what the prophet says. Jeremiah urges the people to pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord. Lift up your hands toward him for the life of your young children that faint for hunger in the top of every street. I find this quite remarkable. The children are suffering for the parents' sins. You'd naturally think that God doesn't want to hear from such irresponsible parents about how bad it hurts to see their children suffering. But that isn't at all what Jeremiah suggests. He urges the people to tell the Lord just how bad it hurts. That seems a very hard thing to do. But once the wrath of God is passed, it is passed. It passed for these people, and they were still alive. Now it was time to begin to restore relations with their God. That starts with an honest confession of sin and pouring out your heart to God. This is the same teaching of the New Testament. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. So, first, confession of guilt. Second, pour out your heart to God. The third element in Biblical Lament is to draw near to God in faith. Draw near to God in faith. Actually, this may be, instead of an element, the very purpose of lament. It was implicit in the two previous elements, and is so in the fourth Nonetheless, it is still worth pointing out. For many, suffering is the surest reason not to believe in God, but even in suffering mankind is called to lift up its heart with its hands unto God in the heavens. That is, man is called to unreservedly give himself to God and to hope in his promised mercy through the Lord Jesus Christ. The gospel really shines in the context of Lament, doesn't it? That's the whole point. Seeing Romans 3. 23 as best declared by sinners with sackcloth and ashes upon their heads. and their mouths in the dust. First, confession of guilt. Second, pour out your heart to God. Third, draw near to God in faith. The fourth and the final element of biblical amend is the consolation of self by the future destruction of your enemies. Let me repeat that. It's kind of jarring at first. Consolation of self by the future destruction of your enemies. Here Lamentations chapter 1, 21 through 22 You will bring the day that you have called, and they, my enemies, shall be like unto me Let all their wickedness come before you, and do unto them as you have done unto me for all my transgressions. For my sighs are many, and my heart is faint. Jerusalem's enemies had their day of the Lord coming to them. So too do the church's enemies today. They will not escape divine judgment. In the New Testament, this translates to, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? And whom the man of sin the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming. 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 8. One day, all these enemies that plague you physically, psychologically, and spiritually will be destroyed by the Lord Jesus Christ. Console yourself that they will not have the final word. But you, if you wait on the Lord and hope in his salvation, will reign in life forever. In conclusion, I pray that you all keep the day of prayer and fasting on August 21, 2021. You all have need to, as sinners who have fallen short of the glory of God. Christ, through his word, urges you to do it. Furthermore, such a day is useful to you for sharpening your focus on the hope of the resurrection, for dealing biblically with your present affliction. By confessing sin, by pouring out your heart to God, by drawing near to God in the faith of Jesus Christ. By consoling yourself with the future destruction of your enemies. And finally, for unequivocally showing the next generation and the world that your hope is in the Lord And not in yourself. He must right the world's wrongs by the power of his gospel. May the Lord forever keep you in his power. Amen. Let us take a moment and pray. Lord God, this is a challenging message. It's challenging to read. It's challenging to deliver. It's challenging to hear. We have fallen short of your word. We have fallen short of your glory. We have forgotten what it means to lament. We've leaned on our own ways and our own knowledge and our own understanding. When your word very clearly says not to do that, not to lean on your own understanding, but to trust in you. And that you would guide our path. And yet we want to do it ourselves. We're stubborn. We're rebellious. O Lord, forgive us. Oh Lord, help us. Oh Lord, help our country. Help our nation. Help our neighbors. Help us to love our neighbors. Help us to love you, to honor you, to give you glory and honor and praise. Help us to pray. Help us to know what to pray. Give us your Holy Spirit to pray on our behalf with groans that no one can understand except for you. Lead us in the path of righteousness for your name's sake. In the name of your Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord and our Savior. Our Rock and our Redeemer, we pray, Amen