Our Old Testament reading will be from Ezekiel chapter 37, 1 through 14. The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out in the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones. And he led me around among them. And behold There were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord, you know. Then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones, Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live I will lay sinews upon you and cause flesh to come upon you, cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord. So I prophesied as I was commanded And as I prophesied, there was a sound, and behold a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to its bone. And I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them, but there was no breath in them. Then he said to me, Prophesy to the breath. Prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain that they may live. So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet, an exceedingly great army. Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, Our bones are dried up, our hope is lost, we are indeed cut off. Therefore, prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, behold, I will open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people, and I will bring you into the land of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord when I open your graves and raise you up from your graves, O my people. And I will put my spirit within you, and you shall live. And I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the Lord. I have spoken and I will do it, declares the Lord. The word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning comes from Paul's letter to the Romans, beginning in chapter 4 and verse 23, and we'll read through verse 11 of chapter 5. So Romans chapter 4, beginning at verse 23, hear the word of the Lord. And the connection I want you to see here, as Paul's saying, is between last week's sermon, the death of Jesus, And the connection of the salvation that means as he is risen and for his people. As Ezekiel, shall they live? Yeah, we shall live because Jesus lived. So don't you see the connection between his Yah And the salvation for his people in his risen life. But the words it was counted to him were not written for his own sake alone. But for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses. And raised for our justification. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him, we have also obtained access by faith. Into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that We rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance And endurance produces character, and character produces hope. And hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for thee ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. For God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. Or if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life? More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. And our gospel reading this morning comes from Mark chapter 16, beginning at verse 1, and we'll read to verse 8. Hear the word of the Lord. When the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Salome, bought spices so that they might go and anoint him. And very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb And they were saying to one another, We will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb. And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back. It was very large. And entering the tomb they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe. They were alarmed. And he said to them, Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified, he has risen He is not here. See the place where they laid him. But go tell his disciples and Peter That he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him just as he told you. And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them, and they said nothing to any one, for they were afraid. This is the word of the Lord. He has risen. That will be the words that we'll focus on this morning. As a Reformed Church, Which we are as an Orthodox Presbyterian Church still bearing witness to the world 400 years after the Reformation of the Truths I'd say rediscovered there by God's grace and giving a witness to the world of the reformed faith. I really think last week's sermon and going to this one are very important. As a witness to that faith. One of the key things I want us to take away from this morning's sermon is to see the connection Between the sufferings of our Lord Jesus Christ, his death, to his risen, or you might say, his work as mediator on earth And the connection between his work risen as mediator in heaven. That those whom he died for and suffered for are those whom come alive. His work is a whole, it is a connection, it's of a peace. united, there's no disjunction between it as other churches give a witness and testimony to, which We profess as reformed churches to confuse the gospel, to confuse the work of Christ, to not set it out in its clarity as God does, that there is a direct connection between what our Lord Jesus Christ did on earth And what our Lord Jesus Christ is now doing in heaven for his people. That's one of the things I want us to focus on. And really, as I said last week, we could dwell on the the vicarious atonement of Jesus all our lives. Because what that truth is teaching us is we know that there is just one unpardonable sin. You can go through the whole Bible, the numerous. Countless sins. And there's just one that God has declared He's not going to forgive. Blaspheming the Holy Spirit. We won't go into what that is this morning. What that means is you can identify every sin In the Bible, put your finger on it and say Jesus wanted to suffer and bear the punishment of that sin. Well, is there going to be any fruit after that? We can go to the Bible and identify all these sins as we looked at last week, as Jesus hung on the cross, as God forsaken and a cursor. Making an atonement for sins. Is there any connection between all those sins that he willingly wanted to suffer for? That the Father wanted him to suffer for, upheld in him by giving him a body and the Holy Spirit and all the gifts and graces to do that work. Is there any connection between Those sins suffered for and paid for, and what he is doing now in the world in his work is raised to the right hand of God and seated at his right hand. And the answer is yes. Now, first, I just want to walk you briefly through these verses. It's always helpful just to look at what the text is saying here. But just so I can focus you in on these verses, I want to look at this morning the revelatory and shocking nature of the event, the resurrection of Christ. that is interpreted by the words, he has risen. As we see here, as we'll look briefly, this was a revelatory and a shocking event to these women as they go to that tomb. So we're going to look at the revelatory and shocking uh nature of the event interpreted by the words right he has risen, of course that event being the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. So let's start real quick. We see Sabbath's over, that is what's interrupted these women, two of whom watched Jesus being buried, all of them watched him being crucified, watched him die. And two of them watched him, followed him to the tomb, saw the place he lay, but Sabbath starting there ended uh their ability to anoint him, and so they rested. And now that that's passed They go to the tomb. Notice what it says to anoint him. They're not going to greet him and hail him as the risen Lord. They're going because they think his body's still there and they want to give him burial rights Now we'll dwell on that point next week when we are sent out by our Lord in the Great Commission to preach the gospel about why people are so slow to believe this. So we're not going to dwell on that today Jesus had told them several times in his earthly ministry, the angel will remind them, you have heard about this. So they go expecting to find his body there. They get up very early, the sun's still rising, they go to the tomb. It seems that they and they're I don't know, they're mourning, they're sadness, whatever. They they not until they're on their way they actually think, you know, how are we going to get in this tomb? Because tombs are sealed and we can't just walk in there. How are we going to actually get in? Well Mark doesn't dwell on the the fact of the earthquake, the angel appearing, rolling back. Mark doesn't also dwell on the fact of the guard put in by um the high priest, uh still by the Romans and the women probably weren't even aware of as they were resting on the Sabbath day. Just take it just wants to focus on on what happened here at the tomb with these women Well they get there, it's rolled back, that's good because it's it's a very large stone. I guess I'm told that the the the they're built in caves and there's a slope, so to roll the stone in place is pretty easy to do and then it sits in a groove Getting it out though requires the strength of several men to dig it back out and push it uphill. So not something these women would have been able to do uh on their own. Well they go in the tomb. Imagine put yourself there, it's rolled back. Did is there grave robbers come here? At this point they have no idea of the explanation, but They're adventurous. More than that, they love Jesus. They're doing an office of love to their Savior. They love him and they want to anoint his body. And they probably really want to know what does this mean that the tomb's open to us. So they go in there. And they see a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were alarmed. The scriptures use white robes generally to refer to angelic beings. A white robe was used in Mark to refer to Jesus in his transfiguration. Uh his clothes became radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them. So they're seeing a transcendent whiteness, a whiteness that doesn't come from the realm of men here and the phenomenon we're used to. I'm looking at some people that know about light. ways to probably talk to us about that. This is a spectrum we are not used to encountering with our human eyeballs is radiating into them and they weren't expecting this young man seated there. And it says that they were alarmed, as I'm sure any of us would get a start and a fright if we met an angel when we went into The two, and they were alarmed. Another world the visitor had visited them Well, the angel says to them, right, don't be affrighted. I know why you're here. You seek Jesus of Nazareth. I'm sure they begin to calm them. Yes, we are seeking Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified He has risen. What he's he's done. Why were they he's not here? And he says, look for yourself. See, here's the place where they laid his body. It's not there He is risen. Then he says to them, But go, said you You came here to anoint the body, it's obvious he's not here. I've told you he's not here. More than that, I told you the reason he's not here. It's not because he was taken away, it's because He has risen. So then he redirects their effort. He says, But go tell his disciples And Peter, not when I can dwell on the wonderful truth of Jesus restoring, not only Peter, all of them, they all boasted that they would stay. Peter just remember what Peter did? Peter said, he he drew a distinction between him and the rest. He said If they, yeah, they'll deny you, but Lord, I'm over here in a different category of believers and I won't. So Jesus draws the same distinction. And go tell Peter too, that special one who thought, you would never deny me. It's so lovely, isn't it? Jesus interacts with his people and who we are and it's so glorious. And here he is dealing and he'll deal with his sheep as he continues to deal with all of his sheep and all of us. So go tell Peter, go tell him that he is going before you to Galilee. You're in Jerusalem. He is headed north. And there you will see him. They get a promise. It doesn't mean that's the only place they're going to see him, just promising. You will see him there. Just as he told you, reminds them. He told you that. When did he tell them that? He told them on the night that he was betrayed, and verse twenty-eight of chapter fourteen, but after I am raised up I will go before you to Galilee. You know, it's a wonderful thing in the gospel that Jesus never talked about his sufferings apart from his resurrection They are of a peace. Never did he mention the cross without mentioning the very soon resurrection and the implications of that So there you will see him just as he told you. And then Mark tells us their response. They leave the tomb. They flee, a trembling, you could see them shaking. They are astonished at Not only the the angel, but at the news and the implications of what this mean, it's hard to say exactly what might be rushing through their mind because resurrection of the dead meant the judgment was close We've now seen in God's timing there's a bit of a space between that, but to the Jewish mind, the resurrection of the dead and judgment's very soon, kingdom of God is very soon and all of its power And they're overwhelmed at what this might actually mean that the resurrection has has started. And they see that they said nothing Uh to know and this isn't stressing that they were disobedient. It means that they fled there. We'll see next week Jesus will visit Mary in a moment Um it's just saying they're so overwhelmed that they were afraid. This is the fear we've already seen in the gospel when uh you're out on a boat and it's the perfect storm And the man laying in the boat, you wake up, tells the clouds, or tells the storm and the sea to calm down. And it does. And you're going Who are you? Because there's something of the transcendent majesty and identity of Jesus breaking in in that moment, right? And it's that kind of fear that would happen to any of us if something of the other world broke into our normal, I don't mean this in a pejorative way, but mundane lives, right? uh here on earth and we are all we need to be reminded there is a true heavenly place. There is a true heavenly realm. Jesus is bodily there. There is a worship and activity and reign going on with his deceased Saints who departed there. And it's coming here, and it comes in as well. The points to make today. God the Christian church is a supernatural work of God. This is not something that happened only here, it happens And all of God's works were just people. So this is that this is the kind of fear it's talking about when something otherworldly happens and you are just overawed and stunned by the reality of what's taken place. So this is something Bigger than I can grasp, has implications and meanings that are overawing me and jars me out of my my sleepy walk, you might say. Now that's as far as I want to go here. I hope it is clear and obvious with what Mark is saying in these verses About the revelatory, and we're going to focus on that. That's really going to be the burden of the of the rest of the sermon. The revelatory nature of these words, he has risen, but also the shocking nature. This came as a shock even though they had been told about it. Next week you'll have to wait till next week as you look at verses nine through twenty, and if you're looking at your ESV Bible to decide do they belong to Mark or do they not belong to Mark, you'll have to wait in eager anticipation. Maybe you can do your own research and see what you come up with. So we'll talk about that next week. Okay. Here's what I want to focus on the rest of the time. The fact, I want to look at these words, he has risen. And that these were a word of revelation. Let's be clear about that. These women came to the tomb not expecting a resurrection, but expecting anoint Jesus. And there could be, and there has been given many false reasons why Jesus' body was not in that tomb and everything like that. We're not going to dwell on those. But that angel's word to them is a word of revelation. You're probably wondering what happened to the body. I'm telling you definitively what happened. He has risen. But that will go on and be confirmed to them when Jesus appears to them bodily as well. But the angel is speaking a word of revelation. And it is that same word that the church. Now we've not been blessed with bodily appearances of our Lord Jesus Christ. We do have a supernatural regenerating work of God in our hearts so that we believe in Jesus Christ But this is the same word of revelation being preached to the world to justify and explain to us the existence of the Church of Jesus Christ and why it's not going anywhere. He has risen. And I want to make it clear why that by means of not going anywhere this morning, and the implication, the revelation of what just that means, that he Has reason because that is the world that reveals much. It reveals much about yourself. In fact, it reveals four things. I'm going to say the four things it reveals. It reveals the new creation. Reveals the new creation. It reveals the person and work of Jesus Christ. in his threefold office as our mediator and redeemer, in his two estates of humiliation and glory. I know that got really big and probably I lost you at threefold. The point is, I hope you know your confessions and catechisms and understand what I'm saying, and I'll briefly touch on it. All it's saying is it is in the light of these words. He has risen that cast light back on what was a dark event that nobody on earth understood what was taking place on the cross. that who is this person Jesus and what was this work being done then? They cast light on that, we'll make that clear. And then thirdly, uh these words, and they really go with two, once you see then Who the person and work of Jesus was on earth. They reveal the amazing love of God that makes it all possible. We see being stressed there in Romans 5 to us, that undeserving Wonderful love of God that makes our new life in Jesus Christ possible. And fourth and finally These words reveal something about everybody here. And you'll have to wait for that. These words, he has risen, reveal something about everybody here. And everybody in the world. So let's look at these four things. This is a word of revelation. The first one is revealed to us by the new creation. You notice what the angel doesn't say to these women. He doesn't say, you know, a bout face, turn around, you just missed him. Jesus does not exist in the flesh anymore and the mode of living in which we exist in. Yes, he has a body. He's not tied to space and gravity He's in a whole new realm that the Bible calls the new creation. The angel doesn't say you just got to run down the road and you're surely going to run into him because he's walking, he's beating feet up the Galilee. No. He walked for 30 years on this earth. He walked for three and ten years all over this earth. Not what he's doing now These words reveal to us the new creation. Paul, in his preaching of the gospel in Acts chapter 13, it's a wonderful example. Read all of Acts 13 if you want to study how to evangelize. Go to Paul, read here, and we'll dwell on that next week when we're sent out to evangelize. But here what the apostle Paul says about Jesus And he's building off of Psalm 2, or excuse me, 16, verse 10. You will not let your holy one see corruption. He says, For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation He fell asleep and was laid with his fathers and saw corruption. But he whom God raised up did not see corruption. Alright, so we're talking about a body, Jesus has a body that no longer sees corruption This was also, that's what was being preached in the gospel preaching, that Jesus was raised not like Lazarus, saw corruption, not like Jairus' daughter Saw corruption but raised in the manner never to return to the never to return to corruption. That is Immortality, if you want to use that word, alive, bodily alive, forever. This was also what is taught in the gospel teaching by the apostles. First Corinthians fifteen is a long Treatment by Paul, teaching on the resurrection and the implications of that, particularly in the body, as people thought, you know, this sounds kind of crazy because What about these weak bodies? The Paul says you d you don't you don't get it. You sow something, but that's not the body to come. Jesus has been raised in that spiritual body. Spirit doesn't mean not body. Spirit is God's ruach, his breath, his power, which he recreates, news, and sustains. He's talking about a body so Filled with the spirit, that it is alive and in a power and animated in a way that these earthly, fleshly bodies aren't nor can't be. No matter the best health we may be, let alone lying under the curse of God and death and the diseases that plague us So he's talking about that spiritual body or that heavenly body. Adam was the earthly man, Jesus is the Lord from heaven. We get that heavenly body. What we mean by that is a body fit for heaven Fit to be in God's presence, not a weak body, but a glorious body. Not a perishable body, but an imperishable body. Not a weak body, but a powerful body. I was thinking last night as I was meditating on this. That means there'll be no more backaches one day, right? Well have a lot then someone came this morning and said I'm having back surgery now. This fits exactly. I'll make sure I mention this point in the sermon. That's what we're talking about. Wouldn't it be so wonderful to be alive in that way? Isn't that really one of the hardships of this world? Is dealing with these bodies. Good gifted, they are lovingly made by Him. Don't we as humans want to be alive in our bodies? That's what we're talking about and what's being preached and taught. Is it's a new creation. Uh Second Corinthians five, Paul dwells on this right. He says, The old is past and the new has come for anybody in Christ. If it means that if you are in Christ, you're new, it can only be because Christ is that new creation, right? Christ is that new man. So to be in Christ is to be a new creation. Let me see if I can make this clear what we're talking about the new creation wants to get this point. Let me ask you this question. Who creates our earthly bodies? God, right? But who creates our new bodies? God, you know what we're saying? We're saying that God put forth all of his creative might and power and wisdom and fashioning that new eternal lasting final body for Jesus Christ and nobody else saw it. I mean we gazed it, we didn't get to see him do the work. Like nobody sought to see the work of the new creation. We've seen it or those who s saw uh appearances of Jesus saw the work after it was done. But what we're saying, beloved As God said, let there be light, as we read this morning, remind us in the law, if you go to Genesis chapter 1 and you see God and His sovereign power. might, freedom, joy, delight in making a creation. We're saying he did that same recreative work already on the Lord Jesus Christ. fashioning that body for his son, clothing his son in that body, as he reunited his soul with that body forever. That's what we mean by saying the new creations come. It's already started with Jesus. God's already acted and created in a new way, and He did it to Jesus. These are the implications of these words are huge, aren't they? He has risen. We don't mean like Jairus, daughter. We don't mean like Lazarus. We mean by an act of divine power and recreative work, all three persons of the Trinity working to fashion that body on Jesus Christ. I just want us to sit with that point, know that point, be clear at that point, because that leads us into the next point If Jesus has been so clothed, I think we would all agree, you must be quite a blessed person to receive such a gift, right? Of immortality. To receive such a body and be brought into the presence of God. That must be such a blessing. Such a great reward, even. Well, that kind of jarring comparing to what we saw last week, right? And this is going to transition us to the next point. So these words he has risen reveal the new creation. God has acted in a new way. He's done it towards his son Jesus. He's done it to you if you're regenerate, as you created your heart But let's think real quick about what this reveals about the person and work of Jesus. Because last week We saw him die God forsaken by his own admission on the cross. We saw him die a curse, the law says Cursed are all who hang on a tree. Now the Jews did not crucify people. That is a horrible way to kill somebody. After they stoned you, according to God's law, they hung you up on a tree to show that you were cursed, and then they took you before the sun was down They don't want to defile the land. So they didn't kill people in that horrific manner, but they did still hang you up on a tree to show you were a curse of God. So Jesus did die in a horrific manner and was hung up on a tree. So God forsaken A cursed man ostensibly executed, right, as a state criminal. Now you can imagine preaching this, right? Yeah, I tried to make the analogy last week in a modern way. Imagine going around telling everybody God's son is the person who was uh put to death by legal injection on national television last week as a blasphemer and as an insurrectionist against the authorities of the United States moving us to treason And you're saying, wait, what? We can never lose sight of that. We boast and glory in the cross, that is great and good. But you miss something of the shockingness of the gospel if you forget that the manner of Jesus' death was an execution as a criminal by the state. And now trying to preach what that means to people. Just imagine the impossibility of that. God is clearly up to something in his own plan that we would go share this, as Paul says, foolish word with people. Then what what does that mean? Because this says things about God if we don't get this right. I want us to dwell on this point. This is a significant point. Because we're going Why would somebody so blessed and favored to partake in the new creation die in such a horrific manner? And as what looks appeared to the world a great sinner. Because I think we would agree as Even just as citizens in the world, the world is better placed without blasphemers and without insurrectionists. We get rid of people who revolt against civil governments. We don't want them in our nation. They foster wars. God agrees with that too. He's promised to create a new world where there aren't sinners. Does that sink in? God has promised, though He loves sinners, don't misstate me, but He's promised to create a new world. There aren't sinners in it. There'll never be sinners in it. Sin the gospel is bad news to sin. It says your day's done. The new creation's begun. The works of Satan are being destroyed. I'm bringing an end to all this sin that fills my creation. Let us remember, show us the great loving nature of God toward us. Let's let's deal with this fact. You know, it appears Jesus dying in such a way you think this is good. Such sinners to be rid out of the land. But then why did God raise such a sinner to such a great reward and give him such life? And obviously the only answer that even begins to explain that is because he's not a man born in Adam like you and I. And he's not a sinner. But he's the Son of God who voluntarily took upon our sinful flesh, voluntarily died because the father asked him to do it. You know the have you ever judged the book by its cover The gospel is a bit like that. You see the death of Jesus and you kind of judge it by its cover. Oh, it looked like a great criminal. But then the resurrection is like opening the page and you begin to read and you start to see, oh, things aren't as they appear. He died in this horrific manner, died ostensibly as a great sinner, and yet God rewards him. But God says in his in his word, Proverbs 24, I didn't write the exact reverse thing twenty-four-twenty There shall be no reward for the wicked. Well, why is Jesus getting such a great reward if he died so wickedly? Isaiah 57, 12 says that there is no rest for the wicked. Why has Jesus risen and entered his eternal rest? if he died so wickedly. But these are the questions that that people face in the preaching that we honestly face and deal with, because it's the only way that leads us to answer it in the way God wants us to answer it Because he's my son, and I asked him to do it, and he did it. And he's risen from the grave not because he was a sinner. But he rose from the grave because he was obedient. He was the righteous one, my servant. So these words reveal to us the person of Jesus. He is the Son of God. You cannot make any explanation out of the death of Jesus and the manner he died according to the law of God and his resurrection, unless he is the Son of God. It impugns God's law, God's word, who he is, to give a sinner such a great reward. Then you say, well, how do I, a sinner, get such a great reward? That's his grace. Because Jesus might, he counted your transgressions against Jesus. He bore the brunt of them. You're no longer a sinner in his eyes. Paul says, but you who've been justified, you're righteous according to God. You're righteous not by anything you've done. You're righteous by what Jesus Christ has done. And if God loved you so much as a sinner you were and did that. Isn't Jesus risen now going to care for you that you are justified by faith and righteous? That's the point of it. So he's revealed to us Who Jesus is, and they begin to feel to us his work on earth, right, as our mediator. That was a work, as Romans 5 said, of reconciliation. That's the only way to make sense of it. That was a work of redemption. That's the only way to make sense of it. I'm not going to dwell on these. We've talked about it last week. I just want you to see clearly and understand It is in the light of the resurrection that we begin to understand who Jesus was and the significance of his work. And we know that historically and factually because nobody understood why he was on earth Nobody got that this was the Messiah. Nobody understood these things. So why did he raise? Well, he was raised because of his obedient sacrifice. And this is that point I wanted to make about the connection between last week Vicarious satisfaction, Jesus' whole life as an obedient offering to God, culminating in his final obedience on the cross Offered for your sins as what justifies you the life. A substitutionary atonement. Substitutionary atonement isn't just on the cross, it's Jesus' whole life lived before God. Culminating on the cross As an act of obedience, but his whole life, think about it. He said this helps us to love Jesus' life and who He is The Bible is very clear. He came into a world dead in sin. He was the only person alive in it. Imagine being the only person alive. The only person following God. Well, you don't have to imagine you saw what it's like in Jesus' life. You're learning what it's like if you're a Christian and you're in an area like that This is why we love Jesus so much and his whole life was an offering up to God for us in our place and bearing our sins on the cross. Well God the Father promised him a reward for this He says, yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him, Isaiah 53:10. He shall see his offspring, right? He shall prolong his days, right? Jesus is alive forever, God's fulfilling his word. He shall prolong his days. Because Jesus made his soul an offering for sin, the Father is prolonging his days, obviously forever, for life immortality. We see that the will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand, he says. Jesus is that worldly man, Son of God, raised to God's right hand, seated there at this throne. Executing all of the Father's will. What a great reward for his obedience. We have to get this as Christians and Reform Christians The gospel is about the achievement of Jesus Christ. The gospel is about a man, a new man, and what he's achieved. The gospel is about look at my son Jesus, look what he's done, and look what I'm doing because of what he's done. That's what the message of the gospel is about, and the free, full salvation in them, because he's done it all We're looking at the direct link between the resurrection and his sufferings. There's a direct link. He poured out his soul. For an offering. He obeyed God. He is being rewarded for what he has done. He has been exalted to the right hand of God. The resurrection is the first step in Jesus' exaltation to glory culminating in his return to earth and judgment, where he will rule on this earth from the judgment on. This is a first step in that, the resurrection of Jesus. And finally, just to make the point clear to us, we read that the work of Jesus is what has definitively justified us to life. We read there that by the knowledge of him shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous. You can never comprehend and understand Jesus apart from his body. And what I mean by that is his church. He's not merely an individual man like Adam wasn't an individual man. He is a representative man. He stood for his people. His act, his life, his obedience is what has justified us and brought us to life. And that's the significance then of Ezekiel 37. That's the significance of the Son of Man, Jesus, in heaven prophesying over the dead bones of these nations through his servants, through his church as it's preached. Calling Jesus, calling to the breath, calling to the Spirit to breathe on them and bring them back to life because I've suffered for them. They are the seed of my sufferings. They are the travail of my soul. They are the reward of my pouring my life out. He has risen reveals to us the person of Jesus as the Son of God and his work as our mediator, both on earth. To reconcile and redeem us and in heaven to regenerate us and bring us to everlasting salvation I won't dwell on this point, but to make it clear, these words then, as you can see, clearly reveal the amazing love of God that makes it all possible. Who are these ones who've received reconciliation? Who are these ones that have been justified by the death of Jesus? Right? Romans 5 tells us helpless. We have to understand that means a culpable helplessness. That's like a drug addict or an alcoholic who ruins his life, ruins his body, and becomes helpless because of what he's done Not merely just helpless because of the situation. We are helpless people because we have fallen into sin. These are the people God has Brought to life through Jesus, ungodly people. Jesus died from ungodly people. See, this is what we mean. See, we can understand Jesus' resurrection, right? He is the just one. How do we understand our own resurrection? That is answered definitively in the Bible, the grace of God. God makes his love clear and it's wonderful, it's his love. I'm not trying to focus on the fact that we're helpless, ungodly sinners and enemies That's to look at ourselves again. I'm going to focus on the love of God who did that, who loves helpless, ungodly sinners or his enemies Because that's just who the world's filled with. That's the people we're gone to bring the news to. He's risen and watched God do an amazing work of bringing them to life through the risen Jesus Christ. You know, I talked about these words being revelatory and shocking. That's what the Apostle John says, right, in 1 John 3. Behold, what manner of love is this? Are we shocked by God's love, right? The Apostle John was shocked that he was loved by God in such a way. The love of God is shocking as we see how much He loves us. And finally, the close These words reveal the new creations here. These words reveal who Jesus is and what he's done on earth, is doing in heaven. These words reveal the great love of God that makes all this possible. Finally, these words reveal something about you. If the words he has risen are meaningless words to you, you need to be evangelized. Why don't you start out with evangelism with he has risen and see if that resonates with anybody? It's like what does that mean? Explain to me. I'm happy to explain it to you If he has risen has no understanding to you, you're a person that needs to be evangelized. You need to be told the gospel, you need to be told who Jesus is, you need to be told why he's died, you need to be told why he's raised to life If he told his promises, all those who believe and trust in him will share in that. You need to be evangelized. It says something about you. If he has risen, you don't know what that means. You've not yet been evangelized You haven't had these things explained to you, so you need to be evangelized. They also say something about you if he has risen to something you adamantly reject and hate. Jews rejected and hate it. Paul says, you've shown yourself to be unworthy of eternal life. Reprobation. You're being a reprobate of God. is revealed by how you respond to this good news. He has risen. He is God's Son, he is the Messiah. He is King. He is Lord. He is coming. Bow down and worship him. Call upon him as Lord and Savior. Give yourself to him. And those who refuse that. Refuse the offer and mercy of God. Now reprobation is larger than just rejecting the gospel as people who never hear the gospel. But it says something about you if you reject the gospel. If you reject he has risen. Well then it also says something about you if he has risen is great joy to you. Is great comfort to you. Is your whole life because you live for this one who is risen? And it's demonstrated in your life that you live for Jesus, that you believe in Jesus, that He has risen is everything to you, and your whole life is explained around because you have seen the light of the glory of the knowledge of God and the face of Jesus Christ. It says something about you. You're the elect of God. The chosen of God, because our faith in Jesus Christ flows from his cross, comes from his suffering, the direct result of it. Though he has risen are very revealing words, aren't they? Preach, he has risen And you will reveal the hearts of men. We know that's true because God's been preaching he has risen for 2,000 years. And people's hearts are being revealed. Are they with God and His and belong to Him? Are they not His and cast off from Him? Or are they ignorant people that don't know Him and need to know Him He has risen. That's the message we'll look at next week, right? As we sent out, we talk about advances and we go out. Let me remind you then, if these words are your joy, if they're not and you don't know, look to Jesus Christ, because he is risen. If you are the dry bones, look to the living Lord Jesus, have him breathe upon you, that you might come to life. And if you are alive, you rejoice in these words, beloved. Well, seek the life that Jesus Christ has given you. Seek that life that is more than the clothes we put on our bodies. The food we put in our bellies and the drink that we get. All nations. That's the life of every nation. Jesus says, Isn't life more than this? Seek the life of the crucified one. Live the life of the crucified one if you are alive in Jesus Christ. May God give you all his grace, which he surely will, to live this life. Amen.