This is the word of God. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning Oh my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer. Trusted, they trusted, and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued. In you they trusted. And were not put to shame. But I am a worm and not a man Scorned by mankind and despised by the people, all who see me mock me, they make mouths at me, they wag their heads. He trusted in the Lord, let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, for he delights in him. Yet you are he who took me from the womb. You made me trust you at my mother's breasts. On you was I cast from my birth, and from my mother's womb, you have been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help. Many bulls encompass me. Strong bulls of Bashan surround me. They open wide their mouths at me like a ravening and roaring lion. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted within my breast. My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue sticks to my jaws. You lay me in the dust of death For dogs encompass me. A company of evildoers have pierced my hands and feet. I can count all my bones. They stare and gloat over me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. But you, O Lord, do not be far off. O you my help, come quickly to my aid. Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. Save me from the mouth of the lion. You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen. I will tell of your name to my brother In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. You who fear the Lord, praise him. All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him And stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel. For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. And he has not hidden his face from him, but has heard when he cried to him. From you comes my praise in the great congregation. Congregation. My vows I will perform before those who fear him. The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied. Those who seek him shall praise the Lord. May your hearts live forever. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations shall worship the Lord. For you. For kingship belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations. All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship. Before him shall bow all who go down to the dust, even the one who could not keep himself alive. Posterity shall serve him. It shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation. They shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn. That he has done it. The word of the Lord. Now Mark 15, 21 to 32. And they compelled a passerby, Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry his cross. And they brought him to the place called Golgotha, which means place of a skull. And they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. And they crucified him and divided his garments among them, casting lots for them to decide what each should take. And it was the third hour when they crucified him. And the inscription of the charge against him read, The King of the Jews. And with him they crucified two robbers, one on his left. Left. And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads and saying, Ha ha! You who would destroy the temple, save yourself And come down from the cross. He cannot save himself. Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross, that we may see and Believe. Those who were crucified with him also reviled him. This too is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Almighty God, to you our hearts are open. All our desires are known. And from you no secrets are hid. Cleanse the thoughts of our hearts by the inspiration of your Holy Spirit, that we may perfectly love you. Worthily magnify your holy name through Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ Have you troubles? Well, a man who lived long ago in the land of Uz, probably somewhere in what is modern Syria. Listen to what he says in Job 5. 7. Man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upwards. Patriarch sufferings are but a paradigm of what life is like, as we have seen in recent days. In the case of many in that part of the world. And Job is not alone. In his dismay at the inevitability of his severely painful troubles, David In spite of his elevated position as king, bemoans similarly in this psalm that forms our text this evening. It is an agonized prayer brought about by the most intense suffering God's servant can know. Not just that enemies surround him and that his body is in dreadful pain, but that he feels that God does not hear him And does not care about his suffering. And David's experience is not unlike that of Job or any other biblical figure we could cite Joseph, Jeremiah, and yes It is the experience of all God's people in the face of terrible trouble. Now you may not face the same challenges as they did, but I'm sure that most, if not All of you will have to admit that there have been times when you too have wondered how your loving Heavenly Father can stand by when you are in In such distress. There seemed to be no answer to your troubles. And in your anguish, you, like David, could only resort to to prayer. Our proposition tonight, as we look at Psalm 22, a very rich psalm indeed, is this. God's people will surely suffer trouble of all sorts, but they may have confidence That God can and will provide the help he has accomplished through the redeeming work done by the suffering Messiah. That's what the psalm is about. And I have four points tonight, each about troubles. Number one, troubles are lifelong and they are regular. Do you notice that David is not anguished over some momentary difficulty that has unexpectedly interrupted his otherwise smooth life? Troubles of all sorts characterize his existence as a son of Adam. And last and they last From his conception in the womb to the dust of the grave, lifelong. So he is not surprised at the regularity. He confesses in verse 2 that he moans by day And by night. There's your 24 hours. And it is a 24-hour deal indeed. To put it bluntly, as he says in verse 11, trouble is near. He characterizes himself in shocking turns. Wasn't he? In verse six, when he says, I am a worm and not a man. That's pretty depressing. At the same time, and here is the good news, David also believes that his status as a covenant member of God's family is lifelong and regular as well. He puts it so succinctly in verses 9 and ten. Yet you are he who took me from the womb. You made me trust you at my mother's breasts. On you was I cast from my Birth and from my mother's womb, you have been my God. There's his confidence that as surely as troubles will continue All his life, God's faithfulness to his covenant promise to help David and to keep him will also continue all Will you not then be thankful, believer in God, here tonight? That through the work of his spirit enabling you to put your trust in Jesus Christ, that when you are in trouble, you are not alone. And you are not experiencing something strange And unexpected that breaks your relationship with your God. He is always at work. And you may even say, including the trouble He has done it. Whatever happens, whatever happens, he is fulfilling his perfect plan for you throughout your entirety. entire life. The troubles will come. Expect them But expect God to work all things together for good, for you whom He has called According to his purpose. Isn't that comforting? I know that that, however, is still not easy to believe always, especially when you are suffering Like David did. One thing after another. Troublesome. The temptation is to doubt that God can do it. But right then it is that you need Psalm 22. Aren't you glad it's in your Bible? You need to reread it in those dark moments when it seems like there is no help at hand. Troubles are lifelong And they are regular. But now, secondly, troubles have always been overcome by God's people Think of the past and how God has always enabled his own to endure and even conquer in the face of extreme. Difficulty. Sometimes even brought about by their own folly and sin. David knew about that and says in verses 4 and 5: In you our fathers trusted They trusted and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued. In you they trusted and were not put to shame. Think of Joseph, left for dead in a sandy desert pit. Think of the children of Abraham groaning as slaves. Under Egyptian bondage. And yes, think of Job losing everything. His family, his health, and even the Comfort of his best friends. But they all endured by Yahweh's grace and came out on the other side of trouble into Sunday. And joyful vistas. They all did succumb for a time to the temptation to doubt that the God of heaven actually knew what was going on down here on earth And could be trusted to do something about it. So David, a clear case in point, was sure that God, his God, had actually forsaken him. Wasn't that obvious? There was no answer to his prayer, was there? Well, no. At least At least not according to David's timing and David's specific petition. But what David forgot for a moment was that he was not running the universe. God was. Actually, even David's enemies, who themselves were the perpetrators of his suffering, had a finger on the truth Note the irony here. They scorn David with wagging heads and making faces at him. Mocking, he trusts in Yahweh. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, for he delights in him. The truth. Yes, David is quite convinced that the Lord has forgotten him, but apparently his enemies haven't. They advise him to put his trust in the covenant God. If ever there was a time when someone ought to practice what they preach, it was here The unbelievers tell the truth, and the believer doesn't. But the good news is that David is not done with his psalm. He goes on to confess that God has rescued him from the horns of the wild oxen. God hadn't forgotten him after all. He was there all the time. And David came through because God came through with him His answer in his time and in his way. So troubles have always been overcome by God's people Now we're halfway through. Two plus two is four. Number three, troubles do not hinder the reception of God's grace. They don't. Jesus Christ, your Redeemer, my dear believers here tonight, was aptly described by the prophet Isaiah as a man of sorrows. And acquainted with grief. Jesus had troubles. And little did David realize that his own account in Psalm 20 twenty two of the troubles that afflicted and surrounded him was all the more descriptive of the sorrow and grief that would cling to the Messiah all his 32 years. Especially on the last day of his life. As Jesus suffered under the extreme His oppressors, and he as he at last hung on the cross, what did he do? But quote this Our psalm here tonight. Jesus knew his Bible. He was a psalm singer. Hear him as he used the words of David's language in Psalm 22. Eloy, Eloy, Lama, Sabhakhtanai. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And how could he see what they were doing to him without thinking of David's own complaint? Yes, this psalm is, and you already knew it, not only the experience of David, as he uses pictorial to describe the suffering The troubles that he suffered. It proves to be, doesn't it, a very remarkable and specific prophecy Of the sufferings of Jesus. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots All my bones are out of joint. They stare and gloat over me. They have pierced My hands and feet. All this David moaned as he poured out his prayer in vivid verse to the Lord But now we know that it proves to be exactly what happened in actual physical reality to the suffering Servant of the Lord. Jesus knew all that David had said in Psalm 22. Oh, how well. But now I want you to notice this might be the high point in the whole sermon. Might be. That one of the taunts that David's enemies hurled at him was altered when it came to the taunts that Jesus' enemies Hurled at him. And I'm sure that Jesus didn't miss it. David's enemies said. Let God deliver him, for he delights in him. And that was undoubtedly true. And God did deliver David, with whom God delighted. Time and again. But now notice what Jesus' enemies say about him He saves others, and here it comes. He cannot save himself. Cannot And they were absolutely right. Because the death of Jesus had to happen in order that God God could save you. Jesus had to die for you. So troubles don't hinder the reception of God's grace. But now fourthly and lastly, deliverance from trouble produces praise to God. You think usually of trouble in negative terms, don't you? That suffering and difficulty are bad and thus don't serve any positive purpose at all. But David doesn't agree with you if you think that. Notice how in his Psalm from verse 22 through to the end, the mood and tone change dramatically. Agonized prayer turns to ardent praise. I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. This heartfelt worship happens because God has brought about deliverance from trouble. The failure that at the beginning of the Psalm seems certain Is now swallowed up in victory. And this blessing will not be just personal or individual. But it will be worldwide. We heard something about that this morning. It'll be worldwide. The praise rests on the abundant promise. Look at verses 27 and 29. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations Shall worship before you. All the prosperous of the earth shall eat and worship. Before him shall bow all who go down to the dust. After suffering, full of trouble, comes the glory of the worldwide kingdom. God's fulfilled purposes will not only affect the whole world, but will also span the generations thereof. Verse 30. Posterity shall serve him. It shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation. The picture here is not of a brief time of positive joy for God's people, but the assurance that the time of suffering will actually lead And surely, since the time of Pentecost, you have seen the fulfillment of the promise, haven't you? All around the world today, Jesus is known and worshipped. Even while suffering and trouble continue, you have seen Christ's promise realize I will build my church And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. The success is the Lord's doing. For kingship, says verse 28, belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations. God is the active one who ultimately gives victory to his cause and achieves his triumph through the instruments he uses. David sees himself as such an instrument, especially in his proclaiming the goodness and mercy of his God. As he says in verse 22, I will tell of your name to my brothers. And Jesus is also the speaker. This verbal citation, listed directly from David's words in our text tonight, shows again how fully the New Testament hears Jesus speaking in this Psalm. Not only here, but over and again in the Psalter. You're going to get the same thing week after week in these evening services. And you should hear the Savior Yourself. The psalmist indeed proclaims the name of God, particularly in terms of his saving mercy. Verse 24: For he has not despised face from him. But has heard when he cried to him. John Calvin put it this way: God begets and multiplies his church only by By means of the Word. You who have experienced God's mercy in deliverance from trouble, especially the trouble from your sin. Must tell others about it. And those people will always begin with your own family. You wives must tell your husbands, and you husbands, your wives. You parents, your children And vice versa. There is no greater conversation that can be found in your homes over the internet Via the telephone, at the dinner table, if you're still eating together, and when you experience trouble. Than this. God is delivering me. I trust Him, and I will not worry Can you think of a message better than that one when you hear of sin forsaken, of sin Sickness born, and even sorrow welcomed by one of your family members. Can you For this reason, the psalm ends with this firm certainty. He has done it. He has done it. Your God hears your prayers, fulfills his promises, and fills you with praise. As Paul tells the church in Romans 11, 36, from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. As you seek to understand Psalm 22, so that you can and appropriate it and use it. You need to see it in the direction of the history of the church from the beginning. And through the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and unto you in your life today, with all its sorrows. And trouble. First suffering, and then glory. Thus, the real and inescapable problems of life in this fallen world should lead you to prayer and pray. That's how you can continue to face with faith the problems that come to you. Daily. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, what a song. Just Have remembered that. Well, because he was its author. And we thank you that David is a picture of Christ. And Christ also becomes a picture of us too, when we united with him and to him conquer troubles the same way he did. We look forward, O Lord, to the resurrection that is to come after our death. Or if Jesus comes before we die then. You will have done it, O Lord, all that you promised to do. And we're very glad here tonight to hear this gospel For Christ's sake, Amen