Our Old Testament reading is Isaiah 65, 17 through 25. For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth. and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create, for behold I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness. I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and be glad in my people. No more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress. No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his days, for the young man shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed They shall build houses and inhabit them. They shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit. They shall not build in another inhabit. They shall not plant in another eat For like the days of a tree shall the days of my people be, and my chosen shall enjoy the work of their hands. They shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity For they shall be the offspring of the blessed of the Lord, and their descendants with them. Before they call, I will answer. While they are yet speaking, I will hear. The wolf and the lamb shall graze together, the lion shall eat straw like the ox And dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountains, says the Lord. The word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning comes from Paul's first letter to the Thessalonians, and we'll read in chapter 5, beginning at verse 12. Now through to the end of the chapter, verse 28. So 1 Thessalonians 5, beginning at verse 12, hear the word of the Lord. We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you, and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves, and we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the faint-hearted. Help the weak. Be patient with them all. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil But always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Do not quench the spirit, do not despise prophecies, but test everything Hold fast what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. And may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful, he will surely do it. Brothers, pray for us. Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. And our gospel reading this morning comes from the Gospel according to John in chapter 3. Beginning at verse 22 to verse 30. So John chapter 3, beginning at verse 22, hear the word of the Lord. After this, Jesus and his disciples went into the Judean countryside, and he remained there with them and was baptizing. John also was baptizing at Inon near Salem, because water was plentiful there, and people were coming and being baptized, for John had not yet been put in prison. Now a discussion arose between some of John's disciples and a Jew over purification, and they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who was with you across the Jordan, to whom you bore witness, look, he is baptizing, and all are going to him. John answered, A person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven. You yourselves bear me witness that I said, I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him. The one who has the bride is the bridegroom. The friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore, this joy of mine is now complete. He must increase, but I must decrease. This is the word of the Lord. Congregation of the Lord, we are having a bit of a season of Advent along with much of the Christian church throughout the world. That word means coming. Who is coming? Jesus is coming, right? The Messiah is coming. He has surely indeed come. John bore witness to him. We are the fruits of that coming. And yet we know he is coming again to finish, consummate, bring to its fullness the redemption that God has planned and purposed. in his everlasting grace and mercy for his creatures and his creation, that his kingdom would triumph That the evil and evil one will not have the final one. For God in his kingdom will be the everlasting kingdom. He will reign over the earth His blessings will fill it. His name will fill it. Peace will reign and joy will reign and love will reign. So we're remembering the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and in the preparation for it. Advent isn't just four weeks to get ready for Christmas. Advent is its own season. We should be living every moment of our Christian life. We're called to live every moment of our Christian life in preparation for our Lord's coming But it is prudent and good to have a season to call us to that and particularly focus. Look at our lives. Am I ready to meet the Lord? Am I living in joyful anticipation of his coming? Am I saying, Come, Lord Jesus? Is there a longing in my heart for him? Because God again has surely appointed a day. Surely sad it will take place. And it behooves us, his creatures, behooves us, the Lord's people. To make room in our hearts for that, even to long for that and to desire it I'll start by asking a question. I'll aim it at the children, but I think it anybody can answer it, but don't answer it out loud. But uh how many of you children like to wait for Christmas? I saw one big smile. You could say it this way, how many of you like to wait for Christ? Because that's what we'll be talking about. But how many of you like to wait for Christmas? But we know that when you and I say a hand, but we know that when you wait for Christmas, right? It's not as if you just don't do anything. What do you do when you wait for Christmas? You go out, you get the tree if you do the tree. You hang stockings if you hang stockings. You put up Christmas lights if you put up Christmas lights. You Take those wonderful family photos and send them out and tell everybody about the year that's happened if you do those. You receive those and hang them up and display them in your house if you if you do those. You Hopefully wait till after Thanksgiving, but you listen to Christmas music. But do you see what's happening? As you wait for Christmas, you're getting ready for it. And as you get ready for it, you experience more of it. And that's what we're going to talk about this morning. in its theological language, which I know some of you will resonate, you'll get, it's that already not yet, right? Already we're getting ready for the Lord. Already there is something of the age to come, but not yet. And as we more and more prepare ourselves for the Lord's coming Through this process of sanctification, through ridding our homes of the old decorations The sins and lust and bad thoughts and bad ways that used to dwell there and Put them away forever and hang up those beautiful adornments of our Christian virtues, Christian love, Christian hope, Christian faith, and Peter has a good list in 2 Peter chapter 1, if you want to start there, is begin to put on Christ as he begins to increase in us. We enjoy something of the coming of Christ already in this world together as we get ready for him to come. So there you go. That will be this morning's sermon as I just illustrated for you through that example that we don't just wait for Christmas by doing nothing. You wait by getting ready. You don't just wait for Christ to return in glory by doing nothing. You repent. You believe. You stay in faith and fellowship with Him in the church through the means of grace, through Christian community and fellowship, and you grow in that grace and you grow in sanctification. And the more and more you do that, the more and more together we enjoy. Life together with God on his holy mountain, because that's our hope, as the prophet Isaiah gave it to us this morning. So There'll be two parts. Well let's look at that hope because God surely wants us to look at it and yearn for it. And then let's look at how we get prepared for that hope when we go to First Thessalonians. So turn in your Bibles if you're not there and you wish to follow along. To Isaiah chapter 65, where we read together verses uh seventeen through twenty-five. Now uh the apostle Peter in his letter His second letter in chapter three, after dealing with the coming of the Lord and glory, liking it to the judgment that came upon the old world and the flood Uh said there is another judgment coming of fire, which the works of this world will be burned up, the ungodly will perish. But Peter says destruction is not the final word But we look forward according to God's promise for a new heavens and a new earth. And his promise, where did God say that? Right here in Isaiah chapter 65. So these verses Uh and Isaiah are telling us about life and the world to come or in the new creation and the new heavens and the new earth. But you'll notice as God speaks to us in them, it sounds a lot like this world and life we know, but there's some amazing changes to it. Because and I didn't think of an illustration so I'll just give you a very general one for this. But let's just say you've never been to my home or you've never experienced it. Like it I can hardly tell you about something you have no idea of Or the only way I can explain something to you you've never seen or known is through what you already know, but just heighten it, if you will. And that's what God's doing in explaining of what the life of the world to come is is comparing it and contrasting it to what we know here and now that we might have an idea of what he's prepared for us So what will it be like? And and why does God even tell us about it? You might think, man, he how many of you know what you're getting for Christmas? How many of you have no idea? I think we both wait, but if you know exactly what you're getting Can't you wait? Can't you enter more fully into it, into knowing what you're getting? God has not kept us in the dark about what we're waiting for. God has told us of the fullness of the Christ's gift that will be opened in that new heavens and new earth, if he can say it that way. He's told us what to anticipate But it is so wonderful that I'm sure we'll all still be very pleasantly surprised by it when we experience it. Um I like to go to a conference every year, the Banner of Truth conference. Um I know what to look forward to. And I look forward to it more and more every year because I've been before. I I know what to look forward to. I know what it will be like. If you ever have an annual conference you go to or a summer vacation or retreat Having been there and having experienced it before, you can wait for it and long for it more because you know exactly what it's like. And I think that's something of the reason why God makes it clear to his people and spells it out to us in his word what's to come. that we might long for it and hope for it and wait for it in the way he's told us to wait for it. So what are we what are we waiting for? What is life Or look at verse 25. What we're waiting for, God tells us there in the last line, is life together with God and his holy mountain. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, says the Lord. That's where away in the new heavens, new earth will be the Perfect realm of God and his holy mountain. Of course he's liking it to what it was under Israel. As his temple was built on the mountain, his people would come up and dwell with him in the holy place. And God's saying that will be all of creation one day. We know Revelation tells us there won't be a temple. The Lord will be the temple. But here is what our hope let's get clear. That's another thing I appreciate about um you know God that we don't as Christians have a vague hope. Our hope, and I pray your hope is right, life together with God, with his people. On his holy mountain. That's that's what God said he's creating. That's where that's going to be. They shall no more hurt and destroy all my holy mountain. That should be our hope is to dwell with God forever and his people on his holy mountain. What what is what is life like? What will life be like with God in his holy mountain, the new heavens and new earth First day, if you look at verse uh 17, it'll be something so marvelous that whatever parts of this life don't go over into it. We won't be sad about. Jeremiah says something like this in chapter 3, I believe it's verse 18. In those days the Lord's talking about, you'll no longer say, the ark of the Lord, the ark of the Lord. God's presence and power, his glory was with his people at one time in his ark. That would go away, but they wouldn't be saying, Oh, we wish we could have the ark back, because whatever God's replaced it with is just as good if not better. So whatever doesn't pass into the new heavens and new earth will not be sad and pining away at what was. We'll be very happy and glad and fulfilled in what is. God also tells us very clearly, it is going to be a place of joy. Verse 18, we read, I create Jerusalem. We put to be in because it helps make sense in English. But the Hebrew just read, I create Jerusalem. And then joy. That's called opposition. When you put one noun next to another noun to help explain what you just said, God saying you can interchange Jerusalem for joy. It'll be the same thing. God's saying you can tra you can interchange her people, my people, for gladness. They'll be the same thing. It will be a glad place, a joyful place. And so God tells us to rejoice forever in that which I create. Now that's wonderful, right? God is such a wonderful God. He's such a great creator. I could imagine if if you have a pet, right, you make something for your pet, you build the cat. You want to see the cat happy, jumping on its forge or something like that, right? Or your children's probably a better one, right? You create things and do things for your children, you say Enjoy. God says, enjoy my holy mountain. I've created it for you. The city, I've created you for it, a joy and gladness. But then look at verse 19. God's people won't be the only joyful people in that day. God Himself is going to rejoice. I'm going to rejoice in what I've done I'm going to rejoice in my people. I was recently reading through Genesis again, and so this stands out to me, but you remember what he says in Genesis 6? I actually regret that I made man. I'm actually quite sorry. Because of the evil they're perpetrating in the world. This is nothing like what I intended when I made this holy creature To be the Lord of my creation and superintendent and govern it and keep it a holy place. This is not what was in my mind for it. And it sat in God. Gone right forever are those days, and God says, I rejoice in my place. Rejoice in my people. And then he tells us something about uh this day, why it will be so joyful in the gladness that will be there There'll no more be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress, and of course Isaiah happened before it, but hundreds of years later after Isaiah wrote, there was a great cry of weeping and sound and duress in Jerusalem, as she was torn down and her walls destroyed and her people taken captive, all of the holy place defiled, and all of its instrument brought out into captivity. And God is promising, no more will ever be heard the sound of weeping, the cry in distress. You know, I long for that day. One of the worst moments in my life was coming back from Afghanistan to our battalion funeral, and to hear the wail, the wailing of Wives whose husbands would never return. I thought I never want to hear that noise again. And praise God, we will never hear that noise again. Because He's gonna do it He's gonna make for us a place where that harding will no longer be a part of our lives. You know, I find it really hard when you look at these verses. We've all experienced joy. Just what we haven't experienced is the everlasting part of it. You know, we all know that great thing will end. We're used to things ending. Now I know even as Christians, right, this is a true thing, and Paul reminds us, we have reason to rejoice always, and we do. There's a work of grace done in us. God is in our lives, which is really the source of joy, and He remains there And yet we're still used to these other things we find delight in and gladness in an ending. What will it be like when it's not interrupted by the phone call you don't want to get Or the text, or whatever it is when we get the bad news. Gone will be those days. It's even hard to imagine my life without heartache. There are times I think maybe we can harden ourselves from it, which isn't good. Don't want to deal with it, push it away because it it can be hard. We don't want to face those things because heartbreak is that, it's heartbreak. And it's hard to imagine, well, what's life without that? Because that's also something that is part of our fall into sin and and misery. of heartbreak. I know in our congregation there's members of it experiencing that heartbreak, even at this time of year in particular, as we remember You know, as Christmas and these holidays are always time favorite times with family and friends and some more family and friends have moved on this year. Gone to be with the Lord. So heartache will be absent. Right? And pictured some of those ways that are chiefly here. So not only a place of joy, it's going to be a place of life Life will not be brought to an end in a few days. An infant will not live out a few days. An old man who doesn't fail to his years, there'll be no premature cutting off of life. Which brings everything to an end and fills us with heartache and sorrow, but God's people will be living Then it gets a little strange here, and what is this statement there at the end of verse 20, a sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed. What is the what's God saying here? I didn't think there'd be any sinners in God's holy mountain. Uh God had already talked about this in you can read Isaiah chapter 25 where he talks about on the holy mountain, I'll swallow up death What's a sinner still doing there? And I guess I agree with the commentators that say this is maybe one of those If, even if a sinner were to be found there, right, the curse would still find them out. You'll see at the end of the chapter, the serpent comes back in. Uh and I think it's just uh a strong way of Isaiah saying, death's power will be broken in God's holy mountain. And sin' presence will not be there. And even if it were, right, the curse would still find that sinner out. And he wouldn't make it. So, God's holy mountain is a place where death's power is broken and sin's presence is gone. It's a secure place. Verses 21 and 22 tell us and on into 23. It's a place of security. Isaiah gives an example here of planting vineyards. I don't know if any of you have ever planted a vineyard. I'm told it takes a lot of time in the ancient world to plant the vineyard, cultivate it so you can actually enjoy its fruit. That could be something difficult if the nations are in turmoil and there's not political stability, and by war and famine you're chased out of your land. And you can never enjoy what you have made. And God saying, Not for my people there What they build, they'll inhabit. They won't build the land, be taken out of it, and others will enjoy their homes, but it will be their so be a secure place Read in verse 23, they shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity. Praying for a family, the child who has aggressive form of cancer. Isn't it one of the greatest fears as parents? So we trust God in all things, the thought of children and what calamities may befall them and what dangers. And God says, They shall be the offspring of the blessed of the Lord. This is hearkening back to God's promise to Abraham and his seed. Fulfilled today in Christ, Paul reminds us in Galatians that everybody who belongs to Christ is the seed of Abraham. He shall be the blessed of the Lord, those born again of God. Verse 24 tells us God's holy mountain will be a place where God and his people have fellowship and unity. Before they call, I will answer. Before you even cry out to God, He's going to be so attuned to your needs, your every needs and provisions, and provide them for you. While you are speaking to God and making known your mind and heart to him, so attuned to him will be your will that he'll have an answer ready for you. This is kind of like spouses that are very close to one another. They finish each other's sentences, right? They know what the other's thinking So, unity between God and His people. God will, like a spouse, right, know what you're thinking and finish your sentence before you can. And finally, verse 25 tells us. That God's holy mountain will be a place of peace. Wonderful peace. Now I don't know If you want to say it, how how literally would it take wolves and lambs lying down or anything like that? It'd be wonder if we see it. I just I don't know all that's involved there, but What there won't be is you've never yet seen this, who's seen a little wolf with a pack of mama sheep and all her other ones in the same field? Grazing together. You can think of uh little red riding hood, right? That's the kind of wolves we know. Want to get in and eat the little piggies. The wolf shall lay down and the lamb and graze together. There will be a transformation of natures. Lions will not be carnivorous, but eating straw like an ox. And here again the the curse shows up and dust shall be the serpent's food. It's interesting in all of this transformation. To complete joy, to complete life, lack of heartache, to complete security, to complete peace. All this change, here's something that remains unchanged God's curse upon sin. God's curse upon the serpent. And if you know how Isaiah ends his prophecies He says, and they shall go out and look on the dead bodies of the men who have rebelled against me, for their worm shall not die. Their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be in abhorrence to all lash. Pictures taken from Jerusalem And the ravines, Gehenna that surrounded it, be a place where they cursed or burnt, and their smoke goes up, and you can go out the city and see the accursed sinners there and God's curse Still upon Satan, still upon sinners. So teaches us our doctrine of redemption then, right? God's curse has left it be on from us as God's people Because God's Son became accursed for us on the cross and has removed that curse that we might inherit the blessing. And in fact inherit this holy mountain as our eternal dwelling place. So that's the Christmas, if you will, we're waiting for. That's the Christ, that's the gift of God in its fullness that we're waiting for. Well how do we wait? Turn to 1 Thessalonians and you might keep a finger marked here. You might keep your finger marked there And if you turn to 1 Thessalonians, a big thing that Paul speaks to the Thessalonian church about is sanctification. Paul, in fact, has a prayer here in verse 23 that he ends about. And so driving home to the Thessalonians who've come to know the Lord. That they, like God's old ancient people brought into the covenant, are called to be a holy people, called to be sanctified So what I want us to see is maybe fill out our definition of sanctification. I'm well aware of our uh confessions and catechisms teaching on what it is. It's the renewal of our whole nature As we are born totally depraved, every part of us fallen. Sanctification is the renewal of our whole selves, by which we are enabled more and more to die to sin and live to righteousness. But I want to add to our understanding of that. And I want you to think about again that illustration as you wait for Christmas, there's many things you're getting ready for it. And the many things you're getting ready for it enable you to enter into some of its joys already. So I want you to understand sanctification as the present enjoyment. of life together with God on his holy mount. Hebrews reminds us as God's people in the new covenant, we've come already to Mount Zion. Jesus, our Lord, has ascended this mountain. He reigns there, is seated there. He's gone into its temple in God's presence for us and has brought us with him, his faithful people. So we've already come to this mountain in Christ. We've come to the heavenly Jerusalem, and he has sent down to us God. God, the Holy Spirit, lives with us. So we live with God in Jesus Christ. And we live with each other in the holy mountain, and that's sanctification, and that's the importance of it. By living sanctified lives we get ready for his coming and power and fullness Look at verse 15. See that no one repays anyone for evil but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Paul is talking about not taking vengeance when people do wrong things. He even first speaks to the church. Some of the Thessalonians may be have may have been paying evil back for evil. Paul says, knock it off, but don't just do that for one another, do it for all men. Look back at uh verse twenty-five in Isaiah. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain. There's something of the already, of the not yet. We're looking forward to a day when there'll be No harm and no hurting in God's holy mountain. And God's people are called today to live that out already. Do not show harm for harm. Don't misunderstand this. This is uh not a word against uh the civil magistrate and lawful adjudicates we should still rightfully and lawfully punish sinners under the thing, but we're talking about taking vengeance. Upon ourselves in the church and anywhere, we are called to do good, not show harm, but to bless. So here's something already of the life on God's holy mountain. Look at verse 16. Rejoice always. Look at verse 18. Be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. I'm sure many of you read this passage before and thought, what am I to rejoice in? Rejoice in this. I've mentioned to you before I I love taking the Holy Supper every week with you because it reminds me. This is not man's creation. We are created in Christ Jesus. Rejoice in the church. Rejoice in Christ, rejoice in his body, rejoice in the life now, rejoice in this, rejoice in this fellowship, rejoice in growth and grace for each other, rejoice what God is doing through you, through others Through his church throughout the world, rejoice in the works of God's hands and be convinced in your heart that the Christian church is the work of God's hands Now help us to give a great love for it, to pray for it, and to mourn when we see things that are not God's in the Christian church, when we see the evilness and sin and for rid it Look at verse 17. Pray without ceasing. Right? Calling upon God, speaking to God. Again, look at verse 24. Before they call, I will answer. While they're yet speaking, I will hear. Prayer's not going to stop, or at least talking to God is not going to stop. Already we are called to pray according to God's will. Already we're promised that God will hear us When we pray according to God's will. I mean, how many of us would just love him if this was right now? If as soon as we turn to God with need an answer would be ready right there. As soon as we began to open up our heart to God and make our will known, He would have a response for us and show us the way. And James reminds us, the other writers remind us, why isn't this the case? Often we pray amiss. We pray selfishly and not selflessly. Or we just don't know God's will, I'll be the first one to tell all of you. It is this aspect of prayer. That challenges me more than anything and shows me more than anything the not yet that hasn't come. Because I think we've all experienced, right, the wandering of our minds Even the boredom we find in spiritual things and in prayer, taking no delight in it? Or you just get to the point of, what do I even pray for? Who is this God? I guarantee if you commit yourself to taking time for prayer, a couple of things will happen. You'll see How much you need to come to know God more and how much you don't know him because after into that for a few days you go, I think I've asked God for everything. I think I've come to the end of it. What I what do I keep doing this for To prayer, pray always because God is with us, beloved. You live already in his holy mountain, he's not far He hears. You may be testing your answers, trying your hearts, refining them, but pray always because you're on his holy mountain and you're his children. Giving thanks in all circumstances, there's no parallel here, but obviously who will not be thankful in that day when God wipes our tears away and we enjoy this eternal home that He's made for us I brought these out, beloved, because I wanted you to see that already and not yet. Many of these things that God has told us about what life will be like He's called us already in the spirit, in the Christian church, as members of Christ's body to enjoy and make use of, to get ready, if you will, for his coming. He even says, This is my will. A Christian church should be a joyful place, it should be a praying place, and it should be a grateful place. I appreciate the words of one commentator who drew out very vividly, joy. Have you ever experienced what it's like to be bathed in sunlight? So one person come up and said, yeah, I know what that's like. It's a wonderful feeling, isn't it? Just to feel the warmth of the sun and the rays, I mean bathe in it. Is that grace and peace? Is that joy a part of our Christian life? And when we come together, do we know any of this? Bathing in God's Son and Light. And if not, why is it? Is it me? Is it you? Do we pray for this? Do we ask God to do this in our midst and make it a joyful place? Because who doesn't want to join a joyful place? Praying together. Beloved, I I I grow so much. One of the most edifying things to me is to get together with you and pray. Call me on the phone and say, will you just come and pray Invite each other to your homes, cook each other a meal, and then say we're just going to spend time in prayer for no particular thing, but just let's be a praying people together. I guarantee you you forget things about God that your brother and sisters don't, and that will help you know God better. You'll come to know and appreciate them in a deeper way and who they are when you hear their prayers. Let us be a praying people together. And obviously let us be a grateful people. Even with the bad that God mixes with us in this life and the good, we at least have this before us to be grateful. Plus many other blessings here in this life to give thanks to God for. I'm going to end real quick on this. How do we do this sanctification? I see four things here. These aren't exhaustive They're not necessarily distinct. Think them of different facets. You'll see here the labor of our leaders, right? The labor of our leaders is the help in the sanctification of the body. They are caring for you, watching over for you, and it's for that work that you are to highly esteem them by what they do Even they are going to be instructing you and if they need to admonish you. Admonishment is a wonderful word. Admonishment means to give If you're a parent, you know what it is. You've all done it. It's to give somebody counsel to cease from a wrong path Or to abstain from the wrong path, right? To warn them, if you keep going this way, this is what's going to happen. Stop now, or never even get started on it now Sometimes there are people in the Christian church who need spiritual guidance, spiritual direction. They're getting off on a wrong way. It is a labor of love by the leaders to Keep them at God's holy mountain to continue to be prepared and get ready. And I think if I could put it this way, uh especially I'm speaking to the older people. Um how many of you have grown up and said, you know what, my parents were right. That's what a monishment's going to be like, right? If you get admonished in the Christian church, you're never going to like it right away. I guarantee you. Give it time. That elder, he was right. Thank you. And you'll probably write him a thank you card. Days later, months later, years later. I don't know. But that's admonishment. But so the labor of our leaders, the labor of everybody. The next thing he says in verse 14, and we are Jew brothers admonished the idol too. You see people quitting the Christian race Living undisciplined Christian lives. You need to encourage them. And here's a good one. Do you really want Jesus to find you like that when he comes back? Really how you want to be living your life when the Lord returns? Isn't that a great admonishment that keeps with this theme of the Lord's coming? Everybody is to be involved in the care and correction, but when we correct people, let's remember what Jesus says. First, take the ginormous stump out of your eye, and then help your brother who's just got a little speck. in his life. We see it that way, we'll approach each other in humility, grace, and we'll correct with the aim to build people up and not tear people down. And remember, we're doing this so we can get ready for the Lord. And the more we get ready for the Lord, the more we can enjoy the not yet already. We need to care for people faint hearted. Christian life and its hardships can make us weary, tire us down, grief, loss, temptations, those people we see that are it's also the word means timid. Some people are very timid, some people don't have confidence. They're brought into a role, brought into a position. I'm one. I need encouragement. Leave me. I'm going, Lord, what did you do? Well, whom I'd hold this office, right? This is as Paul makes it abundantly clear, it's above and beyond anybody to do. Please don't please remember your pastor. He needs encouragement The elders need encouragement. Deacons need encouragement. You need encouragement. We need to encourage each other We also should look for the weak. The word help there means hold on to. If we see somebody slowing down, grab tight of them and don't let them go. We had a saying in the Marine Corps, you can only go as fast as the weakest, right? We don't leave, we leave no man behind is what um we used to say. It's a motto. Hebrews, when we go to Hebrews next, is going to make that point clearer We leave nobody behind in the Christian church. You must see that everybody attains to that grace. Okay, I just pointing out the labor of the leaders, your labor, the Holy Spirit Don't quench the Spirit. Cease sinning that drives the Spirit away as we pray every week. Using your gifts and serving in the Christian church stirs up, so do what God's called you to do in the Christian life and in Christian service. You've all been given gifts to serve in the church. You stir up the Spirit that way? One big way that the Spirit ministers to us the life of the world to come is through prophesying or Preaching today, the ministry of God's Word, apparently they inherit a bad sermon and they began to despise it John will talk about you can get somebody in. Not every spirit comes from God. You might have got a heretical spirit in the pulpit, said something that should have been said. That doesn't mean let's shut preaching down or we got a young guy up here and it wasn't super edifying, wasn't super helpful. That doesn't mean just get rid of preaching. That means grow to be a discerning people. Let us grow together to be a discerning people. Let us read good things. Because, beloved, what we don't learn because we fail to study and learn is going to hinder our life together now. Or the bad things we bring into our lives because we're not discerning on what we read is going to hinder the life of the church together here now So let us be discerning when we hear a sermon. So really what I want you to do is right, listen to a sermon a week later I'm going to say, now apply it, because hopefully you've discerned that it's good, right? You don't have to take it that way, but you get what he's saying. Don't despise Preaching when maybe somebody gets up here and it's not so great. Pray for it and be discerning. Test everything, hold fast, abstain with evil. So the Spirit's ministry, and finally, prayer. Let us pray daily That God would sanctify us. Let's pray daily. That God would work the light to come in us already. Now, here as a people, let us pray for that joy, pray for that spirit of prayer, pray for that gratefulness. That's how it works. How do you begin waiting? Well, you listen to John. You listen to preachers of the gospel, you listen to the word, and you come to Jesus Christ. You believe the gospel of Christ who is crucified for our sins. Risen three days later, has ascended into heaven, has all authority in heaven and earth, is the reigning king and ruler, and who is coming back And you give your life to him. You confess him as Lord. You swear allegiance to him and serve him. That's how you begin to wait, believing this gospel so that Christ may continue to increase in this world as more numbers come to him and in our lives as we become more and more Christlike. So let us pray that Christ will increase And you and I and that old man will decrease more and more, because we will enjoy so much more of what God has for us as Christ increases amongst us. May God give us grace to do just that