Now if you would turn please to the narrative of Jeremiah fifty-two, the prophet Jeremiah. This is the narrative of the fall of Jerusalem. Please listen to God's word as it is read. Zedekiah was 21 years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libna. And he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord according to all that Jehoiakim had done. For because of the anger of the Lord things came to the point in Jerusalem and Judah that he cast them out of his presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon, and in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, and on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came with all his army against Jerusalem and laid siege to it. And they built siege works all around it. So the city was besieged till the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. On the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine was so severe in the city that there was no food for the people of the land Then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war fled and went out from the city by night by way of the gate between the two walls, the king's garden While the Chaldeans were around the city, and they went in the direction of the Arabah. But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook Zedekiah, in the plains of Jericho, and all his army was scattered from him. Then they captured the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, and he passed sentence on him. The king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and also slaughtered all the officials of Judah at Riblah. He put out the eyes of Zedekiah and bound him in chains, and the king of Babylon took him to Babylon and put him in prison until the day of his death. In the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month, that was the 19th year of King Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon Nebuzaradan, the captain of the bodyguard who served the king of Babylon, entered Jerusalem, and he burned the house of the Lord. And the king's house, and all the houses of Jerusalem, every great house he burned down. And all the army of the Chaldeans who were with the captain of the guard broke down all the walls around Jerusalem And Nebu Zaradam, the captain of the guard, carried away captive some of the poorest of the people, and the rest of the people who were left in the city and the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon, together with the rest of the artisans. But Nebuzarodan, the captain of the guard, left some of the poorest of the land to be vine dressers and ploughmen. And the pillars of bronze that were in the house of the Lord, and the stands, and the bronze sea that were in the house of the Lord, the Chaldeans broke in pieces, and carried all the bronze to Babylon. And they took away the pots and the shovels and the snuffers and the basins and the dishes for incense and all the vessels of bronze used in the temple service. Also the small bowls and the firepans and the basins and the pots and the lampstands and the dishes for incense. And the bowls for drink offerings. What was of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold. And what was of silver, as silver. As for the two pillars, the one sea, the twelve bronze bulls that were under the sea, and the stands which Solomon the king had made for the house of the Lord, the bronze of all these was beyond weight As for the pillars, the height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, its circumference was twelve cubits, and its thickness was four fingers, and it was hollow On it was the capital of bronze, the height of the one capital was five cubits, a network, and And pomegranates, all the bronze were around the capital, and the second pillar had the same with pomegranates There were ninety-six pomegranates on all the sides. All the pomegranates were a hundred upon the network all around. And the captain of the guard took Sariah, the chief priest, and Zephaniah, the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold. And from the city he took the officer who had been in command of the men of war, and seven men of the king's council who were found in the city, and the secretary of the commander of the army who mustered the people of the land And sixty men of the people of the land who were found in the midst of the city, and Nebuzarodan, the captain of the guard, took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Ribla And the king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was taken into exile out of its land. This is the number of the people whom Nebuchadnezzar carried away captive in the seventh year, 3,023 Judeans, in the 18th year of Nebuchadnezzar he carried away captive from Jerusalem eight hundred thirty-two persons. In the twenty-third year Of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar, the captain of the guard, carried away captive of the Judeans 745 persons. All the persons were 4,600 And then Psalm 79. Psalm 79 tells in poetic fashion much the same story. A Psalm of Asaph. O God, the nations have come into your inheritance. They have defiled your holy temple. They have laid Jerusalem in ruins. They have given the bodies of your servants to the birds of the heavens for food, the flesh of your faithful to the beasts of the earth. We have become a taunt to our neighbors, mocked and derided by those around us. How long, O Lord? Will you be angry forever? Will your jealousy burn like fire? Pour out your anger on the nations that do not know you, on the kingdoms that do not call upon your name For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his habitation. Do not remember our sins. Do not remember against us our former iniquities. Let your compassion come speedily to meet us, for we are brought very low. Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of your name. Deliver us and atone for our sins for your name's sake. Why should the nations say, Where is their God? Let the avenging of the outpoured blood of your servants be known among the nations before our eyes. Let the groans of the prisoners come before you, according to your great power. Preserve those doomed to die. Return sevenfold into the lap of our neighbors, the taunts with which they have taunted you, O Lord. But we your people, the sheep of your pasture We'll give thanks to you forever. From generation to generation, we will recount your praise. A question comes to mind as we read the introduction to the psalm, a psalm of Asaph, and Asaph was um a musician, a leader of the musicians in the days of David So, how is it that this is titled a Psalm of Asaph when it appears to be Rather, a psalm about the Babylonian destruction in 586 BC, long after the time of David, long after the time of Asaph. Now there are a couple of solutions to that question, and I'm not sure exactly the answer, but I'll give you one. If you read in Deuteronomy 28 What God said to Moses about the covenant, this is important. What God said to Moses about the covenant. Is that if you obey my covenant, you get to live in this land. In fact, that's one of the promises of the Ten Commandments to youth. Obey your parents. Your father and mother for you'll get to live in the land long if you obey But the opposite of that, which is spelled out in Deuteronomy, is that if you do not obey the covenant, you'll be thrust out, you'll be pushed out, you'll be exiled away from the land. That was foretold in Deuteronomy 28. And here's what it says, your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people. While your eyes look on and fail with longing for them all day long. But they shall be helpless. Isn't that what we just read in Jeremiah 52 and in the Psalm as well? A nation that you have not known shall eat up the fruit of your ground and all of your labors, and you shall be only oppressed and crushed continually. Isn't that what happened when the Babylonians besieged the city and all the farmland around Jerusalem was devoured by the Babylonian armies? Verse 34, so that you are driven mad by the sights of your eyes to see. The Lord will strike you on the knees and on the legs with grievous boils, of which you cannot be healed. From the sole of your foot to the crown of your head. Sounds like scurvy when you don't have any um any citrus anymore to eat. Verse 36: The Lord will bring you and your king, whom you have set over you, to a nation that neither you nor your fathers have known, and there you shall serve other gods of wood and stone. You shall become a horror and a proverb and a byword among all the peoples for the Lord will lead you away. Isn't that what the Psalm is lamenting? That God's name is blasphemed because of these people's failure. And it goes on. Verse 52 of that chapter says, They shall besiege you in your towns until your high fortified walls and in which you trusted come down. Come down throughout all your land. And there are other things that are spelled out, many gross things that are spelled out in Deuteronomy. As a warning to the people who were entering the land of Canaan, that if they did not obey the covenant, they would be thrust out and in a very violent way. And so I say to you, it's possible that Asaph, in David's day, as a seer and as a prophet Saw ahead what would happen to God's people, even in graphic detail. And we shouldn't be surprised if that is the case because The prophet Isaiah saw many things that in great detail saw many things that would happen in the future, including The release from captivity by a king named Cyrus. Now many scoff at that and say, well, that's anachronistic. How could Isaiah know the name of a king in the future. It's because God is God and his word is true And so it's quite possible that Asaph foresaw and foretold these events. There's another possibility and that is that it it is written later and it tells what happened and it laments what happened and it's called ASAP because it is in the ASAP collection of songs. I'd rather believe that God foretold through Asaph what would happen. But most of the most of the um Things that I consulted think it was written at the time of the destruction of Jerusalem. In any case, the army that conquered Judah and destroyed Jerusalem was under the command of the king of Babylon, and so that's what's very made very clear here. Yet, like the armies of many ancient empires, it was made up of soldiers of many nations. So in the first verse it says, the nations are doing this. The nations have come into your inheritance and defiled your ruins. The psalmist has the land of Israel in mind with the words your inheritance because it was Canaan, the inheritance promised to the patriarchs so long before. That particular land was important to God, and therefore Asaph noted the crisis of that land being invaded by the pagan king like Nebuchadnezzar and his armies. It gets very clear here about what happened. It says, the temple, they have defiled your holy temple. The temple was holy. God had set it apart. It had been sanctified. The glory cloud had come down and it had been dedicated. with God's blessing and that glory cloud, but now it was defiled. And the city of Jerusalem, once that had prospered so much, was now laid in ruins. And the servants of God were dead, and their corpses were disgraced, given as food for the birds of heaven, with no one to bury them. What an ignoble What an ignoble way to treat a human body. He says, these people are your servants, your saints. I'm sure there were believers in Jerusalem in those days. Though famine and war and death and exile were deserved punishments for the covenant people's sins, the people are still spoken of as the people of God. They're still called your servants and your saints. It appears that the destruction of Jerusalem by the Chaldeans did not allow them or did not lead them to bury the bodies of the slain, but to be devoured by birds and beasts of prey. The grossest thing, the most inhumanity. The Geneva Convention And other conventions of modern wars forbid this kind of treatment of hum of human remains. Derek Kidner says to lie unburied was the final humiliation, as though one had departed unloved and no And of no account as disposable as roadkill. So he moves on from that first few those first few verses where he describes the devastation of Jerusalem. To the second section, verses five through seven, a prayer to turn away the anger of God He says, how long, O Lord, will you be angry forever? Will your jealousy burn like fire? Pour out your anger on the nations that do not know you, on the kingdoms that do not call upon your name. For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his habitation. In the midst of the catastrophe of the conquest of Judah and Jerusalem, the question is asked concerning Yet many sufferers among God's people have asked in history, how long, O Lord, how long? And that's echoed, by the way, in the book of Revelation, when the martyrs, the souls of the martyrs are under the altar waiting for Christ to finally come and consummate history and bring judgment, they are crying out, How long, O Lord! The disaster that Asaph sees here made him not an atheist, but a godly person who cries out. It's not easy to hold fast when you see such realities. God's special relation to this nation was apparently deserted at this time. But Asaph's faith stood fast even under this terrible strain. And he does not give up hope. And so he cries out to God for help. Will you be angry forever? It's a question. Will you be angry forever? It seems that you will at the moment. It seems that you there's no end in sight to this In the years the years of Jeremiah's ministry, many false prophets had told them that deliverance would come. But they ignored Jeremiah, who said, No, deliverance will not come. The city will be destroyed, and you'll be carried away into Babylonian captivity. So it seemed like a very long time. But the good news was that God's anger and jealousy would not burn against his people forever. Jeremiah foretold the judgment to come, but he also told of restoration that would follow So the prayer goes on, pour out your anger on the nations that don't know you. God would answer this prayer in time when judgment would come upon the Babylonian Empire They would be conquered by the Medes and the Persians. Babylon that devoured Jacob would then be devoured by its own enemies. And that brings us to the next part of this prayer, this psalm, a plea for rescue, verses 8 through 10. Do not remember against us our former iniquities. Let your compassion come speedily to meet us, for we are brought very low. Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of your name, deliver us and atone for our sins For your name's sake. Why should the nation say, Where is their God? Let the avenging of the outpoured blood of your servants be known among the nations before our eyes. So speaking on behalf of these survivors, Asap humbled himself before God, admitted the sins of his people. That they could no longer deny their sin. Instead, he pleads for forgiveness, for God's compassion to come speedily. Don't be so long, Lord. Come speedily. James Boyce says the people were suffering the destruction of their entire civilization. poetic politically, economically, socially, and religiously. Yet there is not the slightest suggestion that they did not actually deserve it Or that they did not deserve it continuing as long as it had. He says they were brought very low. It needed to be this case. Sometimes people have to be brought very low before they will humbly repent. Now they were in a place to humbly repent. And then he says, not only do this, please, Lord, please do this and do it speedily, but Do it, and this is important, for the glory of your name. He wisely appealed to the glory of God in his prayer for help. Lord If you wouldn't do it for us, and I think you will because we are your people, do it for the glory of your name. After all, the nations all around are having a field day, making fun of you. As they make fun of us. Because we are the people called by your name. And this is the land that you gave as an inheritance to us. And they're making fun of you. So please, for the glory of your name, deliver us. And then he says, atone for our sins. I think this is so important in the Psalm. So important because by the time of this psalm, by by what is stated in this psalm and by what we can read in history, guess what? The temple has been destroyed The priesthood has been carried off. All the vessels of the temple, all the bronze, all the things that would make for a sacrifice, an atonement, are gone. So, how is there going to be any atonement? Deliver us and atone for our sins. How can that be? Again, I think this is a prophetic cry for help. And it's some sense in which God, who ordained those accoutrements and those offices, allows this Prayer and the one who prays it to see beyond those shadows that God Himself alone makes atonement. It's a picture, it's a distant view of Christ, who is God who makes atonement. Asaph knew that any man-made atonement would be useless. God must provide atonement for our sins. When the psalmist wrote this, the temple, the altar were already gone. He looked for a greater atonement that God would provide. Just as we were shown in the book of Genesis, when God told Abraham to go up to the mountain. to take his son, his only son, only in the sense that he's the promised son. And go up to the mountain and offer him there as a sacrifice on the mountain which the Lord would show him. What was he pointing to then? He was pointing to the fact that God alone makes atonement because he stayed the hand of his servant Abraham. And put in its place, put in his place, in Isaac's place, a ram caught in a thicket. God makes atonement. On the mountain of the Lord it will be provided. When we get to verses eleven through twelve. There's a cry for those who are condemned. Have mercy on the condemned. Let the groans of the prisoners come before you, according to your great power. Preserve those doomed to die. You read, we read in Jeremiah's prophecy that the many of the nobles and the priests and so forth were carried off to Hamath The northern part of Babylon, and there they were executed. Let their groans and cries come before you, O Lord, those doomed to die. And then bring revenge, return sevenfold into the lap of our neighbors, the taunts with which they have taunted you, O Lord. Asaph considered the misery of his countrymen who would be prisoners in Babylon and asked God to hear their groaning and to act on their behalf. This isn't the first time that God's people have groaned and God has heard their groaning. You might remember that in Exodus chapter 2, verses 24, and in chapter 6, verse 5, the people that were in Egypt. were being tasked greatly by the slave drivers of Egypt. And God heard their groanings. The people in exile here were not unlike those in Egypt. They too groaned for the moment of their deliverance. So Asap considers these future exiles in Babylon who were condemned to death and asked that God would preserve them. If not their lives, preserve them spiritually and in their posterity by atoning for their sins. And Asaph's final request here is that God would deal with their conquerors with both justice and vengeance. Returning to them sevenfold the agony they inflicted upon Judah and the same reproach they directed towards God Himself. Sevenfold here is a way of saying abundantly, in full measure. That's what sevenfold means. And now he's made these requests, he's spelled out what he needs and what he desires for the people and for God's glory, and he promises to give thanks. He promises to give thanks. Verse 13. But we your people, the sheep of your pasture, will give thanks to you forever. From generation to generation we will recount your praise. After praying for rescue and protection and vengeance. Prayer is ended with grateful dependence upon God. He properly recognized God's place as shepherd. over his people, his people who are his sheep. We will give you thanks forever. As grateful sheep, they would declare their thanks and praise both now and in the future. James Boyce says this is a rather faith-filled anticipation of a brighter future day when God's people will once again praise him. With full hearts and with fresh memories of what He has done for them And then we think of Jesus in John chapter ten, who said, I am the good shepherd. I lay down my life for my sheep. Jesus is that great shepherd. that is called for here. And he is God who makes atonement. It was a bit of a mystery. In those days in this psalm, but now we see clearly that Jesus is the answer to all these prayers. Now, do we have troubles on earth? Uh not always quite as bad as the Babylonians can surrounding our nation and taking us captive, although there have been times like that in history. We could go back and see times like that in European history and And the church, the different wars and various times when the church was oppressed on earth But there's always some difficulty for the church. And we need to pray for the church. We need to pray not just for the progress of the church, but for God's name to be glorified in the church. It's weak in our land. The fact that we had the event at the library today shows that our land has become oppressed by wickedness. And it has become legal to be wicked. And it's been become favorable to be wicked. And we who oppose it are arrested and thrown in jail. That's just one instance. Things could get worse and may get worse, but I'm reminded of this great hymn that you know well. And I will read a bit of it. Though with a scornful wonder we see her sore oppressed by schisms rent asunder, by heresies distressed. Yet saints, their watch are keeping, their cry goes up. How long? Just like the psalm. How long, O Lord? And soon the night of weeping shall be the morn of song. Mid toil and tribulation and tumult of her war, she waits the consummation of peace forevermore So with a vision glorious, her longing eyes are blessed, and the great church victorious shall be the church at rest. So when we sing that song and other sentiments like that, we're praying for God to triumph in history through the church. Which is his people now, his inheritance, the sheep of his pasture. And he, the great shepherd, made atonement for us. So he will protect us and guard us and guide us. And we can cry out to him. There's also a personal and individual application here. There are times when Christians individually are besieged and surrounded and overcome by grief and stress. And strife in their families, in their personal life, and Paul Gerhardt has written a hymn, a couple of verses which also come to mind. They are very much like our psalm tonight. One of the stanzas said says this, the title in fact is beginning with this, Why should cross and trial grieve me? Christ is near with his cheer. Never will he leave me. Who can rob me of the heaven that God's Son for my own to my faith hath given? Though a heavy cross I'm bearing, and my heart feels the smart, shall be shall I be despairing? God, my helper, who doth send it, well doth know all my woe, and how best to end it. So, whether it's the church in a general way or the personal situation that is a heavy cross to bear. We can cry out to God, even as the psalmist did, for God to deliver and God to do justice. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that we have the example of such holy sentiments as these To cry out in trouble, how long, O Lord? And yet not to give up on the answer to that prayer. We ask you as the church on earth that we will be faithful to you as your inheritance and look to Christ, the one who atoned for our sins. And not despair at the troubles that beset us, heresies that distress us, but wait for the consummation of peace forevermore. We thank you that we do not have to wait alone for our own distress and situations to be taken care of, but we may trust in you and know that you will relieve us at the best and proper time. And so here are prayers as we use this psalm in singing tonight. Through Christ we pray. Amen.