First Peter chapter two, nine through twelve. But you are a chosen race a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, you have written the history of Israel, cause it to be handed down to us. You have written the laws that were given to Moses, which we will explore in Exodus 22. You have written the fulfillment in Jesus Christ and the address here to the church, the new Israel. So we pray that you will bring all these things together that we may understand them spiritually and apply them diligently to our lives. We come in the name of Jesus, his name only, not our own. Amen. Well, we're going to look at these laws and we're going to spend perhaps a little more time, perhaps most time. on the first two verses of Exodus 22, 16, and 17. And that Little bit says this, if a man seduces a virgin who is not betrothed and lies with her, he shall give the bride price for her and make her his wife If the father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money equal to the bride price for virgins. Now that part seemed to be Require some explanation and some discussion. And I will spend most of the time on that. Today, in our modern society, in many novels that you can buy on Amazon or elsewhere. Or in situation comedies that you watch on television, or movies that you watch, these feature as a main motif Seduction and fornication and multiple one-night stands. These are typical things in these things that we read and hear and watch. Characters in those novels or movies or television sitcoms, both heroes and heroines, are actually proud of sexual promiscuity, which is described here in these remarks. There's little stigma left. Even if we went further, for some cases of marital infidelity or adultery, there's little stigma left these days. In media. Now, this situation that I've just described is a far cry from God's holy design, as we have it here in the scriptures. And some of you have been guilty of such promiscuity. And under the influence of the world, some of you, maybe who haven't been, have nevertheless been softened in your attitude toward such sin. Well, what are we to think about marriage? According to God, as described in Genesis 1, 26 and Through 28. God created man in his image, male and female. He created them and gave them to each other. And it's also described again after a period in Genesis 5, 1 through 3. And we read there and understand that teaching that sexual relations Are ordained for certain purposes. The first one is for communion. A man and a woman are to have communion in their sexual relations It describes and shows God's gracious order and design in complementarity. A man and a woman come together and work together. And then thirdly, in procreation. The image-bearers of God, man and woman, in male and female, procreate and they bring forth what? Other image-bearers of God And he had said in the beginning to fill the earth and subdue it. So this sexual relationship was supposed to happen and it was supposed to bring forth good things. God created all this and said it is very good, especially after he made man in his image and gave them this order, this dominion mandate. It is very good. And then we come to this situation where now God is having to regulate this phenomenon that He has created that was so good. What do we have as characteristics of marriage then, that is in Exodus 22, and now our 21st century? Well, let's look at the then, first of all. As we can discern here in reading this, marriages were mostly arranged by parents. It didn't happen when a guy saw a girl and they started talking over a drink or something, and then they decided to want the guy got the guts up to ask her out and the Got the phone number and that doesn't happen. That did not happen back then. Marriages were mostly arranged by parents Daughters were often, mostly often, too young and socially sheltered by design to make their own choices in regards to marriage. Daughters knew most of the eligible young men in the community. They interacted with them. They saw them here and there and at synagogue in various places. They knew all the guys. So it's not like they were given to somebody they'd never heard of or seen in their life. That didn't happen very often. And this is not to say, by the way, that love was not a factor. in the decision. These young brides were often, uh, at least often, they were asked by their father, do you like the guy? But love here isn't just the silly romantic giddy feeling of, ooh, she looks great or oh, he's handsome. And I just feel in love. Love then was tied to proven character. The girl knew the guy, had observed him, knew his family, knew his work ethic, knew his character from constant community involvement. So proven character produced an admiration, which was beyond that giddy, silly just, you know, the guy sees the girl and says, I'm in love. It wasn't pure sensuality and physical appearance, but it was proven character that forged a sense of willingness to marry him or her. And back then, and it should be today, but back then fathers had a responsibility to protect their daughters from harm and from poverty. So this mention of the bride price here. The bride price wasn't paying for the bride, like you bought her like a cow or something. The bride price here was a present given to the father, and it was equivalent often to one or more years' wages This was not purchasing the bride, but it was money kept by her father, should have been kept by her father In a special account in case something caused her to be widowed or divorced or otherwise destitute. It was kind of like an alimony account in modern parlance. It was money set aside in case the woman's prospects for future marriage were compromised by a suitor or a rogue husband. So here we have it. If a man seduces a virgin who is not betrothed and lies with her, he shall give the bride price for her and make her his wife. If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money equal to the bride price for virgins. Again, here in the case of a man seducing a woman, and that's not rape not being described here. Rape is not being described here, but willing participation on the part of the woman. If this happens, then that man who seduced that woman has violated the father's protection. The father has been bypassed. The woman's position and prospects have been compromised. Because back in those days, young unmarried women were one of two kinds. They were either virgins or prostitutes. Well, then maybe a third kind. They might be a widow. as well. Virgins, prostitutes, or widows. And the penalty against the man here being described focuses on the public and societal implication of his act of bypassing the Father. Now, there's a different set of penalties if it were rape. That's described in Deuteronomy 22, verse 29. And there the man who did this must pay a great deal more. than the bride price and must marry and support the girl whether he likes her or not the rest of her life. Big price big paid here Then marriage was for theological reasons. It was to continue the covenant, community. It was to spread God's image It was in obedience to God's design, and it was within the covenant community. Marriage now is not arranged, is it? Not arranged, but it still should be monitored and approved Particularly by a woman's father, with mother contributing to that as well. And so a father today, now should see that the marriage that happens is, quote, in the Lord. That's from 1 Corinthians 7, 39. A wife is bound to her husband as long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to marry to whom she wishes, only in the Lord. Marriage needs to be in the Lord, and the father needs to see that marriage is in the Lord. He should also see that the man who is wanting to marry his daughter is able to provide for her. That is, in our modern days, that they have a sound financial plan together. And then finally, the father should have reasonable expectation that they are both willing to raise children for God's glory Or have some valid reason not to bear children. There are valid reasons at times not to bear children. So the penalty for seduction is no longer a forced marriage, since the woman has not been utterly ruined as in biblical times. It's still a serious matter, but it's not the same. In fact, a forced marriage to an unbeliever. So let's say this this man who seduces this woman now is not a Christian. Forcing him to marry her now Outside the covenant would be a sin all by itself. So all this that's here in Exodus 22 is within the covenant community. It's within the church. Today, there may be civil penalties for an underage girl in this situation. There may be civil remedies to compensate the girl in her family If the law is wise and good. And in the church, church authorities may exact punishment and require repentance in the case of members who do these things. And similarly, the penalty for a refused marriage after seduction is no longer a bride price, but may be discipline and censure by church authorities in the case of memory. Who do this? So these case laws, this is one example of a case law, are all related to the Ten Commandments. Which one is this related to? The seventh commandment, you shall not commit adultery. It falls into this general category of sexual relations outside of God's design. You shall not commit adultery. commit adultery. But what about the others that are going on the list now from 18 through 29? I'm not going to spend as much time on them, don't worry. Let's look at verse 18. You shall not permit a sorceress to live. What commandments or commandments does that relate to? What are sorceresses? A sorceress is someone who's seeking some kind of answers or knowledge or some kind of incantation or magic. Apart from God's will, and apart from God Himself, it breaks the first and second commandments, not to worship any other God, or not to make an image and serve any other image of God. Verse 19 Whoever lies, this is awful to even think about Whoever lies with an animal shall be put to death. What commandment does this relate to? It relates to the seventh commandment: thou shalt not commit adultery, sexual sin. And yet, sadly, this is becoming more widely accepted and more popular these days. Go on to verse 20. Whoever sacrifices to any God other than the Lord, Yahweh alone, shall be devoted to destruction. It's related to blasphemy again, the first and second commandments. Verse 21, you shall not wrong a sojourner or oppress him, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. If you do mistreat them, and they cry out to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will burn, and I will kill you with the sword And your wives shall become widows, and your children fatherless. What is behind that set of case laws? The sojourner here is a faithful person in the midst of Israelite people? And they're to be treated with respect and kindness. And that relates to the eighth commandment. You shall not steal. This mistreatment, these things that might be done, are stealing. in some connection here. Go on to verse 25. If you lend money to any of my people who is with you, who is poor, you shall not be like a money lender to him. I was hearing this read by our elder uh reader, uh I was thinking of the fact that in Europe The Jewish people were often bankers. Now they wouldn't charge interest to each other because they were trying to be faithful to passages like this, but they would be glad to charge interest to a lot of other people. And a lot of Jewish people became bankers and financial industry people in history. And that made uh it made some of their rivals very angry that The Nazis were very upset about the fact that so many Jewish bankers in Germany. That's an aside. You're not supposed to do that. You're not supposed to charge interest to your people And then he gives another example in verse 26. If you take your neighbor's cloak and pledge, it's a collateral thing, you know? y your neighbor's borrowing something and he he gives you this cloak, a blanket, a really good blanket, an electric blanket these days, on a cold night You've taken his his electric blanket in pledge and uh and you don't give him his collateral back because he you didn't quite come up with the money in time or something You're supposed to be merciful to him. You're supposed to say, look, I'll trust you. We're members of the same community. We're Israelites together. I'll trust you. Here's your blanket. Don't leave him cold. Don't make him suffer. For that is his only covering, and it is his cloak for his body. In what else shall he sleep? It's going to be cold. Yet if he cries to me, I will hear, for I, unlike you all, am compassionate. What is that relating to? Well, it might relate to the commandment about theft, or it might relate to, probably more likely to relate to the ninth commandment, you shall not covet. Let's go on to verse 28. You shall not revile God nor curse a ruler of your people. Which commandment is that related? Reviling God against the authority of God or against the rulers of the people. Fifth commandment. Honor your father and your mother. See, it's an extension of Of that. It expands it and shows the principle behind it. Verse 29: you should not delay to offer from the fullness of your harvest and from the outflow of your press. What's that about? It's like when you get your grape harvest in and you start squeezing those grapes and there's all kinds of juice coming out and it's time to make wine, don't hold it back. if you can get a higher price later. Don't gouge by holding back. Let it happen naturally. Let the grape juice flow If the price is down because there's so much, because the harvest was so great, take it and be happy with it. Don't see if you can get more by manipulating the grape juice market. Because what's that? It's kind of a theft and a covetousness, isn't it? It's not loving your neighbor as yourself. And then there are two things here in verses uh the end of 29 and on to 31 that are not uh prohibitions, they're actually requirements. God says, the firstborn of your sons you shall give to me. You shall do the same with your oxen and your sheep seven days it shall be with its mother. On the eighth day you shall give it to me You shall be consecrated to me. Therefore you shall not eat any flesh that is torn by beasts in the field. You shall not throw it to the dogs. Well, God's people were to offer their firstborn. In animals, it might be a sacrifice In children, it would be an offering up to God symbolically, and it could be redeemed back, that child, that firstborn And in verse 31, you shall be consecrated to me. You don't eat filthy stuff. You don't eat roadkill, because you're a holy people. You're not like the others. So, what is all these? All these case laws that we've just glanced over here for a moment. It's all about holiness. Holiness, being separated from common ways because of belonging to God. It's about holiness. It's about holiness in worship. We don't worship like the pagans do. We worship according to God's word. It's about sexual ethics. We don't do like the world does. Because we're God's people and we know the creator and maker of sexual relations. Business ethics, we don't gouge And we don't try to get everything we can. We are compassionate and kind and fair and just in our business ethics. And charity toward neighbors and sojourners and the poor, we don't see what we can take advantage of those who are down and out in hard luck times. We, the holy people of God, are owned and operated by the Lord. And we, in Israel's original calling, are to be set apart as a witness to the world, a kingdom of priests. Who pray and intercede and show what it's like for a people to be called by God and known by God and owned by God and reflect his glory. Going back to the verses here, some things have changed from the Old Testament to the New. The exact penalties and prescriptions are not in force. Our confession of faith says To them also as a body politic, he gave sundry judicial laws, some of these here, which expired together with the state. Of that people, not obliging any other now. But then it says this, it's important. Further than the general equity thereof may require That means that the broad underlying principles of these teachings remain in effect. The general equity. The exact application of all the laws change. But the general equity stays there and you need to figure out how to use it. So I would say this About those first two verses, marriage is still a calling to demonstrate the mutual love and loyalty between Christ and his bride, the church So marriage should involve love and respect and fidelity and loyalty, along with, because we're sinners, forbearance and forgiveness If you don't have forbearance and forgiveness, you'll never, never, never make it in marriage. And the purpose of marriage, according to God's general principles here, includes joy and happiness and pleasure, personal gratification, but marriage is much greater than that. God wants his people, his Israel in the Old Testament to be holy. To reflect his glory, to be a priest and kingdom of priests to the nations. Where is God's holy Israel? Where is it? Where is it? And a lot of people would say, well, they had their chance and they blew it. And God gave them a few extra chances and they blew all those three strikes and you're out, Israel. And some people, we call them dispensationalists, would say, then it was the Gentiles up to bat. The Gentile church now has a chance to do all this. And uh if you think that the Gentile church is up to bat and we're going to hit a home run, you're crazy. Because we are just as bad and just as much a failure as Israel was at being holy. But God hasn't changed his plan. God's big big plan which was announced early on has always been to spread his glory He still says, be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth with my image bearers, and be holy and show forth my glory and my holiness. And after the fall, after Adam and Eve, God called a pagan named Abram and changed his name to Abraham, and he said to him, In you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. He is reupping that original plan, that original promise to bless the world. And later on, he called Moses to lead a chosen and redeemed people. As the wife, the bride of Yahweh. And he gave her these principles and these laws that we've been looking at today and said, You all be holy And later on, when the kingdom came together in Israel and the land of Israel, God called David to be the king, to be a holy king. He didn't always live up to it, did he? But then God said, I'm going to make your throne a throne that will last forever. You'll be the great king forever, David. Where is God's holy Israel? Well, we see the answer to that. In the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the true and faithful and holy Israel, Israelite. He is the one who fulfills all these things. God's perfect calling has not been perfectly lived out in any other Israelite. Not in Moses, not in Aaron, who will soon make a golden calf and say, worship God in it. Not in Miriam, not in any Israelite. Where is God's holy Israel? It is in God's Son, Jesus Christ. Christ, the true Israelite, in whom there is no guile. That's why we have 1 Peter Chapter 2, echoing that big plan and promise of God. But you, he says to the to the church. You are a chosen race. Remember that race thing? Do you marry within your Israelite race You are to marry within the Lord. You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood. What are you going to do? You're going to pray for the world in worship like this. We're going to pray for the world. We're going to exhibit To God's glory what it is to follow the true Israelite. We're to be a holy nation, it says here in 1 Peter chapter 2. A holy nation. A people for his own possession, owned and operated by him, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light And he says to those pagan Gentiles who have now become the church, the bride of Christ, he says, Once you were not a people, but now you were God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. And then here's the holy requirement. Beloved, I urge you, as sojourners and exiles, to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul, keep your conduct among the Gentiles. That is the pagans in this case, honorable. Why? Why do we need to live honorable lives, upright lives, holy lives? So that when they speak against you as evildoers, and they are speaking against us as evildoers. They may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. When the judgment comes, the day of visitation. They will glorify God. They'll see that God finally had an Israel who was holy in his Son Jesus Christ. God's perfect calling has been perfectly lived out by an Israelite And his name is Jesus Christ. He is the true son of Abraham. He is the son of Isaac. He is the son of Jacob, the son of David. All those sinners who failed, he is the son of all those people, he is the true quintessential and perfect Israelite, and in him there is success. Now, personal illustration. I was a little boy who never wanted to play ball Um there were boys and gathered and there's a a baseball game forming out somewhere and I would sh Try to keep out of sight. I didn't want to play ball. I didn't know why actually, and maybe there's more than one reason, but uh I didn't want to play ball, and then somebody would say, come on, Eddie, we need another player, or we can't have a team. And uh I I would just be terrified because I knew I'd let the team down every time. So uh I Would say, okay, can I play way out in the outfield? Because I figured if I was way out in the outfield, the ball probably wouldn't ever come to me. I had double vision. And when a ball was coming to me, I'd see couple balls. You know, it would be really hard to figure out which one to catch. I didn't know I had double vision until about age 12, but I did. So I didn't want to play on the team. I didn't want to be on the team. I was afraid I would let the team down. And I did let the team down and so the ball would come to the outfield and here it comes the fly ball, easy catch, right? And I'd go, where is it? Where is it? Fumble and drop the ball. When I was thinking about that, I was thinking about what Jesus, the true and quintessential Israelite, has done for us. Jesus is the team captain perfect. He is omnicompetent He plays every position, first base or outfield, or shortstop. He plays every position. And he never misses. And he never drops the ball. And he never fails. And joining his team, even for me, is to win always. Even when we personally fail. Joining his team because of his captainship, his competence, his perfection as the true and perfect Israelite. Means that if you join his team, he'll step in for you and catch and never fumble and never miss, and you become a success You do fail. And if you are without him, you will utterly and eternally fail. But united to him, joining his team, he steps into your skin in the incarnation You miss the catch, but he catches it and tosses it to you, and you feel at home. And he empowers you and skills you. And if at the end of the game the score is up short, he steps in and hits home runs until the team wins. He operates for you and in you in all competence We are called to be holy, but we are only holy in and through the Holy One, the true Israelite who never failed and never does fail And still we are called to live out that holiness in Him. We get in on that holiness by union with Christ and are called to live according to His plan. He is the captain, united to him, and in the Christian church, that united to him thing is marked by baptism into his Yielding true faith to him, we succeed every time. We win always. We declare his glory, our calling as God's holy people If you're not in him, you need to by faith receive him and join him and rely upon him as the team captain. And fulfill being a true Israelite. If you are in him and you have failed and you have fumbled and you have dropped the ball, then you need to rely upon him. To save and help and heal and improve and make it right. He will, he does, he never fails. Let's pray. pray. Lord, as we have looked at these laws and we see the requirement to be just and fair and love our neighbor as ourself and do what is right. and uh to abstain from sexual sin. As we see in these laws, these case laws and your great Ten Commandments Our need and our calling, we also see our failure, and yet we see in Jesus the true Israelite. Help us to follow Him. Help us to shelter in Him and then to live out of that perfect salvation to your glory. Amen.