Dear brothers and sisters, you've seen what we'll be considering today how the Mass differs from the Lord's Supper Who should and should not come to the Lord's Supper, and this will close out our uh teaching in the catechism on the Lord's Supper And then prepare us for next week as we'll consider the keys of the kingdom and then move on to the third part of the catechism, gratitude. It began with guilt. How we stand before God as born in this world, condemned and Adam, and sinful and in misery, and then have been looking at God's grace, how he has redeemed us from all our sins and misery through the Lord Jesus Christ, his death upon the cross And the Lord who has gathered us to himself and given us his spirit, and we'll go on next time to gratitude. How do we live grateful lives unto the Lord? Now what I want to do first is I want you to listen. I'm going to read several passages from God's Word. Then I want you to hear what the Catholic Church teaches on the Mass. I'm going to read to you from her own standards. And then I want you to judge for yourselves whether the Mass is basically nothing but a denial of the one sacrifice and suffering of Jesus Christ and a condemnable idolatry. John 19, 30, the Lord says, When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. In Hebrews 7, verse 27, chapter 7, verse 27, he has no need like those high priests who offer sacrifices daily. First for his own sins and then for those of the people, since he did this once for all, when he offered up himself. The word once for all here in grief. F. hofhox is a compound, and it means taking place once and to the exclusion of any further occurrence. Hebrews 9 12 the same Greek here behind once for all he entered once for all into the holy places Not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. Hebrews 9, 25, and 26, nor was it to offer himself repeatedly As the high priest enters the holy places every year with blood not his own, for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all, at the end of the ages, to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. Once for all here is just hotpox, meaning uh one uh a single occurrence because he will appear again, but not to deal with sin, as the writer will go on to say, but to save those, eagerly waiting for him. And then finally, Hebrews 10, 14-18. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us. For after saying, This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord, I'll put my laws on their hearts and write them on their minds. Then he adds, I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more. Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin. And this point is, unless Jesus has offered for sin, your sins are not forgiven. God has promised to forgive them, and He has forgiven them, and there's no more offering to be made to forgive them. Notice the words here from God's Word about Jesus' offering. It's finished, accomplished. It is once for all. It is a single offering. There is no longer any offering for sin. And notice also the fruits for for believers, those who uncovenant with the Lord. Sanctification. Now sanctification And this letter means what we generally think is justification. He's talking in the priestly language there of not he's not talking about the inward renewal of the Spirit. He's just talking about Christ purging us objectively By his atoning work for us to give us a right standing before God. Perfection means the same thing. Forgiveness And then with that, as we heard there in the new covenant, what always comes with that, renewal of heart and life of the Spirit that has been poured out. This is the gospel that evangelical churches preach and teach. Now hear what the Catholic Church teaches. This comes from the 1367th article in their catechism. The sacrifice of Christ, that's referring here to the cross, the sacrifice he made on the cross And the sacrifice of the Eucharist, that's the one that's performed at the Mass, are one single sacrifice. Now what they are trying to guard here against is the charge that they are re-sacrificing. And so it's a new sacrifice. They're trying to say that the sacrifice Jesus made 2,000 years ago and the one the priest performs there is one sacrifice. It's a single one. It's the same one. And they're going to try to explain it to you, and it's nonsense. The victim is one and the same. The same now offers, no other thing, that's Christ now offers through the ministry of priest. Who then offered himself on the cross, only the manner of offering is in. They're trying to tell you that it's the same Christ. offering himself. He offered himself once on the cross. He is now offering himself again, but through the ministry of priests, but he's doing it in a different way. And then they they tell you that way. Because it's evident there's there's not a you're not seeing him crucified. He's not literally there crucified before you. That's that's the way he offered himself. That that doesn't happen again. But they want to tell you how it does happen. And since in this divine sacrifice, which is celebrated in the Mass, the same Christ who offered Himself once in a bloody manner on the altar of the cross, Is contained and offered in an unbloody manner. This sacrifice is truly propitiatory We're telling you that pri- Christ offers himself every time the priest consecrates it, and he offers himself through the priest As a sacrifice to make atonement in an unbloody way. That is the teaching of the Catholic Church. They will not like to hear that it's a re-sacrifice, but they will teach it's a reoffering. Of the same sacrifice. Christ is re-offering himself through the priest, whether he wants to or not, because the priest has the power to calm down. And an unbloody manner to turn God's wrath away, who is justly offended by your sins, that you the offender may be restored into favor. That's what they teach. You go to the Mass, it is a sacrifice, it is a re-offering. And then from Vatican II, who's quoting the Council of Trent, is what they had to say about worship. There should be no doubt in anyone's mind, quote, that all the faithful ought to show to this most holy sacrament The worship which is due to the true God, as has always been the custom of the Catholic Church Nor is it to be adored any the less because it was instituted by Christ to be eaten And then from their catechism. In the Liturgy of the Mass, we express our faith in the real presence, that's the transubstantiation, that Christ is bodily present under the form of bread. And the real presence of Christ under the species of bread and wine, by among other ways, so they're just giving you a couple here, but there could be other ways you do this. Genuflecting, that's bowing the knee like you would bow before a great king and lord. Or bowing deeply as a sign of adoration of the Lord, because He's really there, present bodily, under the form of bread and wine. Now I think the catechism is justified in saying what it says. That it is a denial of the One sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross, and it is condemnable idolatry. They teach That Christ now offers in the Mass or the Ministry of Priests the same sacrifice he once offered on the cross, but in an unbodied manner. You know that is a contradiction, a scriptural contradiction Hebrews 9. 22, and without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. If he's being offered in an unbloody manner, how is there forgiveness of sins? Without it. There is no forgiveness to sin. A book I was reading this week, I bought it at Banner of Truth last year. It's written by a Catholic who spent about 37 years of his life as a priest. And who came out of Catholicism and wrote about it, says that all this can be is meant to deceive people To teach that Christ offers in an unbloody manner, where does Scripture say there is an unbloody sacrifice for sins? Nowhere. And since he is present under the form of bread and wine, you should show, this is their language, the same worship which is due to the true God. You know, this is why they try to hide it and protect it afterwards, because they recognize themselves. They are exposing Christ to profanation. Because many people don't bow to it and worship. Because guys, if Christ was truly here, we'd be bowing and worshiping before him. The Apostle Paul exhorts us to flee from idolatry. He taught and warned the Corinthians there that to partake in idolatrous pagan worship, no matter your intent. To that pagan offering, knowing, I know that that God ain't a God, and there's no idol here, and I know the earth is Lord and the fullness thereof, and this food belongs to him. Well, so it doesn't matter what your intent is, by merely participating in that, you are participating in that worship, and you are in idolatry You make yourself one with that religious body, and you share in its worship. I think we should pray for the Catholic Church's repentance. We have much to repent of ourselves? No doubt. But we should pray that they would return to the Lord's Supper. That's what we did at the Reformation. We're back to a table. We got rid of an altar. There's one altar, Christ. They go from the altar of the cross to the altar of the mass to the table. That's how they do it. We just have a table. We are enjoying and feasting upon the benefits of Christ's one sacrifice. We are not re-offering it. It's been offered once. It's been accepted. The Lord's Supper truly teaches us, as the catechism says, that all our sins are completely forgiven through the one sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Which he himself accomplished on the cross to say otherwise is to deny the gospel. It's to belie God's word. They belie the Holy Spirit, who says there is no more offering, and they teach he's re-offered every day This isn't mincing of words. This is a flat-out denial of God's truth. It also declares to us that the Holy Spirit grafts us into Christ. Who with his true bodies now in heaven at the right hand of the Father wants us to worship him. We're not bringing Christ down. He's bringing us up. That's why the reform liturgies say, take your eyes away from these sensible signs and lift your hearts up to heaven where Christ is at. These are meant to raise us up to him, not bring him down to us. You know, according to the Catholic teaching, Christ comes to earth In every mass, not in the regal glory that he has returned to, that he had with his father before the foundation of the world, but he comes in the form of inanimate No life. Dumb can't speak. Non-ambulatory. Can't move bread And he is to be worshipped under that form. That is to degrade him below an animal. You know, the Roman Catholics, apologists, people who want you to become Roman Catholic, recognize this in their own writings. They'll say, if if this weren't true, it is the greatest idolatry. They're convinced of it, so they think they are, but they recognize there's either we're sinfully wrong because we don't worship Christ's presence, or they're simply wrong because they do. There's not an either or And I say this because many today are being enchanted with the Roman Catholic Church. Table Talk a few months ago did a whole issue on this. They s th the Roman Catholic Church seems to have the antidote for the culture's shallowness today. It's got history and stability and mystery and prestige and all these things. It's something to answer for times just to Shallowness and materialism and nihil and nothing. But Christ alone has the answer Are there really truly born-again Roman Catholics? Of course they are. Should you stand side by side with them against abortion? Yeah, absolutely. We can commend them for those those good things. They truly want to honor God and value life. But we should never pretend like the divide between Catholicism and the gospel is not worlds apart. And that one denies the gospel and engages in idolatrous worship. Now judging by looks on your faces, that's a sobering reality. I know it is. We are dealing with the holy God. He is very gracious and merciful. But as we read in just these passages of scripture, if you know your Bible, you don't want to mess with God's worship. He takes it very seriously because his name is made known in his worship. His name is very important to him. Because that's all he's given us to know him by. But it is sobering, but also coming to the Lord's table is a sobering reality too. It's joyful, but it's solemn. It can be sobering. Not everyone should come to it. Not everyone coming to it comes for the better, as Paul says. I want to read to you from our our own directory of public worship. It's printed in your worship folder. Who should come to the Lord's table? If you've received Christ and you're resting upon him alone for salvation, As he has offered to you in the gospel, if you are baptized and professing communicant member and good standing in the church, that means you've professed your faith before the church? You're a member, you've joined that church, and whatever process they do membership in. And it's a church that preaches the free grace of God in Jesus Christ. And if you live penitently and seek to walk in godliness before the Lord, Then the Lord's Supper is for you. You are invited in Christ's name, right, to eat the bread and drink the cup. That's and we recognize here who are who should come to the Lord's Supper. And if you if you heed that, congregation, that that will go a long way is as the self-examination that is required upon us when we partake. Paul makes it explicit. Let a man it's a command. Consider your membership vows. This is codified in the vows you took to become a professing communicate member here. I know we've got children who are aspiring to that, and all of our children should be aspiring to that. We're praying every day for you children to come do that. And when and when you are ready. When you have that faith and that repentance that is signed and sealed upon you in your baptism, that becomes evident and real, you should make profession of your faith. All of you, if you're a communicate member, you said that you believe the Bible consists in the Old and New Testament to be the Word of God, its doctrine of salvation to be a perfect and only true doctrine of salvation, is getting out of five solas You believe that we are saved by faith alone, in Christ alone, by God's grace alone, to the glory alone, as that's revealed to us in Scripture Do you believe in the living true God and whom eternally there are three distinct persons God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, same in being equal in power and glory, and that Jesus Christ is God the Son come to the flesh? You have to acknowledge the Trinity And the gospel of God's Son taking on flesh and our incarnate redeemer and all his work up to where he's at now at God's right hand. Do you confess that because of your sinfulness you abhor and humble yourself before God, that you repent of your sin and that you trust for salvation, not in yourself, but in Jesus Christ alone? It's required of you to have repentance. It's required of you to have faith. Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as your sovereign Lord? And do you promise any reliance on the grace of God? You will serve Him with all that is in you. Forsake the world, resist the devil, put to death your sinful deeds and desires, and lead a godly life. It's required that you have due obedience to Christ. That you want to rely on his grace, and you want to grow in that grace. Fifthly, do you promise to participate faith in the church's worship and service, to submit in the Lord to its government, and to heed his discipline, even in case you should be found? delinquent and doctrine of life, it requires you to be committed to Christ and to be in submission to his authority as he's delegated that the leaders of the church. In congregation, you you're you're you're asked to make this profession of faith in Christ and obedience to him before you come to supper because well that is what's required For communing membership in Christ's kingdom, as as we'll see more next week when we consider uh the keys of the kingdom there. Now I I really appreciate the catechism statement on who should come Those who are displeased with themselves because of their sins, but who nevertheless trust that their sins are pardoned, and that the remaining weakness is covered by the suffering and death of Christ. Who also desire more and more to strengthen their faith and to lead a better life. That is a glorious gospel statement that does full justice to God's gospel of grace. And redeeming us from all the guilt of sin and the power of sin and the punishment of sin, even though as we wrestle against sin by God's Spirit in us As Jesus declared in the Beatitudes, truly the poor in spirit are welcome at the Lord's table. As Jesus had to teach the Pharisees on repentance, truly prodigals, penitent prodigals, are welcome at the Lord's table. The woman in today's gospel reading, as I mentioned, she is a perfect candidate for communicate membership in Christ's Church. This must have happened sometime before the episode because she's loving Jesus there out of forgiveness. We don't know when she first received that. His statement of at the end isn't isn't to actually partner, it's to make it known to them That Jesus has redeemed her and he is restoring her because she's known as a great sinner that nobody wanted anything to do with. She had come to Jesus in faith as Lord. Trusting in his mercy and to receive pardon from her sins. She had wept sorrowfully over her sins. And I would also say joyfully as well over her Lord's mercy to her. It says that her sins were many. She was a great sinner. And she lavished her love upon him. There's a beautiful picture of someone who's been redeemed by Jesus Christ, whose sins are all forgiven, and who is a part of his body by the Spirit. All redeemed and restored penitent sinners are welcomed at the Lord's table. All who call upon the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, as Paul says in Romans ten, all who confess him as Lord with their mouth, who believe in their heart that God has raised him from the dead, are welcome at the Lord's table. For he was truly pierced for our sins. God had laid on him the iniquity of us all. But coming congregation to the Lord's table does require that one eat and drink in a worthy manner. The Apostle Paul teaches that a person must do three things to eat and drink worthily of the Lord's body and blood. And the first one is this, to obey the Lord's very command and the words of institution when he says, do this in remembrance of me. Our Lord instituted this meal for us to remember him by, and in particular to remember his redeeming death by. That is the chief object in eating this meal. And that must be your chief object If you are gonna eat and drink worthily. That not again, it's not talking about worthiness in yourself, it's talking about the manner of your eating. It's how you eat, how you drink, how you partake at that time, whether that is worthy of what you're partaking or not Um it's still taught today. It's it's been taught for a while. I don't know if it's on an incline or a decline But infants can't remember Christ's death because they don't yet know about it, so they they can't keep the Lord's command and therefore they say shouldn't come to the Lord's Supper. That's called Pedal Communion, and it's it's taught But they can't even do what the Lord says here in remembering it. But next Paul says, let a person examine himself then and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. You've all taken examination as you know that's a test. You want to test the genuineness of your knowledge. You need to test the genuineness and state of your heart. Apostle Paul is it's a command, it's not optional. He's saying it's not meant to, the question isn't should I come or shouldn't I come? Should I partake today or should I not? The question is, you need to see some things in you to make sure your heart's right so that you can come. The emphasis is on coming, but you first got to examine your heart. And you're asking, well what what are we testing ourselves for? I I think our shorter catechism, question ninety-seven, answers it adverly It is required of them that would worthily partake of the Lord's Supper that they examine themselves of their knowledge to discern the Lord's body. We'll talk about that next. That's the third command. Of their faith to feed upon. I mean you need to be able to see, am I trusting? Because there's nothing here for your mouth. I mean there is bread and wine, but just bread and wine. It requires faith to feed upon the Lord Jesus Christ God's faith to receive his word. This is my body. He is feeding and nourishing your soul and receive the promises made to you here in the gospel here in the gospel seals. Of their repentance, sorrowing for sin, of their love. Paul in this letter, 1 Corinthians, saying, if a person does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. If a curse is to be out on a person who doesn't love the Lord Jesus Christ, then he should certainly not sit at the Lord's table. And new obedience. Am I coming truly in that confession that He is Lord? My sin is not Lord? My old way of life is not Lord? He is Lord. But remember, where did we read a? It are those who are displeased with themselves. We're not talking about perfect people. There are no perfect people. It's talking about penitent sinners. Who truly don't want to live as sinners anymore. Want God's grace. Who come acknowledging their sinfulness when they come and unworthiness. I like uh Dr. Hodge, some of you may know Charles Hodges, his commentary on this passage. I think he also helps us understand this examination when he says, in other words Let him ascertain whether he has correct views of the nature and design of the ordinance and whether he has the proper state of mind as he understand what this is about, that it's a sign and seal of the gospel, and to confirm faith, which means you need to have faith. And that is his state of mind, whether he desires thankfully to commemorate the Lord's death. Is that your desire when you are coming to partake to thankfully remember his death? To renewedly partake of the benefits of that death is a sacrifice of sin. To receive, not for the first time, but receive in the sign and seal that Christ has died for your sins and they are truly forgiven. You know, we still do confess daily the forgiveness of our sins. Our our our confession of faith, chapter eleven, on justification, article five, it assures us we are justified, you can never lose that But you can lose the fatherly favor of your heavenly father when you fall into sin. And until you repent And change your ways, you'll know that frown. And so we still need to ask daily for the forgiveness, even though we are justified. And our sins are forgiven. The judges said your pardon the father says you you need to come ask for forgiveness when you sin. One and the same God, but maybe that will help how we understand it. Publicly, are you there publicly to accept the covenant of grace? You know, Jesus says it's a covenant of my new blood. It is a covenant being made with you. But all of its promises of the forgiveness of sins and eternal life and its obligations, repentance, and faith in the Lord Jesus. And to signify his fellowship with his brethren as joint members with himself of the body of Christ. Is that why we're eating and drinking when we come to the Lord's Supper? I really appreciate this teaching because again the the the the mass and other things want to do, they just want to focus all this on a piece of bread and a piece of wine in some magical way, and if you just eat it without being engraved sin Then it does something for you. But never a thought or reflection of the Lord. And maybe some do. I don't know how all of them partake of it. I'm just talking about the emphasis of their teaching. The emphasis here is, where is your heart at with the Lord? And do you know what this death is about? And do you want to proclaim it joyfully? You know, our infants, they can't do this yet. They don't have repentance and faith yet. They're unable to examine themselves, and so they can't come. Lastly, Paul says, for anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body, eats and drinks judgment on himself. The body here, most likely, almost assuredly, refers to the Lord's body and not the church. Paul's been talking about that in the two previous verses. And not discerning the Lord's body means regarding and treating the elements in the Lord's Supper as though there was nothing to distinguish them from ordinary bread and wine. That's another quote by Dr. Hodge. What he's getting at is that the bread and wine congregation are Christ's chosen symbols to represent his accursed death for you on the tree. And therefore, they need to be regarded with care and with reverence and appreciation of what they stand for They're not just bread and wine. They've been set apart for a holy use to represent Christ crucified for you Now, Congregation, we are sure Paul's telling us that if we heed these things, and if this is the way that we partake of communion, then we will eat and drink in a way that's worthy of it, and we'll eat and drink for our good. I am finishing up, but I want to talk just a moment about what it says about who shouldn't come. Catechism notes that hypocrites and those who are unrepentant, however, eat and drink judgment on themselves. If you partake of the Lord's Supper, either as a hypocrite, that's a false pretender, or unrepentant, you're someone who will not return turn from your sins though they've been made known to you. Your brothers have lovingly admonished you and told you about it. The church But you are refusing to turn away from it, then you will eat and drink judgment on yourself, because you will be guilty of profaning the body and blood of the Lord and of dishonoring God's covenant. I had to sing through Psalm 50 because I wanted to get some more ministry of the word to you, because that is God's statement to true covenanters and false covenanters. Hear how God speaks to the wicked in Psalm 50, verse 16. But to the wicked, God says, What right have you to recite my statutes? He's speaking to a hypocrite. This guy thinks he's right To recite my statutes or take my covenant on your lips. Here's someone who apparently says he says God's law. He takes up the covenant and he appears to be a religious person, but God says to the wicked. Here God challenges the hypocrites right. To his religious services and to partake of him. And why is that? He goes on to say, for you hate discipline. You cast my words behind you. You will not be reproved by me, you will not be instructed by me, you will not walk in my ways. God demands faith and repentance if we are going to properly covenant for him. Now he has given them those graciously to us in Christ, but they are demands of him. You cannot be in covenant and communing covenant membership without faith and repentance. What does the hypocrite think? These things you have done, and I have been silent. You thought that I was one like yourself. Think of that. Just because God wasn't up in his face, if you will, and making them, he saw, well, God's like me. And you see that's the problem. If we just let hypocrites in here and unrepentant people, the world's gonna get a thought. That's what God is like. He's like murderers. He's like adulterers. He's like liars and thieves. God is nothing like that. He's not like that at all. God rebukes such thinking, but now I rebuke you and lay the charge before you Then God goes on and threatens such false covenanting with this word Mark this then you who forget God, lest I tear you apart and there be none to deliver. Now God is speaking graciously to this hypocrite so he'll repent. Let's hope that he did. The catechism and understanding then our obligation and heeding what God says through Psalm 50 says, according to the instruction of Christ and his apostles The church is duty bound to exclude such people by the official use of the keys of the kingdom until they reform their lives. And we'll talk about that next week. You all know the story of Achan, probably. He took what was stolen and God judged. Congregation. We we read this morning of twenty-four thousand who died in the wilderness because of their sin, which Paul in 1 Corinthians 10 reminded the congregation of this to say, that was an example to you, church. If you behave how they behave in the wilderness, God will treat you the same way. The Lord truly judges his people. The Lord, who's host of this table, who graciously invites us, he truly does judge his people. But he does it in order to save them. But he truly does visit them with illnesses and even death. But he does it for their everlasting salvation, that they may not be condemned with the world. Come back tonight and you'll hear more about how God chastens us as his sons. So let me end by this. How should we approach the table? I think Psalm 116, which we're going to sing in a minute, wonderfully tells us how. What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits? I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows, remember your membership vows, to the Lord and in the presence of all his people For I, O Lord, am your servant. I am your servant, the son of your maidservant, you've loosed my bonds. I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and call on the name of the Lord. I'll pay my vows to the Lord, and the presence of all his people. In the courts of the house of the Lord, in your midst, O Jerusalem, praise the Lord. If we commune in this way, congregation, we will do it in a wor a manner worthy of the Lord. Now may God keep you in his everlasting grace. Amen.