Congregation of the Lord, as you can see this morning, we'll be considering the fifth commandment And as I'm sure you know, the fifth commandment uh begins the second table of God's law. We've considered the first four what deals with Uh the worship and duty we owe to God, and here in the second table we begin uh to deal with how we are to treat one another as God's image bearers. What kind of uh relationship should we have I think that some of the most beautiful scenes on earth come from keeping this commandment. Let me give you an illustration of it here. Richard Cecil was a noted minister in a previous age, I'm not sure, probably in the 1800s When he was but a small boy, his father had occasion to go to India House in Britain and took his son with him While he was transacting his business, the little fellow was dismissed, but told to wait for his father at one of the doors. His father, on finishing his business, went out at another door and lost in thought entirely forgot his son. In the evening, his mother, missing the boy, inquired where he was, on which his father suddenly remembered that he had instructed him to wait at a certain door. You may depend upon it, he added, he is still waiting where I appointed him. Such indeed proved to be the case. The father returned with all speed to India House, and found the lad on the very spot where he had ordered him to remain. He knew that his father expected him to wait, and therefore he would not disappoint. What a beautiful scene of filial obedience. But I also think some of the most unseemly and cringeworthy scenes can come from violating this commandment. There's uh just one example. We read of a poor black woman, a slave in the island of Mauritius, and that is off the east coast of Madagascar, in the Indian Ocean, between Africa and Australia. With great labor and long parsimony of thrift, had saved as much money as enabled her to purchase her daughter a slave like herself from their common owner Being content to remain in bondage for the pleasure of seeing her child walk at large with shoes on her feet, which were then the badge of freedom among people of color. No slave being permitted to wear them. Soon after the bargain had been completed, the affectionate mother happening to come into a room where this daughter was sitting very naturally and unconsciously sat down beside her, as she had been wont to do. A moment or two afterwards the daughter turned round in a rage and rebuked her, exclaiming, So dare you sit down in my presence. Do you not know that I am a free woman? You are a slave. Rise instantly. Leave the room Unseemly sight of violating the honor that this child should have given to her parent, let alone the one who had labored hard decided to stay in bondage yourself to see a child go free. Both wonderful, beautiful things to behold when this commandment is kept. Very ugly, cringsworthy things, and it's violated. I know from my own personal as we all have parents. They may be adoptive parents, they may be natural parents, foster parents, but no child. is brought up by himself. It is impossible to reach the age you have reached and to sit here this morning if you're an adult without a parent. Beautiful and cringe. We all may have can think of ourselves in the past of shameful things we've said to our parents, shameful deeds. We have not brought them the honor God violence. God says to us congregation, and he says to us still in the new covenant in Christ's kingdom, honor your father and your mother that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving. It is very clear from this passage what God wants from every one of us that we honor our parents. And it is clear, because he has to tell us to honor them that we then are very sinfully prone to dishonor them. And so God has to tell us to honor our parents, and with that, as we'll see here, all people put in places of authority over us. Now in my plan this morning is there's sort of three things that make up this passage. I want to consider them briefly with you, what it means to honor our parents, and then essentially just apply it to us. In this text, in Exodus 20, verse 12, we're first told here: honor. That's what God wants from us. Honor. He wants us to honor. The word here in the Hebrew, Kabbad, you may know, means weighty If it refers to natural objects like stone and metal, then you would use it to describe something as heavy and weighty. And then that begins kind of metaphorically to apply to other things, and here in this case to people, to signify that they are people of importance. They are a weighty person, they're weighty people, our parents. They have great significance given to them. And so they are weighty in God's eyes, and we'll talk about why they're weighty, and then therefore how we are to respond to our parents and people in authority is we are to give them that due weight And show them that respect that they are due. From our readings this morning that we selected, except for one, We get a glimpse of what it means from God's Word for us to honor our parents and those in authority over us. The first way that we do that is through reverence of them. Reverence. And I know that sounds in our age that we only give that to God and we only give God worship But reverence means deep respect. A deep respect. That is what we owe to our parents and those in authority. God says in Leviticus chapter 19, verse 3. Every one of you shall revere his mother. And his father, notice that the mother even comes before the father. In other places, father before mother, but mothers are to be treated with equal respect. equal dignity, equal honor as the Father. Every one of you shall revere his mother and his father So if we are going to honor our parents' congregation and those who are in authority over us, we must revere them. We must revere them in our words. This is why we say father and mother, why we say yes, ma'am, and yes, sir. Why we give titles of Mr. So-and-so and Mrs. So-and-so when we address those in the congregation or in society who are older than us, we'll say elder so-and-so, and pastor so-and-so, and senator so-and-so, and Mr. President so-and-so, we give them the reverence and honor due to them In our words, the way we speak. But reverence is also to be given in our gestures Now you don't have to, but in other cultures and times, you know, hats would come off before people of positions and authority, through parents and other leaders. Uh you would bow before them. Solomon bowed before his mother on his throne when she came in and made a request to them. You can bow before such individuals Standing erect in a posture of respect and dignity and not, you know, slouching over and hardly paying attention with one hand in the pocket, and I couldn't care less. Can we get this conversation over? We've all done it, guilty Sinner. But that is not reverencing who your mother and father is. It's not reverencing those in positions of authority over you. It is to be seen in our words. It's to be seen in our gestures. But again, it's hypocrisy if it's only in our gestures and if it's not in our hearts. That we truly understand and know before God who our mothers and fathers are. Talk about that. Moment So that's the first way we show honor is through reverence. God says in in Exodus 21, 17, whoever curses his father or his mother shall be put to death, or that's the opposite. Cursing them, speaking ill of them, slandering them, rather than revering them in their words. Of course this is a great evil today in social media age. You can just get on and blast any elected official you want, and it seems as easy as fine No way showing the reverence, the weight, the position and authority that God has bestowed upon them in the way we speak about Secondly, as as we read in the New Testament, there in Ephesians chapter 6, and Paul addressing the church in Ephesus, and of course all Christian churches Uh we read that we are to show honor by obedience, right? God says, Paul writes, Children, obey your parents. That's the second way we show honor to those in authority over us, is we obey them, right? They are giving us commands for our good. They are in charge. They have the family to run. They know what's going on in the service of the Lord. You've got to get there. You've got to get that. They don't always need a why, why, why But they need you to say yes, mommy, and yes, daddy, and maybe answers can come later because they see everything, right? You've experienced it as a parent. The tolerance and the wine, they they they don't grasp all that has to be planned and accounted for and taken in. That's on you. That's part of the weight you bear But you've got to give orders and instructions so you can get up in a timely manner and get to church. You can make it to that event. You can make it to the school thing. You can make it on the trip Whatever service you're going on. Obedience is what we owe to the commands of those who are in authority over us. And of course, always with the caveat In the Lord. Always with the caveat that we must obey lawful commands in no way do the authority that God bestows on any creature Does he give them the authority to command sinful things? In that case, we follow the apostles. We must obey God If not man. But in anything that is lawful, we are, and it comes from a put person in authority over us. We must strive to obey it and obey it from the heart, cheerfully, right? Not the obedience where you drag your feet, you grumble and mumble, and you stomp off But one that shows that you love this relationship of authority. You thank God for it and are appreciative of it. And you obey from the heart. So reverence and obedience, and lastly, gratitude. The honor that we owe to our parents and those in authority is gratitude. That's what Jesus was getting at in his uh Speaking to the Pharisees in Matthew chapter 15. Because of their greed, they found a way they could set aside God's law. put in its place man's law. And when their parents came in a situation of need, when their parents grew elderly and needed the care of their parents, well they could just write that check to the church, give it there, and they had no more could feel any obligation to their parents. That's that's done in it. Corban. It's a gift to God and maybe it's a past grudge They don't want to care for mommy and daddy, maybe they're just greedy and this is going to eat into their savings and they had life plans and it doesn't really fit in with mom and dad getting ill. And Jesus says, no. God says, honor your parents. And a great debt, again, as I began this sermon, you're here this morning, it's because your parents Mommy nursed you. Mommy changed your diapers. Daddy cared for you. Daddy went to work and labored for you. Daddy put food before you. Daddy brought you up in his house. Mommy Daddy clothed you. Mommy Daddy gave you shelter. Mommy Daddy taught you how to get a means of your own living and provided for your education. The debt of gratitude that we owe to our parents to provide for them in their need and elderly age and their weakness when they need our care. They need not just our monetary support, but our time and our attention and love and support for them. So gratitude. We show honor to our parents in the grateful way we begin in little bits to pay back that debt that we owed them. Because who are our mothers and fathers? That's the second thing here. We honor through revering, we honor through obedience, we honor through gratitude, but who are the ones we're called to honor him It's your father. It's your mother. And it's all others in places of authority. But who are they? There's a relationship between honor your mother and father and the command honor because God would not tell us to honor people who are not worthy of honor, would he? He would not say, honor these people if in no way they deserve the honor that God wants us to show them. Well, why are they such weighty people? What is the significance of mom and dad to us? Well, first and foremost, God shares his title of father with them Paul prays, all fatherhood comes from God. I bow my knee before the Father, from which all fatherhood comes, therefore all authority as well. God we know is motherly as well, and he shares a title of mother. We don't call God mother, we call him father, but he takes his children like a chick. Mama takes her chicks under her wings. These tender and compassionate nurturing. So God shares something of his title with, but God also shares something of his role. As the author of life, you owe your existence to your parents. God is pleased to bring your parents together and through them give you life. And so without your parents, right, none of us would exist. So they're life givers, right, in a sense. It's part of the weightiness of our parents. Through them, God has given us our life. But there also are life sustainers, right? God is the one who wonderfully sustains his creation. And he sends the rain and he sends the sunshine and he continues to breathe upon the earth renew by his spirit and bring forth all the good things that we eat and nourish and and live by, well that's your parents too. They have that life-preserving role and their nurture of you Not only providing the necessities of our life, the food that we need, the drink that we need, the clothing that we need, but they also provide the wisdom and counsel that you need because all of us probably would have walked across the street, got hit by a car with less mommy and daddy, right? Telling you, hey, don't put that in the socket. That's who your parents are to you. They're there to give you long life. Especially godly Christian parents. who raise you to know the Lord and preach the gospel to you and take you to church and immerse you in the means of grace. Who give you their counsel and give you an education so you can grow up and make a living for yourself? Where did that come from? And not only the necessities, but many of the things that make up for your well-being too, the hobbies and enjoyments and activities that you like, all those things. We owe to our parents. They are our life givers and our life preservers, providing the needs, the necessities of life, but also providing us with instruction. As we heard there in Proverbs, right? The fool despises the instruction of his parents and leads to death. But the wise son will heed his parents' instructions. He says, I know, parents, you're telling your children, don't steal, right? And don't commit adultery. Don't run with the cynical crowd. They may despise your instruction and do it, but you're teaching them how to live. And you're preaching the gospel of Christ to them that they may receive eternal life through faith in Him and making known their sinful state and expounding their baptism what it means. You're doing that. Because that's what God calls you to do. That's the weight put upon you. There is a weight to this as well, and we'll get to that when we address parents. But So that's the ones we're to honor. But there there are more father figures in our life than just our parents, right? We we have also we might call our political fathers. The fathers of the polis or the city, our civil leaders. God will call kings in his word. Fathers. God will call the heads of the tribes of Israel who are to sit in judgment and give laws and rules to the people. fathers because all fatherhood, all rule and authority should be like fatherly in its nature. It should be full of encouragement and tenderness and compassion and care. So we have fathers in our state, and we must give them the honor due to pay the taxes, call them by the titles they need, give obedience to their commands, even if we think it's a pretty nonsense command. It's still the law of the Lamb Vote for better elected officials. We must honor them. We don't get the right to say, I'll do it this way and I'll do it that time. That's that's that just leads to anarchy and everybody being a king and doing what they want We have uh spiritual fathers, those whom God has given us birth to. Maybe it's your pastor, maybe it's an elder, maybe it's just a godly Christian friend. But God has been pleased for them to bring you to birth in Christ. You've ever been blessed to do that? You know how they're like a needy babe. And they just need the word of God and they're always calling you and texting you and you're giving them books to read and the can and and the word of God to read and showing them this and showing them that in his question and you're nurturing them and bringing them up But think about the life that God uses to bestow. You know, God uses to bestow natural life upon you through your parents. He may use your parents as well too to bestow eternal life upon you, but spiritual fathers. We have spiritual fathers in the song We also have what we might call our ancient or elderly fathers, the elderly amongst us, who are full of life's wisdom. full of a godly example for us to walk in and do, who who have reached these mature ages, and surely they have something to instruct us. And teach us in and we must honor them as fathers and mothers and stand before them. Paul tells Timothy, Timothy Do not rebuke an elderly person in your church, but speak to them like a father. No a younger man should not harshly rebuke an older person in the church, but should speak to them like he would to his own father But we also have uh am I called domestic fathers. And in in this time and other ages, you had slaves that made up the household still an institution in New Testament times, and they came under the rule of the Poter familias, right? The the household father under his rule. And and today that might look something like um workplace with employers and employees. You're a supervisor and boss and you hire people, you're in a fatherly weighty role. You pay their wages. You're the one to help survive their means of living and support them. And that needs to be acknowledged by those under them And they need to honor and show the respect and dignity. So fatherhood is a broad category of rule and authority that extends to all rule and authority and not just our natural parents. And thirdly, there's a blessing that attends to this, if you obey and keep this commandment, that it may go well with you and you might live long in the land the Lord your God is giving you. Here that's Canaan. Paul applies it just to the earth in general here, but of course as as born-again believers we know that God has opened the kingdom of heaven to us and the new heavens, new earth as as a place that we shall dwell on and live forever Now that's not an absolute promise we see in scripture. I think it's Abijah, one of Josiah's godly children, died of sickness in a younger age, and God gave him an honorable burial And his ungodly brothers lived longer than him, but didn't even get that 'cause they were kicked out of the land. And so God will fulfill this blessing as far as it is to the glory of his name and our good and our salvation. So But this is to be something of a rule that you can expect. If you will, children, heed your parents' instruction and obey them and honor them, God will bless you with a long life. Here's a couple of examples of that given here. Think again about trying to what I'm trying to impress upon us here is the weightiness of people in authority. They're life givers, they're life preservers God uses them to bless us in our earthly life, and not only that, to bestow as a means of eternal life. A clergyman was once asked when examined for orders by the bishop's chaplain whether he had made divinity a study. He replied that he had not particularly studied it, but said he, my mother taught me the scriptures. Ah, said the chaplain, mothers can do great things. The young man was examined with respect to the extent of his knowledge, was approved, ordained, and asked to preach before the bishop. Where did that man get his livelihood in priestly orders? From his mother Taught him the scriptures. He didn't even go to Divinity Hall. He passed his examination and was proved for gospel ministry, which the Lord says those who are And the the the workman's worthy of his hire to get his means and his living because of his mother who taught him. Scripture. Do you see that blessing fulfilled there in his life? Here's another example of a female servant who was taken ill in a congregation in London with the assistance of kind friends who knew her This pastor took care of her for many years. She was thus saved from the workhouse and made comfortable to the day of her death And who was this servant girl he writes? She was one who in early life spent all her wages as a servant in support of her aged and distressed parents, who confidently believed that God would raise up friends whenever she might need them, and who gave herself therefore to the duties which her Bible had commanded This servant girl spent all her wages to care for aged parents. When she became sick, God raised up friends for her. She was looked after by this pastor and didn't have to go to a workhouse and could die comfortably. and her illness. God had blessed the keeping of this commandment to her. It's probably all been impressed upon us this morning, I hope, that we fall short of this. And that we need the grace of God for His forgiveness. That Jesus Christ did come to this world, and these are some of the sins that He died for for us, people. And he was crucified and raised from the dead that he might make atonement for all the ways we dishonor our parents, all the ways we dishonor those in authority and rule over us. But not only that, he did that so by God's grace and through faith in him, the risen Lord, we might die to this sin. That we might rise from the depth of sin and begin in this life to keep this commandment and to honor our parents, to honor those in authority over I want to close well it's just it's there's gonna be a few more minutes than that, but I want to address our parents. Yes. What I'm trying to say is we're at the second phase, which is me now saying, let me talk to you all about this. Thank you for your Cheerful laughs. I want to first speak to parents as we apply this this morning. And here I think we should all take these words to heart. One Christian who was a writer about Christian education said this. He says, I well remember being much impressed by a sermon when I was a young father In which the preacher said, were he to select one word as the most important in education, it should be the word obey. My experience since has fully convinced me of the justice of the remark. Without filial obedience, felius was the Latin term for a child, so filial obedience is the obedience a child gives to a parent. Without filial obedience, everything must go wrong. Is not a disobedient child guilty of a manifest breach of the fifth commandment? And is not a parent who suffers this disobedience to continue and habitual partaker in his child's offense against that commandment? By the disobedience of our first parents, sin came into the world. And through the obedience of the second Adam are the gates of heaven open to true believers. The wicked are emphatically styled the children of disobedience, and it is clearly the object of the divine plan of salvation. To conquer the rebellious spirit of man and to bring him into a state of humility and submission. Parental authority is one powerful instrument for effecting the change. It is intended to bend the stubborn will, and by habituating a child to subjection to earthly parents To prepare him for Christian obedience to his Heavenly Father. In proportion as filial obedience is calculated to smooth the way for true religion Filial disobedience must produce the opposite effect. The parent who habitually gives way to it has appalling reason to apprehend that he is educating his child not for heaven but for hell. End quote. It was impressed upon me as a young father now that my oldest child's seven and a few years ago, thinking, God in this commandment is not just speaking to children. It is incumbent upon parents that you enforce this honor. You must not partake of the child's sin and allowing the child to get away with irreverence towards parents and those in authority. Disobedience, then gratitude for the people and authority over them, home and church. And then stay. Because we are truly not educating them for heaven. We don't we can think of Eli's children. Eli did not reprove his children. We saw the gut judgment that God brought upon his children. Parents, you are a weighty people in society. Remember that. God has bestowed a great weight and significance upon you. You are the means of life and preservation. You are the source of sustainment of godly offspring. You have a duty to preserve your honor and to enforce this commandment and all other commandments by your nurture, by your admonition. Instruction and discipline. Because how will your children learn to honor those in authority over them, right? If not from you, where does that begin? But at home. You get to be their first glimpse of what authority and submission should look like. A loving, affectionate parent full of compassion, and pity and tender mercies. Who loves the child dearly and wants best for them, and then a child responding in that like love and giving due honor and reverence and obedience. Contrary, uh all uh exercises of authority should be parent-like. And as one Christian pastor today says, contrary to the fears of some, most households are less patriarchy and more kindergarchy. That's the rule of children. Be kind, but don't spoil your children. And you must raise them as Christians, as you took vows to do, if you have become a member here and have Submitted your children to Christian baptism. You must instruct them in the faith and you must walk before them in the example. You must say the things and do the things that you want your own children to do. Your nurture and admonition must not be overbearing and provoking them to wrath and causing the child to lose heart. You should not tease them or pick at them. You should not gossip about them to other parents in church. You should not treat them as if what they do is never right or good enough, or that they're just there to serve you. You must give them constant praise, and I'm preaching to myself. Not just for the achievements that they do, but for them. Praise them. To do all this, we need to remember who we are, right? I'm a greater sinner than my child. I do the same sinful things my children do, and yet I know better. You're the greater sinner. Exercise humility towards your children. Think on how God parents you. He never shames you when you come to him not knowing. James 1. God gives without reproach those who don't have wisdom. Don't reproach your child for not knowing. Now if the child's been told ten times, there's a place to reproach. But if he's coming 'cause he doesn't know. The Marine Corps' not very good at that. I have to fight against this one. If you've served in the military, you you know the kind of environment it is God is slow to anger, Psalm 103. Long suffering towards his children. Passionate, tender. Deuteronomy 6, God picks his child up and carries them and supports them and loves them. Remember also that authority is not just to be parent-like, but as our Lord taught us servant-like as well. We must humble ourselves and even serve our children. Because from you they contracted their sin nature. You must do everything in your power and using the means of grace to rid them of it. Strive to gain your child's heart, as we hear in the Proverbs so much, son, give me your heart. You cannot control or manipulate your children. You need to get to know them as people. Our children are not our pets to promote our vanity. Our teaching of them should be interactive where they can freely ask questions. We can help them to solve their problems using biblical principles. We can give them the encouragement that they need. We should not be sparing with our praise. We should also not spare the rod when it's needed. And rod there just means painful discipline. Whether you actually use one, but maybe it's taking the phone. Maybe it's whatever the It's going to inflict the needed pain to send the message. If you keep going down this, it's just going to be worse. And this I hope is the most pain you'll experience and turn away to the pals of righteousness. That's discipline. Know your own shortcomings as parents? Read to gain wisdom on parenting. I think the greatest parenting manual God given us is Proverbs. And I think not only reading it for yourselves, but sitting down with the child and reading it with the child, just going over it with them and talking with them. Learn from others in the congregation, pray without ceasing for your parenting and for your children, I'm sure you're doing. And as I said, this applies to more than just natural parents. If you are a supervisor, a boss, an elder in the congregation, a husband, a civil leader, or just an elderly This applies to you. Listen to this great illustration of a of a child exercising this kind of printal. Do you think a seven-year-old could be a parental figure, a life-preserving figure? Listen to this story. A boy of seven years old in the town of Wester in Germany, playing one day with his sister of four years old, was alarmed by the cry of some men who were in pursuit of a mad dog The child suddenly looking round saw the dog running towards him, but instead of making his escape, he took off his coat and wrapping around his arm he boldly faced the dog, and holding out the arm, covered with the coat, the animal attacked it and worried the coat. So the men came up who being armed with clubs killed the dog. The men reproachfully asked the boy why he did not run and avoid the dog, which he could so easily have done. Yes So the little hero, I could have run from the dog, but if I had, he would have attacked my sister. To protect her, therefore, I thought of offering him my coat, which he might tear at, if he should come up, kill him Wouldn't any parent do that for a child? And here's an older sibling exercising this kind of godly parental care for the child. If you are a parent, you have struggled with this, get back on the horse. You have fallen from this, because you have children, you have congregants, you have colleagues. You have spouses waiting for your godly leadership. Repent that whatever it is that you've done, God shows more grace. Submit to him. And lastly, children, and that's all of us in some rule, you need to train yourself to say, this person is to be feared and revered by me. Not over God, but under God. These are the people God has given me my life through. In every way, they are essential to my existence. These are the people that God has ordained and charged to the means of providing me with a long life. They care for my needs, they provide for education, they teach me wisdom to live by. In every way they're central to me. This is how you need to think of your parents. On top of all this, they make it possible for me to enjoy my hobbies and activities beyond what's strictly necessary. They wear themselves away in this effort. They spend the best years of their life, if you will, laboring for this Now they do it because they love you and they want to do it, but it's the reality is they do it. I must reverence them and Obey them. I must show them gratitude. I must do my best to show them this honor and how I speak to them and about them to others. I must do my best to heed them, even when I disagree with them. For this is right and pleases the Lord. I must do my best to submit myself to their corrections. I must do my best patiently to bear with their infirmities. Parents are going to fail you. Parents are sinful. They are going to get it wrong. But bear patiently with their failures. I must do my best to be faithful to them and defend them, to care for them at old age. I must pray for my parents. I must avoid treating them in a light manner and forgetting who they are before God. A couple of ways that I think we can tend to do that today a lot is in the choice of careers and even possible marriage partners. Parents have a lot to offer you here. You should as much as possible seek the blessing of your parents if you can get it. And if it is not forthcoming right away, listen, because they may have very good reasons for it. Pray and also don't forget your grandparents. They fall under this. Spend time with your grandparents. As much as you can give them. Learn from them. We know that our Lord submitted to his parents. Okay, I've said enough here. But also, lastly, to make it clear, this also extends to widows in the church. Widows have labored hard, those are true widows, and as a body of Christ we must care for those who are widows amongst us and truly widows, which means they have only God to care for them. They have not children Who either cannot and won't do it or just don't exist and can do it. Children and grandchildren. Our Lord, you know, he took care of his widowed mother from the cross And appointing John the Apostle to care for her. So we must care for the widows of the church. Let me leave you with this thought, and this is my closing. We read about this story recorded of uh long ago in in Mount Edna, which is in in the a volcano in Italy, Sicily. It erupted and all the uh occupants were in the adjacent country obliged to flee in every direction. Amidst the hurry and confusion of this scene, everyone carrying away whatever he deemed most precious Two sons, the one named Anaphias, the other Amphonemus, and the height of their solicitude, their care for the preservation of their wealth and goods, Recollected their father and mother, who being very old, were unable to save themselves by flight. Felial tenderness overcame every consideration Where exclaimed the generous youths, shall we find a more precious treasure than our parents? This said the one took up his father on his shoulders, the other his mother, and so made their way to the surrounding smoke inflamed. And I would say, parents, let us strive to be the most precious treasure we can be to our children. And children, let us strive to remember and treat our parents as they are as a most precious treasure to us and honor them by revering them Obeying them and showing gratefulness and gratitude to the weight and dignity that God has placed upon them as the source of your life and the means of preservation of it May God give us his grace. Amen.