This morning's Old Testament reading is from the book of Genesis, chapter twenty-eight. We'll read the entire chapter. Then Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and directed him. Arise, go to Padan Aram to the house of Bethuel, your mother's father, and take as your wife from there one of the daughters of Laban, your mother's brother God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you that you may become a company of peoples. May He give the blessings of Abraham to you and to your offspring with you. that you may take possession of the land of your sojournings that God gave to Abraham. Thus Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Padon Aram to Laban, the son of Bethuel, the Aramean. the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother. Now Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Padan Aram to take a wife from there, and that as he blessed him, he directed him, You must not take a wife from the Canaanite women. And that Jacob had obeyed his father and his mother and had gone to Padan Aram. So when Esau saw that the Canaanite women did not please Isaac his father, Esau went to Ishmael and took as his wife, besides the wives, he had Mahala, the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, the sister of Nibiaoth Jacob left Bathsheba and went toward Haran, and then he came to a certain place and stayed there that night because the sun had set. Taking one of the stones of the place he put it under his head, and lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed, and behold, there was a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord, the God of Abraham your father, and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie I will give to you and to your offspring. Your offspring shall be like the dust of the earth, and you shall spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south, and in you and your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed Behold, I am with you, and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land, where I will not leave you until I have done what I promised you. Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it. And he was afraid and said, How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. So early in the morning Jacob took the stone that he had put under his head and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil on the top of it. He called the name of that place Bethel, but the name of the city was Luz at the first. Then Jacob made a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way, that I go and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear, so that I come again to my father's house in peace, then the Lord shall be my God, and this stone which I have set up for a pillar, shall be God's house And of all that you give me, I will give a full tenth to you. The word of the Lord. Turn with me, if you will, to our New Testament epistle reading this morning. Comes from First Thessalonians chapter four. We'll read together verses one through eight. And really well the words we just finished singing, beloved kind of set us on what we're looking at today, walking pleasing to God, our sanctification before the Lord, and that law truly in us, setting us free from sin as God puts it in us. makes our lives holy and whole again. So here the word of God, 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, beginning at verse 1. Finally, then, brothers, we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us how you ought to walk and to please God, Just as you are doing, that you do so more and more. For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus For this is the will of God, your sanctification. Now you abstain from sexual immorality. That each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God. That no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter, because the Lord is an avenger in all these things, as we told you beforehand, and solemnly warned you. For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. Therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not man But God, who gives his Holy Spirit to you. And our gospel passage this morning comes from The gospel according to Matthew in chapter fifteen, and we'll read together verses twenty one through twenty eight. So Matthew chapter fifteen, beginning at verse twenty one, hear the word of the Lord And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre in Sidon. And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, Son of David. My daughter is severely oppressed by a demon. But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and begged him, saying, Send her away, for she is crying out after us. He answered, I was sent only to the lost sheep in the house of Israel. The sheep came and knelt before him, saying, Lord, help me. And he answered, it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. She said, Yes, Lord. Yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their master's table. And Jesus answered her, O woman, great is your faith. Be it done for you as you desire. And her daughter was healed instantly. This is the word of the Lord. Congregation, we continue together this morning as we have been in these morning services, going through what are traditional readings in the Christian church throughout the year. Many uh Christians around the world are in a time of Lent, uh which is a time of preparing for the sufferings of our Lord forty days and forty nights as we saw last week as he spent in the wilderness. But really it's a matter of if you Follow these sayings, it's really a matter of spending time of answering the question, right? Why did Jesus suffer and die? The Bible's answer is for our sins. So it's really a time of in his love and goodness, that's the source, God's loving grace, would not let our sins have the last word in our broken fellowship. But has sent his son Jesus to pay the price, to be the foundation of an everlasting reconciliation between us and our God. That we might be whole creatures again. Restore. You get that union right? Until you are reconciled with your God, through the death of Jesus and his grace, you'll never be whole. But you get that un and restored as He commands and urged and desires all of us to do, preaching that good news, then life and healing and wholeness, now and forever, right, flow from that. Well, our Savior suffered for our sins, and as it was in Paul's day, as it was before Paul's day, as we heard in our Old Testament reading, too. And as it is today, one kind of those sins that our Savior wanted to suffer for? that our Father wanted him to suffer for our sexual sins. Sins dealing with Sex and violations of that relationship and what it was that God made it So that's what we're going to be looking at this morning as you our text, I I haven't told you yet, so I'll tell you now, but you probably guessed, will be the passage in 1 Thessalonians. So if you wish to follow along in your Bible You may turn there. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. We'll look at these eight verses together. And you can see for yourselves as you look at it what our theme is this morning. It's holiness. Holiness shows up in this passage four times in a couple different forms. Paul, you can first time you can see it there in verse 3. This is the will of God, right? Your sanctification or your holiness. Verse 4, how to uh control your own body in holiness. We see down in verse 7 that God has not called this to impurity, but in holiness and then finally Paul grounding it there and God giving to us his Holy Spirit. So our our theme this morning is holiness, but in particular Uh it is the urge to abound in it. This passage begins with appeal. We ask and request that you would abound in holiness. So that's what we want to look at this morning is Abounding, increasing, going on in holiness. As Christians, I know you are leading holy lives and have been leading holy lives. And Paul urges us, let's keep going and live holy. Lies. So that's what we're talking about. Holiness, or as Paul first refers to it as lies that please God. That's what we're dealing with, right? Abounding in lives that please God. Now, that's something we should do by nature, right? That's something every creature should want to do is to please his creator, right? But we know we don't As a sinful, willful rebellion, as of our total depravity and inability We harden ourselves against God and His Word. But as I said before, and I'll continue to say to you, and as you know, praise God in His grace that our sin doesn't get the final word Our sin increased, his grace abounded all the more, and Jesus gave his life to deliver us from the wrath due to our sins. Deliver us from the guilt of our sins, to deliver us from the power and presence of our sins that has redeemed creatures made again in God's image, we can lead lives that please God. So I hope and pray, beloved as you are, it's this is An encouragement to you, a request to you, as Paul puts it, an appeal to you, as Paul puts it, to abound in leading lives that are pleasing to God. Paul tells us how to do that, or maybe before we Get to that. Let me uh briefly say a word just putting it in its context. Paul had finished up in verse eleven there praying for this very thing. If you read back in chapter 3, verse 11, now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus Christ direct our way to you and May the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all, as we do for you And why should we abound in love, so that He may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints And maybe there's a lesson here for us to learn as we begin. Let us not forget to pray for holiness You know, before we go to our family members and our brothers and sisters in the Lord and encourage them to holy walks and holy living, let us also first have gone to them or for them in intercessory prayer, praying, Lord, cause our this church, cause my brothers and sisters to abound in love That they may be established in holiness. And then we can go and encourage one another. Now, Paul himself tells us that he's a great master builder. And that he laid a foundation in the church, Jesus Christ. But I also found is if you like to read Paul's writings, you've probably found out too. He likes to constantly build. He has this whole thing built in his mind, of course, and he writes it down. And so when you when you read Paul I find you he starts at the top of the structure and then works you down to its foundation. And that's what he does in this text. Verse one, as I said, is that appeal to lead godly lives and to walk in ways that please the Lord, right? Finally, brothers, we ask you. Paul's now getting to the practical part of Christianity. We ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus. So there's his appeal. But then he gives you after that five sort of statements in verses two through eight. Five statements that really support this appeal and urge us to comply with it And all the way down there in verse 8, that kind of foundational bottom level of this appeal, God's given you his Holy Spirit, right? And if God's given you his Holy Spirit, what do you think that means? He wants you and enables you to live holy, right? You can see that's a whole foundation. The redeeming work of Christ, Jesus laid his life down, purchased us, purchased us to himself, a holy people, ascended into heaven. And has poured out on his people right that Holy Spirit that we might live whole and wholesome lives together in Jesus Christ. So you see his foundation there. You know, we confess, right, as Christians, as Reformed Christians, that we believe in a holy Catholic Church, Catholic being universal and worldwide. But notice we believe in a holy church. It's our Apostles' Creed, right? Have you ever seen how much our Apostles' Creed mirrors what Paul is saying here? Do you remember what article comes before we confess the holy Catholic Church? That we believe in the Holy Catholic Spirit. Do you ever consider how biblical our creeds and confessions are in the Reformed Church, in the history of the church? Why can why is there a holy church? Because there is a Holy Spirit that has been given to the church and purchased by her Lord, by his blood Jesus Christ, that we might lead. Holy Lions. Now I have been preparing all week for this sermon, and one of the things that has stood out to me so much that I want to get across and convey to you this morning. Is how good holiness is, how healing and wholesome holiness is to us How it really is the health that we're looking for. It really is the hope as Christians that we're looking for. First, our forgiveness. But is there more than forgiveness? Yes, there's more to forgiveness in the Christian life. There's the restoration and renewal. to be made whole again. So one of the things I want to bring together for us, and I'll do more so in the minute. I guess I'm giving you a preview, is we need to keep together whole and holiness As Paul does. Now I'm going to just briefly look at the text, but I want to focus this morning, as you can see the sermon title is on verse 4. That each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor Not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God. And I really want to focus on that word this morning because it was a word needed for the Christians uh in the first century, and it is a word needed today to Christians. about possessing our bodies. And so I'll say more to that. So that's what we're going to focus on. So I told you what this text is, is Paul appealing to fellow Christians, you brothers, brothers in the Lord We ask you, we urge you, in the Lord Jesus. There you get his statement of authority, right? This is in the Lord, this comes from the Lord, but also means we're in the Lord Jesus You're in the Lord Jesus, right? This is fellow members of the body appealing to and encouraging other members in the body to lead holy lives. And the Lord Jesus. And notice what he says after that, that as you received from us, how you ought to walk And to please God, just as you are doing, that you do so more and more. Did you see that? We learned something here about apostolic Christianity They didn't just preach the gospel of God's grace to them, they did that. They also delivered to them the law of God, or as he's going to say, right, the commandments and instructions of Jesus that you might know how to live in this grace. So it's a part of apostolic Christianity not only to be taught what God has done for your salvation in Jesus Christ. Not only to teach how you can experience that salvation by faith in Jesus Christ, receiving him, resting upon him for salvation as he's freed off in the gospel. Repentance, right? Turning from idols, turning from dead works to serve the Lord, diligent use of the means of grace, teaching them about sitting under the preaching of God's Word, the fellowship and prayers and sacraments But also taught them how do you lead a Christian life? How do you walk pleasing to God? That is something delivered to the saints as well. Notice what Paul says about it. It's not how you want to walk, or how you wish to walk, but Paul uses the words how you ought to walk. I know as regenerate Christians, right in our hearts, we want to do this. But the point Paul's stressing here is it's not left up to us. to decide how to walk pleasing to God. But God has told us in his word, made known his will to us, how we are to walk as his chosen, called, and holy people. in the Lord Jesus. So this, beloved, is how you ought to walk. And Paul made it very clear when he taught them, as he says there in verse 2, because we gave you instructions Or commandments. This word in the Greek has a note of authority to it. Commandments, instructions, from the Lord Jesus. So the oughtness comes from the authority of the Lord Jesus himself. This is how the Lord Jesus commands us as Christians to live and walk pleasing. To God. Now there's a bit of redemptive historical meaning here too, right? We know at one point everybody God made everybody listen to Moses, and God's people listen to Moses. We know today, right, God has raised up that prophet Jesus. And Jesus taught probably most of the things Moses taught and affirmed most of the things Moses had taught, but he decidedly didn't on a couple things, and one of them being divorce. He did not teach divorce according as Moses taught divorce because the hardness of the people's hearts. So Jesus will confirm most of what God spoke in his law to his people in the old covenant? But he decidedly does it on some things. So as Christians, right, Jesus is our prophet. He has told us how to live and commanded it, and that is how we walk pleasing unto the Lord. But also notice again, we've got to keep in our mind here, walking pleasing to the Lord means following Jesus' commandments. That's how Paul's laying it down. I appeal you to walk pleasing. Paul knows he can appeal this because he knows you're doing it, because Paul knows that he knows that they know what he taught them, right? I know what I gave you I know that you know I gave you these things. Therefore I know that you are in possession of them and know what they are, so I just urge you to keep doing that. We say the same thing to our parents, right? We say the same thing to our colleagues, or excuse me, we say the same thing parents to our children or to our colleagues or employees, right? Keep on doing what you're doing, right? Keep going in the way you're going. I know you know it and keep on with it, right? And that's what Paul's saying here. I know you you know it, let us keep on with it. But then we get here to verse 3, the second statement Paul gives us to support his appeal to lead holy lines. And he says, this is God's will for you. I hope that we all grow as Christians in thankfulness every day that our God wills holiness for us. That he wants us to be holy. It's the desire of his heart that you and I would be holy. God wants us be holy because he wants us right as his children to be like him. Be ye holy, for I am holy That was good in the old covenant. Peter repeats it in his first letter. It's good today. Be holy for I'm holy. Now of course if you read in Hebrews chapter 12, we're starting Hebrews this evening. Come back But when we get to Hebrews 12, you'll see, right, that is why God disciplines us. Because he wants us to partake in his holiness. That's the Father wanting the children to be like him. Now he does tell us that it's not always pleasing at that time, right? If you've ever been disciplined by your parents. It's not always pleasing. But it has the same God-given purpose that God has for us in his discipline, that he might bring about the peaceable fruit of righteousness. And we've already seen in the text How holiness and righteousness go together, right? Because they're the commandments of the Lord, and what the Lord commands is right. And Paul's talking about here this being God's will for us, sanctification A life pleasing to God, a life obeying Jesus' commands, all equate the same thing of sanctification and holiness for us. But notice what holiness produces in our lives. Peace. Why is there not peace in the world? Why is there times not peace in the church? Why is there times not peace in your home? Lack of holiness. Lack of righteousness. Somebody somewhere not walking in God's ways. And in the Christian church today, as our Jesus taught us, it may be somebody somewhere is not dying to themselves to make that way possible. But holiness. So w uh what again I I think we hear the word sanctification. I know you believers have heard the word sanctification. It sometimes can sound so abstract and mechanical, right? I'm trying to fill our minds with contents of how good sanctification is. To help us to keep that desire prayerfully abounding in it and abounding in our lives, that it will produce peace in our lives, peace in this world. Notice what Paul also links it to here. Back in his prayer, I pray they abound in love so that they'll be established in holiness. So do you pray for love or do you pray for holiness? But you pray for both, but you pray for love, you are praying for holiness. Pray for holiness, you are praying for love. How many of you like to be hated? That's no fun. Why is there enmity and hatred and strife in this world? Lacking holiness. Holiness is warm. Holiness is good. We get the idea of holiness. It's austere, cold, separate thing, right? No, no, no. Holiness is that burning bosom of God, right, that Jesus resides in. Holy is John leaning back in his breast. He's so one with his creator. Apostle love. If you like to be loved and you want to be able to love, you need holiness. Isn't it a joy then that God is willing for you to be at peace? Because he wants you to be sanctified? Isn't a joy that God is wanting you to be loved? And to love and to experience what it is to really love because He wills for you to be holy. And there's the final point, and this will transition us to what I want to look at in more detail. We're going to turn back to Matthew to make it, but we'll see it in our text. I just think Matthew makes it really clear. But holiness, I want you to link in your minds in peace. I want you to make in your mind's love, but also to make in your mind's wholeness. All right, that good homonym. Holy and wholeness. To see how being holy also leads to wholeness. And you'll see that these terms overlap, peace and love and wholeness, but holiness leads to wholeness. If you go back to Matthew 15, we're actually not going to look at the text, but just right before the text, but our text makes up this larger point that Matthew's dealing with on Jesus' interaction with the teachers of his day on what is true purity, right? Because he didn't wash his hands, they thought, why why are you this impure guy? And we know that Jesus taught us where does purity come from and reside? The heart. Now let me just read to you the things that Jesus says comes out of our hearts, and you tell me if this leads to wholeness in relationships and friendships and fellowship Look at this. Murder. What is murder? You just ended somebody's life and severed them from this world They're no longer whole and attached to the world of which God made them to be in. You've just severed that relationship that that person had with however many people he knew. What's the next one? Adultery That leads to lawful divorce if that is so chosen in pursuit. The old covenant led to death, separation again, adultery rends apart Holiness, wholeness. Sexual morality. This utterly renders apart as we're going to look at in the what's wrong with the world today any sense of identity, dignity, value, when people are turned into nothing but sexual identity. Theft? Obviously, you're taking somebody's property and severing them from their property. False witness? We now separated everybody from the truth. We can never come to the truth on the matter and convict this person or not. Because you told a lie. You bore false witness. Maybe you've caused somebody unlawfully put in prison. Now furthering the separation, you see how holiness leads to wholeness. Slander. You want to drive the Spirit away from you and sever his presence like that? Slander somebody. Use words that don't build up You want to drive somebody away, and what the proverb says, put an impenetrable wall that it's easier for four armed forces to cross? Offend your brother and slander his name. Holiness. Wholesomeness. Holiness. Love. Holiness. Peace. Let me say again to you. Isn't it wonderful? That God's taking the initiative and God wants to make you holy so that you might enjoy his peace. Islam. Wholesomeness again. Let's go back to our text, and this is why I want to spend the rest of our time this morning. It is looking at a way today in particular, Lee, where people are choosing not to lead holy lives They are utterly rending apart themselves. And that is this issue of our bodies. And Maybe you know this acronym, S-O-G-I, sexual orientation, gender identity, used for laws being implemented throughout the land that are affirming a lot of the stuff that you hear going on with all these movements today to move away from the Bible, to move away from God's Word regarding who we are as men and women made in God's image. If you have a first catechism, I encourage you to rem I think it's question 17. How did God make man? God made him male and female after his own image. Write that one on your heart. This is where the all of the heartache and much of the heartache today is happening is a refusal to acknowledge that truth. And it is leading to the mayhem that surrounds us, and which is destroying people's lives, and not leading to the Salvation that they thought it would bring them to? Not leading them to the liberation they thought that this would give them if they could throw off These moral restraints. It's not bringing them to that promised land, beloved. It is nothing less than another gospel being preached. What do I mean by that? How many know that the author Nancy Pearcy? She wrote a wonderful book. Yeah, thanks for your hands. I always forget to say rhetorical question, but just fine. Nancy Pearcy wrote a book called Love Thy Body, and I encourage every one of you to buy it and read it. Particularly if you have children who are going to be growing up and facing this, but it's healthy for all this. She is going to help you so wonderfully navigate all of this. She herself was once an agnostic. She's now an apologetics professor at a Baptist seminar, I believe. But she has really dived into the worldly view as I call it, right? Worldview, but a worldly view behind all of this sexual mayhem, if you want to call it that. But what she also shows, what really stood out to me in reading her book this week, maybe not every one of the advocates for these kind of ideologies, but the loudest ones, the visionary ones Are touting it as just that liberation freedom hold Life, right? It's a new gospel they're preaching. This is going to give them the salvation of the one. Finally, they're going to get to be who they want to be. If they can just deny what God says they are by the bodies He's given them And it's a false hope. It leads to the utter disintegration of themselves. It leads to death It leads to pain and suffering and hurt. And another one of the reasons that I and hopefully as we pray for such people They'll come to see, because it's not hopeless for them. If they turn to Jesus, they can be recovered all of that. And truly become themselves as they accept who God made them to be. So part of this message too is geared at you, mature, wise, thoughtful Christians This is our culture. So if God does save them out of it, right? And they come looking for a church to be in, they may join grace and peace. And it will help us to know a little bit of the lifestyle they're coming out, the worldview that they're coming out, and we can help minister to them and help them and show them the right way But I also want to say it's so important, beloved, to lead these holy lives, particularly in this area of abstaining from sexuality or immorality and taking possession of our bodies. Because they are hurting people, right? The devil doesn't promise what they what they're actually gonna get, and they're never gonna get what they want. And if you've lived a life of sin, you know it's like kicking against the goats It never promises, it's frustrating, and you never get what you want. And they need to see what's possible by seeing you lead holy lives. This is what life can look like. This is what true holiness in living as God made us to be can look like and they can have hope. Because many of them are frightened and they don't know that there's hope and they don't know what to do And they get involved in these things because they think there's answers, they think there's support, they think there's help. And the Christian church is the place where there's answers. and help. And they need to see for the ones right with eyes to see. In our holy lives, there's hope for you in Jesus. There is true freedom from that sin. There's true, if you will, reconciliation to yourself and knowing who you truly are As a man or a woman made in God's image. So as you truly are, as the gospel says we are, children of God. So let's look then here at At the end of this verse, we we are to abstain from sexual immorality. That's not all that there is to sanctification. That's just the word that Paul particularly had for this church. And it's a word particularly that church today also needs to take serious What is it to abstain from something that means to not have anything to do with it? One hundred percent like if you're gonna abstain right from eating chocolate, that means not chocolate once in a while, you know, late at night or something, that means no chocolate. Well if you're gonna abstain from whatever you are, it means getting it out of the house, getting away from you, and never doing anything with it. And Paul says that's what we are to do with sexual Immorality. Well what is sexual immorality? Let's start with the word immorality. What is immorality? Immorality is the opposite of morality. And what is morality? Morality is right behavior. And what is right behavior? Well God says it is. Well God wills it to be. So immorality then is the opposite of what God says, the opposite of what God wills for our lives. But what is sexual immorality then? It's everything in thought, word, and deed, opposite of what God says for how to live regarding sex. And really, as I read for you this morning, God sums up for us His will in our lives for our sexual morality with the seventh commandment, right? Thou shalt not commit Adultery. What is adultery? Adultery is a willful violation of the marriage bed. And what is the marriage bed? The marriage bed is the bed shared between one man and one woman in a lifelong covenant bond of marriage. Bringing anybody else into that bed besides your lawful spouse is to violate or to commit. Adultery. And it doesn't just mean physically, you can bring them in right as Jesus taught us in your own heart. Okay? But here's also a word today, because some people may be thinking, or maybe you're thinking because you want to be prepared to answer this objection. Well I'm not married, so then it doesn't matter. I I don't have to follow this, right? It doesn't matter if I bring somebody else in a marriage bag because I'm I'm not married. I just want to hook up. If God says you just can't commit adultery, but I just want to hook up. That's not adultery, right? It's hooking up Here's where again we are commanded to follow the Lord's words and his instructions. What did the Lord instruct us on this? Remember he was asked about divorce? And all the adultery that was committing because of hardness of hearts. And what did our Lord Jesus say? Let's go back to how God intended it to be in creation. See, here's the sexual aspect you and I need to have in our minds Go back when there was just one man on this earth and one woman. And it becomes very clear who did God intend sex to be between. There wasn't multiple men and women. There was just one man, one woman, only between one man and one woman. If that's done any other way, outside of that one bond, if if you're if you're just hooking up and gonna break it off and get hooked up with somebody else That's adultery because God never intended it to be done outside the marriage union with one person. So it's so helpful for us to think, right? I'm not I know we pray for that one person and that person's there and I don't want to get into that question of finding a spouse but the point is there is here's how you need to view it there is only one other man if you're a woman for you There's only one other male female for you if you're a man for you, right? That's how God intended it to be at one time, right? Divorce is legitimate. In certain cases, death does happen. Remarriage is appropriate in God's word, but still it's that same Genesis account. One man, one woman. That's all God ever intended it to be. Any other sexual activity outside of that is sexual immorality, which we are to have nothing to do with. Now notice what Paul goes on to say after death in verse 4: that each one of you know how to control his own body. in holiness and honor. And if you're reading the footnote, because you have your ESV all the out You know the the Greek literally says there is what the sermon's titled, that each one of you know how to possess his own vessel, right? God in His will for your sanctification is willing that each and every person here knows how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and in honor. And then you also know if you look at the text, well, how come they didn't just print that in our passage here this morning? Well, because interpreters are divided on how do you interpret that phrase What's in our text is the broader interpretation, what's in your footnote, or how to take a wife from self is the narrower one. Some people think what Paul's saying here is Christians need to learn, or husbands, you need to learn how to just get one wife, and you need to learn how to stop lusting after your brother's wife. Now that's true. But I think God is saying more here, and I agree with our ESV editors, though they translate his body, and that's what Paul means, he refers to it as a vessel. In the scriptures, men and women together, husbands and wives together, referred as vessels. First Peter 3:7 refers to the wife as the weaker vessel. From your body, but it also means husbands are the stronger vessel. Um Paul will refer to us all in Romans nine right as either vessels of wrath or vessels of mercy. Paul tells Timothy, in a good house there's many kinds of vessels, ones for honorable use, dishonorable uses. He's like another Christian life. If you sanctify and cleanse yourself up, men or women, right, you can be a vessel to holy purposes to God. Well, why does Paul use the word vessel here then? Well, how many of you have dishes in your house? And you have maybe a dish that you particularly use for serving mashed potatoes in? Or you have a particular pot that you use for serving tea out of, right? We make vessels, and that word in Greek means as broad as dishes and jars and pots and anything you use, but the point is you make them for a purpose, right? God intends us to get a control of these bodies, these vessels, in the purpose that he intended them to be used in, in a holy way. And in an honorable way. Now this is such a word today to us because what Nancy really pointed out and showed is Whether explicitly or implicitly, if you follow today's sexual ethic and what they're offering, they're really hating their bodies. They're saying, I hate this body that you gave me. It's nothing but a blob of matter, and I can't determine anything from it other than it's a blob of matter, and for some of me it's a prison because I really identify as this What she's getting at is the materialistic worldview behind much of our society today. We've jettisoned the creator, as Paul says here, they don't know God. Therefore, they don't know that God, when He makes something, just like when human beings make something, we make it for a purpose. Therefore, they can't look at their biology and their anatomy and say, yeah, God wanted me to be a male. God wanted me to be a female. And so instead of saying, wow, this is a body that God made, and God made it for a purpose to be a part of me, actually to give me an identity. They deny all of that and treat it as just a worthless blob of matter that they can sculpt and mold in any way they want. That's not loving your body. Again, right, they're promising them freedom, life, salvation, and they're just hating their bodies. They're not cherishing them. And as Christians, we're called to love these bodies. We're to call to get in control of these bodies. In holiness. We've already talked about holiness means in God's ways, but also means for God. People need to hear: your body was made for the Lord. The other thing that Nancy really drove home, and you probably know if you've been walking the path of sanctification, it is truth that sets us free. She told the wonderful stories of hopeful stories of transgender individuals, homosexual individuals who found freedom through the truth. They had wrong, lustful passions, as Paul says, desiring what is wrong and forbidden, the other sex, or the choosing the same sex. And many people live hopeless of wondering, will I ever turn the other way? You're Christians, right? You have that and come out of that. And Nancy told wonderful redeeming stories of when they took possession of their bodies. And said, God made me a male, he didn't make a mistake, and it's good They found over time their desires changing. They found they actually desired women romantically and can get married. You see what a word it is? The word of hope to those struggling with homosexuality, struggling with gender identity issues. Is tell them love your body. Take possession of your body Because when you get possession of your body, you have a ground in your identity that isn't changing from today to tomorrow It's also a helpful word. Particularly, and again, this is such a word, and why am I preaching? This is this is everywhere. It scared me actually how much everywhere it is. The Supreme Court denies that personhood can be found in our bodies. The highest court in our land says a person's Personhood is not to be defined by bodies but purely what our minds want to tell us we are. That means we can't look at our bodies, like God says we can look at our bodies and find out something about ourselves. Whether we're males and whether we're females. And that was our justification for broadening marriage to mean between more than just one man and one woman as God says. It's everywhere. And as these laws become more the worldview behind them are going to more and more seep in. One of the things that so encouraged me about this idea of finding your identity as male or female in your body It gives you freedom also from activ finding uh maleness and femaleness and defining it by activities. See, because once you say I can't know I'm a male from my body, I can't know that I'm a female from my body, well, how do you find out what maleness is and femaleness is? rigid stereotypes. It's masculine to do this, it's feminine to do this. And you'll find young boys who, well, they kinda want to be sensitive and nice, like Jacob was sensitive and nice and stayed home with his mother, right, and lived in tents. Not every boy wants to be ruddy, hairy, and rude like Esau and go out in the woods and hunt and kill things. And as a parent, when you see that, are you going to urge you need to go play more sports because you're a guy And I don't know about the arts for you and things. And fall in the trap of stereotypes, causing your children to be wondering about who they are Rather than resting in and affirming to them constantly, son, daughter, you're a male, you're a female by the anatomy given to you. There's actually much more liberation in that, right? I can be secure then as a man and play dress up with dolls, right? Because my identity is not found in my activities. My identity is found in my body. I'm a male or I'm a female. It's such a wonderful, liberating word to encourage this the reads of this book. But Paul is Getting out what we need to hear today that we need to take control of these bodies of us. If you're uh married, right, that means this body is for my spouse and my spouse alone. And as you take hold of that truth, that this is a good body, and if you are someone who maybe doesn't like your body, that's a heart matter, and you need to be in prayer. I encourage you to be in prayer. Encourage you to be talking to someone who is a wiser, mature Christian to you to help you with that. But we really need to take hold of these bodies today, affirm that they are good, affirm our identity from them. And if you are married right, this body is for that spouse alone. And if you know somebody who's struggling right with homosexuality, men or women, right, this body tells you how you should desire. This body, because you're a female. Your desires for man. May not be now, but there's hope if you take hold of this body, as she told stories of hopeful redeeming stories of it. And if you're dealing with somebody who has gender identity issues and going through that, take hold of your body. It tells you whether you're a male Whether you're female, get your gender identity from your bodies. Our bodies are sex. What I mean by that, they're gendered They tell you what you are. It's not left to your mind to impose upon it what you think it is, but your body is. Notice what Paul then says here to end here for you. The chief issue of this, though, is they don't know God. When you want to not have God in your life, and you choose not to have God in your life, that's a moral decision. That's a moral choice. God does then hold us accountable that choice, as you read in Romans 1, and he will give people over to that choice. Which then means he hands them over to the passions, dishonorable passions, to do what they should never do with their body. So the key is going to be bringing back into this whole equation God Is redeeming love for them? His goodness as their creator who didn't make a mistake about their bodies? I know there's difficulties with bodies. There are effects of the fall. God is still good. We also need to remember the ultimate hope. Life with Jesus in the new heavens and new earth, right, are final bodies. These aren't the final ones, are they? There's hope for people with broken bodies. There's hope for people with broken bodies beyond this world. Christian church, we are not if we don't have hope, we have nothing. Christianity is all about hope. God can redeem. Jesus can save. There is permanent healing to come. There's a wholeness unattainable in this life. And all of us are to be striving after that and calling people to lay hold of that by faith in Jesus Christ. Beloved, from that wonderful story of that Canaanite woman, you and I have more than a dog share of God's grace as believers in Jesus Christ today. If you are someone who struggles with sexual sin and I know what it is, and I know what it is to be healed from it. Cry out to Jesus. That's the way. Jesus truly will give you as you desire and heal you I think, and I'm a firm believer, Francis Schaefer was too, there can be substantial healing in this life. Not perfect, but substantial healing in this life from sin. And beloved, we are more than unsuspecting travelers stumbling into God's house as Jacob was, as his children. You're God's children. Called into his house, washed clean by Jesus Christ, clothed at him. There is hope for you and encourage you to abound. In holiness, walk in ways that are pleasing to God, and please, beloved, take possession of your bodies Love them, walk in ways that are holy and honorable. Treat your body in such a way that it demands respect in the way you dress, the way you carry it, the way you treat it. Love your bodies, Amen