But before I read it, I want to give a I'd like to give a little short introduction, a commercial for the sermon before we get into it. So with a lot of biblical passages, it can be difficult to discern, you know, kind of the point of the passage. There are some, you know, you read some of the genealogies, you read some of the uh some of the the lists of laws in Leviticus, and it can be difficult to understand, you know, why exactly did God put this in his word. What's this trying to communicate to me? Obviously there always is a reason, but it's not always clear. And so those those passages can be rich, but sometimes they can be dis difficult to discern what they actually mean and maybe even be a little boring or dull. On the other hand, there are other texts which contain such a clear expression of what God is doing. It's almost as though the writer is, you know, consciously working out like a systematic theology, like this, then this means this. And you see that in like Paul's letters to the Romans, the Galatians. Um and tonight's Psalm, Psalm thirty-two, is one of those kinds of texts. Uh not only is David going to speak very clearly about the justification of the ungodly, but the voice of wisdom, Christ himself, is going to speak to David and to us in this psalm. So all of the Psalms, because they're God's word, are you know helpful for us and are worthy of our consideration. But Psalm 32 is one of those high points of the scripture. that we can keep returning to over and over and again for encouragement. And so I want to encourage you now to listen very closely as I read Psalm 32. Because this is the Word of God. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. For when I kept silent my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Therefore, let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Surely in the rush of great waters they shall not reach him. You are a hiding place for me. You preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. Be not like a horse or a mule without understanding, which must be curved with a bit and bridle. Or it will not stay near you. Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the Lord. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart. Let's pray. Father, we come before you and thank you for this psalm you've given us in your word. We pray that we would and follow them. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So it said that uh when Martin Luther was asked what his favorite Psalms were in the book of Psalms, his reply was the Psalms of Paul. Uh and by this he didn't mean, you know, Psalms written by Paul, obviously, but the Psalms that so clearly reflected the teaching of Paul. And uh Psalm thirty-two is one of those one of those Pauline psalms, as you can probably tell already. Structurally, I've kind of breaking the psalm down into five portions. I think that's kind of the natural way for it to break down. And I'm going to use those five segments as sort of an outline for this message tonight. So if you're going to take notes, you might want to write these down. First, verses one through four, the blessing of forgiveness. Second, verse five, the blessing of confession. Third, verses six and seven, the blessing of restoration Fourth, verses eight and nine, the blessing of wisdom. And then finally, fifth, verses ten through eleven, the blessing of God's faith. So as you can tell I've sort of centered this outline around the concept of blessing. And that's not the only way to read this psalm, but the reason I did that is because I wanted to focus on the fact that this psalm, even though it's dealing with David's sin, is not a psalm of lament. This is a psalm of rejoicing. This is a happy, hopeful psalm. Uh if you consider Psalm fifty-one a psalm of repentance, then Psalm thirty-two might be considered a psalm of restoration. So here David's not really lamenting the overwhelming guilt he feels, but he is rather rejoicing in the forgiveness so that he has been freed. And some have even suggested that he wrote Psalm 32 after Psalm 51, after he had been restored, and forgiveness. Have been granted. And even if that's not the case, I think the sentiment is right. Psalm 32 is not a psalm of mourning, but of rejoicing. And that rejoicing is primarily grounded in the forgiveness of sins offered in verses one through four. So let's look back at that. And the psalm opens with one of these clear declarations of justification of the ungodly in the Old King James Version, which I grew up with. The Psalm starts like this: Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered, blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity And having grown up using the King James Version, I have a soft spot in my heart for the word impudeth. Though I think the ESP does good with counts. It gets the the messages clear either way. God is covering the sin of the Blessed One in this text. And though he has sinned, that sin is not imputed or counted against him. So imputation then is something kind of like a legal term. It doesn't mean that this person has been changed in some way so that he doesn't sin or that the sin in us has disappeared. But rather it is as though you're standing in a courtroom. For a judge to hear your verdict. And even though you were guilty of the crime, the judge has declared you not guilty. So before the eyes of the judge of all the earth, if your sin has not been imputed to you, you are not guilty. In the Old Covenant, on the Day of Atonement, the high priest would lay his hands on the scapegoat, and the sins of all the people would be imputed to the goat, and he would be sent out into the wilderness. And in this way the people would be symbolically forgiven of their sins. Their sins would be imputed to this animal. And that was a picture of Christ's sacrifice. By which, in union with him, our sins are forgiven, imputed to his account, and his righteousness. imputed to ours. This is what R. C. Sprohl calls the great exchange. Our our sinfulness, Christ's righteousness, and in the cross, they are exchanged. And it's this question that the text, the question of this text, does God justify the ungodly, that brought about the Reformation. Sola fide, or the doctrine of sal uh justification by faith alone, is sometimes called the material principle of the Reformation. And basically what that means is this is the center point of the Reformation. Reformation. This is the main doctrine of the Reformation. This is what it was all about. The central teaching. The doctrine of justification by faith alone. In the years leading up to the Reformation, the common teaching in the church had become something like this. Justification, rather than being a free declaration of righteousness, like we talked about with the courtroom. was actually an infusion of righteousness into the soul, which with with which you must cooperate. by taking part in the sacrament of the Mass and in the Sacrament of Penance, or you could risk losing that justification. That was the the teaching that had become popularized in the medieval church and was becoming popular during the Reformation. Or leading up to the Reformation, I should say. The one who was truly justified in the Roman Catholic system was not the one who had received and rested in the free gift of justification But rather the one who, when they had been enlightened by grace, maintained their justification by obedience. On the other hand, the doctrine which Luther and Calvin and the Reformers so clearly preached and so clearly believed and fought so hard to uphold was the teaching of Psalm 32. That God will not impute sin to those who trust in him. And these two views are radically different from one another. They're radically different understanding. understandings of the grace of God, and the reformers understood that this was a central point to the gospel, what our text here is talking about. So the question tonight for you is, and I think the Psalm is going to answer, is how do you know that you are the Blessed One of Psalm 32? Has God covered your sins? And will he impute to you the guilt of your iniquity? In chapter 4 of Romans, Paul you don't need to turn there, Paul writes this about Psalm 32 He says, Now to the one who works, wages are not credited as a gift, but as an obligation. However, to the one who does not work but trusts God, who justifies the ungodly, their faith is credited as righteousness. David says the same thing when he speaks of the blessedness of the one to whom God credits righteousness apart from works. So for Paul, Psalm 32's central claim is that God justifies. That is, he declares righteous the ungodly as a free gift, not as a result of obedience or cooperation with grace. But instead your faith is counted as righteousness So, are you relying on your obedience and good works to maintain your righteousness? Or are you resting and receiving in the faith? Are you resting and receiving by faith in Christ as your only hope for justification? In this psalm, David tells us the result of relying on our own works and our own Attempts at righteousness. The sin that was within him wasted him away. He suffered. He was condemned before God. So how can you be freed from the guilt of your iniquity and the condemnation of sin? Listen again to the words that David said. I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin So instead of attempting to cover the guilt of his sin and hide it in secret, he confessed his sin before the Lord and sought forgiveness. And God, through Christ, covered his sin for him. So you have two options. You can seek to cover your own sins. And be overcome by guilt and despair, or you can confess your sins before the Lord and be forgiven. Those are the two paths set for you in Psalm 30 One of you which leads one of which leads to death for you, and one which leads to life. So like Moses when he stood before the people in Deuteronomy and offered life and death before the people, David sets before you life and death as well. And I'm here to encourage you to choose life and to confess your sins. Don't hide them and don't let it kill you. in secret, but rather confess your sins and be freely justified by Christ In John's first letter, he says, if we confess our sins, Christ is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And this is the blessing of confession. When we confess our sins sincerely before God, He is faithful to absolve us of our sins, to set the record clean, and declare us not guilty. So as we continue in Psalm 32, we see that because of the promise of forgiveness of sins, if you confess your sins, they will not be held against you. But instead you will be freed from the guilt, condemnation, and despair of your sins, and you will be restored. Look again at verses six and seven. Therefore, let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Surely in the rush of great waters they shall not reach him You are a hiding place for me. You preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance. I want to encourage you tonight not to hesitate to confess your sin. It can be easy to deceive ourselves into thinking, if I wait just a little bit longer, I can escape judgment from my sin. If I hide it deeply in my heart, I can overcome it by my own power, and no one has to know. But this is simply the deception of sin. It takes root deeply, and the deeper we bury it, the harder it becomes to root out from our hearts. And eventually it becomes too late So don't find yourself on the day of judgment holding on to secret, unconfessed sins, but instead turn to Christ, seek refuge in him, and he will preserve you on the day of judgment. Hide your sins, He will deliver you from your sins and restore you into the fellowship of His presence. So when the hand of God's judgment lies upon you And you feel yourself wasting away due to sin, come to Christ and be the blessed one against whom the Lord will not count iniquity. This is the blessing of restoration that Christ offers. Remember the words of Isaiah in Isaiah 55. He says, Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to the Lord that he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. It's so easy for us to hide our sin and to keep it covered up. But that's the very thing that prevents us from being free from it. If we hide our sin If we cover it up, if we bury it deeply in our hearts, eventually it will kill us. I have known So many people in college and growing up who over the years when they've left their home they have Stopped attending church, stopped taking part of the means of grace, and it's as though you can see the scales just harden over their eyes, and they no longer believe and trust in Christ and they allow the sin that has grown and taken root in their hearts to continue to grow until their hearts become hardened and they fall away in unbelief. And I want to beg you don't be like that. In verse 8, the psalm shifts distinctly in its tone. So Psalm 32 is what is called sometimes a wisdom psalm. And in these psalms, one of the distinct features is that the Lord Himself speaks as a teacher of wisdom in the Psalm. And that's what we see here in verses eight and nine, which I will reread again. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. Be not like a horse or a mule without understanding, which must be curved with a bit and bridle, or it will not stay near you. If David's own experience with sin, repentance, faith, and forgiveness isn't enough to convince you, listen to the voice of God, who is wisdom himself. Don't be foolish like the dumb animals that need to be led around by a bit. Seek forgiveness while it may be found. Confess your sins. Repent of your sins. Hold fast to Christ. And he will be faithful to forgive your sins and count you righteous in him. Christ Himself, who is wisdom, counsels you not to delay. Your soul depends on it. But rather, repent of sin. Put your faith in him. The arms of Christ are open wide, and he says, with no money, come and buy forgiveness. Don't wallow in the hopelessness of your sin, but instead come to Christ while he is near. Take part in the forgiveness which can bring rest for your soul. That's the blessing of wisdom. And so as we come to the close of the psalm and the final two verses, the voice again switches back to David. as he offers his final words of comfort to those who have confessed and repented of their sins. He says Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the Lord. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy all you upright in heart. The one who trusts in the Lord is surrounded by steadfast love. If you remember from last time when I was here talking about Psalm 29, um We encountered this concept of steadfast love before. The Hebrew word is Hesed. And in the past I said that I prefer, when I see that word, a different translation. I like to think of it as covenant love when Hesed is used in And that remains true here as well. Because when you confess your sins and you put your trust in the Lord, He is faithful to His covenant and will accept you back into right relationship with Him. As we read earlier, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And this is the blessing of God's covenant, faithfulness. Your sin, no matter how repugnant it might seem to you, no matter how twisted and ugly and disgusting, no matter how much it might frighten you. For it to be brought to the light, your sin will always be forgiven if you confess it and come to Christ in repentance. Don't fear. He will not turn you away. Christ has by his death, burial, and resurrection imputed his perfect righteousness to all of those who trust in him. And so if you come confessing your sins before Christ, he will surely not count them against you. His beloved covenant people. We're going to sing in a minute Psalm one tonight. instead of one of the reverendisms of Psalm 32. And I did that on purpose because I wanted to juxtapose these two kinds of blessed men. There's the blessed man of Psalm 1. and the blessed one in Psalm 32. Psalm one speaks of a blessed man who walks uprightly before the Lord and is therefore blessed in all that he does. as opposed to the wicked who cannot stand in the day of judgment. On the other hand, Psalm 32 speaks of a blessed one as the one who is wicked and yet has repented and confessed his sin. and placed his trust in the Lord for salvation. So if you'll let me engage in a little bit of allegory here, let me suggest that these two Psalms could be considered As representations of two paths of righteousness. The first path of righteousness in Psalm 1, we've all failed to follow. We're sinners. We've walked in the counsel of the ungodly. We've stood in the way of sinners. We've sat in the seat of scoffers. And we are not righteous by our own works, nor could we ever stand in the day of judgment. However, there is another blessed man who did all of these things, the Lord Jesus Christ. And because of his perfect obedient life, and death on the cross and resurrection from the dead, he has opened to us a second path of righteousness, seen in Psalm 32, which is this. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.