Proverbs chapter two, verses one through fifteen. My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you Making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding. Yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding, If you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth comes knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity Guarding the paths of justice and watching over the ways of his saints. Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity, every good path But wisdom will come into your heart, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul. Discretion will watch over you. Understanding will guard you, delivering you from the way of evil, from men of perverted speech, who forsake the paths of uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness Who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perverseness of evil, men whose paths are crooked and who are devious in their ways. Colossians three, five through ten, right here. Colossians three verses five through ten. Put to death, therefore, what is earthly in you sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetedness, which is idolatry. On account of these, the wrath of God is coming. In these you too once walked when you were living with them. But now you must pull them put them all away anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. So what we're looking at this evening is that passage from Colossians. And I want you to particularly focus I hope you heard in the reading from Proverbs repeatedly, knowledge, wisdom, knowledge, wisdom, things like that. And then I want you to hear in verse 10. And have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator. And the word for knowledge there is a Greek word that we would say, we would pronounce epinosis. Epinosis. EPI and then G-N-O-S-I-S, epinosis. And it is a participial form. The participial form there means constantly renewed, constantly renewed. The knowledge is is constantly being upgraded. It's like a a computer program that you get a new version of every so often. It's constantly being renewed and improved. It's constantly growing. Ephinosis. According to Robinson's lexicon, means full knowledge. Full, complete knowledge. According to Thayer's lexicon, epinosis here means precise and full knowledge. And according to Vine, It's to suggest generally a directive, more special recognition of the object known. Let me say that again. Generally a directive, more special recognition. of the object known. That's epinosis. That's what we find in Colossians 3:10. By contrast is gnosis, just G-N-O-S-I-S. That is the knowledge, that is knowledge in the abstract Not knowledge in relation to the object known. It's just knowledge separated from, it's in the abstract. The unbeliever seeks gnosis in the world, in science, and whatever it is. The unbeliever seeks gnosis. Knowledge in the abstract, not epinosis. He seeks knowledge in the abstract, not knowledge in relationship to the object known. And this is what Adam and Eve sought in the garden under the tempter's spell. They sought Gnosis. They had epinosis. They had a relationship. They walked with God. They knew God. And they sought rather than that, just gnosis, knowledge in the abstract. Eat this, and you'll be like God, able to understand everything without God. God Gnosis. They fled from Epinosis. RJ Rushduni a philosophical thinker, Christian, and Orthodox Presbyterian minister, he's now gone to glory, said this About abstract knowledge. He said, abstract knowledge is the attempt to interpret all things without reference to God. God is abstracted from reality. And things are interpreted not in terms of God, but in terms of themselves. And then he asks the question, but what remains of a thing when God is abstracted from reality? The thing, whether it be a man or a plant or an animal, is a creature. Separate and distinct from God and His creative purpose. Every atom and every particular thing is a creation of God and is only truly knowable in relation to God. Let me illustrate this, if I may. Every particular thing needs a reference point to be understood, to be known in this epinosis sense. So if I show you an image of a spherical shape object, but without reference, you cannot interpret it. It might be an atom seen in an atomic microscope, or it might be a marble from a child's toy box Or it might be another planet in our solar system. There's no reference. There's no way to compare it, no way to understand it. God is the reference for everything in creation Again, to try to illustrate this, what happens is an inconsistently thinking unbeliever imagines that he can see a thing without reference to a light source, such as the sun. And what he does is he abstracts the light source, the sun, from the fact that light is bouncing off of an object and that light is coming into his eyes. and being perceived by him. And this could only be possible if he were himself the light source But he is not the light source. The light source is coming from somewhere else. And the light is hitting the object, and the light is bouncing off of the object and coming into the eye of the perceiver. Man imagines that he's able to see, but denies the light source. He wants knowledge in that seeing without reference, abstracting from the Creator. In contrast to this, Psalm 36, verse 9b, which we read responsively, says, In your light do we see light. How can we see anything? In your light, God is the source of revelation. God is the source of knowledge. And only in reference to God can anything be understood In this metaphor of light. Man is a creature, you see. He's not the source of creation. And everything in creation exists in relation to God and cannot be abstracted from God. To take the point of view of a consistent unbeliever and to argue for God's existence or the truth about anything is to become irrational So, shall we as Christian apologists argue for God's existence With this presupposition, using reason and proofs without reference to God as the presupposition Supposition, as the atmosphere, an environment in which everything already exists? Shall we argue as if God doesn't exist in order to prove God's existence? It is irrational, is it not? Someone said a good psychologist will not abandon reality as he perceives it in order to communicate with a delusional patient. So must it be with apologists. We cannot abandon the reality of God in order to argue with the unbeliever. Rushduni says, the unbeliever seeking gnosis, that is, knowledge abstracted from God, if he is true to his premises, can know Nothing. Zero. Because he has denied any purpose, order, or meaning in the universe by denying God as the And to follow my previous illustration, he is looking at objects while denying any referent and denying the reality of a light source even as he looks. Bantoul Cornelius van Till says, man cannot help but know himself in relation to his environment. The subject of knowledge must know itself in relation to and in contrast with the object of knowledge. And R. J. Rushduni again says, to attempt to gain knowledge, as Adam and Eve did, without God Is for man to attempt to supplant God with the autonomous, autonomy means self-ruled, mind of man as the sole interpreter. of reality. And this is what happened in the Enlightenment period. Man became the measure of all things. That's a slogan from the so-called enlightenment. Man is the measure of all things. He's the sole interpreter apart from God. But instead, what we have here in Colossians 3. 10 is that we are to put on the new self, which is being renewed in epinosis. That is knowledge with a reference point, knowledge in the atmosphere of God, in whom we live and move and have our being. It is knowledge with the reference of God As Paul says, the image of its creator. Everything has to be seen in relation to the Creator. Epinosis is knowledge in every area that has this goal and context, quote, an understanding of the divine purpose. And closely related to wisdom in the book of Proverbs is this epinosis. Proverbs 2, verse 6 says, The Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. Nothing can be known without reference to God. All of this is rejected by fallen man, who assumes that he deals with a neutral world. Brute facts. In which he can weigh and measure all these facts, which are neither created nor controlled by God. And he denies that every fact is not only created by God, but also a revelation of God. Paul says that too. Everything in creation reveals God in Romans chapter 1, verses 19 and 20. For what can be known about God is plain to them. Because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that had been made. so that they are without excuse. And if consistent, man will deny all knowledge. If he denies God as the referent to knowledge, he will deny all knowledge. Now, this this these thinkings were beginning to be congealed and written up in books In the 1970s and 80s and 90s. And these predate what has now come to be called post-modernism. In postmodernism, we finally come all the way to a self understanding We do it inconsistently in postmodernism, but this is the postmodern mindset. Nothing counts. Nothing weighs anything. Nothing has any reference. There's no right or wrong. There's no good or evil. Everything is open to you to interpret it. You are the interpreter of everything, every speech, every book, every movie, everything in the world. You are the soul. Interpreter. There is no abstract truth. There's no overarching truth. There's only you, the sole interpreter of everything. And nothing can be said except what you think. Somebody else has an opinion, that's their opinion, but you have your opinion. And there's no right or wrong, or true or false, or good or bad, or anything else in postmodernism. But postmodernists can't live that way consistently, can they? Because it's not reality We live in God's world. And in God's world, there really are right and wrong, true and false, good and evil. And the postmodernist can't escape it, even though he tries to be autonomous and do this. So man is not consistent. Banchul says there is operative within him the sense of deity. He cannot efface it without effacing himself. Every person out there who tries to have gnosis instead of epinosis is struggling. It's not working for them. They don't know how to fix it. While affirming chance rather than God, they try to be logical in applying the premises And in an inconsistent way, and there can be no science if they were consistent There could be no scientists, no scientific laboratories, because there would be no predictability. There would be no way to know that something will be repeated again and again, because it would be a world of complete chance There could be no reasonable science. But we live in God's world. And that's why science really works. Augustine said, God's revelation is the sun. Think of that mental image. God's revelation is the sun from which all other light derives. And so the best, the only, the absolute certain proof of Christianity says Van Tyl, is that unless its truth be presupposed, there is no proof of anything. Christianity is the very foundation of the idea of proof itself. Because we don't just have deity. If we have deity, but we know ourselves to be sinners, then there's a conflict. But when we have Christianity, when we have the triune personal God who gives himself for us and saves us and redeems us, Then we have a God who can be worshipped and known and loved and served. Christianity is the foundation of the idea of everything that works. of this world. To be in Christ, therefore, is to give up the delusion of autonomy The delusion of self-determination. And it is, as Paul said, to be renewed in the knowledge after the image of your Creator. What it means is that more and more we think God's thoughts after him. We're renewed in the image, so we do what the what the image master does We think God's thoughts and do what agrees with God's moral character. And what were those things? We won't go through them, but we'll just read them. Put to death whatever is earthly in you. Sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Those are the fruits and products of autonomy, of denying God, of seeking gnosis instead of epinosis. In these things you too once walked when you were living in them, but now you must put them all away. Here's some more. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices. Well, we still have some of those practices living in us. manifesting themselves in our personal lives, in our hearts, in our speech, I do. We're tempted, we're tempted to try on the irrational mindset of the unbeliever. We want to be free sometimes from God. And free to sin and not feel bad about it. But this will never do for us. This will never do for us. The Holy Spirit will speak to you and me and correct us and reprove us in keeping with the Word of God and the gospel of Christ. I underline what Paul said. Put to death, therefore, whatever is earthly in you. Seek epinosis. In the image of God. Then you will echo what we also read in Psalm 36, verses 7 and 9 You'll be able to echo from your heart these words. How precious is your steadfast love, O God. The children of mankind take refuge in the shadow of your wings. They feast on the abundance of your house, and you give them drink from the river of your delights. That's Epinosis. For with you is the fountain of life. In your light do we see light. Amen