Congregation, our first scripture passage to read is the text, Psalm 119, verses 105 to 112. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. I have sworn an oath and confirmed it to keep your righteous rules I am severely afflicted. Give me life, O Lord, according to your word. Accept my free will offerings of praise, O Lord. And teach me your rules. I hold my life in my hand continually, but I do not forget your law. The wicked have laid a snare for me, but I do not stray from your precepts. Your testimonies are my heritage forever For they are the joy of my heart. I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever. To the end. Ephesians 6, verses 10 through 18a. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness Against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand firm. Stand, therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness And as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. In all circumstances, take up the shield of faith With which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Praying at all times in the Spirit with all prayer and supplication. The word of God. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Last week You heard David say, in no uncertain terms, that he loved God's word. And his message did not fall on deaf ears, did it? You are right with him on that one, aren't you? So when he goes on with the next stanza of this wondrous psalm called Nun, this time. You will find that he has not exhausted his praise and joyful thanksgiving for the Bible. It's as though words fail him when he tries fully to describe just how sweet Are the words of God. And even more than that, just how much he needs them. And we likened his taste for God's word to your taste for, say, chocolate. There's a difference, however, with chocolate, your liking of it has primarily, if not exclusively, to do with how it makes you feel. Chocolate is yummy. To your tummy. But that's not the primary, if even the significant, role that the Bible plays in blessing your whole person, body and spirit. David said that it was sweeter than honey to his mouth. Now, honey is not chocolate candy It's good food for your body. And the Bible provides you with the nutrients you need for a healthy soul. So the psalmist will not retire his testimony when he takes up this new stanza. It's still uppermost in his mind, and this time he makes it clearer than ever: not only does he love the Word of God, he needs it. And if King David needs the Bible, even though he is gifted and blessed in many ways, as the leader of the covenant nation of Yahweh, what does that say to you? A simple believer here tonight. If that king of Israel desperately needed the word of God, where does that leave you? The argument is from the greater to the lesser. This king, an ancestor of the Savior of the world. could not live and accomplish anything glorifying to God without the Bible Without his David's immersing himself in all the rules, precepts, commandments, and statutes of the Bible What does that say to you today if you fail to follow God's word? So we've said thus far that David desperately needed God's word But the question remains for what purpose? For what area or areas of his existence does he stand in need? Well, the psalmist anticipates your query, and he's ready for it. He spells out his answer in the eight verses that form our text tonight. And we could summarize his answer in two words. For everything. David is unable to dream up any situation, any category, any need for which he would not only appreciate But even more be able to live without the counsel, the wisdom, the instruction, and the discipline of the world. Word of God. Whatever he would think, do, and plan without resting it on the foundation of the Bible would be foolish and destined for failure. David needs a world and life view, as we might call it. That's a foundational philosophy. And for that, he is in desperate need of a guide that is dependable, perfect, and applicable to every aspect and situation That he would face in the world of his life. Yes, truly a world and life view. And he says that he He's got it. In God's word. Permit me a personal word here, Congregation, please. When I attended Wheaton College many years ago, I majored in philosophy, thinking that that discipline would provide me with help in identifying my own world and life. As it turned out, however, about all that I got was an in-depth historical summary of what ancient, medieval, and modern philosophers Both pagan and Christian thought about all things. Developing my own world and life view Had to rest upon Elder Peter Broman's Sunday school class at Calvary Orthodox Presbyterian Church in Willowgrove, Pennsylvania His Sunday school lessons, my mother's kitchen table observations, and at last Dr. Cornelius Van Till's Apologetics class at Westminster Theological Seminary. And the common denominator in all three of those sources for my philosophy Or the Bible. The Bible. Those philosophy courses might have had a place, I guess, and been to some extent interesting. But they simply didn't cut the mustard, like those in-person sharing experiences, all having a single text That did the trick. Now I know why there is anything at all rather than nothing. Now I know how the universe came into being. Now I know what is the purpose of my existence. In a word, I have my world and life view And that leads me to express in this one sentence a proposition that describes what Psalm 119 Verses one hundred five through one twelve set forth. And it's this the Bible is the perfect guide. To the world and life view by which you believers in Jesus Christ glorify and enjoy God. Enjoyful. And heartfelt worship, face and conquer the trials of your life, and finally persevere In the glorious heritage that He provides you in His grace. Now, to expose that proposition, I give you four P. Not little round green things, but four words beginning with that letter. The first one is that the Bible is your path. Director, path director. Consider this disturbing situation. You find yourself totally lost in the woods on a cloudy day. Actually, fully overcast day. You have an idea as to how to get back to civilization, but the thing is, as I'm told by physical scientists Even if you try your absolute best to plunge straight ahead in the direction you think you should take. you will eventually wind up right where you started, having traversed a huge circle Even whether you are right or left-handed, doesn't matter. Same result. You will nevertheless find yourself still totally lost. Now, if there are any geologists and map makers and physicists and whatever else it takes that disagrees with that, you can let me know after the service. Now, if that is needed so, I'm sure that you would be sorely depressed And wish that you had brought along a map and a compass and had actually charged your smartphone. Oh, and by the way, it would have been nice to know exactly where you were in the woods when you realized that you were lost. Now, transfer your thinking from that theoretical scene to something gravely more important, namely your world and life view. You're on a path through this life of yours, and it is of extreme importance that you know where you are Where you're going and how to get there. Now, are you on a path that may be trusted to lead you to an eternally good civilization? Or to tell the truth, could you actually be lost in the woods? You need direction, just as David did. And he tells us in verse 105, in these opening clauses, which go to the heart of tonight's theme. That he had received the exact direction that he needed. The Bible was his past director He writes, your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Night and day The Bible was his path director, his space satellite, map, and compass all rolled up in one. But even more, he had the ability, not possessed by human physical invention. To address and provide guidance, I should say it had the ability, not he, to have his heart, his soul, and very spirit. Know the way that he should go. The Bible was his eternal life path director. Now, you too, believers in Jesus Christ, need the Bible, God's word. Otherwise, you will remain lost in the woods. But with it, you will be guided through this often confused and always tempting to evil. World. In a sense, things haven't changed in the thousands of years since David wrote these words. For you need a lamp to your feet and a light to your path as surely as he did. But I say in a sense that is so, because there is one thing that has changed Namely, the brilliance of the lamp's light. Now, while taking nothing away, From the ability of the Old Testament Word of God to illumine the path of God's covenant people of Israel. The appearance on this world scene by the promised Messiah definitely ramped up the voltage of divine illuminating power. So much is this so that Jesus said, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. Thus, you Christians will not be lost in the woods You will have light on your path out of the darkness of sin's guilt and curse. and into the path of following Jesus Christ, who himself is the Word of God. He is the divine director of your path in and out of this world. That's the first P. Now the second. The Bible is your perspicuous God. Now I I apologize for using a lengthy lengthy and somewhat unfamiliar word. Perspicuous But it is exactly the word that I need to describe this attribute of the Bible. And it's just kind of nice that it begins with a P. Something is perspicuous when it is clear, plain to the understanding. I guess I could have called it a plain guide. Scripture is exactly that. And the Protestant reformers said so in no uncertain terms. You should follow them by recognizing that the Bible is basically comprehensible to any open-minded person. It doesn't need an ordained clergyman or official church magisterium to tell the normal believer in the church what the Bible means. It is your clear, perspicuous plane guide on your path. That to understand it, you don't need a college degree. Now, that is not to say that there are no difficult passages in the Bible Or that all its parts are equally clear. It is not to say either that there is no value in an educated clergy. Or in the church's creeds, catechisms, and confessions. For they are valuable for digesting and remembering what the scriptures teach. And Christians would be foolish to ignore or neglect them. But And here's the point. The word of God, which is translated into the common tongue of the particular races of men, is available to all those races people. The Bible is sufficiently clear so that any normal individual can read it and discover what it is saying. That is, of course, the whole point of David's analogy of God's word being a lamp to his feet and a light to his path. By it, David says, I can see my way. Without it, all would be dark by day as well as by night But God's word is a perspicuous guide for me. And that is why the psalmist goes on immediately to say, I have sworn an oath and confirmed it. Keep your righteous rules. Anyone would be foolish to stick to rules that are unclear and not understandable But David is convinced that God's precepts and commandments, all his words, mean exactly what they say, and that he, David, gets them. No balking, no musing, no ifs, ands, or buts for this child of God That's the truth. So now I ask you, congregation, is that also the case for you? Are you ready ever to hold to and follow a world and life view that is lit up clearly by the Bible Satan would prefer you to question its clarity. He would tempt you to misread and misinterpret God's word to your own personal advantage. Seeing its teaching through the light of your own distorted views. You must pray when you read the Bible That God would, by his spirit, keep your sinful, self-serving biases from getting in the way Of his perspicuous word. Admittedly, I know, there are some portions of that word about which Christians differ. In their understanding of exactly what God is saying. At the same time, you can be thankful that there is a whole body of doctrine upon which true believers can utter a hearty Amen. You, together with billions of others throughout church history and up to this very day, see clearly the truth of God's word. About creation, his law, human sin, the gospel of atoning grace through the life and death of Jesus Christ These truths are also expressed well in the ecumenical creeds, where there occurs difference of opinion on these matters. The problem is not that the Bible is unclear, but that people sometimes don't want to understand its teaching. Don't let that characterize you. Vow to keep God's word. Three, the Bible is your performance monitor. God's word is not only perspicuous, clear in itself, it also clarifies the way you think, act, and plan on your life's way. It is your performance monitor, meaning that you believers can, should, and do see everything in your life sphere in the Bible's light. The psalmist lists at least five things clarified by the light of the Word of God. Let's take them one by one. The first one is verse 105. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Oh. That means wrong and dangerous ways are exposed by the Bible. Without it You don't know how to live your lives. But when it shines on your path, you see sin beckoning and danger threatening ahead and taking notice. You follow the Bible's monitoring and you avoid disastrous results Now that is not to say that the Bible gives you detailed warnings and instructions concerning every possible turn and decision you should take in detail. You should not expect God's word to provide you with special and mystical leadings So that you know exactly what step God wants you to take every moment of your conscious life. Not that. But it does reveal the kind of character that you should evoke always. What priorities govern your thinking about the vocation that you should. pursue? And especially whom you should marry if you seek that lifelong estate Nothing in the world gives the same illumination you need in these areas and many more. On the contrary, the world can be expected to render you only wrong priorities and perverted advice. Take once more that matter of choosing a mate, for instance. The Bible's light shines with a thousand watts If you are a Christian, do not marry an unbeliever. What's unclear about that? I don't need to remind you of the clear crystal passages of God's Word. That's a whole company of other sermons. Ignoring this prohibition, if you are a Christian, do not marry an unbeliever. To ignore it is to stray off the right path. So, marry only in the Lord. The second of the five things clarified by the light of the Word of God is found in verse 106. I have sworn an oath and confirmed it to keep your righteous rules. That verse is concerned with righteous behavior. Your actions that are in accord with God's righteous laws. You need the Bible to know what is right and what is wrong. The Bible, my friends, is not gray, providing maybe, maybe not answers to most moral choices. Only by studying and applying the Word of God can you find your way through the gray landscape of life. Three. The third thing clarified by the light of God's word. That's in verse 107. I am severely afflicted. Give me life, O Lord, according to your word. Here David speaks of suffering. And we find the psalmist praying: Renew my life according to your word. At times like that, David finds that the presence of the living God Himself even more than his promises, which are sure of safety and deliverance. Is what keeps him alive. The Bible is like mouth-to-mouth resuscitation for people who aren't breathing And their hearts not beating properly. If ever there was light at the end of the dark tunnel for David, it was when he had the word. Fourth, verse 108. Here David speaks of right worship, for he prays that God would accept my free offerings of praise. O Lord, and teach me your rules. And I think that it is proper to conclude from this short verse. That singing hymns and preaching God's word ought to be central to what you believers do. When you congregate together in services of public worship of God. Yes, there is to be space made in worship services to include other elements as well. Such as prayer, confession and absolution of sin, celebration of the sacraments And indeed more, even what we call the offering. But it is interesting to note that here David calls it my free will offerings of praise. And that's singing, my friends, singing of hymns of praise. And further, teach me your rules refers, I believe, to what we know today as the sermon. David wants to do two things when he worships the Lord, if anything at all. To sing praise to God and to hear what God says to him. We could call it David's dialogue of true worship. And you today do well to receive his analysis and copy it in your worship The fifth thing that is made clear for David's performance. Verses 109 and 110. Express David's need for the Bible to monitor his attitude when he is besieged by enemies. Let's hear them again. The wicked have laid a snare for me, but I do not astray from your precepts. Your testimonies are my heritage. No, I should have read verse 9 Sorry. I hold my life in my hand continually, but I do not forget your law. 109 and 110. David needs the Bible to monitor his attitude first when he is besieged by enemies. When he speaks of holding my life in my hands, he is expressing the idea of actually losing it. That would be if he were to abandon God's word and live a purely secular life. That shows where his true peril lies. And that's why he needs God's word. Further, verse 110 makes clear that David is well aware of the schemes of his wicked enemies. to trap him because they hate him and they hate the God he serves. They wish him ill, because they are servants of Satan, who really is his chief enemy. Enemy. And you believers here tonight also face the same threat. The devil wants your testimony to be inconsistent. And so he will seek to ensnare you by tempting you to seek approval of the people of this world. That's why you need to study the Bible and thus keep your priorities straight. The fourth P is that the Bible is your perseverance assurance. That's made clear. Now we get verse 111 and verse 12. 112. Your testimonies are my heritage forever. They are the joy of my heart. I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever to the end. David speaks about his heritage. And by that he does not mean what all our U. S. presidents mean when they use the term legacy. They are talking about what they have done for America and for what they perceive to have been America's dream, which he helped to bring to pass. But that's not what David has in mind, even with reference to the people of Israel. His legacy. Is not what he has done as king for them. His legate, see, his heritage consists of the testimonies Of the Lord God. He has performed God's statutes forever, to the end. Not perfectly David is well aware of his own failings and his own iniquity, but for sure. His heart has for sure been inclined to obedience to his sovereign lord. And whatever calumny has been spewed upon his record by haters of Yahweh. The unvarnished truth is this, that he, David, has persevered in faithful commitment. To the word and statutes of the Lord God. And it is that very word that David says assures him that he will make it That way to the end of his life. The Bible is David's perseverance assurance, and it is your yours. For that's your heritage, believers of Jesus. You will make it to the end. Why? You know. Because Jesus did. And he is the very Word of God. The Apostle Paul wrote to the Ephesian church Encouraging them to put on the whole armor of God that they may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. To that end, keep alert With all perseverance. And how will they be able to do that? How will they persevere? By taking up the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Just like David did thousands of years ago, his heritage, his continuation of faithful trust in the grace of his covenant God. Was exactly that. David took up the helmet of salvation, secured for him by the very word of God, and did so. to the end. Is that your heritage, Congregation? Will you not ever give praise to God? Who has assured you of lasting salvation through his word, Jesus? Amen. Let's pray. We thank you, God, for these four peas that David has laid out for us. And we thank you for its commonality, their commonality, the Word of God. And Jesus is that Word, and He is our Savior. Savior. He is our keeper. He is our guide. And he is our heritage. And we pray that this will become increasingly True and real, meaningful, and clear to us all who trust in him. In his name we pray. Amen.