What the psalmist is saying in this verse is that regarding the world around him and what he sees, he can't say the same about God's commandment. He sees in the world around them all perfection or the things in this world, they they have their limit But when I look at your law, I see it's exceedingly broad. There's not a limit to it. We might ask ourselves, yeah, how did he come to have this position? And I think something uh all of us could come to the same. Experience will teach all of us that life is full of limitations. And hopefully, by the Spirit revealing it to us, and through our own meditations upon God's law and his whole word, we've come to see we've never exhausted it. How many of us when you read our Bibles we might have read them for fifty years think, I've never seen that Or we read something we heard as children in Sunday school and we think 'cause of our life and maybe a recent experience we had this week and an interaction, we think That's what the world needs. That would fix the problem. And so experience of just being in the world If you live in it long enough, children, and you've already experienced it as that perfect toy at Christmas, doesn't please perfectly anymore. There's a limit to it. We all know that. But God's commandment, there's no limit. So really what this statement or what this passage is teaching us is that whereas everything in the world that we see has its limits. God's commandment doesn't. But I would like to just spend a brief moment so we can all feel and get and understand the limits To prepare us and open us, as we then will look in the second part, at ways in which Scripture shows us how unlimited God's commandment is. We use the language probably loosely, but we've all had a a perfect date, right? And it was great why it lasted, but it it ends, you know. Now some of us, we know that hey, we have found the perfect mac and cheese or the perfect whatever you go to the supermarket and you only ever buy that one. Until it's not there, until it gets rechanged because they got a new hand, they merge at some huge corporate level and they changed it and there goes that. It's perfect. Well, it lasted and then it it ended. Um you could add this to any aspect of life, right? Um You know, think of our the teachers that the world seed, you know. People think that the school of Plato and Socrates, you know, he was very perfect at exposing the ignorance of the Athenians You just ask questions and we will all come to the end of ourselves and realize we don't know. And a lot of that we do, we just do it because we don't know why, we just do it But there was great limits to what he could teach because he just didn't know himself. You never read his writings. I don't know how you you're not an agnostic, 'cause you at the end of the day you just say, I I don't know. He's man's reason is is limited. And it's a good thing for us to come to the end of that and realize that our reasonings are all limited. as uh parent a parenting manual and plan for our age and and what it can solve and do. If you've ever given yourself to them and If you give yourself too much to them, you might be in for surprise and frustrated when you see their own limits. That they're all limited. They all have a use. He's not saying here everything I see in the world is bad. He's just saying everything I see in the world is limited. But God's commandment is exceedingly wrong. So I don't want to spend any more time on that. I I think we are all tracking that By experience, what we see and encounter, we've all tasted and know of the limitness of the things that we see. But God's commandment is unlimited. Now I want to say just a quick word about the word commandment here, and then look at a few ways in Scripture. This will be where we kind of see gives us some principles to how to interpret God's law. Of course, the word commandment here is in the singular, but it it can be used like that, for example, in Deuteronomy 1720, when the king is commanded to copy out the law. And then he has to show to the priest and the priest has to make sure that it's been copied perfectly. And he's supposed to read in it every day, and God tells him why, that he would not depart from his commandment, though we know there's many commandments in it. So the word singular commandment can be used to summarize all that God said. And if you just do a word study on this word in in in the In the Old Testament, you realize it's talking about what God commanded through Moses. So we're talking about the revelation that God has given through Moses, which in itself, everything God said through Moses Points to Jesus Christ and has a fulfillment today in him. And so that's the commandment. But also the word commandment can not only refer then, we might say, to God's precepts. How he tells us to live. That's what's to govern our actions and of course our thoughts as well. But uh in Psalm 105, for example, in verses 8 and 9, God's commandment can even extend to his promises to us. We read He remembers his covenant forever, the word that he commanded for a thousand generations, the covenant that he made with Abraham, his sworn promise to Isaac. Praise God, the promise of life to us in Jesus Christ, and He has commanded, is exceedingly broad. Doesn't have any limits to its extent and glorious, joyful fulfillment for us in the Lord. So God's this word commandment here can speak of God's precept and promise. Uh just in the context of the psalm, he's most likely thinking about the precepts of God because the whole thing is is praising his law, but there's even a breath to God's commandment. Now here's a couple of ways I want us to look at uh how we see the kind of unlimitedness of God's commandment in Scripture. If you want to turn your Bible to 2 Timothy 3 Everybody should know this passage. Everybody should commit it to memory. It's it's like the Puritan manual for preaching sermons. 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17, we read: all scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof. for correction and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work. And and so we see uh of course scripture here in context is is referring to the the Old Testament and he's reminding Timothy what what he has at his disposal and has had and it extends of course to the writings of the apostles. as they speak about the Messiah and the f fulfillment of it that's come. But but notice what he's saying, and in scripture will of course include God's commandments and his commandments. But notice what he's saying here that This is good for any age. This is good for any situation. This extends so far to make you complete and perfect for every good work that God would have you to do. There's nothing in there There's no limit to it. We we have to interpret it correctly as it's been filled for us in Christ, and that's what we have to give ourselves prayerfully to. And patiently make sure we understand. But he's saying you can take all the scripture, including what God has commanded, and you can teach people with it who don't know it Reproving has to do with correcting the way we think about things or or refuting false things. Like maybe that doesn't apply anymore. Correcting people with it, that deals with changing their behavior. And then training and righteousness deals with showing them how to how to do this. He's saying this is for every one of you And this is to make you and equip you for every good work that God would have you to do. So we can see that the exceeding breath of God's commandment extends to every age, to every person, and to every situation. You might be equipped and prepared. Now you can turn to Matthew's gospel, that's where we read this morning and we read there Because we see a similar thing as the Lord's telling us, uh anticipating what they might think that he's not here to abolish the law and the prophets, he's here to fulfill them. His kingdom, his sacrifice, his spirit poured out, his law, his commands to us are applicable to us in their fulfilled way. We also see that God's commandment is not limited to our merely external behavior. Doesn't extend just to the postures and gestures by which we worship God. Bowing before God is right and good. Standing before Him with uplift hands is right and good But if you only stand before God with uphend lands or bow on him there without also in your heart having any other gods before him, you're not so silly. God's law. It doesn't, it's not limited by our gestures and our actions, but as Jesus opens it up, because in his day the Pharisees had largely Limited God's law to external behavior, and therefore saw themselves as very righteous. Jesus had it explained to them the breath, the exceeding breath of God's law that not only does it deal with actual murder and physically harming another person, it gets to the anger that's in our hearts If we've ever searched our anger, it's generally very unjust and unfounded and selfish and petty He deals with uh adultery. It's not merely the accomplishment of the act of another person, but it begins with our desire for that person in the first place whom we should have no desire for, because he or she belongs to another. So God's law extends, and as we teach God's law, we have to extend it. It reaches into not merely governing our actions, but our thoughts and our desires, even our affections, the things that we are moved by and long for and want are regulated by the commandments of God. There's no territory over which God's will doesn't extend and reach that we have a place to please ourselves in. I read for us this morning the summary of the law that the Lord Jesus gives us, or let me say one more point, uh this idea of God's law extending to all of our things. Uh the the interpretive principle there is that you'll usually hear reform churches or just i it can be adopted by anybody, is Paul's language in Romans 714, the law being spiritual And there's actually in the law itself, in the Decalogue, that that's even made known in the tenth commandment. There's there's no way of just merely exteriorly keeping don't covet, because that's your heart And so even the Ten Commandments in no way endorse an idea of just mere external keeping, because God says you shouldn't covet, and that's wrongful desire. That's being discontent. And always wanting more and not content in what you have. So even itself, the law is always has been spiritual, always will be spiritual. Uh yeah, like I said in Matthew, we read the summary there and we read in James, how uh James tells us that that the law is one. And so we we see the law's breath in both how the law can be taken from these ten, and then if you know the the law of Moses, there's many instances of those being case laws and give into particular situations in the life and those can come back to the ten and the ten can come back to the two, but we have to remember it's one And that shows us its breath because God's law isn't like a land with a bunch of fences where it's compartmentalized, where you go here and then you've got to step over and get into this. It's just one vast vista It's like you go on, it goes into the horizon, you walk for a mile and you see, I don't see a limit yet. And you walk another mile and I still don't. It's one long One vast law for us, one holy way of life, one image bearing from God that He has given to us. Finally, I'll just uh one more way that we see here, or actually two more ways, second to last way we see in Revelation 22, which we looked at last week Which I found this week there's actually a textual variant I read from you last week in the New King James, not knowing this, and then read here in the ESV which I have from me this morning Uh the some manuscripts say in Revelation 22, 14, uh blessed are those who keep the commandments. Your footnote will say that in the SV. Some say blessed are those who wash their robes. Honestly, they're like flip sides of the coin. As Jesus cleanses us by his blood, what happens? You you become a law keeper. So y what's every one you you put there? The idea there has to be a real changing The real washing clean, as he makes clear, so that they may what? Have the right to the tree of life, but also they may enter the city gates. Now in the context there, that's The heavenly city, which will come down. That's that's the eternal abiding city of God. But notice what he says in the next verse. Who are outside the city? The dogs and sorcerers, the sexually immoral, the murderers, the lawbreakers God's law continues into his eternal city. God's law will always be with us there. And by his grace is he, Jesus paid for it. So we pray for it. And we will keep that law as we go into God's city and worship him and serve him in accordance with it. So yes, we can say with David here or whoever wrote it I see to all things a limit, but your commandment is exceedingly broad. It covers my whole life for all time in every situation and every age. It has a death I'll never plumb. It is wonderful. But we also see, dear beloved, its breath in uh in the Lord Jesus Christ. If you want, turn to John chapter 12. John 12. And Jesus is ending his public ministry. He's sort of, if you will, giving his final cry to believe on me. And he says uh in John twelve verses forty-nine and fifty. Here he's giving the reason why uh those who reject him and his word will be judged at the last day, because it's it's not his word he's spoken, it's his father's. He says, for I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment. What to say and what to speak, and I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say, as the Father has told Here's the picture. The Father said, son, my commandments eternal life. Now go carry it out. Go save those sinners. Go reveal yourself as my son, full of grace, full of truth. Die for them on the cross. Take up your life. Invite them to bring them into our eternal fellowship. To walk and live with us. That's why he's very Christian about John. You know, John says uh Our fellowship is with the Father and with this Eat. You know, John saying, here we were, fishermen in Galilee, and all of a sudden eternal life, who's always been with the Father, just showed up and said, Hey guys, follow me. Eternal life. Walking with Jesus. I think we all know, right, walking with Jesus, it's a way of life. It involves turning away from this. It involves in doing this. Loving God. And here John's saying, in that commandment, as it's even fulfilled to us, as it's come in fleshed. There's the divine word in us, and we see it in its full breath, Jesus, because who's ever come to the limit of his grace and his love? Doesn't the law command us to be loving? And gracious and merciful and holy. Who's ever seen the ends of Jesus' grace and of his forgiveness? And this is love? Who's ever comprehended the breath of his way of life and ever come to it? He's the eternal life. So God's commandment is exceeding broad, even as we see it in our Savior Jesus. Now let me then see how we can apply some of this to our lives. Here's the first thing I want to say that this passage is teaching us, right? Whereas everything in the world that we see has its limits. God's commandment, even that he commandment of eternal life in Jesus Christ, is exceedingly broad. Well, that should teach us that keeping God's commandments or God's commandment, if you will, is a lifelong adventure. Something you've been invited into. Something you've been called into. Some of you kicking and screaming, some of you easier, but it's something you've been brought into. It's an adventure. It's not something you get to the end of Something that you walk with God with forever. Here, there. It's an adventure. It's exceedingly broad in its scope. It's an exceedingly wonderful adventure. Because exceeding broad, if it means anything, it means there's more ground to cover. You walk this far and you realize there's more to go. There's more to go with the Lord. There's more he's going to take me to. There's more to go with. And this should obviously I think teach us that perfectionism is wrong. I hope there's a peeled uh uh uh uh uh by pill, I mean I'm trying to say pill, I'm trying to say medicine for perfectionists this morning. I hope this will be a soothing bomb to probably all of our native tendencies we're just probably on a scale of perfectionism. That this text will will help us with that. Because perfectionism is not only wrong 'cause the fact that we're sinners and we don't keep God's law perfectly. It's also wrong in the sense that we ever think we will get to the bottom of it. Who's ever going to plumb the depths of Christ's love, his love for us, but responding in that? Are we ever gonna some point say, that's it Lord, I I loved you perfectly, I'm done. I need to relive this moment forever, otherwise it'll just be worse. It'll be eternally miserable because that was it. It culminated at one point. No. We might read culminating points in this slide because everything's limited, right? Flowers come up, beautiful, perfect, and then they just turn in their opposite and die. Do we reach limits? We don't reach limits with God. We just go with Him. Pursue Him. I got a long spurge of code here, and I'm weighing whether it's worth reading. I think it's worth reading But I also have a second long quote and I'm trying to weigh which one's more worth reading. But everybody loves Spurgeons, so listen to what Spurgeon said. He says the law touches every act, word, and thought. It is of such a spiritual nature that it judges the motives, desires, and emotions of the soul. It reveals the perfection which convicts us for shortcomings as well as for transgressions. And does not allow us to make up for deficiencies in one direction by special carefulness in others. The divine ideal of holiness is far too broad for us to hope to cover all its wide arena. Yet it is no broader than it ought to be. Its perfections is its glory, but it is the death of all glorying in our own perfection. There is a breath about the commandment which has never been met to the full by a corresponding breath of holiness in any mere man while here below. Only in Jesus do we see it fully embodied. The law is in all respects a perfect code. Each separate precept of it is far reaching in its hallowed meaning, and the whole ten cover all and leave no space wherein to please our passions. We may well adore the infinity of divine holiness and measure ourselves by its standard and bow before the Lord in all lowliness Acknowledging how far we fall short of this, but also just I would add how how wonderful and deep it is in itself And I think with this idea that God's law being so broad that it's it's really just a life of adventure in walking with the Lord as He has called us into His fellowship. We see that perfectionism should just be off the table, that and then as a place of liberty. In um Psalm 119. If you've not read Psalm 119, I would just encourage you to read it. If you've not read in a while, but the the word here that we translate is broad It's translated in some translations as liberty or a wide place in Psalm 119, verse 45. I will keep your law continually forever and ever, and I shall walk in a wide place. Raha, breath here. We call it breath. A wide place, sometimes that is liberty, because Confining places are prisons. Wide places are places of liberty. And he's saying, I'm going to walk at liberty As I walk in your place. I'm going to walk in a wide place where I see that there is great breath to it. Because if we don't know yet, beloved, sin is our real confinement. See, in sin, as Jesus taught us, we love just those who love us. But those who don't love us, they're out. You see, we we welcome those who welcome us, but we limit those who aren't our friends, right? Because we're sinners and our love gets shrimp. If they're of the same skin color I am, if they're of the same political party that I am, same birthplace, same whatever, right? Our sin is what is really limiting. And we know that God's law extends. Doesn't see any of that. It's broad. It's a place of liberty. Sin is confinement. Don't don't listen to the world's lie, because every age will tell you we we've we've got to throw off Christ's yoke and come into liberty because it's so confining. Don't know. It's not. True place of freedom. True place of liberty. And I think with that, um, if we understand this rightly, God's the breath of it. Understanding it and knowing it, praying for grace and his covenant, having it written on our hearts, it's what truly makes us broad-minded. Broad-minded in the right way where it's broad enough that we can include all of God's children in the church. Broad enough that we can include those who disagree with us, because those things aren't fundamental that we're disagreeing about, are things that last We're not talking about compromising or anything. We're just saying God's law, if we truly are renewed by it. In his word, in his spirit, as as he said it in Sinai, as Jesus preached it and unpacked it, as the apostles write about it and apply it to us in the church It has the true breath to make us broad-minded and inclusive in the right upper sense. Here's my second long quote getting at that And let me give you a a a plug too. If if you don't own if you're looking for a to build your family library up that everybody can share, if you don't know of Spurgeon's Treasury of David, buy Charles Spurgeon's Treasury of David. It's not only his commentary on the Psalter, but it has a collection of all these other people that he read, and you can find gems in there. And here's a gem I found from a man by the name of James Kerr, who wrote in 1880. He said this Is the time not come when the adherents of the true faith should make an effort to wrest from their opponents the monopoly and the use of these terms of broad and free, which they seem desirous of establishing for themselves again. Every modernist movement, every liberal thing is always it's called that liberal because we're the broad and free ones and you guys are narrow minded, right? And so they're saying, let's take them back. And he's gonna argue why they belong to the church. Well those who stay with Jesus though that way. Those who in the spirit of their master abide most closely by and contend most tenaciously for the whole faith. that has been delivered to the saints must be the most liberal-minded and Catholic universal. Little little C And those who forsake the old paths must, in proportion to the extent of their departures, become contracted in their mental grasp and narrow in their soul. Is not the Bible, the whole Bible, the only manual of broad churchism in its truest and highest sense? Is not the revelation of God's Son in us, the great soul expanding power? If the Son shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. Must we not infer from the words of Christ, you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free that the mind which apprehends the truth is a home of mental liberty? Does not strict conformity of the life to God's law produce real breath of character For thy commandment is exceeding broad. It is not the gospel system, the only true broad churchism, the perfect law of liberty, is not the believer and The more so in proportion to the strength of his faith, the only true broad churchman, increasing with the increase of God, filleth all the fullness of God. True breath of character comes from a strict conformity to God's law That's a wonderful statement. And it can't but be true when it says, isn't it exceedingly problem? Our problem is we we we think we can add to we just We just take away. We just contract ourselves. This should, of course, teach us as well that the word of Christ is just as relevant today when Jesus spoke it. Every word you read in the Bible, as long as you can textually understand it, is just as relevant today as when God first declared it to us. There's no limitations to its circumstances. God's law is exceedingly broad. And here here's a place where I've seen it kind of come up recently that's made me question. We we've had certain things happen in the Presbytery and Sessions do things and then we want sessions do bad things and then we try to deal with sessions who do bad things and then people argue, well, they're a session. How do you sessions don't err like well of course sessions don't but the men do. And they want to limit the scope of God's law. There's no all moral institutions, beloved Even even the state we live in is not all moral. It's made up of image barrels. Beholden to God. You don't get a pass and say, Well, we're the land of liberty, we have church separation, we can do all that. Yes, church and state are different things, but God's law extends the state. God's law extends everything, because we're all image bearers. You can't limit it and write it off and say, Well, I I was just a helper, I was just this, and so be careful of limiting and excusing behavior by institutions. Also, again, he says here, I see a limit to all that is perfection and creation. He doesn't say it's all bad, but Careful device you take. Be wary of secular counselors. Again, I think we've probably all read a secular humanist humanist on something. Is that there's something useful here? Limited. I'm just saying that because you know psychiatrists, psychologist counseling is huge because we have a huge mental health crisis and a lot of it is just it's sin. People need to repent? We're not merely victims of the fall and have a disease of sin. We're also guilty culprits and rebellion against God. We need to repent of. So yes, we we we are sick with sin, but we're also guilty. And we need to take responsibility for our lives too. And how that interplacing goes out, let's exercise pastoral love and patience and care. But Remember we said Psalm 19, I can't remember if it's 24, but your counselor, your law is my counselors. David took counsel from God's law And so also let us go to God's word and find the counsel. And it may be that the counsel you need is just repent. Because you're not doing what God says and it may be because you don't know what God says and that's why we go to church and that's why we participate in the teaching ministry at church and then read at home and every Finally, here's my culminating point. So I want to leave you. This idea that God's law is exceedingly broad. Should get rid of and it should remove from us an attitude of achievement and put in us an attitude of relationship with the Lord. I googled Psalm 119, 96, because it's kind of tricky and just what's being said there. Word perfection is only used once in the Hebrew Bible and you're trying to figure out what exactly you mean by this. Came across this gem of a quote. I don't I don't know. I don't know who said it. But here it is. As we navigate life's complexities, may we continually seek the richness of God's law. Allowing it to illuminate our paths and transform our hearts, reminding us That true perfection lies not in our achievements, but in our relationship with the divine. You will never achieve God's law. You'll never be infinitely holy. Don't make your life about achievement. Make it about knowing the Lord, passionately pursuing Him. Because God's achievement is what matters. And that's the relationship he established with you at creation. That's the relationship that he salvaged with you through his son Jesus Christ when he put him on to death on the cross for you. That he might save you from trying to earn his favor and achieve all this stuff. Remember what Paul teaches us. The law was never given to justify it. All the righteousness you want to do in it, it's in Jesus, and He will give it to you and work it out in your life. All that you need to stand before God, He's accomplished, He's achieved. This should move us away from all the limits we see. Yes, you can achieve things in this life. Who's going to achieve perfect accomplishment for God? Banish the thought. Relationship with the Lord. Passionately pursuing the Lord. That's what God wants. That's his commandment in Jesus when he said, go give them eternal life. Go bring them into this fellowship. So, how broad is God's commandment, congregation? Exceeding. It is broad enough to set us free to the endless pursuit of God. It is broad enough for an unbounded service of love to him. It is broad enough to include all of God's children in the church. It is broad enough to include every age in its precepts and promises and its ways. And so if you've not yet come to Jesus, come take him by the hand. And have them lead you into this endless life of pursuing the Lord. Because whereas everything we see has limits, God's commandment doesn't limit And let us bow before him in awe at the exceeding wrath of it. Amen.