Hear the Word of God, Congregation, Psalm 7. O Lord my God, in you do I take refuge. Save me from my pursuers and deliver me, lest like a lion they tear my soul apart, rending it in pieces, with none to deliver. O Lord my God, if I have done this, if there is wrong in my hands, if I have repaid my friend with evil. Or plundered my enemy without cause. Let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake it, and let him trample my life to the ground and lay my glory in the dust. Arise, O Lord, in your anger. Lift yourself up against the fury of my enemies. Awake for me. You have appointed a judgment. Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you, over it return on high. The Lord judges the peoples Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness, and according to the integrity that is in me. Oh, let the evil of the wicked come to an end, and may you establish the righteous. You who test the minds and hearts, O righteous God. My shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart. God is a righteous judge. And a God who feels indignation every day. If a man does not repent, God will whet his sword. He has bent and readied his bow. He has prepared for him his deadly weapons, making his arrows fiery shafts. Behold, the wicked man conceives evil and is pregnant with mischief And gives birth digging it out, and falls into the hole that he has made. His mischief returns upon his own head And on his own skull his violence descends. I will give to the Lord the thanks due to his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the name of the Lord Lord, the Most High. The word of God. Let's pray. Almighty God, our dear Father in heaven, you have created all things for your own glory. You are the God who has ordained the history that is past and the history that is yet to come. And here we stand at the end of a year to bring in another one And we have to acknowledge that you are our stay and our ground, our fortress and our help. We pray as we attend unto this your holy word tonight, you will work mightily in our hearts that we may become truly believers. in you and show it in the way in which we behave. For we ask it in the name of our Redeemer, Jesus Christ the Lord. Amen Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Considering Psalm 7 is a very appropriate way to begin a new year. The way things are going, my friends, I think you will agree, lately makes us wonder whether opposition And persecution might be faced by Christians, even in this land of supposed freedom and justice. Again, there is always the threat of malicious harm being perpetrated by terrorists anywhere, it seems, and at any time. When we enter 2018, we can't help but ask: Will evildoers be restrained from their murderous intent and accomplishments Their cruel ruthlessness, and even their hateful leveling of false charges against the righteous, in high places as well as low. And Psalm 7 addresses directly such questions. It is one more prayer for divine protection. In the face of adversaries, adversaries of the Christian church and gospel, calling upon God to bring about swift and utter judgment Upon all who hate Jesus Christ and his bride, the church Now note the Psalm's title, A Shigion. What's that? Probably a musical or liturgical term, we're not sure. A shigeon of David, which he sang to the Lord concerning the words of Cush, a Benjamite the night. Got to get all the syllables in that name. Actually, Cush, as a proper name of a man, not to be confused with the word used as a synonym for Egypt, as it is sometimes times, is not named in the chronicles of the time. We don't know who a person named Kush was. The Talmud, an authoritative body of Jewish tradition, we might say a commentary on the Old Testament Identifies the Cush of our psalm with, yes, Saul. But he may have been one of Saul's fanatical tribesmen Like Shinnai, remember him, who continually cursed David, the Bible says, often even throwing stones at him. In any case, whoever Cush was, in fact, it's generally assumed that the poem belongs to the period of Saul's persecution of David. David and expresses David's righteous indignation at this wickedness, calling upon God to defend him and to bring swift judgment upon his enemies. And what we gather as we read from this psalm is this summary. The children of God may have firm confidence. That the Heavenly Father will ever protect and rescue his own from every wickedness and harm that might threaten them, bringing complete and utter judgment upon evildoers who oppose both him and his bride. church. And we have five points to draw from the Psalm successively First, the persecution that the psalmist experiences. Verses 1 and 2. O Lord my God, in you do I take refuge. Save me from my pursuers, all of them, and deliver me, lest like a lion they tear my soul apart, rending it in pieces, with none to deliver. David thus appeals to God because his situation is one of flight from cruel enemies. He's running from them, of which one is particularly to be feared because the malevolence seems to David as violent as that of an angry lion. Think about it. One cannot run successfully away from such danger. Have you ever seen films of African lions pursuing their prey? Even four-minute milers Could not escape such speed. David sees himself very soon in the jaws of his pursuer. With no hope of rescue unless the Lord his God would intervene and deliver him. Now you will probably ask What does that have to do with me here in 21st century modern America, where the only lion I might face is in the Washington Zoo? Well, the answer appears readily when you understand that this is poetry. And the lion is figurative. standing for any sort of dangerous slander, scorn, misrepresentation, or the like that you might encounter today. just as David did in his day. The New Testament understands this threat and gives hope to us facing such. Listen to Matthew 5. 10. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of God. God. Unless we think that we are immune to that, Jesus reminds us also with these words recorded in John 15, 20. A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. To any who might be tempted to give up, then, when reviled, the apostle urges in 1 Corinthians 4:12, when persecuted, we endure. And in the second letter to the same church, chapter 4, verses 8 and 9, Paul has this brilliant encouragement. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair. Persecuted, but not forsaken, struck down, but not destroyed. And thus you and I might think to escape opposition from the wicked, Paul writes to Timothy, 2 Timothy 3. 12. Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Expect it. And don't be deceived, my dear Christian friends. What David faced in his day is of a peace with what believers may expect to encounter. Perhaps even in 2018. And so in the eve of that year, this psalm he pens is clearly for us too. It would appear The second point is this the psalmist submits himself to God. Verses 3 through 5. But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head. I cried aloud to the Lord, and he answered me from his holy hill. I lay down and slept. I woke again, for the Lord sustained me. David does this because he recognized that he may not be completely free from fault. Did you catch that? He confesses that he might have been attempted, have attempted to take matters into his own hands when persecuted. And repaid the wickedness done to him with equal wickedness back to those who had done it to him, to them in return. If he's done that, David says, that would have been wrong and would not have merited approval by God who sees all. Now I personally have to watch that when people cut me off in traffic and I have attempted to blow my horn and if I've done that, I'm sure my wife will correct me She has done, and I hope she continues to do that. But that's a small matter. But David calls upon God, you see. to judge him first, even before judging others who had done evil to him. Do you see what David is doing He's confessing that he might be no better than his enemies, and expresses his belief that he should not escape their wrath. Only, we will see in the following verses, as a matter of fact, David does not believe that he has repaid evil with evil, and so confidently Calls upon God to deliver him, to judge his enemies, and to bring them to destruction. But he pauses first to think, well, maybe. Maybe I've done wrong to them too The point we want to stress here is that David faces head-on the clear truth that he does not consider himself Such a favorite of God that he expects his own sinful behavior while at the same time judging his enemies for theirs. He knows that God is not so capricious. And you and I, here on the eve of 2018, Must face the same truth, don't we? You and I need clear consciences, as David did And to achieve that, we need to confess whatever fault might belong to us. And when we are faced with the wickedness that others perpetuate toward us Us, it is tempting, isn't it, to avoid the possibility that we might be equally guilty of wrongdoing And when that happens, we need to turn, to repent, and to confess. That's what the psalm teaches us. And thirdly, the psalm teaches us that God is to be pled to by his people for his justice to take place. Look at verses 6 through 9. Arise, O Glord, in your anger. Lift yourself up against the fury of of my enemies. Awake for me. You have appointed a judgment. Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you. Over it return on high. The Lord judges the peoples. Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness and according to the integrity that is in me. Oh, let the evil of the wicked come to an end, and may you establish the righteous, you who test the minds and the wings. and hearts, O righteous God. So having dealt with his own heart, David has a clear conscience. And is now free to call upon God to give him justice in this the case of probably Saul and his associates, who desire to bring him down in utter distress And he wants that done in the open, with clear lines of authority recognized and He puts it this way: I want the assembly of the peoples to be gathered about the Lord, and him over it to return on high. Now I take all that to mean that David wants the church visible to be involved in the coming judgment. David is not asking God to secretly nail all his David's enemies without anyone in Israel knowing anything about it. He wants no private Treatment. He wants the nation, that's the church really, to be able to affirm David's righteousness in the whole matter by calling forth all the evidence. And judging his innocence of any wrongdoing. Only that way, by clear and righteous Church discipline, will the evil of the wicked come to an end? And David may ask God to establish the righteous. Now I think that applies to us. Do you now see why we in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church have a book of discipline? Which sets forth godly procedures by which godly judgment might be exercised whenever there is accusation of wrong Yes, things are not to be quietly settled through closed door negotiations by which presumably Reputations might be preserved. We believe that matters always need to be under strict rules of Procedure properly aired, proven, and addressed with biblical correction. In any case of alleged sin or false teaching. That's exactly what David called for. He wanted the assembly of the peoples. To be gathered about God the Lord, who in this way and this way only will be seen to establish the righteous and test the minds and hearts And we here in the 21st century cannot do better. We too need to follow biblical rules of behavior which God expects of his church visible, believing that the same God that David worshipped will today likewise defend the innocent and judge the guilty. So I leave this application with you tonight, my brothers and sisters in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Never depreciate the responsibility and the rightness of church. But now we move on to the fourth point that I gained from this psalm. And that is from verses 10 through 13. Notice the basis on which the psalmist asks God to judge. My shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart God is a righteous judge and a God who feels indignation every day. If a man does not repent, God will wet his sword. He has bent and readied his bow. He has prepared for him his deadly weapons. Making his arrows fiery shafts. This is clear to David that there are certain truths That stand in every generation for all of God's people everywhere. God says the upright in heart. Now, how is that possible? When according to the Bible, Romans 3. 10, none is righteous. No, not one. The answer is because of and through the Lord Jesus Christ, whom God would send and did send in the fullness of time. It's by the imputation of his righteousness and by his atoning sacrifice on the cross that David, together with every other believer in all of time, and you here tonight night are saved. As far as wicked people outside of Christ are concerned, what of their destiny? Not only in the ultimate sense of their judgment in the final day, but even of their present existence on earth Verse 11 is quite clear. God is a righteous judge and a God who feels indignation every day. Paul puts it this way in Romans 1:18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness Suppress the truth. But do not miss this. Even believers need to keep current. with their sins. Listen to verses 12 and 13 once more. If a man does not repent God will judge wet his sword. He has bent and readied his bow. He has prepared for him his deadly weapons, making his arrows fiery shafts. That's addressed to us, too. And it simply will not do for us to suppose that since we are saved by God's grace, that we are free to presume upon that grace. And ignore our continuing sinful thoughts and behavior. Watch out. We too, as well as David, need to heed the warning. And repent. Now the fifth and last point is found in verses 14 to 16, and it gives us the reason why repentance is necessary. We can be very brief with this one. But here are the verses once more. Behold, the wicked man conceives evil And is pregnant with mischief and gives birth to lies. He makes a pit, digging it out, and falls into the hole that he has made. made. His mischief returns upon his own head and on his own skull his violence descends. What does that mean? Simply this. Because of the futility of wickedness, we had better repent. Wickedness is futile. It leads to disillusionment and self-deception. Wrongdoing, even for Christians, gives birth to more wrongdoing unless it is repentance. Sin, my friends, has children, we might say. Sin as children. And if we don't repent, we can only expect that the offspring of any of our unconfessed and unconfessed Forgiven sin will be plentiful. The brood of sin is more sin. Make no mistake. And it will not do for us to lie and say, Oh, one little sin will not be noticed. Rather, according to David in this psalm, it leads to digging a hole and then falling into it. Sin sets its own trap and eventually catches up with us all. David? And us. Humbling, isn't it? And all of this causes us with David to pray. Peace and thank God. I will give to the Lord the thanks due to his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the name of the Lord. the most high. Notice here that David thanks God not so much for what God has done for him him though that has been great indeed not so much that he thanks God for who he is God acts, says David, according to his perfect righteousness, always. God is not a God for David who can be persuaded, please. Thank you to pay special attention to me. I'm one of your favorites, aren't I? No, not for this believer, in the one whose name is the I Am He is Yahweh, the most high God. And David can only sing praise to him for being exactly Now I leave you with this thought tonight, my dear Christian friends. How about you? Where do you stand before God? Are you current with your repentance? Has God made your heart upright through Jesus? Say it. He has. If not, then know this. He's ready to strike. He will not put up with your sin. You need to repent now before it's too late. In trusting Jesus as your Savior, you are then able, with all God's people, to thank God and praise Him because of His righteousness. Take the lead from King David and bow humbly before the Most High God, confessing your sin and giving thanks to him. Him for his righteousness in forgiving you because of your Savior Jesus Christ, his Son. who died for you. Only in that way can you hope to have a happy new year. Amen.