Congregation of the Lord, receive now God's word to you. And the word this morning, beloved, is that You come to know your misery from the law of God, which law requires us to love God and our neighbor, as we heard this morning And which La Yu and I cannot do, and are by nature, that means by birth, prone to hatred That is the teaching of God's word to you this morning. And this teaching Is so that you and I might come to seek comfort by faith in the gospel of Christ. You remember we learned last week that the substance of the Heidelberg Catechism is comfort belonging to Jesus, all those benefits that come from that. But also it structures how we attain that comfort. And that begins with knowing that we're miserable and where, knowing where we know our misery, so we might attain the comfort of the gospel of Christ. So this morning, Congregation, I urge you, if you don't already know, to learn how you come to know your misery. For only by knowing that will you seek the right comfort. Just like only by knowing the right disease that you have can you seek the right cure. What I mean is different diseases present the same symptoms. Suring the sentence is one thing, but if you want to get rid of it in the proper cure, you need to know the disease. And it's the law of God that tells us the disease. You need to learn it for yourselves, as I said, so you can come to know and have this comfort of the gospel that God gives you. And you need to learn it for the sake of others so that you can help them and lead them to find the comfort of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The topic this morning, as should be evident from our readings, and is the theme for the first part of this catechism, is misery. The catechism is structured in three parts. Part one is misery. Part two is deliverance from this misery. And part three is gratitude for being delivered from this misery. These three parts, misery, deliverance, gratitude, they come from the second question last week, which asks, What must I know to live and die in the joy of this comfort? I need to know first how great my sin and misery are Second, how I'm delivered from all my sins and misery. And third, how I am to thank God for such deliverance. Some Call these three parts guilt, grace, and gratitude. And I want you to know that this division In guilt, grace, and gratitude, this three-part division is intentional. The catechism was designed to follow the progression of Paul's letter to the Romans. Broadly speaking, in the letter to the Romans, Paul first deals with humanity's sinfulness, misery. Chapters 1 through most of chapters 3. Then God then Paul goes on to God's grace in Christ from chapter 3 on through all of chapter 8, well even through 11 And then Paul deals with the gratitude we are to show in response to God's grace, right there in chapter 12. By the mercies of God, God I beseech you to present your body as a living sacrifice. So guilt, grace, and gratitude is a very biblical understanding and presentation of the gospel and how to attain it. And I want you to know this because I want you to know that not only as we looked last week to see that comfort is biblical, but I also want you to know that the catechism's method of attaining to it By presenting first our guilt, our misery, our sin, and then presenting to us God's grace in delivering us from this, and then presenting to us The gratitude we are to show in response to this is biblical. So that as we go through the catechism this year, I want you to know that we are on solid scriptural ground as to its substance. the comfort of belonging to Jesus Christ and the way of coming to have that comfort of knowing how great our sin and misery is, God's deliverance. And our gratitude to show God for that deliverance. Over the next three Lord's days, to include this one, we will look at together what makes up our misery. And what makes up our misery, beloved, is sin, our sin, and sin's effects upon us, and the punishment of sin. Sin Its effects and its punishments make up our human misery. And we're going to look at these over the next three Lord's Days. But behind all of that, beloved, right, behind our misery will be the message of comfort that God gives to us in Jesus Christ. Now obviously I want you to digest this whole sermon. I want you to take in all the things that we're looking at today in these three questions. But if you want a big takeaway, right, here it is. Human beings are miserable because human beings are sinful. Human beings are miserable. They suffer misery because human beings are sinful. These two go together. Sin and misery. They go together like the fall, the autumn, in dead leaves One brings the other. Sin brings misery. Human beings are miserable because human beings are sinful. So let's look at the first part, which will be question three of the catechism. How do you come to know your misery? And the answer is: the law of God tells me. This question and answer, question three, and answer the catechism, gets at the source of human misery. You might go to ten doctors and be told ten different reasons why you're sick and miserable. What reliable source can you and I go to to find out our misery? Well, maybe even before that you're wondering what is misery? Well, let me give you a couple of definitions. The Oxford English Dictionary defines it as, and I quote, a state or feeling of great physical or mental distress or discomfort. If you've been sick, sad, fearful, even envious, you know, of this great physical or mental distress and discomfort, and those are but A small just picking randomly of what causes human misery. The Merriam-Webster dictionary defines it as, and I quote, a state of suffering. and want that is the result of poverty or affliction, if you have ever not had the means to sustain your life on this planet, you know misery. If you have been picked on or bullied and persecuted, you know misery. Another definition that the man Webster gives is, and I quote, a circumstance thing or place that causes suffering or discomfort? If you've ever done a crime and are serving the time, you know misery Finally, it gives, and I quote, a state of great unhappiness and emotional distress. If you have ever been grieved, beloved, bereaved, you know, misery. Plenty of people, and maybe yourself Downplay their misery. They put it off, they ignore it, they try to suppress it They hide it, or they get try to get rid of it in unhelpful and harmful ways They're seeking comfort. Misery is not something that needs to be argued for or demonstrated. It's not really in question. Are we, as a race of people, miserable? If you Google, and I did, why are people miserable, you won't find many, maybe any, saying that we're not miserable. Nobody's trying to say, well we're not. But you'll find a lot of answers for how to get rid of your misery. And the chief answer that I found. is, and I'm borrowing this from another little article I read, so it's his nice technical language, but that'll probably register with us. Self-activating positive thinking, right? As if we can just fill our minds with positive things and make our misery go away. That is not the answer, beloved. In fact, as the questions and answers over these next three Lord's days made clear, we actually need to come see ourselves in a very negative light. Not so that we will despair and be gloomy all the time, but that we'll seek the only solution and comfort to our misery, Jesus. His gospel. Think of the misery of the woman who bled for twelve years. Many tried to cure her. Only Jesus did. But people do not come to Jesus to be cured, to be saved if they think they're good persons, and they have their lives all together. So then the reliable source that you and I have to know our misery is the law of God. And what does it say? It says to us first, or it says to us two things. Here's the first. It says that you and I are guilty. And awaiting the execution of God's judgment upon us for our sin. Romans 3:19 and 20. Now we know That what thing soever the law says, it says to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. Fren, beloved, as you well know, I hope, is the want of conformity unto and transgression of the law of God. That's our shorter catechism's answer. Question of answer 14 And what that means is not being or doing what God requires, and doing what God forbids. That is sin. And that beloved sin requires as its punishment the wrath and the curse of God. So then, in the first place, that is what the law tells us: that we are guilty and under God's sentence, awaiting execution. To be a condemned criminal, beloved, is to be in a very miserable condition Let me just pause. I don't have this in my notes, but I want to say this because I was thinking on it all week. I'm using miserable a lot. And I think maybe the connotation we have to think of miserable is just gloomy, melancholy people, right? And I know as Christians you probably generally don't feel that and I get that So there's this dichotomy between subjective misery, feeling it, but also objective in a state. People may not feel miserable and they think their life's great. And yet if they're not believers in Christ, they are objectively very miserable people because they're condemned sinners. And hell is the next destination for them. So you may not that's what I'm saying, you may not feel it, but nobody needs to argue for the misery of man. They need to come to know it and be awakened to it. But man finds doom in Adam Condemned criminal. That's a miserable, wretched condition to be in. And it is only the law of God that makes it known. Okay, so I just wanted to say that. The second thing that the law tells us is that there is no good thing in us that is in our flesh. Paul is, of course, speaking as a Christian in the spirit. He knows there's something good in him, but God's foot there, but in his flesh, nothing good. For I know that in me that is in my flesh dwells no good thing, for to will is present with me. But how to perform that which is good I find not. Romans 7. 18 Allah, beloved, also awakens sin in us. So I was alive without the law once. But when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died. Romans 7:9. And sin, beloved, takes us captive, for we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin. All men. Even Christian men experience this bondage of sin. Paul ends by saying, With my mind I serve God's law, in my flesh I serve God. Sin. That's miserable. Paul has a regenerated heart, as he's writing there in Romans 7. Paul, there in Romans 7, does not yet have a regenerated body. In heaven now, his soul is, of course, free from sin, but while on earth In this earthly body that you and I are in, he found that sin is constantly taking him captive, so that he, in his service to God, which he wants to do with all of his heart All his attempts and efforts to please his God, who has shown him his grace, are met with frustration and failure. Can you identify with that? Be long to love your God and serve Him, only to fall short again of it? Be frustrated in it, or just fail at it. It is miserable to have a flesh in which no good thing dwells. It is miserable to want to do something and not be able to do it. I think of the misery for people who are paralyzed for many reasons. They've lost the ability to use the members of their bodies in the way they want to. Oh they would, they can't. That's something of the misery Paul's getting at. We cannot function fully yet, even as regenerate Christians in this life, as we were made to do it. Don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying our whole lives are miserable. I'm saying that's miserable to be in that condition. It is real suffering to want to do something and not be able to do it Being sinfully depraved, Bar Paul's language, doing what you hate and not doing what you love, that's miserable. That's suffering. And it's real. And we need to acknowledge it. You know, what I'm stepping off manuscript here again too this week. You've all known the Health and Wealth Gospel, right? And it is everywhere. And it permeates everything. You know, I was reflecting, Christianity that doesn't need comfort is Christianity that doesn't need a gospel. If there's just no misery in the Christian life, why do we need comfort in this life and death? Why does God say comfort? Comfort my people There is an answer and a solution and comfort to misery. But why would you seek the one God gives if you won't come to know truly your misery? All men suffer from this condition. No man, let alone Christian then can even yet Well, no man can live up even to his own standard. And not even Christian men can live up to God's yet. What shall we say then? Is the law a sin? God forbid. And that takes us to the next part. What does God's law require of us? God's holy, just, and good law. And the answer to that is Christ teaches us this in summary in Matthew 22, 37 to 40, what he's summarizing, right, the Ten Commandments. What he's summarizing is the the Jewish scribes, they searched through and they found six hundred and thirteen commandments in the law. So out of six hundred and thirteen commandments, out of the ten commandments, the Decalogue Jesus summarizes God's message that it requires from every human being to be this. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. This is the greatest and first commandment. And the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments, in all the law and the prophets. And you can see from this then, beloved, that God's law, according to Jesus, requires us to love God and to love our neighbor. When he was asked what is the greatest commandment, our Lord picked Deuteronomy 6. 5. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. With all your soul, with all your might. But he doesn't stop there. He gives a second one like it from Leviticus 19, 18. You shall love your neighbor as yourself The second one is like the first in its content, love. It is like the first in its form. They both say, you shall love. And it is like it in importance on these two. Hang all the law and the prophets. Now imagine behind me that there were two pegs in the waller. Maybe imagine on both sides of this pulpit, you know the stacking ring games that children play, two of those poles. Pose behind or polls next to me. Imagine one of these is labeled Love God, greatest and first. And imagine this one over here says, Love neighbor, the second one like it. And then imagine you and I taking each of the Ten Commandments and hanging it on the corresponding peg. This one goes here, this one goes here. Now imagine doing that for the other 613 commandments. This one goes here, and this one goes here. That's what Jesus means by on these two commandments hang all the law to the prophets. You can reduce what you find in the law, that's the first five books of the Bible, and all the prophets, that's the rest of them You can whatever you find and then you can reduce what God requires of us to these two heads. Love God, love your neighbor. And as our first catechism hopefully puts it, children, who's your neighbor? Everyone is my neighbor. Love God and loving everyone else. Those two give the those two are the source and the shape and whatever God requires of us, they depend upon those two, in the law and the prophets, loving God and loving our neighbor. But if you and I are going to come to know our misery from the law, although I've spent a good bit showing it already, then we do need to know exactly what it what the law means by love. As the next question reveals, because many people give definitions of love today, but what does God say love is? And as the next question reveals, well we do the opposite of what we were meant for. And but that can only bring misery. Maybe a quick example. If you've built something and it doesn't work like you like, that gives you a headache, doesn't it? And it causes trouble. It can cause a lot of all other problems And as we read in Genesis 6 wonderfully, God is grieved by that. He's grieved by our corruption. It's kind of an astounding thought. Grief is something you normally associate with misery. It's hard to use anthropomorphic language on what exactly kind of misery God feels there, but he is communicating something very important to us It grieves him to see our corrupt sinful state. And it helps us to really appreciate and love and know the heart of God when He took on flesh and bore the same miserable life And suffered all of it to redeem us out of it and bring us the comfort of the gospel. Well, if I could paraphrase or may paraphrase for you Deuteronomy 6. 5, what God requires of us is to love him wholeheartedly. Singularly, right? No other object, not to be divided right by mammon or wealth, but God alone. Singularly. And all engrossing in a way that encompasses all of you. The entirety of your person, all of your thoughts, efforts, mental energy, you are to give to God in love. That's what the message of Deuteronomy 6. 5 is. That's how you and I were made to give that wholehearted. Singular, all-engrossing love to God. As one commentator puts in, I like the way he says it. To love God with all that one is and has. That's what Deuteronomy 6. 5 is saying. To love God with all that one is and has. That is very beautiful. That is very demanding. But that is what God wants from you and me. And he wants this because he made us for this. And that will be next week's question, so I'm not going to dwell on that. But he also wants this because he has redeemed us for this. That is the significance in Deuteronomy 6. 5 of that possessive pronoun, your. You shall love your God. In the Old Testament, God was not the God of the Canaanites, the Moabites, the Philistines, the Babylonians, etc. , all those other nations. He was the God of Israel They were as called, chosen, and beloved people, them he set his love upon, them he rescued and redeemed, and them he covenanted with. And because of that special relationship to God, and because of his special love for them as his people, they were to love him wholeheartedly with all that they had and were. What does that mean? Creation demands this. How much more does redemption demand this? And what about right today for us in the church? Many things have changed under the new covenant, but loving the Lord has not. Here what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 16, 22. If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be accursed. Love the Lord and be blessed, or don't love him and be accursed. But I do think, as I just mentioned, we have a greater reason even today to love God than the Israelites did. The Israelites had a greater reason than the rest of the nations, and we have even a greater reason as those redeemed in Christ. Because God has shown his love more greatly to us. And sending his son to die for our sins, God the Father so loved the world. That's not a love. Oh, he loved before then. But he didn't love like that. In laying down his life for us, God the Son so loved us. Oh, God the Son loved the people of Israel, but he hadn't loved them like that, taking on flesh and laying his life down. So under both covenants, old and new, God requires us to love Him. I think you would all say, right, if you wanted to love your spouse but couldn't, that'd be miserable, right? If you wanted to love somebody who loves you and find that you can't, that would be really hard That's what Paul's getting at in Romans 7. He really wants to love this God who's really loved him so wonderfully. But there's still this wretched flesh that is frustrating him and causing him failure To love the one who so loves him. God also, under both covenants, old and new, requires us to love our neighbors as ourselves. That full quote there in Leviticus 19 says this: You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. You and I must not avenge ourselves upon or bear grudge against our neighbor, but we must love him as ourselves. Let me help you to get at this right. You and I are most forgiving to ourselves, are we not? And you and I forget the things we've done against ourselves. Have we not? Because haven't we all done things to our own harm? Maybe losing a promotion Maybe losing a girlfriend or boyfriend, maybe our little ones losing a toy or a privilege. We've all done things that harmed ourselves, caused the suffering and misery. Yeah, we forgive ourselves and we forget all the time. But if you are here carrying past guilt, Please talk to somebody about it. If you'd like, you can talk to me about it. But we must do this for one another. We must forgive. And forget. We do it for ourselves. We must be as neighborly right as the Good Samaritan to one another. Imagine how much less misery would be in the world to people love like the Good Samaritan. And today Jesus says to us that we're to still love our neighbor. A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. John 13, 34 So then, beloved God requires us today to love him, to love our neighbor, in all those ways that he stipulates under the old. I'm going to use our fancy theological language. What we mean by that isn't the general equity thereofs, but it means we can still go the Old Testament ceremonial ways. Not going to do that Don't necessarily have to do it in the ways for the nation, but you can. But definitely whatever moral principles behind them enshrined there, we are obligated to do today But also, we are obligated to love in all those ways that we see Jesus doing it in the gospel and Jesus teaching us to do it in the gospel. For he came not to destroy it, but to fulfill it, the law. That is, not only to do the things himself, he definitely fulfilled it in his own life. but also to fill up the meaning of the law for us in his own teaching and in his own life. Now before we go to the next and last point, I want to stress something, because I think it really needs to be stressed today. The amoral, which means morally indifferent, and the immoral, which means positively wrong, dictum of love is love Is not love's standard. The law of God, the law of Christ, that is the standard of love. What that means is that love is objective. It is not up to you and me to decide what love is or how we will behave to one another. God has decided that for us show love to all. Love is not mere squishy feelings. Love is not, I just want you to be happy. It is as the Apostle John says in 1 John 5, 2, and 3, for us, this Is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and keep his commandments. Nothing more and nothing less than to keep God's commandments is love. And so I hope and pray, and we should all say, Lord, teach us more and more to love like you. That is the prayer that I attribute to my own conversion. I prayed that prayer for months before God changed my heart And brought me to the cross where I could see my absolute inability to love like him. Because I had been reading the Bible for many months in one of those Read Through the Bible year programs And I knew I did not love like him. And I knew at that time I was very miserable because of it. And I had caused others a lot of misery because I did not love as God says to love in his law. Human misery is a moral issue. It relates directly to our wrong behavior of sin or hatred. And that's the third thing. Question five. Can you live up to all this perfectly? No. I am by nature prone, or by birth, prone to hate God and my neighbor. These two things, beloved, our inability to keep God's law, the big no in that question that answer, and our inclination to sin. are being inclined to hate, Scripture testifies to it everywhere. And I have a whole lot here, but I'll pick a couple. Romans three, ten and twelve, none is righteous. No, not one. No one understands. Not one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. And to accept yourself out of that all Is to call God a liar. Because he says, none do good. All have turned aside. Turned aside from what? Loving him Loving our neighbor. If you turn aside from love, what do you turn to? Hating him. And hating our neighbor. Titus 3. 3 For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others, and hating one another. This is kind of a hard pill to swallow, isn't it? That I am hated by others either because of what I've done or just maybe for no reason. Some people hate people just because they don't have the same skin color they have. They aren't born in the same place. They don't like the things they like. Or that I do actually hate other people. When's the last time when you confessed your sin? You confessed, Lord, I actually did hate my brother and sister when I spoke that way. I did hate my spouse, but I treated her like that. The law of God, beloved, as the source For our knowledge of our misery, it forces us to look at ourselves and to come to terms with the fact that I am miserable because I am a sinner And that is a good place to be. Please don't stay there. But definitely all of us get there Without getting there, you will not cry to Jesus for salvation. You will not turn to help outside of yourself. You will not cease from man and stop looking for human solutions to a problem only your Creator, Redeemer, and God can fix. So in closing, you and I come to know our misery of one place, the law of God. Which tells us to love our neighbor and God, which we cannot do since birth, and by birth are prone to do the opposite, to hate. And even sadly as Christians, an unregenerate part is still do the same. In a word, we are wretched. We are wretched compared to what we once were in Adam And we are wretched now compared to what we will be in Christ Please don't misunderstand. I don't say that so you can have low self-esteem and walk around all gloomy. I say that because it's a fact It's wretched to be in this state. God has redeemed us and he will redeem us out of it. But from what we once were to what we will be. This is wretched. Let me leave you with this comfort. To our doom in Adam, God offers us justification in Christ. Even so, by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men under justification of life. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. And to our sinful depravity, God offers us sanctification in Christ. But according to his mercy, he saved us By the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit, which He shed on us abundantly through Jesus our Savior. So comfort yourselves with this comfort, beloved. And if you do not yet believe in Christ, Let the law of God tell you of your misery that you are doomed, a condemned criminal, if God's just sentence against you is waiting to be carried out. Hell awaits you. And believe in Jesus. Receive God's grace, who made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin. That we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And may we all say, Thanks be to God, through Jesus Christ our Lord. For he will one day redeem our bodies from the grave and change our vile body that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. Amen