Our Old Testament reading is Isaiah 51. Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, you who seek the Lord Look to the rock from which ye were hewn, and to the quarry from which you were dug. Look to Abraham your father, and to Sarah who bore you. For he was but one when I called him, that I might bless and multiply him. For the Lord comforts Zion, he comforts all her waste places, and makes her wilderness like Eden Her desert like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness will be found in her. Thanksgiving and the voice of song. Give attention to me, my people, and give ear to me, my nation. For a law will go out from me, and I will set my justice for a light to the peoples. My righteousness draws near, my salvation has gone out, and my arms will judge the peoples. The coastlands hope for me, and for my arm they wait. Lift up your eyes to the heavens and look to the earth beneath. Will the heavens vanish like smoke The earth will wear out like a garment, and they who dwell in it will die in like manner. But my salvation will be forever, and my righteousness will never be dismayed. Listen to me, you who know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law, fear not the reproach of man, nor be dismayed at their revilings, but the moth will eat them up like a garment, and the worm will eat them like wool. But my righteousness will be forever and my salvation to all generations. Awake, awake, put on strength, though arm of the Lord. Awake as in the days of old, the generations of long ago. Was it not you who cut Rahab in pieces, who pierced the dragon? Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the depths of the sea a way for the redeemed to pass over? And the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with singing. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads. They shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. I am he who comforts you. Who are you that you are afraid of man who dies, or the Son of Man who is made like grass, and have forgotten the Lord your Maker Who stretched out the heavens and laid the foundations of the earth? And you fear continually all the day because of the wrath of the oppressor when he sets himself to destroy? And where is the wrath of the oppressor? He who is bowed down shall speedily be released. He shall not die and go down to the pit, neither shall his bread be lacking. I am the Lord your God, who stirs up the sea, so that its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name, and I have put my words in your mouth. and covered you in the shadow of my hand, establishing the heavens and laying the foundations of the earth, and saying to Zion, You are my people Wake yourself. Wake yourself. Stand up, O Jerusalem, you who have drunk from the hand of the Lord the cup of his wrath, who have drunk to the dregs the bowl, the cup of staggering. There is none to guide her among all the sons she has born. There is none to take her by the hand among all the sons she has brought up. These two things have happened to you. Who will console you? Devastation and destruction. Famine and sword. Who will comfort you? Your sons have fainted, they lie at the head of every street, like an antelope in a net. They are full of the wrath of the Lord, the rebuke of your God. Therefore hear this, you who are afflicted, who are drunk but not with wine Thus says the Lord, the Lord your God, who pleads the cause of his people. Behold, I have taken from your hand the cup of staggering, the bowl of my wrath, you shall drink no more. And I will put it in the hands of your tormentors who have said to you, Bow down that we may pass over, and have made your back like the ground and like the street for them to pass over. The word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning is Romans chapter 12, verses 1 through 5. Here the Apostle Paul exhorts the church and the mercies and light of God's mercies to them, to faithfulness and sober service. In the body of Christ. So hear the word of the Lord. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God. To present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind That by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. For by the grace given to me I say to every one among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. But to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function So we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. The gospel reading this morning comes from Luke chapter 2. We're going to read verses 41 through 52. And in these verses, Luke records an incident early on in our Savior's life in which his identity as the Son of God begins to manifest and appear to his parents. So Luke chapter 2, beginning at verse 41, hear the word of the Lord. Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover. And when he was twelve years old, they went up according to custom. And when the feast was ended, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. His parents did not know it, but supposing him to be in the group, they went a day's journey. But then they began to search for him among their relatives and acquaintances and when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, searching for him. After three days they found them in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. And all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers. And when his parents saw him, they were astonished. And his mother said to him, Son, why have you treated us so? Behold, your father and I have been searching for you in great distress. And he said to them, Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be about my father's business? And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart. And Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. This is the word of the Lord. I remind you, last week, uh when we finished the Christmas season and we looked at the birth of Jesus from the perspective that Paul gave in the Galatians and looking at the whole picture that When Jesus became a man, that was the purpose that he might become our kinsman. He might come to our help as our Redeemer and come into our helpless estate as men and women so devastated and depraved by our sin and the fall, unable to do what God asks of us, more than that, unwilling to do it And into that helpless, rebellious state that only ended in doom and judgment for us, the Lord Jesus Christ came as our willing Redeemer. That he might take our place, fulfill God's law, obey his heavenly father And offer up that sacrifice for us that we might come out from under God's curse, out from his banishment, from his presence. And brought back to him as his children, and given the token of that adoption of us, that token approving and making us sure to us that the work of Christ is finished and full and complete And we now have been forgiven and accepted by God, the gift of His Spirit. Kind of a good place then to go into this morning. Because the word of God that I have been thinking on all week in this passage, the word of God that I wish to expound and press upon you, God's children, this morning these words of our Savior, I must be about my fathers Business. I must be about my father's business. What I want to look at this morning is start with, well, what did these words mean on our Savior's lips? So we'll start here in the gospel as Luke wrote it. But then what does that mean and look like for the body of Christ? And as God's children who also say these same things in our hearts, we must be about our fathers. What does that look like for the body of Jesus Christ? And we'll look at Romans 12, 1 through 5 And then I want to end in uh the prophet Isaiah. What word of encouragement and comfort does our Father in heaven Give to those in this world who take upon their lips those words, I must be about my father's business. So we'll start uh in uh in Luke's gospel. So if you want to open your Bibles there to Luke chapter 2 and verses 41 through 52. Well look at this account. I'm sure it's familiar to very many of you and you've read this passage before. And Luke and here is ending his birth narrative of Jesus Uh all the way from the visitation by Gabriel to Mary and now with ending on this note that our Savior before you appears when John was sent, and it's time now for the gospel to begin to be manifest He would grow up in wisdom, stature, and favoreth God. But Luke gives us uh a glimpse here at this instant when our Savior was twelve. uh almost thirteen uh and I'm uh I understand by the scholars who know and understand these things. Uh on the verge of manhood or adulthood uh for an Israelite boy it kind of fits also with the theme last week we talked about coming of age. of God has matured his church through the Lord Jesus Christ. Well here's our Savior also becoming an adult. And what we see already is The divine call is already evident in him. He's already feeling that pull by his father to be about his business. You know the story that after their annual pilgrimage to um Jerusalem to celebrate Passover, we would expect the whole family to go back, but A higher call caused our Lord Jesus to stay there in his father's house in the temple. And listen to God's word as it's expounded. That should teach us something about what it means to be a child of God We want to hear our Father's word. We love Scripture. We want to know Scripture. We meditate on it. We study it. We steep ourselves in it. But already Jesus does a little bit more than that, not in any official capacity, but he also engaged in questions. And in answers and some way even beginning something of a teaching ministry there in the temple, that many, the And not only those who saw the people, but even right the learned scholars. You can imagine, right, if you're an Oxford or Cambridge professor. And a twelve year old boy is sitting in in your lectures and asking penetrating questions that not even your colleagues understand Bringing out depth and meaning and showing an understanding and possibly even giving you a new perspective you didn't even know. You're going, Who's the teacher? Who's the master? That's something of what's happening here by our Lord Jesus, and it is astonishing to all. It's astonishing to his parents But his mother, as probably any mother obviously would do when your child goes missing for three days, you would be frantic To be concerned, and she's wrestling emotionally, and I I tend to think after Jesus had finished this teaching period, she comes to her son and says Why did you do this to us? Why have you treated us like this, right? Thinking he he did you not know that we would be sorrowing? Well, why would you ever do this to us, right? Don't you know what you put us through? I mean hardly right what parent here hasn't experience something of that, right? Why would you do that to me? Godless. Didn't you know we would be concerned Behold, right, your your father, and this important Luke puts emphasizes this, right, who is Jesus' father and what that means for him to be Son of God, right? Your father and I we've been searching for you in great distress. So she sort of mildly reproves her child and Jesus also m mildly reproves her back, right? You know, why were you looking for me? The answer being, should you have really been searching for me? And you know what I would be or what I must be about? He says to him, Did you not know? And he's in he's asking the question in such a way when you ask a question that you're expecting the answer to be yes. Did you not know that I must be about my father's business? Or as uh some translated, I must be in my father's house? These really aren't in competition, there's just ambiguity In the text there's a pronoun there and so it matters that which is of my father is a pretty wooden literal translation of it and you go, Well what's he talking about? That places of my father or those things of my father So I think if you translate it about my father's house, it's it does seem it fits the context in some ways, but it seems to be a a narrower translation. I guess I favor the larger one that it's not that he has to be in his father's house. But he's also about his father's business. The words that Jesus is saying here, he's not just saying, right, as a twelve-year-old boy that means something when he's twelve. As you and I know These words governed all of our Savior's life. Right, that his Father's business would ultimately be the cross. Ultimately be his ascension into heaven. Ultimately be the pouring out of the Holy Spirit. Ultimately continuing to be what it is today, reigning. So he puts all of his enemies under his feet and brings in the everlasting kingdom of God. But all that is his Father's business that he has given Jesus to do Did you not know? And so now should Mary have done this? You can think of a situation where maybe uh a st one spouse Told the other the night before I'm gonna go over and paint the guest house tomorrow and night transpires, they forget, they wake up in the morning and they're don't know where their spouse is at and they're running around looking, calling their friends, not picking up their phone because they're working and have it turned off. And after they drive around the neighborhood everywhere, they finally go over there and to the guest house and they see them and they say Why did you say that what Why did you treat me like this and not tell me you've been frantic? And you can imagine saying, Well, I told you last night this sort of bee. Why are you looking for me? Right? They had forgotten Uh you know, remember the oracle that Mary received twelve years ago, right? That the son he shall be called with a child in you, right? He'll be great and he'll be called the son of the most high. What's going on here is Mary, and she doesn't understand it, Luke tells us. Mary and Joseph didn't yet understand this. But what's beginning to manifest itself in our Savior's life is that He is the Son of God. sent in this world to be about his father's business. And really that's something that is applicable to everybody here, right, who's been born again. Children, you serve your parents like Jesus did. He went home, he was submissive. But it's probably much clearer to Mary after this that the Lord Jesus' submission to his parents was in greater subjection to his heavenly father As what he requires as good for a child, right? The fifth commandment to honor your mother and father. Children as well, you must honor your mother and father, but you must do it in submission and subjection To the Lord, I I've been thinking on these words all week. Aren't they always frightful? That can't they be frightful to parents? You can read biographies. I know when I was expressing to my own family God's call on my life, and they thought I was might be joining a cult. I was going off to Kentucky and it just looked like you were doing the w dumbest thing in the world. Like by the way, you were studying to be a medical profession, now you're not even in school and you're going here and it looks dead end, you're in the Appalachian Mountains Who are these people? You have no family friend. It just looks bizarre. I remember telling my father, Dad, if I'm making a big mistake, you'll be the first person to know. Because that's what happens when God calls us, right? We must be about our Father's business. Parents will wrestle with uh I I love the story of many know John G. Payton, the missionary to the Hebrides cannibal people. It's not that his father didn't accept his call. His father did accept it, but he knew what it meant for him. He'd have to leave home. Spend all this time there and there in Edinburgh being learned and studied, prepared by the Presbytery, and then sent overseas to those people. So it's even hard when as parents, right, when we accept God's divine call of our children, and maybe we all as parents say and accept and love and look forward to our children saying I must be about my father's business, because however frightful that may be, however against maybe our own plans for our children, we know that That is God's will for them, and they couldn't be in a better place. In fact, as we read in Isaiah 51, verse 16, hear what God says about his son there, the servant of the Lord, and I have put my words in your mouth. Uh he did put those in Jesus' mouth and even as twelve years old he's speaking them. Hear what he says about him, I've covered you in the shadow of my hand She's worried about her son, is he gonna end up like Joseph sold into Egypt maybe or some bad thing? Only if she knew the scriptures, right No, nothing is going to happen to Jesus apart from his Father's will. Even the cross, as bad as it looks, is not so much the world having their way as God fulfilling his will. To be raised up so that our children, right, they're covered by God's hand. To do what? To plant the heavens, to lay the foundations of the earth, that Jesus might say to Zion, You are my people, right? God is doing a his work of new creation through the Lord Jesus Christ and as his body through the church, as his word is being ministered and preached and lived out. So that's what these words mean for the Lord Jesus. I must be about my father's business. They mean he is God's Son. And sent into this world to do this work. And we know that this break will become even more apparent later in his ministry when his family think Jesus is out of his mind And he has to remind them, who is my family? These people whom God has called, these people who have come to me, Jesus has come to start something new. And even gives us sometimes those difficult words of families will be torn up by this. But as God's children Following the Lord Jesus Christ, we must also learn to say, I must be about my father's business. Let's go and look at Romans chapter twelve together and see what that says. fills out for us this business that God has sent us to be about in this world, and not just in this world. For all time, 'cause we are our Father's children, not for today, but for tomorrow and forever So I must be about my father's business. Now just for a moment think about these words, because I really want you to think about them every day of your life. I really want you to wake up every day and say to yourselves as the redeemed of God, I must be about my father's business today to remind yourself Who you are in Jesus Christ as God's Son, his child, and that you would set yourself to do this. And it's not a hopeless task, as we're going to see here in Romans Because it's done by God. There's a work of renewal and transformation taking place in your life. But just think about the societal impacts of these words for a moment. How many spouses their spouse goes out somewhere maybe late at night or somehow and they're wondering where they're at, right? Or how many parents have reared children and they wonder where is my child ad or up to and we generally know it's not good, right? But imagine if all of us Perfectly written on our hearts, perfectly said and did, I must be about my father's business. Would we have any concern then? Because it is not the father's business that you're in that brothel. At that place that you shouldn't be gambling away the money you should be supporting your family with, right? Running with those kids who are wasting their lives in drugs and alcohol and whatnot, right? Right, imagine the societal impact if we knew every single person was just about their father's business. Would we ever have cause for alarm? Would we ever wonder what our loved friends and family and children and spouses are up to? Would we ever be worried? We also have to learn though to again, as I talked about, embrace these words now too, even if by them being about God's business means Going over there, being sent over there, taking us out of our comfort zones Because if we are truly open up to God in this way, if we truly take on these words, I must be about my father's business Then we're doing as Paul says, we're saying, you've redeemed all of me in Jesus Christ. All of me is yours at your disposal. My life is yours. Because what's the alternative, right? You just remain in the trash bin of fallen humanity. That sounds horrible, doesn't it? But that's what God means when He says, because they will not remember me, they will not do what I say. I give them over to a reprobate mind Actually it's the very opposite of the word here that's translated as proof. The test. It means a mind that has been put to the test and it's worthless. It's nothing. You just throw it away. Have you ever had an appliance that's just worthless and you toss it out? That's the alternative as human beings who will not submit to God, who will not do what their Creator says, who will not be man and woman, male and female Who will not live in conjugal one man, one woman, lifelong unions, who will not put others first on and on, right, on and on That's what Paul says all of us were out of Christ. Children of wrath, children of disobedience. That's why we're children of wrath, because we're children of disobedience. We say no to God. And if you've ever seen a child say no to a parent in a defiant way, it is ugly. And yet we do it to God because we're afraid of what it might cost us. We're cowards. Oh, we think we know best. You think our lives are ours? It is just as ugly if you've seen your child do it to you to say to God, no. To skip over those portions of God's word you don't like. To rationalize the way, oh, that's you know, difficult stuff over here, that's for them. So God's pretty clear in His word. Yeah, there's some high mysteries. That's just because it's God and who he is, but God's made it very clear how we're to live as not only his creatures in Adam, but as his redeemed people in the Lord Jesus Christ. So I say all that again, I'm saying that it out of the spirit of Paul says brothers, right? Brothers. Let's not forget that's what we were, and that's the reality, if by God's mercies we're not moved to take upon our lips. I must be about my father's business. If we're not moved by the gospel of Jesus Christ And God sending his Son out of His love for us to die in our place, so that we won't be those vessels of wrath. We won't be those discarded people of no good be redeemed, remade, of use, vessels of honor, vessels of glory, chosen by God to be of much use to God. To be the Lords of His creation as He made us to be, to exercise that godly rule and dominion and every way and aspect of our lives that He has made us to be, and to one day finally fully share in that reign on earth with the Lord Jesus Christ, you will be kings Even now in him you're kings, and that's what we're talking about. What does it look like then for us to live this way? Well If we're going to take on our list, I must be about my father's business. It means we're taking our bodies and we're presenting it to God and we're saying, Here I am, right? Isn't that the great answer in the Bible when God calls a man? Samuel, Samuel, here I am. Grace in peace, grace in peace, here I am. And we give ourselves to God. And ourselves are to be a sacrifice. So we shouldn't shy away from what that means. A sacrifice. It will be costly. We'll have to give up things. And yet it is a free will offering. We'll talk about it in a minute. Your reasonable service Of which we, because we know the gospel of Christ, want to make. Because we know that as God has redeemed all of us, body, soul, and spirit We want to give all of that back to God in service. It's going to be a living sacrifice because you're alive from the dead in Christ. No longer dead, you're risen with Christ to the newness of life. So you are a living sacrifice to God. You're a holy sacrifice to God. You've set apart, you've not been devoted to destruction, but you've been saved by Jesus Christ. You've been consecrated to God. Now you must be holy as God is holy. So it's a holy sacrifice and it is acceptable to God. When we give ourselves in this new living way in Christ by the Spirit, walking in all holy obedience God finds this acceptable because he has accepted us in Christ. This and this only is the worship that God wants from us. What we give on Sunday mornings and Sunday evenings is a part of that. This is a part of the worship that God wants of us. part of the offering we make, but only a part. Paul's talking about something that happens twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week and three hundred and sixty-five days. a year that we give ourselves to God and say, I must be about my father's business Paul calls this offering of ourselves a reasonable service, our reasonable worship. What does he mean by that? Well, he talked about offering our bodies, and you know, and if we have any physicians here, people who study anatomy, many of the parts of our bodies right thankfully Your heart doesn't have to beat when you're consciously thinking about it, right? It's not a rational thing. We say to our heart, you keep beating while I go to sleep, or our lungs, right, is where we take a breath. Now we can control them. We can We can pause and consciously hold our breath and control it, but normally many of the functions of our body happen automatically. But Paul is saying this bodily service to the Lord is not to be some automatic mechanical thing. But the worship that we're to give to God in ourselves, our bodies, is to be intelligent and understanding In light of what God has done for us in Christ, we are to be people who read the gospel, know the gospel, study the gospel, understand the gospel. And out of understanding of what God has done for us in Christ, out of understanding of the mercy He's shown for us, offer ourselves and back to God. So it's a rational, reasonable service, not because it corresponds with the dictates of fallen human reason, but because it is in line with the truth of God as He's revealed it to us in Jesus Christ. And Paul talks about that way in 2 Corinthians 5. Now I'm thinking about it, just so you can see that what Paul is talking about is this. For the love of Christ controls us because we have concluded this, right? Paul's come to a conclusion. When Paul met the risen Christ and actually began to take seriously the gospel of Jesus Christ and that this He really is God's Son and What that must mean, that God's son would actually die on the cross, not for his sins, for our sins. Paul came to a conclusion, and out of that conclusion, he was moved to do something. We have concluded This, that one has died for all, therefore all have died, and he died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. Is that what you say to God? Is that how you live every day as the redeemed in Christ? Jesus died. That must mean I died. And he died that I might live. And because I live, I no longer live for myself, but for him who died for me. You see that's a conclusion Paul reached when the gospel got through to him. It was from an understanding position, an intelligent position, that if the Lord Jesus Christ did this for me when I was an obstinate, ignorant sinner, And by what he did alone for me in his grace has saved me from my fate as a condemned sinner to hell forever. Then I no longer live for myself, because I no longer belong to myself, but I belong to Jesus Christ, and so I live for him. The same thing that Paul's saying here. That's the worship. That's the service that Paul is saying as the light of God's mercies to us. That's why we say, I must be about my father's business. Because I'm a child of God. I must be about my Father's business because I am redeemed in Jesus Christ Paul goes on to say, um so that's why we do this, because we belong to Christ and redeemed, but more about what it is. He spelled it out here, this sacrifice there in verse two He talks about through this spiritual transformation by the Holy Spirit, this work of renewal. We are being made to be such people that by testing we may discern, that is, we may come to know What is the will of God? What is good and acceptable and perfect? And the Apostle Paul here doesn't just mean that we may find out what it is. But once we find out what it is, we may do it. That's what we're trying to do. Paul's talking about an experience here where we put God's will to the test We go out and do it. To the renewal of our minds, we are asking ourselves constantly as God's children, every day in every situation, right? What is God's will here, right? As husbands, what is God's will for husbands? What is God's will for wives and mothers and fathers? What is God's wills for children? What is God's wills for colleagues? What is God's wills when we're leadership? What is God's wills when we're following? What is God's will as members? In every situation What is God's will when something comes to me that tragic situation? In every way we're coming to learn what is God's will for my life in this situation that I may do it What I'm talking about here, right, this is impossible in us. We should feel that this is impossible. Nobody but God can do this work of recreation. What we're talking about is God recreating us. God renewing us, our maker and sovereign Lord, putting his hands back on. This should encourage us. Many people think God's far away, right? But David knows better. The works of your hands, O Lord, declare you're near. How near must God be when He is working in your mind to renew it He can't be very far, can he? He's got to have his hands on you. He's got his hands on you. He can't be like way out there unconcerned about me, right? How many Christians think God's unconcerned about? No The Lord is near working on us, recreating us, so that we can bring about the impossible Doing God's will. I had never talked to he was someone I went through to high school with. He is a person in high school that you would have thought never, ever, ever would he be a follower of Christ. Can't wait to meet him someday in heaven, but I just heard after going home over the years and stuff, this man has been utterly changed. Fire for the Lord. His life is now marked by, I must be about my father's business, right? You should never discount yourself and never discount anybody that God can do this work of grace could change the heart that we would be about doing our father's business. But let's be very clear because Paul's going to get very concrete here generally in the in the next coming weeks as we look at it in specific ways. But what this means is learning in every area of our lives to do God's will. And he sort of substantiates that. God's will is that which is good And that which is good is that which benefits others. But Paul also qualifies it by that which is acceptable to God. Many people from a humanistic or man-centered position might think they're doing God's will and thinking they're doing what's good because, you know, it helps us out But might not actually be God's will. So it's qualified by the good that we're to do is what's acceptable to God, and it's acceptable to God because it's what He's revealed to us in His law. So we're talking about here doing God's law. Talking about as Christians, as Jesus taught us in the Sermon about, doing it in that fulfilled way, in the new covenant, in the Holy Spirit, led by the Spirit of God that in every area of our life by testing and discernment. we may come. This is so exciting. This how does this happen? It happens through the study of God's word, happens through the preaching of it, happens through the reading of it, happens through conversation, it happens through re Commentaries, happens to reading periodicals that happens to listen to podcasts Happens through counseling, all that in the maze of the word's minister, it happens by the work of the Holy Spirit, but it very definitely happens in Christian fellowship How many times do you go away from an encounter with somebody either learning, wow, I really like the way he responded. It's better than the way I normally respond. That must be God's will. Or going away going, man, I really messed it up there and I have room to grow next time, right? It definitely helped in this work of learning to discern through learning from one another and by the examples of others. I know I constantly remind our children, and I know as elders right we're meant to leave an example Older children, don't forget, you're an example to your younger siblings. They will do everything you do and follow you. Older Christians, don't forget, right, you are an example mature in Christ. People look up to you, and they are watching. They may never say a word to you. I learned So much from everybody. I know I know I never even say it to you most of the time, and I should probably encourage you more where I see the work of the Spirit in you. I love being around you. I just love watching you How you pray, how you speak, how you talk to each other, the things you do, I am constantly walking because I know these are the people that God is at work in. Here's what I'm seeing, God's will being worked out in ways that are teaching me. So maybe have that perspective when we're together and to be learning from each other. I learn from you all the time. Well let me end uh with just a quick word of encouragement to us from Luke 51. And uh we'll look at the rest of what Paul's talking about there. Uh next week when we look more at the gifts in the body of Christ, we also must learn to pray for each other, that God's um this work of renewal to go on, but also we have to learn Individually we need to be doing God's life, but there's a way we say corporately right together, because Paul says we're a body, there's a way grace and peace is to be praying and saying and finding out what is the good What is the acceptable? What is that perfect will of God for grace and peace to be doing, right, as we continue to do it and continue to be refined in that engrown it This is a process so nobody gets discouraged that will not be finished in this life. And not only the process might be finished and be brought to perfection in the ages to come, but it's not something you're ever going to stop doing. It's something you're always going to live in in doing God's will and serving him. So let's not be discouraged with one another. Let us also remember that as we deal with each other that we are people being made new. Let us also remember I'm not your renewer. You're not my renewer. Now God may work through means and the way we frustrate each other and give words of counsel and do things God can bless But we are equally together the workmanship of God. Therefore we need to pray for each other. We need to be patient with one another. We need to rejoice and re And what God is doing in each other's lives, and this work that He's doing, and all of us together changing one another. Because the children of God If I can judge my heart, but I also believe by the scriptures, want more and more to perfectly find out God's will. They may do it and we really do it. And yet we know and I give you a quote here, and I don't remember who said it. If you're not seeking to be better, you cease being good. Comes from our church father, but I forget which one Right. Yes, we're doing God's will, but we can always be striving to do better, right? Always improving, increasing in the way we do it, and that's the way we grow and keep going and never stopping and saying, This is as far as I'm going with God. This is as far as his work of renewal and transformation shall be, but we continue under this process. How it happens, it happens by the Holy Spirit. This is not the work of man. Therefore, pray for it. When I really want to change, I pray. When you really want to change, you'll pray. And you'll pray like David. Cleanse my heart Heal my heart. Create in me. Right? Create in me. Renew in me. I know very definitely a time in my life and the sins I needed to change to do God's will, and I prayed, Lord, heal my mind from such and such. And the Lord did it. The Lord will do it. But you have to pray, because it's not your work, it's God's work. Pray for each other. Maybe you don't like that way that person interacts with you constantly. Are you praying for them? Are you just getting frustrated and angry with them? Lord, please do this work in us. Renew us to be your holy people, and together the body, we can serve you More and more because we love serving you. We're thankful for the service of you we've had for almost twenty years now I'm talking bodily, but many of you write much longer, but let us keep growing. And here's God's word of comfort to you from Isaiah 51. Notice who God's speaking to here Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, you who seek the Lord. Listen, my people. Listen to you who know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law. God's talking about the faithful Remnant. God's talking about the people that Paul's talking about in Romans 12, who are offering themselves to the Lord, who are seeking to do God's will. It can be difficult to do it in this life. It can seem like sometimes we're the only ones doing it. We can maybe be dismayed by the work of the church and the work of the gospel in the world. God says, Don't be dismayed, I'm not dismayed, my righteousness will never be dismayed. I'm going to accomplish what I'm going to do. My law is going to go out for me. I'm going to set up my light to the people. Jesus will continue to be a light to the nations. God will fulfill everything He said to the prophets in this age and in the age to come. It can be hard being God's people and Doing that will because you've got friends and family and colleagues who may reproach you and revile you, right? Says listen to me, right? The moth's gonna eat these people up. The worm's gonna eat them like wool. But my righteousness will be forever, right? My salvation will be forever. The only way to experience the salvation of the age to come is to be this kind of people by the mercies of God, offering yourselves to God. It is through the life of sanctification. It is sowing to the Holy Spirit that we reap eternal life. Many times as Christians, we can live afraid and we have no reason to be afraid, right? We like make up fears. Or we exaggerate them. God says, if that's you, I am you who comforts you. You've forgotten who you are, and you've forgotten who I am, and you have no reason to be afraid of a man who dies. You forget that I'm the God who stretched out the heavens. You forget that I'm the Lord your God who's purchased you in Jesus Christ, the God of your covenant. You're so concerned, fearing all the day the wrath of the oppressor, and God says, Where is this wrath? Where has it manifested itself What are these great bad things you think is going to happen if I step out for Jesus Christ? Fear, beloved, is a symptom of unbelief. Because God says, right here, I comfort you. God says, right here. I'm your God. God says right here, put my word in your mouth. You can't be quiet. Stop being quiet if you're being quiet. I think in anything this is a day and age where the church needs to not be quiet. You know how uncomfortable it is to say the name of Jesus just about anywhere, unless you're around him. Group of Christians. I was in the grocery store the other day and I've overheard uh two women talking about church and church I was great. I was like leaning in. Yeah, talk right down that bread out about Christ. Go a little louder We get that as Christians, don't we? We feel it. You feel the satanic oppression. It's real what Paul is talking about. There are powers and evil ages. You understand it? But we can't be afraid. This is God's will that we would speak out for Christ and be as witnesses. This is God's will that in the name of Jesus Christ everything we do will be done in his name. That's who we are as God's people. He has great words of comfort. I would encourage you to remember particularly Isaiah 51, 12 through 16, commit them to heart. That you might not be hindered in your life and in your ministry by fear and crippled by it Because you dream them up and grow them to greater proportions than they are, and forget who your God really is And finally, as it may feel like God may bring judgment upon his church, may scourge it for its sinfulness. But he reminds us it's not the cup of his wrath we're drinking down. He's taken that cup out. Though the nations may walk over your back and they may laugh at us because God would bring judgment first upon his house. It will come upon them. God has put in our hand as we celebrate every week the cup of blessing. Maybe I'll end there. Every week we remind ourselves of the mercies of God at this table for us. Every week we receive our loving Lord Jesus and who He is, and every week we give ourselves as an offering back to him and pledge ourselves to be the Lord's people. and to live for him. So I encourage you every day to say when you get up, I must be about my father's business. Remind yourself who you are. Every situation, be asking and praying, what is that good thing here? What is that thing acceptable to God in this situation? What is that perfect thing? And trust in God to lead you in it. May God finish the work that He has begun in your lives. Amen.