Beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, hear the Word of God as it's found first in Numbers chapter 30, verses 1 and 2. God spoke to the heads of the tribes of the people of Israel, saying, This is what the Lord has commanded. If a man vows a vow to the Lord or swears an oath to bind himself by a pledge, He shall not break his word. He shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth. And secondly, from Ecclesiastes chapter five, the first seven verses. Guard your steps when you go to the house of God. To draw near to listen is better than to offer the sacrifice of fools. For they do not know that they are doing evil. Be not rash with your mouth, nor let your heart be hasty to utter a word before God. For God is in heaven, and you are on earth. Therefore, let your words Be few. For a dream comes with much busyness, and a fool's voice with many words. When you vow a vow to God, do not delay paying it, for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you vow. It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay. Let not your mouth lead you into sin. And do not say before the messenger that it was a mistake. Why should God be angry at your voice and destroy the work of your hands? For when dreams increase and words grow many, there is vanity. But God is the one you must be. Beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Whoever first expressed the mischievous idea that laws are meant to be broken, such a one might well have extended it to promises. Two vows. How many promises are made a day that are destined never to be kept? How lightly it seems, people say they will do something, and then when they either do it much later than they promised, or never do it at all. resorting to all sorts of special pleading in an apparent effort to justify their carelessness. As bad as that is, there is a special form of promise breaking that is even more serious. I speak of the failure to fulfill a vow. A vow, dear friends Is not a capricious and lighthearted remark which is not intended to be taken seriously. It's a sacred promise made to God that we will faithfully perform whatever it is that we are in that moment promising. The words vow or vows occur over eighty times In the Bible. Additionally, there are three paragraphs in chapter 22 of our Westminster Confession of Faith. Which state the nature and the divine regulation of vows. The matter is so important That our Reformed Church forefathers thought it necessary to include in our confession of faith a clear recognition of the seriousness of our making and fulfilling vows regarding our future behavior. And my friends, the Bible underlines the seriousness, the utter seriousness of making vows, because they are made not to man but to God, who will require payment of what you have uttered with your mouth. Which is exactly what this Bible is all about. It is one big vow. It's called the gospel. And we heard about it this morning. God first pronounced it in the Garden of Eden when after the fall of man into sin, God said to the serpent, to the devil, to Satan A seed will come of this woman who will find his body bruised by you. But you will find your head crushed by him. That was God's vow of the gospel. And Damon and I have not conspired together once more to bring you one sermon in two parts today. But that's what it boils down to. The whole Old Testament is a story of God keeping his vow. Time and again, time and again, it appears concretely sure that the church will fail That God's hope will come to nothing, and that the vow of the garden will never be fulfilled. But it was fulfilled. And Jesus came. And you know what was the most striking thing that your pastor said this morning, and it blew me away? I wonder if you missed it He said that Jesus was the world's greatest sinner. Didn't you, Damon? And you know why he said that? Because it's truth. On him was laid the iniquities of us all. Jesus was found guilty for all the sins of all the people whom God vowed in covenant promise to deliver from Satan. And he did it. Did he do it for you? Well then God's vow is going to be fulfilled in your case, too. And that's why the word vow actually is found eighty times in the Bible. It's an important word. And the Old Testament is full of God's covenant vows being accomplished, no matter what the nations did. Or no matter even what the members of that church themselves did. And so our vows are not just minor importance civil commandments that we make and ought to keep They go to the very heart of the gospel. God vowed, and he will have you, his people, also vow and fulfill those vows. As he did. Our Westminster Confession of Faith tells us what a vow is. A vow, it says, is of like nature with a promissory oath. They're very close. An oath says, this is what I swear that I will do, and a vow says, I will do it. So you not only say it with your mouth, but you do it with your hands. An oath is a promise to tell the truth, whereas a vow is a promise to act in fulfillment of what promise you have made. Absolute truth in relationships, especially between Christians, is divinely commanded. Listen to Ephesians 4. 26. Let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor. And thus should characterize everything that you say. But when you take an oath, you make a solemn declaration Invoking God as a witness to what you say and inviting him to punish anything false Hebrews 6. 16 says, for people swear by something greater than themselves, and in all their disputes an oath is final for confirmation. So vows, vows to God, are the devotional equivalent of oaths and must be treated with equal seriousness. Our text from Ecclesiastes commands: when you vow a vow to God, do not delay paying it. Pay what you vow. So in an oath, you call God to witness that what you affirm, announce, testify, or state is absolutely true. An oath in a judicial setting is usually framed in these or similar words. I swear that what I say is the truth, the whole truth. And nothing but the truth. So help me God. I believe those words are still found in most judicial proceedings in our land. How much longer I don't know that will be. Likewise, in a vow, you promise God, often in the presence of other people, but not necessarily. Still directed solely to God above. Not to the witnesses, not to the person even to whom you make the vow. It's directed to God that you will faithfully perform whatever you promise to do. And that promise is stated specifically in words that proceed from your mouth. And God hears those words. And just as he requires you to take his words seriously, is thou the gospel. What you vow to God must be taken seriously as well. Now, when you make a vow, it it must be done at all costs. Psalm 15, 4 makes that very clear. The godly person swears, we could say, vows, to his own hurt. And does not change. Deuteronomy 23, 21 puts it this way: if you make a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not delay fulfilling it. For the Lord your God will surely require it of you, and you will be guilty of sin. That is, if you don't fulfill it. Though uttered in audible words. They're not purely silent mental exercises or thoughts. Numbers 32 says, if a man vows a vow to the Lord, he shall not break his word. He shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth. Or Deuteronomy 23, 23, you shall be careful to do what has passed your lips For you have voluntarily vowed to the Lord your God what you have promised with your mouth. And yet, thirdly, in Psalm 66, we read in verses 13 and 14, I will pay my vows, which my mouth uttered. And my mouth promised. Have you ever made a vow? We will talk in a moment of the various vows that people make, and you will find yourself that somewhere in there But just for now, I want to stress that what you are doing when you vow is this: you are swearing to God that you will faithfully perform what it is that you promised him. It will just not do for you to say, well, I actually didn't realize that what I initially said would actually come to this. If I had, I wouldn't have vowed it. But God says, sorry, too late. That will not do. I took you at your word, and you said it. So dear congregation, We have seen that making a vow is an extremely serious matter, and it may not be taken in a cavalier fashion. That is With a mental reservation. Yes, I promise, dot dot dot, unless I find out later that carrying it out proves to be inconvenient, costly, or painful for me. In that event, I expect to be excused from fulfilling it That is a very dangerous proposal, according to Proverbs 2025. It is a snare to reflect only after making vows. Yes, God warns such a person in these words. To do such would be to offend me, he says, the one to whom you made the vow. Now, someone might object that these Old Testament passages, of which you've heard a number, hold only ancient Israel. To the definitions and warnings they contain, but I think you know by now that I take ancient Israel as the church back then, and it's the same church as it's here today And the laws and rules of God include both. Even the Old Testament actually holds the Gentile nations. To live under the same law of God, also with respect to this matter of vows. Did you know that? Isaiah 19:21 says that the Egyptians Under the influence of Yahweh's people, quote, will know the Lord and make vows to the Lord and perform them. Pagans. Yes, even unbelievers, even today, many of them, consider Lawful vows to be serious are civil courts and judges do, though sadly, I'm afraid with decreasing faithfulness. They still require people not only to tell the truth, but also to faithfully do what they vow. That's why divorce decrees Often still mandate at least some form of action, if only financial, on the part of the responsible party. Here we can see that God's law with regard to vow making is, by his common grace, known by all people to one degree or another. So we've seen to whom a vow is made. If you haven't caught it by now, let me state it again in as clear terms as I possibly can. A vow is a promise made to God alone. Perform your vows to the Most High, says Psalm 50. Psalm 116 makes the same point. I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. Vows, as we said then, although they are witnessed by people, are made alone to God. It's no wonder then that when the New Testament writers cast about for a term to describe what they mean when they speak of making a vow Choose a particular verb that has as its first meaning to pray. Then secondly, it means to make a vow, to promise. So to make a vow is to pray, addressing God. We don't pray to people. We pray to God. So when we make a solemn vow, we are talking to God, telling him that we promise to do something specific that we name. Thus, it is no wonder that the Old Testament, which undoubtedly shares the same definition of a vow, connects the making and fulfilling of a vow to worship. Listen to Psalm 61 8. I will ever sing praises to your name, O God, as I perform my vows. Day by day. So I, as God's messenger, ask you tonight, beloved congregation Have you come face to face with this astounding and earth-shaking truth? When you vowed something, you were talking to the Almighty and Holy Creator of the universe. Yes, when those of you who are married said, I will, on the wedding day. You were not making a promise, a vow, to the man, to the woman beside you. You were praying to God and you were telling him that you would fulfill all the things you promised when you enter the marriage union And we could say the same thing about any and all other vows that you might have taken. When people recklessly make vows and break them with equal abandon, They reveal an inadequate concept of God's holiness and majesty. And they forget, or perhaps never even thought of it, that the vow they took was before Him. The preacher, perhaps Solomon, the writer of this book of the Bible, Ecclesiastes, had discovered that God is to be feared. Thus he says that it is better not to vow at all than to make pious promises and fail to keep them. He then goes on to warn the person who has made a vow and failed to keep it that he must not think that he can offer a little sacrifice and placate God. The messenger. Angel in some versions, in verse 6 of that passage we read, is probably the priest who, as God's messenger, rebukes the Israelite for having broken his vow. This attitude, which assumes that God can be easily appeased by empty ritualism, is reprehensible in the Lord's sight. God is angry when people conceive of him as a capricious deity who acts without principle or is pleased with meaningless ceremony. And he will judge those who think that way. So stop for a moment, you who hear this word of God tonight, and take a look at your own life. Perhaps you would have made a vow, a promise to God, in a time of difficulty, and forgotten it now that the crisis is over. If you've not given thought to the words that flowed glibly from your lips, heed the warning from Solomon You vowed to God above, and whether or not folks down here call you to ask for your forgiveness, God will be assurer. Let's just briefly name the various vows that you make. The marriage vow, of which we've already spoken. Will you have this woman to be your lawfully wedded wife, to live together after God's ordinance in the holy estate of marriage? And will you love her as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her? Will you comfort her, honor and cherish her, and forsaking all others? keep yourself only unto her, as long as you both shall live. When you men answer, or might yet answer, some day, I will You were and will be vowing to God, promising him that you would do all those things. Will you have this man to be your lawfully wedded husband, to live together after God's ordinance in the holy estate of marriage? And will you love him, comfort him, respect and submit to him, even as the church submits to Christ? And forsaking all others, keep yourself only unto him as long as you both shall live. When you women answered, or might answer, in some future day I will. You were or will be vowing to God, promising him that you would do all those things. How could either of you, man or woman, having taken that vow, now break it by leaving your spouse, whether mentally or physically? If you do, you stand guilty before the holy and righteous God, to whom you made a vow that you would never do such a thing. That, my friends, is serious, according to the Bible and our creedal documents. Now, please note that a vow of celibacy, never to marry, taken by some Roman Catholics, is, according to the Bible, sinful and thus to be deplored. Hebrews 13, 4 says, Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled. Actually, 1 Timothy 4:1 and 3 calls forbidding to marry, a teaching of demons. Then think secondly of what you promised when your children were baptized. Again, in these are like words You vow to teach them diligently the principles of the holy Christian faith revealed in the scriptures of the Old and the New Testaments. And summarized in the confession of faith and catechisms of your church. And you promise to pray regularly with and for your children And to set an example of piety and godliness before them. You also promised to endeavor by all the means that God has appointed To bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, encouraging them to appropriate for themselves the blessings and fulfill the obligations. Of the covenant. Then thirdly, most of you grown ones have made a vow in connection with your public profession of faith. Becoming a communicant member of this or another church. If that was a church faithful to God's revelation in Holy Scripture Your vow was stated in terms, including at least these, if not in these exact words One, to believe, accept, and obey the Bible as your own one infallible rule of faith and practice. Two, to regard yourself as sinful and corrupt by nature, and to renounce yourself in order to receive salvation by faith in Jesus alone. Three, to acknowledge Jesus as your ruler and in reliance upon him to walk in newness of life by his church Administered to that to you in accordance with God's word. You promised all those things, didn't you? Now I ask you, how are you doing on fulfilling that vow, dear Christian Today, tonight might be a good day, a good night to submit yourself to a checkup, don't you think? Remember You didn't promise the minister who presided on that day, or even the people in the pews, when you said, yes. You are vowing to God. We could mention other vows as well, such as the one you took in those judicial proceedings to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, but we won't go into that now. Then there are voluntary vows, such as those documented in the Bible. Jacob at Bethel said, I will give a full tenth to thee. Hannah, upon giving birth to Samuel, said, I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no razor shall touch his head. I don't know why she promised that, but she vowed it David promised God and vowed not to have a palace or even a bed to sleep on until he would provide a temple for Yahweh. But remember to take care when you make such a voluntary vow, which, by the way, is not required, only allowed. Many have fallen into simple error in doing so carelessly, such as those Jews who vowed to kill Paul, and Herod who vowed to give Herodias' daughter whatever she asked. Which turned out to be the the head of John the Baptist. Of course, these foolish and thoughtless vows must be broken in the light of other vows and other laws of God which take precedence. But they must not be summarily discarded. They must be repented of and ask for forgiveness. So what should you do when you realize that you have not fulfilled your vow and kept your promise? Well, first of all, you need to recognize and confess that you have sinned. You haven't just failed your parents, your spouse, your children, your authorities, your country You have sinned against God, to whom you have made that vow. Second, you need to know and thankfully receive this comforting message from God. Who made the vow of covenant promise to send the seed of the woman to deliver his church? Breaking a vow is not an unpardonable sin. It is serious, deadly serious, but not something for which there can never be forgiveness. The Bible says in Luke 12, 10, that everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but the one who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. But I take it that vow forsaking, promise-breaking, although a sin, is not blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. So when you come to realize that you have broken your vow You may and must confess it to God and seek his pardon through the only means possible, the blood of Christ. Rest assured, dear Christian, there is forgiveness at this cross. Then you may and must indeed fulfill your vow, whatever it was, in the days ahead. For breaking it in the past has now been forgiven and cast into the depth of the sea by a merciful God. Correct and restore That broken marital relationship, if it is at all within your power so to do, and whether or not civil proceedings have been instituted Christians who break their marital vows ought to seek to be married again if that marriage has been removed by the civil courts, if possible, and if the other person is willing to do it Do all that you can do to make good your promise, whatever that was. You cannot pay for your sinful violation or failure when you broke the value made. Only Jesus can pay for your sin, indeed all your sin. But you can and must seek God's help. Administered by His Holy Spirit's gracious power, in walking more faithfully in obedience to his word, and in fulfillment of your vow In the future, yes. You can change the past, that's done. But you can vow again in the days that are to come Remember, sin, though reprehensible in the extreme, look what it did to Christ. has been conquered by your sovereign, gracious, and merciful God. Trust him. You may have sorely messed up your life through manifold sinning, but it is never too late to confess it. Lie to Jesus and cling to the gospel promise that all who so come will not be cast off. Make today the first day of the rest of your life. Let us pray. O God, our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for the vow, the gospel promise that you made and you performed and fulfilled. entirely. And we pray to you, Lord Jesus, that you will send your Holy Spirit upon us To empower us with a willingness to trust you for the future days, to change our ways, and to make sure that we care What we have said with our mouth, that we will do. We ask you to hear us and answer this our prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen.