Now our Old Testament reading this morning comes to the book of 1 Samuel 8 verses 1 through 18. 1 Samuel 8 verses 1 through 18. When Samuel became old, he made his sons judges over Israel. The name of his first one's son was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Bathsheba. Yet his sons did not walk in his ways, but turned aside after gain. They took bribes and perverted justice. Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah, and said to him, Behold, you are old and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to the Lord, and the Lord said to Samuel, Obey the voice of the people in all that they say to you For they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them. According to all the deeds that they have done, from the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even to this day, forsaking me and serving other gods So that they are also doing to you. Now then, obey their voice, only you shall solemnly warn them and show them the ways of the king who shall reign over them So Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people who were asking for a king from him. He said, These will be the ways of the king who will reign over you. He will take your sons and appoint them to be his chariots, and to be his horsemen, and to run before his chariots. And he will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties and some to plough his ground and to reap his harvest, and to make his implements of war, and the equipment of his chariots. He will take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks And bakers, he will take the best of your fields and vineyards and olive orchards and give them to his servants. He will take the tenth of your grain of your vineyards and give it to his officers and to his servants He will take your male servants and female servants and the best of your young men and your donkeys and put them to his work. He will take the tenth of your flocks, and you shall be his slaves. And in that day you will cry out because of your king, whom you have chosen for yourselves. But the Lord will not answer you in that day. The word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning comes from Peter's first letter. We're going to read from chapter 2, verses 18 through 25. 1 Peter chapter 2, beginning at verse 18. Hear the word of the Lord. Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect. Not only to the good and gentle, but also to the unjust. For this is a gracious thing. When mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly For what credit is it if when you sin and are beaten for it, you endure But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God. For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return When he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed, for you were straying like sheep. But have now returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. Our gospel reading this morning comes from the Gospel as Mark wrote it in chapter 15, beginning at verse 1, and we'll read to verse 15. And uh here is that scene which Peter had in mind and those words that he penned about entrusting Jesus entrusting himself to him who judges justly. We hear the word of the Lord. And as soon as it was morning, the chief priests held the consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council. And they bound Jesus and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate. And Pilate asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? And he answered him, You have said so. And the chief priest accused him of many things. And Pilate again asked him, have you no answer to make? See how many charges they bring against you. Jesus made no further answer, though that Pilate was amazed. Now at the feast he used to release for them one prisoner for whom they asked. And among the rebels in prison who had committed murder and the insurrection, there was a man called Rabbas. And the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he usually did for them. And he answered them, saying, You want me to release for you the king of the Jews? For he perceived that it was out of envy that the chief priest had delivered him up. But the chief priest stirred up the crowd. To have him release for them Barabbas instead. Pilate again said to them, Then what shall I do with the man you call the king of the Jews? They cried out again, Crucify him. Pilate said to them, Why? What evil has he done? But they shouted all the more, Crucify him. For Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barabbas And having scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified. It is the word of the Lord. Congregation, we have come now this far in the gospel as Mark wrote it to these verses. Mark wrote for us the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and Mark is now recounting for us. That divine necessity of his passion and his suffering. And I just read for you, and I'm sure is familiar to most of us here. About uh Jesus our Lord before Pilate, Pontius Pilate And what Mark has in mind in these verses to show us is that Jesus suffered innocently. He didn't do anything to deserve any of the suffering. And we ask ourselves, and why did he suffer? What does it matter that Jesus says he is proclaimed in the gospel here to us? What is it to be evangelized, beloved? It is to re read Mark chapter 1, verse 1 to the end of Mark 16 You're being evangelized this morning as you hear these verses told to you. Why is Mark wanting to show us that Jesus is the innocent sufferer? Well I'm gonna tell you one reason now, because it will be dealt with more fully next week One reason is because it then qualifies him to be that spotless lamb offered up to God for our sins. And we'll see that next week when we look at the cross where the sacrifice was made. I know you're educated in the Old Testament and understood the priestly system there ordained of God that they could only, in fact, the priest who examined Jesus here It's a bit of irony who know how to look at a lamb and been trained to look at a lamb to find out if there is any defect, because that can't be offered to God. Here, don't know how to look at the Lamb of God, but prove to us by our own admission, and Mark showing us he is spotless. Even against their will, you might say, they are discerning for us the Lamb of God. So Jesus is the innocent sufferer. And you see that here, Mark shows death in verses 1 through 5, in the questions that Pilate puts to Jesus. And then there in verses 6 through 15, as he looks at ultimately, why was it that then the Lord Jesus went to the cross? So let's look first at verses 1 through 5. It's morning now. Jesus has been awake for close to probably forty-eight hours. You know he is a man who got up early. He got up early two days ago to pray and then that was the day of Passover and you know he hasn't slept and now it's morning. And the chief priest held a consultation with the elders and scribes of the whole council. The Lord Jesus had just acknowledged before them and gave testimony that he is their Messiah. and that they would see one day his glory and there would be no question that he is the anointed of God. And they charged him for that statement with blasphemy, thinking, no way you can be the son of God. You must be a blasphemier to say you are God's son of God. Son. You must be a blasphemer to say you are the Son of Man that God told us was coming in Daniel. You would be the one coming on clouds. You lowly man standing here And they thought he was a blasphemer to take God's word so lightly and apply it to himself. But according to God's law, such a crime is worthy of death. We read it last time by stoning. But the issue here is they can't execute that because they aren't sovereign in Israel. The Romans are sovereign And Pilate has the power of life and of death. So they make a plan And put their heads together and decide we will take his confession to be the Messiah. And we will politicize it and bring him to Pilate on this charge that he's telling everybody he's the king of the Jews. And that's why Pilate asked him, are you the King of the Jews? Pilate isn't asking Jesus questions and inquiry, are you a Sagittarius? Are you a Pisces? Oh by the way, are you the King of the Jews? This is a legal proceeding. Pilate's court has been set. They bring their cases to them, and the allegation was he's telling everybody, he's the king. You need to deal with that because that's a charge of treason, because we all know Caesar's king, and you're put here in this part of the world to uphold Caesar's kingdom. And oh, by the way, he is telling them, don't pay tribute to Caesar, Luke records for us, that was some of the allegations thing. The whole job and its origination of the procurator of Rome in the office Pilate held. was to take in that revenue, to take in that tribute money, to ensure that tribute money gets it way back to Rome And now Pilate's faced in with this allegation: Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus says, You have said so. And that is a kind of a difficult statement to interpret. It's a way of saying yes, but also with reservation, no. It's a way of saying you said it But not I. And what does Jesus then intend by that? Well, you have said I'm the King of the Jews under the charge brought to me, and We can what King of the Jews meant to Pilate then was, are you the leader of the resistance? Because there's been a resistance party, zealots Two of them have uprisings have happened in Jesus' own lifetime. This recent one of which Barabbas was a part and is in prison. And in the early years of our Lord's life, Judas of Galilee also had an uprising. So he's wanting to know, are you one of these uprising figures? leading an insurrection against the civil authorities. That's what King of the Jews meant in that allegation. Are you saying that you're the king and that the people, this people should follow you and not Caesar in Threw off his yoke. That's the question when he asked it. Are you the king of the Jews? Well, oh we have to love our Lord Jesus. What would you do in a pickle spot like that, right? I've talked to somebody here before who knows something about these workings, or they ask you particular questions that put you in a box. To kind of trap you. Well, by saying you have said it, Jesus is saying, Yes, I am the King of the Jews. He is in fact the King of the Jews. And this now stands as record before the whole world, as giving evidence that we're called To pass our verdict on, is Jesus the King of the Jews? But he's also saying with reservation, I'm not a king, like you are prone to think of kings, when you think of Caesar and his kingship. We won't go into it here. I may mention something at the end. The Apostle John writes larger on this. And Jesus makes some further statements to clarify to Pilate the kind of king he is. But Pilate got the point. Because if Jesus would have just said, Yeah, I'm the king of the Jews in that sense, well the trial would have been over and he would have been immediately executed, right? This is treason. Pilate understands that he is not an insurrectionist leader, and yet Pilate is now having to deal with With Jesus' admission that he is a king. One of the interesting things is this trial scene then goes forward, Jesus admitting he's king, but not in that way. The next thing the chief priests then do is, well, they bring all these charges against him. Luke gives us three of them. He's misleading the people. Pilate's not really going to care about that. They're teaching people not to give tribute. We know what Jesus said. Render to Caesar unto Caesar and to God, what's God's. And Jesus is saying he's a king These are the accusations bringing their charging up to maybe other ones. And Jesus, Pilate asked them again, remember, this is a trial for your life. This is a defense trial. These charges ring against you in that case. I don't know exactly how this worked. If there would have been a defense lawyer appointed, I think more you just defended yourself, but I'm not a legal expert in the Roman proceedings It seems Jesus had some voice here because Pilate asked him, Have you no answer to make? Are you going to respond to these allegations? How many charges they bring you? Jesus makes no further answer so that Pilot's amazed, because what do you do with the criminal who's being charged with a capital offense and he won't defend himself? It's crazy Is he in control? What do you do if someone's out of trial for their life and they won't defend himself? I think one of the things that Mark is showing is here, Jesus is not the one on trial, or he's on trial by a far higher court than Pilate's God's, but it's Pilate that's really on trial. Now Pilate has to deal before God with Jesus' admission. He's the King. All of us are on trial when the gospel is preached to us. All of us have to deal with Jesus' admission that I am the king. I am the Christ. I am the ruler and sovereign of this world. It belongs to me. It is my inheritance. I think that's one of the things that Mark is showing us. So in Jesus' interview with Pilate, we see that he is innocent of the charge. Pilate knows he's innocent of the charge of being a uh rebel, uh guilty of treason, but he's now faced with Jesus' own words. You said it, Pilate. You have said it. I am the king. What are you gonna do with it? Well, we go on to verses 6 through 15 and we see what Pilate does with it. We read about in verses 6 and 7 Pilate's custom of giving Paschal Passover, paschal amnesty to somebody of which the Jews ask for. Amnesty, just forgiveness, right? You know, it doesn't our our our president pardons a Turkey every year, right? He gets out Now, this is a paschal amnesty. We're told about this. This is important. So we learn here that Pilate, at this time every year, at the Passover feast, would release for them one prisoner We're identified here. We're told about Barabbas. Now here's a man who's actually a rebel, who in a recent insurrection against civil authorities committed murder with other men. His name's Barabbas, that means son of the father, by the way. Barabbas, Bar Abba, Ab is your father in Hebrew. Barabbas, son of the father And we read that what happened was is the Jews brought Jesus to Pilate to have his case adjudicated And at the same time a crowd of people that were supporters of Barabbas came too. So this kind of perfect storm is building here. The Jews independently, the high priest, the elders of the synagogue bring Jesus and are dealing with that. At the same time, Jews who are in favor of their man Barabbas, because he's their leader, he's the guy that's going to finally get rid of Rome, and they think here's a way we'll get him back. So this independent crowd comes uh to Pilate to ask for this pastoral amnesty. And we read that Pilate seems to then find, here's my way out of this. Now Pilate could have just acquitted Jesus, and that would have been the real way out of it, but he didn't. But Pilate thought, here's the way I'll get out of this. I'll offer Jesus to them, and surely they'll take Jesus for amnesty, and then I'll be able to get my hands clean of this. And so Pilate says there in verse 9, Do you want me to release for you the king of the Jews? For he perceived, right, that it was out of envy. Pilate understood why the chief priests had delivered him over to him. Envy. Pilate knew he was being a pawn of their political schemes. He was aware of their intrigue. They're essentially wanting to treat Pilate as a henchman to do their dirty work. And Pilate wants to get himself out of it, so he thinks paschal amnesty is the way. But let's stop this word envy for a moment. Because here's one of the reasons why our Lord died. Men were envious of him. He had the power. He was the anointed of God. He healed. He cast out demons. Everybody saw the mighty works of his hands done. He had a power you can't buy. You saw what happened when Simon tried to buy it from Peter. I'll give you money if you give me this power that I can lay hands on anybody and the Holy Spirit will fall. Jesus had the power, Jesus had the people. People hung on his words. People were here in the truth. Hearing grace. Hearing God's love. Hearing forgiveness. Hearing the real law of God and not the burden of the yokes of the man-made commandments put upon them And they were listening to him and they thought, he has it all. He's got the people. He's got the power. And if we don't do something, Rome's gonna come in and we're nobody's then. But you know what envy, right, is? You know the opposite of envy? Philanthropy. Loving kindness for a fellow human being. Delight that he has those things. Glad for him, wishing him well. Really, beloved, envy is just hatred towards God that he didn't make you the Son of God. He didn't make you the anointed one. He made that other person They're envious. Jesus is the one. He's the anointed. He has the power. He didn't give it to you. He didn't give it to me. Gave it to Jesus. The envy is to wish you had it. And I'll be happy he had it. You know, John the Baptist once had the power in people, didn't he? And his disciples came and said to him, Why are you letting this go? They're all going away from you to Jesus. What's the difference between John the Baptist and these wicked men? He knew something they didn't know Man can't receive anything unless it comes to him from heaven. You don't have your physical beauty but from God. You don't have your smarts and minds and talents, but from God. You don't have your ecclesiastical office, but from God. You don't have your gifts and graces as a believer. You don't have your faith, but from God To be envious is just to have hatred towards God that He gave it to that person and not to you. This is one of the reasons Jesus died. Envy. Indy. And it's so horrendous too because what did Jesus do with his power? Did he enslave them? Or did he set them free? Did he cast out the demons of their own children? Did he raise their dead daughters? Who died at the age of Of womanhood then, around 13, going to be married off? Now that family's not going to have that social support and facing the evils of what am I going to do in my old age when I don't have a son-in-law to support me He brought him back to life? They had of hope? What did Jesus do with this power? Did he cower behind those in power? Did he get up in the synagogue and say, Come here with your hand, I'm going to heal you? So you won't be on workers' comp anymore and be ashamed I'll show your face to your family because you can't support them? Grimvious of that? To save us? To do us good? Beloved, I've been thinking all we If you really want to look at the cross and the gospel, you will see first, but not last, but first, the great evilness of man and demons and the great goodness of God. And that's why the gospel is preached today. That the world must constantly hear it as very evil and everybody in it, and God is very good. And you need to come and repent and believe in this good God and don't reject this Messiah whom he's appointed for your salvation. You see in verse 11 though, the chief priests aren't going to lose out on this opportunity. They also see an opportunity here. Oh, wonderful. They're going to play into our schemes. We're going to stir them up. He's a blasphemer. Let me tell you what he just told us in the synagogue. See Pilate really blundered here in his calculations and you can read about him. He'll have a 11-year, ten year here. He's about halfway through it now. He hasn't done well, that's why he stayed there. He constantly provoked the Jewish people, constantly did things that irritate them and upset them, and he was so worried, this plays into it now, they would go report him to Tiberius, which they have Right, they would appeal to the higher court, Caesar, and say, Let me tell you about your guy here and what he's doing and making a mess for us. Well Pilate blunders, thinking they're actually gonna take his plan and not follow the Jewish leaders where the Jewish leaders get involved and they start stirring the crowd up. Here's another reason Jesus died. Dumb mob people People who don't want to consider the facts for themselves in the moment and stir it up. Chief priests stir them up. They start crying with them to have the rabbis instead. We understand then the importance of not being conformed to the world, but transformed. Caught in the bottom. And Pilate again said to them, Well then what shall I do with the man you call the king of Jews? If you don't want him and you want Barabbas, then what? What shall I do? They say, cry out again, crucify him. The Latin word for crucifies, cruci, and I say that because we have an English word that helps us to understand what that experience was like, and it's the word excruciating. Give him the most excruciating death we can possibly give another human being. So they asked for Barabbas instead. Even the Romans, I'm told, are horrified by this and didn't even speak of it in polite circles. You couldn't even be executed in this way as a Roman. You had that much dignity, at least, just being a Roman citizen. Pilate said to them, Why? What evil has he done? You know, Pilate's executed people in this way before, I'm certain. And it's probably a rap sheet this long. And it's probably evident to all that they're evil people. What has Jesus done? Why? But they shouted all the more. Rucify him. And here's the third reason why Jesus was crucified. Because Pilate wished to satisfy the crowd. Uh-oh, they're getting quite loud, quite out of control. And they also somewhat, my position and power is somewhat tenuous by them Because they can go back to Caesar and report me through Pilate in the sin of man pleasing. Wanting to content them, even though he knows you gotta think about how callous this is really a callous move. And remember, he's supposed to be The justice of the peace. Rome is supposed to be the Pax Romana. Come live under our just rule. We'll show you nations how good we are and how good our gods are, and what kind of kingdom we can bring in for this world That's what's being preached. And here before us all we see what kind of justice Jesus got How callous this was. Well, Jesus, if it's my political career in you, sorry, you have to go die excruciatingly. This isn't pleasant stuff, is it, to consider? This isn't a pleasant world to live in, is it? These things happen. My first response when I read this this week, as I titled the sermon, I want out. We out of here. This is the way out, though, the redemption through Jesus Christ. This is the answer to a better world. What Jesus did for us. And God's promise to make a new heavens and earth when there's righteousness. So he released for them Barabbas. He doesn't know that he is enacting the gospel here. That the sinner goes free, and the sinless one takes his place. The real criminal is released, the one who did no crime is punished. And having scored Jesus, this is the place where I just had to stop reading this week. Because Roman scorging meant stripping your shirt off, being lashed to a pole, and then taking a whip with fragments of bone and lead and beating you till your skin was ripped off. And men have died just from that alone. And this was something reserved for people who were given the death sentence. So they scourged him, and then Pilate delivered him to be crucified. Mark has just shown us the lamb. That he was in fact innocent and therefore qualified supremely to make this sacrifice There's about three things. Briefly I want to say some principles here to take real quick and close with how we should respond to this. First, let us see what sin really is here. Sin is the rejection of God as your king. Sin is to say, No, I will not have you, God, as Lord over me, and I will not have the Christ, the one you appointed as my king. Psalm two, in vain they rage, wanting to break off the yoke That is what sin is. Defined first in 1 John 3. 4. Sin is that. It's lawlessness. It's ah know me. It's saying, I will not be under your law. It is rebellion against God. Parents, we need to teach our children that? It's not just you they're rebelling against. It's God as their king. It's Jesus as their king. Sin isn't just horizontal here, but always has a vertical or godly reference. Let's know, beloved, let's not hide from what sin really is. Is to say, God, I will not live under your law, and I will not have you as my king. Let's also see here, real quick, that in Christian suffering Christ's sufferings and Christian sufferings as Christians, where just you're suffering for merely because you confess the name of Christ, there's always three parties involved: men, the devil, and God. You've seen the men? Seen the envious Jews? You've seen the mob mentality. I don't say this word to give offense, but the kind of dumb sheep, right? Just going along. People in the world just going along, not aware. You've seen Pilate in his desire to hold on to his office and please others to keep it. Because he doesn't know the truth God. You see the devil here, the devil has been in it all along. But when Jesus said back in his court appearance before the high priest, when he told him, You'll see me, the Son of Man. At God's right hand and coming in glory, if you know the whole prophecy of Daniel 7, that's said in the face of the fourth beast, which is the Roman Empire, and the little horn, the anti-Christian activity. Don't you know that then Jesus was trampled by the fourth beast and the little horn? That's why he promises though as a victor over it, to give the judgment to the saints, and they will reign on the earth as this warfare still continues. So Satan is behind Christian suffering merely for the fact that you're a Christian because you profess Christ's name. He's involved. Men are involved. Satan's involved. But supremely beloved, God is involved. Because men and the devil are only doing what God will to take place. Do you suffer as a Christian? Not because God hates you, because He loves you supremely. You are blessed to walk in Jesus' shoes. You're blessed because you are undergoing it because you know that love you've been loved by. And you have a heart that wants to show that same love. And you trust your Heavenly Father in these sufferings. He'll bring good out not just for you but for others. So in Christian suffering, men, the devil, and God are always involved They tend evil, and God always intends great good out of it. Third, I mentioned this before, I'll just say it again briefly. It's not so much Jesus on trial here. It's you. It's me, it's the world. In the very act of their rejecting Jesus, they're showing themselves to be rejects of God. Very act of condemning Jesus to death were just condemning themselves. God judges us through his gospel. Paul, when he would go to the Jews and spend however long he'd spend and Then when they would refuse to believe, you'd say, okay, you have judged yourselves worthy or unworthy of eternal life. Judged yourselves. If you'll not have King Jesus as your King, you judge yourselves. Jesus Himself said, I won't judge you. What's going to judge you at the last day is my word, my word of salvation to you, that I am your King, the anointed of God, who can save you everlastingly. If you reject that, you condemn yourselves. God judges you through the preaching of the gospel. Judges the world. This is the world's condemnation right here. John tells us that his gospel. Here is the world's condemnation. Light came in, wanted darkness. The world's condemnation is that it crucified Christ. How then do you get out? Here we get to the response part. How do you get out from under this condemnation? I think it's the wonderful words from John Kearman's hymn, O holy Jesus, how hast thou offended? When he writes, For man's atonement, when he nothing heedeth, God intercedeth How do you get out? But see the sheer goodness of God in Christ's suffering. See the sheer grace of God that when you nothing, listen to Him. This is still clickable as believers today and we wander into sin when you nothing listen to him. God intercedeth for man's atonement. It is to trust in Jesus Christ. That's really the two choices. What shall I do with this king is a question put to every one of us. Crucify him or trust in him? Crucify him or trust in Jesus. Make a final statement to you who are trusting in Jesus. Do you see this first? Do you see the sheer goodness of God in the gospel? The man put his son to death and had no idea what they were doing but their other wickedness? And yet it isn't even being orchestrated by man, but by God and His goodness to forgive us. Do we get the sheer graciousness and goodness alone in which we stand in before God? This is our only ever eternal standing as his sheer goodness to us in forgiving us. Through Jesus Christ for everybody who trust in him, trust in King Jesus. Well, what do we do? How do we live as citizens that trust in King Jesus? Many things, obviously. Let me refer you to what Jesus did before Pilate, right? Pilate, my kingdom's out of this world. Don't be mistaken by that statement. Just because this kingdom's not of this world doesn't mean it's not in it. Doesn't mean it doesn't affect this world. It is in this world and it does affect it. Just not like this world's kingdom But Jesus does say, why did I come in the world to testify to the truth? Why have you been born again and sent into this world as those that trust in Jesus? That you may speak the same truth in love. That you might go tell other sinners under the same condemnation you have been graciously brought out of. Let me tell you the truth of God's goodness. Let me tell you what Jesus did for our sins and trust in him. And speak that truth like Jesus spoke it in love. I think maybe you should go home and meditate today. Do you want to prophet on this? Know the truth, so know your catechism, know the apostles' creed, know the truth. What is the truth and don't know it intellectually, but that's a saving truth. Know the truth that saves people. That's what Jesus says: the truth will set you free. But how do we speak that? Well, we speak it in love. 1 Corinthians 13 is a good place to go. Love is patient. Love is kind. We speak this truth patiently to others, kindly to others. That is what the world needs. Speaking the truth in love. It doesn't need another human kingdom. Those have all failed. It needs the coming of God's kingdom, the speaking of truth and love, and the power of the Holy Spirit. So that's why you and I are here in this world. You've been born again. Jesus has done it all. Your life isn't to get some righteousness to get into heaven. You're there. He's done it. So you ask the question, why am I here? Speak this saving truth in love. May God help grace and peace. May God help every member of Grace and Peace to grow in this saving truth in love and to speak together this saving truth in love. Amen.