Please open your Bibles to Psalm 77. Psalm 77, to the choir master, according to Jed Jedn. Hope I said that right. A psalm of Asaph. I cry aloud to God, aloud to God, and he will hear me. In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord. In the night, my hand is stretched out without wearying. My soul refuses to be comforted. When I remember God, I moan. When I meditate, my spirit faints. Sila. You hold my eyelids open. I am so troubled that I cannot speak. I consider the days of old, the years long ago. I said, Let me remember my song in the night. Let me meditate in my heart. Then my spirit made diligent search. Will the Lord spurn forever and never again be favorable? Has his steadfast love forever ceased Are his promises at an end for all time? Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion? Sila. Then I said, I will appeal to this, to the years of the right hand of the Most High. I will remember the deeds of the Lord. Yes, I will remember your wonders of old. I will ponder all your work and meditate on your mighty deeds. Your way, O God, is holy. What God is great like our God? You are the God who works wonders. You have made known your might among the peoples. You with your arm redeemed your people, the children of Jacob and Joseph. Sila. When the waters saw you, O God, when the waters saw you, they were afraid. Indeed, the deep trembled. The clouds poured out water, the skies gave forth thunder, the ear your arrows flashed on every side. The crash of your thunder was in the whirlwind. Your lightning lighted up the world. The earth trembled and shook Your way was through the sea, your path through the great waters, yet your footprints were unseen. You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron The word of the Lord. Thanks. Thanks be to God. Can you hear the echoes of Psalm 18 and the framework of Psalm 77? If not, I hope you will by the time we finish. There are clearly two major sections of the psalm. The first section is in verses 1 through 9, which pretty closely follows the standard format of a lamentation. The book of Lamentations, typically attributed to Jeremiah, is the most well-known of this format, but there are other lamentations spread throughout the Psalms and other books of the Old Testament. A lamentation is ultimately poetical because it expresses a deeply held sadness or grief. It is, as one writer put it, the connection between sin and suffering. It typically is written to express the grief that comes when God disciplines his people for their unrepentant sin. So the pathos of the language comes from the actual suffering that the writer laments. It summarizes the recognition of failure to obey God and consequences of that failure. Like the verbal tearing of a garment. Or casting ashes upon oneself as the consequences of sin and failure, now that the withdrawal of God's favor has become unmistakable, the writer cries out in pain. The second section, in verses 10 through the end of the Psalm, is a counterpoint to that lamentation. Section 2 is a remembrance and a recollection in the writer's heart that God will conquer and solve the source of this lamentation. In this respect, the second half of Psalm 77 breaks from the form of a classical lamentation. According to my new Bible dictionary, written by, among others, J. I. Packer and D. J. Weissmann A lamentation typically has four parts and is focused on the recognition that God is bringing judgment. That judgment is the recognized result of a prolonged or what we might today call an enculturated sin. But the immediate source of the lamentation is really the impending devastation that will come at the hands of the outside actor, for example, the Babylonians prior to the destruction of Jerusalem, or potentially the Romans. At the second uh destruction of Jerusalem. The four parts of the Lamentation include a complaint about adversity, a confession of trust in God An appeal for deliverance on the grounds of the Lord's character and his covenant with his chosen people, and the certainty of a hearing, often with the assurance that the enemies who have caused the suffering will themselves suffer The psalm, however, does not follow the classical lamentation form, even though up through verse 9, it clearly shows the writer's cry out to God for deliverance due to some unnamed crisis. This lamentation is different because although there is a complaint about adversity and an eventual confession about trust in God, the lament really stops there. The remaining two parts, the appeal for deliverance on the grounds of the Lord's character and the future suffering for the enemy, are displaced. And the writer turns in a different direction. So let's dig in a little bit and break it down into its parts. Verses one and two, I cried out to Elohim. I cried to God to hear me. When I was in distress, I sought Adonai. At night I stretched out untiring hands, and my soul refused to be comforted Notice the choice of two different words for God here. That may be nothing more than just a better form that fits better into the Psalm. uh into the form of the of the of the psalmistry. But it may also be a subtle variance that's used by using the much more personal Adonai When describing the more desperate cry for God's help. This is a personal cry of a man on his knees who is in despair due to some unspoken condition or situation. My soul refused to be comforted. It's the cry of a man who has no hope of resolving his personal despair. He recognizes that no matter what he does, he cannot by himself resolve his despair. Nonetheless, the psalmist continues to seek resolution, presumably with all his being. As John Calvin says in his commentary on this verse, although the prophet found no solace and no alleviation of the bitterness of his grief, he still continued to stretch forth his hands to God. In this manner becomes us to wrestle against despair, in order that our sorrow, although it may seem to be incurable, may not shut our mouths and keep us from pouring out our prayers before God. Although he thought upon God, his distress of mind was not removed. The psalmist then turns to God for deliverance, but even so, his soul refused to be comforted. The Hebrew word for refused is, I believe, key to understanding this part of the psalm. The word used for refuse is the Hebrew word ma'an. Which is the same word used in Exodus four twenty three when God explains to Moses what is about to happen when he returns to Egypt and confronts Pharaoh. Starting at Exodus 4, verse 21. And the Lord said to Moses, When you go back to Egypt, see that you do before Pharaoh all the miracles that I have put in your power. But I will harden his heart, so that he will not let the people go. Then you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, Israel is my firstborn son. And I say to you, Let my son go that he may serve me. If you refuse, Ma'an, to let him go, I will kill your firstborn son. Or as the NIV translation puts it, but you but you refuse to let him go. So I will kill your firstborn son. It's the hardened heart and the unwillingness to submit that causes Pharaoh to suffer. Similarly, in Jeremiah 3:3 and elsewhere, the word Ma'an is used to show that the Israelites were unwilling to repent, and so God's anger was kindled. His just response was required. Clearly, the usage here in Psalm 77 is of a willful and intentional unwillingness, not in his thinking faculties, in other words, not in his brain, but in a part of him that is much deeper than he can control. ASAF, or the writer, is in despair not for lack of effort, but because he's unable to muster the will within his soul to be comforted. He wanted so much to be comforted, but he would not, or maybe more accurately, could not. Verse 3, when I remember God, I moan. When I meditate, my spirit faints. Selah. Here's our first pause. It's as though it's a pause to allow time for sobbing and despair. There's no hope that the writer can find in his soul, even when he thinks on God and his mercy. He recounts how he, as the NIV puts it, remembered you, O God. But his remembrance was with a groan, not with a burst of joy. He isn't done yet, however. Aesaph now begins to explore beyond his immediate condition, recalling the past and the joys experienced, presumably when God was with him. He can't recall them. At this moment in the Psalm, God is absent from his life. And then God begins to act and opens the psalmist's eyes. Verse 4, you hold my eyelids open. I am so troubled I cannot speak. God becomes active at this point Figuratively opening, holding open ASAP's eyes, presumably forcing him to look at something to the point where the psalmist cannot speak. But at what is he forced to see? When I initially read through this, I thought that God was holding Asaf's eyes open due to fatigue. Because he had been praying so long and so hard. But after much reflection, I believe God is forcing him to look beyond his small view of the world and is forcing him to look as Job did on the greatness of God's plan. Like Job, he is confronted with a bigger reality, bigger than he could have otherwise comprehended, as God holds his eyes open. The result is ASAF begins to consider, or as the NIV translates it, I thought upon the days of long ago. Here again, the translated word for long ago needs to be understood in its complexity. It is the Hebrew word Olaam, which can mean forever or eternity. It's the same word used in Jonah 2. 6, as he called out in his distress from the belly of the fish. The water closed in over me to take my life. The deep surrounded me. Weeds were wrapped about my head at the roots of the mountain. I went down to the land whose bars closed upon me forever. Along, forever. Yet you brought up my life from the pit. O Lord my God, when my life was fading away, I remembered the Lord, and my prayer came to you in your holy temple So in a metaphorical sense, Aesap's eyes are being held open, then he thinks about Alam. And his reaction to this view of Alam reveals a dramatic change. He is now able to remember God. Moving back to our text in Psalm 77, verse 6. Let me remember my song in the night. Let me meditate in my heart. Then my spirit made a diligent search Or is the NIV and I really like this one better, renders it my heart mused and my spirit inquired. God's truth as remembered by Asaph begins to reboot the psalmist views. His inability to remember God had been transformed by the Lord's intercession in holding his eyes open to see Alam. His despair being replaced by new thinking. So he follows this with a series of questions, starting at verse 7. Will the Lord spurn forever and never again be favorable? Has his steadfast love forever ceased? Are his promises at an end for all time? Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion? Salah. Once again, my initial superficial reading of this made it seem that the psalmist was expressing his deep concern about the future, or maybe even the present, where God has turned his face away, and certainly that could be. But if that were the case, why would God have held his eyes open so he could view the years long ago? Rather, it seems these are rhetorical questions that Asaf's soul used to challenge his fears by being deserted by God. But the spirits of being deserted by God. Calvin's commentary expands on this a little bit more. Hath God forgotten to be merciful? The prophet still continues debating with himself the same subject. His object, however, is not to overthrow his faith, but rather to raise it up. He does not put this question as if the point to which it refers were a doubtful matter. It is as if he had said, Hath God forgotten himself? Or hath his nature he changed his nature? For he cannot be God unless he is merciful. I indeed admit that he did not remain unshaken, as if he had hurt he had a heart of steel. But the more violently he was assailed, the more firmly did he lean upon the truth, that the goodness of God is so inseparably connected with his essence as to render it impossible for him not to be merciful. Whenever, therefore, doubt enters into our minds upon our being harassed with cares and oppressed with sorrows, let us learn always to endeavor to arrive at a satisfactory answer to this question. Has God changed his nature so as to no longer be merciful? The last clause: Hath he shut up or restrained his compassion and anger is the same to the fact. It was a very common and notable observation among the holy patriarchs that God is long suffering, slow to wrath, ready to forgive, and easy to be entreated. It was from them that Habakkuk derived the statement which he makes in his song. Even in his anger, he will be mindful of his merf mercy. The psalmist begins to open his mind to a recognition of God's unending Hasid love. Clearly, these rhetorical questions are meant for the reader to respond in his heart with a resounding no. But the psalmist has not come to this conclusion yet. He still sees the bleakness of his present condition. And so he is not yet ready to believe that God's said love has not ceased. It is here that we come to the second Sila. And I would say this is the hinge point in the song. Prior to this, the psalmist has been focused on himself and his condition. The whole first nine verses are inward-facing. as he laments his condition without turning outward to God. He sees no hope for redemption from the unspoken trouble. At verse ten, however, he turns that around and seeks out God. I call this a hinge point, partly because it comes to mind that there connects two parts and two halves of the psalm, so it seemed uh the simile kind of fits. Um hinges are some of the most ancient of tools. Uh some of them date back to the sixteenth century BC. It's even in um the description of Solomon's temple, there's a description of a hinge in the doors. If you look at King first Kings six thirty Have you ever thought about a hinge and what it does? It attaches a movable object to an immovable structure. So that stretching this simile to its near breaking point, the first half of the Psalm is a lament of a man whose spirit has no permanence. He's like the unattached door that can come crashing down at any minute. But now he's about to be attached to the unmovable greatness of God. Back to the text. Then he said, I will appeal to this, to the years of the right hand of the Most High. I will remember the deeds of the Lord. Yes, I will remember your wonders of old. I will ponder all your work and meditate on your mighty deeds. Your way, O God, is holy. What God is great like our God? You are the God who works wonders. You have made known your might among the people. You with your arm redeemed your people, the children of Jacob and Joseph. Say Allah How different is this from the first half of the psalm, where the writer's soul was unwilling to remember the great deeds of God? The psalmist now has fully opened his heart and begins to boast of God's great and mighty deeds. He has left the traditional lamentation behind. By verse 13, he has fully embraced and now praises God's holiness. And so as we come to the next pause marked by the Silah, Asaph begins to recall how God redeemed his people. More specifically, his people who are the children of Jacob and Joseph. The reference to Joseph makes the connection to the Exodus from Egypt unmistakable. During the Exodus, God's people were redeemed from their slavery under the Pharaoh. And the Hebrew word used here for redeem, Gaal, is the same word used for Boaz's actions in Ruth 4. 1 as the kinsman redeemer. And again in Isaiah 43:1. But now, thus says the Lord: He who created you, O Jacob, He who formed you, O Israel, fear not, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by name. You are mine. The Apostle Paul speaks of the same type of redemption in 1 Corinthians 1:30. when he speaks of our redemption through Christ Jesus. And because of him, you are in Christ Jesus Who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Dr. Gregory Beale writes on this particular passage, the word translated redemption, Is sometimes used in the Greek Old Testament to refer to release from sin, but is more often used to refer to the liberation from harsh oppression. So just as the descendants of Jacob and Joseph were liberated from the harsh oppression of Egypt, Christ redeems us from the world. It is this concept of redemption that enters the psalm here as the means for release of the unspoken source of the psalmist despair. It was by God's arm, in other words, by his personal action But the people of Jacob and Joseph were redeemed, much the same way that we are all redeemed by Christ Jesus, who, as we read from 1 Corinthians, became to us wisdom from God, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. This is the good news that resolves the psalmist's despair. There is a redeemer who has not forgotten him, a redeemer who overpowers the oppressor with his might. This incredible news is praised in the last five verses of the Psalm. When the waters saw you, O God, when the waters saw you, they were afraid. Indeed the deep trembled, the clouds poured out water, the skies gave forth thunder Your arrows flashed on every side. The crash of your thunder was in the whirlwind. Your lightnings lighted up the world. The earth trembled and shook. Your way was through the sea, your path through the great waters, yet your footprints were unseen. You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron The comparison to what appears to be a scene from the Israelites' Exodus from Egypt is clear. The great majesty and power of the Almighty was directly visible to the Israelites. They must have been both terrified and exulted at the display of God's might. ASAP's remembrance of God's might, which his eyes have been forced open to see Stands in stark contrast to the unwillingness of his soul to resolve the psalmist despair. He wished to find redemption by his own efforts. But as the Apostle Paul tells us in Ephesians 2, verses 8 and 9, for by the grace you have been saved through faith. And by this, and this is not of your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that one may boast. Just as Moses and Aaron led the flock of the Israelites out of Egypt by the hand, so Jesus, the greatest shepherd. Leads us out of spiritual bondage and suffering. He has redeemed us by his blood, just as Asaph learned in this encounter with Adonai. We know that we cannot save ourselves by our own efforts. We don't need to have our eyes held open, but we do need to have faith. And that faith comes not from our own efforts, it comes from a gift. Through Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption When we despair and feel as though God has forgotten us, or fear that he has cut us off from his Hesed love, we need to remember that He has redeemed His people. And that we are free from that bondage because of his steadfast love. Because of this, we have the greatest of privileges. We may call upon the Lord. He will never let go of us. We can cast our despair and anxieties on him because we have been redeemed by faith. Quoting Pastor Tyson's use of 1 Peter 5 from this morning's sermon, verses 17 6 and 7. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. I will call upon the Lord, so shall I be saved from my enemies. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you looked so far into the future. We remember you darkly, Lord. But we need to remember always it is by faith that we are saved, by your mighty hand, by your continuous love, by your Hesed love of us, that we continue In you. And it is through the redemption of the blood of your Son Jesus Christ that we can have faith, that we can reach out to you, Lord. And that when we cry in our most desperate times, you will hear our cry. You will take our hand, lead us through the troubled waters, and bring us to you. We thank you, Lord, and we thank you for all the blessings that you've given us. Amen.