Good evening, brothers and sisters. Joy to be with you again. Our scripture reading is 1 John 2, 28 through 3. 10 about children of God. And now, little children, abide in him, so that when he appears we may have confidence and not shrink from him in shame at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, you may be sure that everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him. See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God, and so we are. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know us. Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears we will be like him, because we shall see him as he And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness Sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning No one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous. as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil. For the devil has been sinning from the beginning The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning for God's seed. Abides in him. And he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. By this it is evident who are the children of God and who are the children of Of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. I didn't know when I chose this passage that it would follow on hard after this morning's sermon. Doesn't it, Pastor? But uh there is one author of the scripture And that's why that happens sometimes. And our text is 1 John 2, 28 through 31, in context, of course. We have some sons who go away a lot because of their jobs. And we know how much our grandchildren enjoy it when When Daddy comes home. Now, the Apostle John, in his general letter to congregations throughout Asia Minor, has been calling believers in Jesus Little children or dear children. And it is the last hour, John is insisting. And he means that the next item on God's agenda for world history Is the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he wants believers in Jesus to know that they are right with him. To use his words, so that when he appears, they may have confidence and not shrink from him in shame at his coming. But I say to you, within my hearing tonight. Will yours be the joy of children receiving their father when Christ returns? I know that Christ is so called our brother. But he is one with the Father. Yes, John wants in this text, as does also our catechism instructor, to reassure you tonight Of your sonship. Believers in the Lord Jesus Christ are adopted children of God. You know, people who are physically ab adopted have something really very wonderful about themselves that they can be testimonies about the Christian life. think about that from time to time. Are any of you adopted? Have we got some adopted children in our congregation? Yes, we do. Now what believers in the Lord Jesus Christ need to remember and know and be grateful for is their birth. God's love is the source of their birth, their new birth Verse 1, see what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God. And so we are. Now your physical birth by your mother was, as it always is, an amazing, wonderful thing. Anyone will marvel and exclaim, look how great a thing it is. Though it occurs so often. In the course of this sermon, I wonder how many babies will be born in the world. But John is struck with amazement at the fact of your new birth, that you should be called a child of God. God. That's a wonder. And notice it is a present possession and not simply a hope you have for the future. Yes, the spiritual regeneration of people and the adoption of them as living sons and daughters of God. That's what boggles John's mind, and that's why he says, see what manner of love it is. And he's not talking about the universal fatherhood of God, in quotes, that idea that is so popular today. Jesus said to unbelievers in his day, you are of your father the devil. Unbelievers are children of Satan. Jesus says. Only true Christians are spiritual children of God. Thus we conclude that people have one of two fathers, either the devil or God You believers here tonight have left the family and the spiritual paternity of Satan Through the new birth, your new birth, your conversion, your justification, and your adoption into the family. of God. That is why you have obtained the right to address God as your father. Hallelujah. And yours was a birth of children that was truly planned. We could speak, I believe, of the planned parenthood of God. That's why the apostle cries out in adulation again. See what kind of love the Father has given to us. If Brother Paul put it this way in one of his letters to Christians: God, who is rich in mercy For his great love, wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, has made us alive together with Christ. By grace you are saved, and has raised us up together. And made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That, my dear friends, is God our Father's living room. In Christ, your home, in the family of God. Yes, Paul teaches that very thing, and John, for his part, is amazed by it Have a look at what kind of love has brought about that very thing. John couldn't get over it, and he never will. Neither should you, believer in Jesus. Eternity will not suffice to dull the shine of your adoption as a child. Won't you just now allow the magnitude of this wonder to propel you into heartfelt Thanks. Oh God, you love me enough to adopt me. I say that is something devoid of analogy The only clear illustration of it is found in one of Jesus' parables. Which one do you think that would be? I'll tell you. The prodigal son You know that the father in that story shows the heart of God in receiving sinners back to himself as his son. His is a love that is extraordinary. What manner of love is it? Ask one version. How great? asks another, literally. And yet a third says, From what country? It's unearthly. That kind of love is hard to imagine in our world And partly explains why people reject then and reject it today. Because they simply have no analogy By which to grasp the gospel, that God would accept them, even though they are sinners. And the result will be that the world will not understand us either when we present the Message of salvation through grace to them. They will, or many of them might, unless the Holy Spirit opens their hearts and minds to this glorious gospel Think that we consider ourselves better than they are. If only they knew how humbled we are, rather. By it. I'm an adopted child of God. Now, secondly, observe that Christ's righteousness is the means by which they are born. That the righteousness of Christ explains how it is so. Look at verse 29. If you know that He is righteous, you may be sure that everyone who practices righteousness Had been born of him. You see, the question here is, however did he, God, do it? How could even such love bring so unworthy a child as I am into his family? And the answer is, my sonship and yours, if you are Are a believer in Christ, rests on a firm base. Your need for righteousness, Job looked for, and is still found in Elihu's words Then God is gracious unto man, for he will render unto man his righteousness. Render unto him his righteousness. righteousness. But your plight is that of Isaiah. We are all as unclean things be wrote, and all our righteousness is as filthy rags. The point is that we just don't do righteousness naturally From the heart. But our hope is also that of Isaiah. For now, O Lord, you are our Father. We are the clay, and you are our potter, and we all are the world. That's the reason why John writes here in verse 29: if we do what is right, then we know it is because we've been reborn and adopted by God. John's message is clear, isn't it? When you know the righteousness of Christ, not your own righteousness, then you know the means of your adoption into God's family. Family. It is for Christ's sake that you are received there. As Paul put it to the Galatians, God sent forth his Son in order that he might redeem us. That we might receive the adoption as sons. But now, here we get the real connection with this morning's sermon. It's the believer's light that is its proof. Not that he does the right and turns away from the wrong. How did you put it? Yeah, the do-do, the do-do and the don't-don't. It's not that's not the basis of your righteousness or the basis of your justification or the basis of your adoption At the same time, your life becomes the proof of your adoption. Observe how verse 29 ends. You may be sure that everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him. Now we're not going to boast about that, are we? Not at all. But we're going to say that when we see ourselves even at risk and in a very uncomfortable situation, doing that which is right and good and in accordance with God's will And saying no to the temptation to sin. This assures us of our adoption. That's what he said. This is because sonship, the sonship that he's talking about, is one in which the righteousness of Christ is shared by believers. The basis of our being there as his child, as God's child, is the righteousness of Christ alone. But when that righteousness has been imputed to you, then you will show something about it. Not imputed to them only, in other words. but also worked out in them. Christ Jesus is, with regard to believers, the firstborn of many brethren. Yes, he is the only begotten Son of God, but believers are adopted children. of God, as our catechism instructor has stated it so clearly. Why is he called God's only begotten Son? Son, when we also are God's children? Because Christ alone is the eternal natural Son of God. We, however, are adopted children of God, adopted by grace. through Christ. And God's purpose, as John makes clear in this whole passage, from 228 through the end of chapter 3 three is that believers shall be conformed to the image of his son. Adopted children made like his only begotten son That's the gospel, my friends. That's what I like to call John's have-a-look argument. Some things are known to us by revelation Our very faith in Christ springs not from observation, but is given by God. We can only know Christ as He is revealed to us by His Spirit. Whenever he has this in view, John uses one particular word for no. This is the word he uses in verse 29 If you know that he is righteous. Yes, by revelation we know that Jesus is the altogether righteous. But John also knows some things by observation. And for this he chooses an altogether different word. That is the one we have in the second part of the verse. We can know that we are sons of God also by observation. They that do what is right and eschew what is wrong, who act morally, even when it is to their own hurt, must be born again and thus adopted. John puts it this way, you may be sure that everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him. For without me you could do nothing, Christ said. And without faith it is impossible to please God, writes the author of the epistle. And Paul, for his part, writes in Romans eight fifteen, you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba. Father. Do you love the Father, God? Do you care for his things? If you answer yes, then know also by observation. According to 1 John 4. 21, this commandment we have from him, whoever loves God must also love his brother Only then, when both are true, love for God and love for your brothers and sisters in God, may you have assurance that you are one of his adopted children. Humbling, isn't it? So that's their birth. Now their blessedness and your blessedness. Verse 2. Beloved, we are God's children Now, and what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears we will be like him because we shall see him For the present? Yes. We are God's children now, writes John. Because you believers have been adopted into God's family, you are now, even though you're not yet delivered completely from sin, do I have to remind you of that? You are now children of God. You may not be home with your heavenly father yet, but you are surely members of his household. As sojourners in a foreign land, you spend your lives now citizens of another country. Bound for home in heaven. That's why Isaiah could cry aloud, and all your children shall be taught of the Lord, and great shall be the peace of your children. For they know, as the New Testament puts it, that their life is hid with Christ in God. What a blessed state it is to be now. A child of God. To know that the creator of all things reckons me now among his children. Not even the angels have that. We talked about them whether they sing or say. But we know that this is true for their part. They are blessed not to be sons, but to be servants. We are sons. Now. And for the future? Yes, because what we will be has not yet appeared. So something's coming. The glorious sonship of the believer is hidden now, you see, on the other hand. This is true because, for one thing, the world doesn't perceive it at all Verse one, the world does not know us. But for another, not even you, believer, knows all that is coming. Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, neither has it entered into the heart of man what God has prepared. For them that love him. Again, John, for his part, uses his special word for no in verse 2b. We know that when he appears, we will be like him. We may not be able to observe now what is coming. We may know it all the same by revelation. But at the second coming of Christ, some wonderful things will happen for the child of God. You, a child of God now, then will be like Him. Like him. Do you yearn for that? I do. Believer, then you will see your body resurrected and your spirit made perfect Oh, I want that. Do you? Then you will know even as now you are known. And how will this wonderful thing come about? In the future, it's when you will see Jesus as he is. The sight of him in his humiliation, his suffering and death, brings salvation What will be the sight of him in his exaltation bring you? If faith alone is the instrument of your salvation And it is, what will the sight of your Lord and Savior bring you? Just this. Then will happen for which Christ prayed When he was yet on earth. Father, I will that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, that they may see my glory, which you have given me, for you loved me before the fountain foundation of the world. Why even now, children of God are being changed from glory to glory by seeing Christ in the mirror of his word. Even now you receive grace and strength through the means of that word and the simple sacraments. And if this is so, and it is How much more will you be raised and glorified when you stand before Christ's presence and look upon his face? Child of God, won't you tonight let this promise bring a blush of shame on your face? Think of it The things which the eye has not seen and the ear has not heard and the heart has not imagined will be seen, heard, and known when Jesus comes again. Do you think you deserve that? Sometimes a little child just can't imagine what daddy is bringing home with him. And you can't imagine what your heavenly father has in store for you. But you will see it, you will hear it, you will understand and appreciate it when your precious Savior brings it home. home when he brings you home. For now, just be quiet and believe. And finally and briefly, we look at verse three This describes the business of the children of God. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. In other words, if you believe all this so far, then you must believe also, although you have to wait for some of that blessedness The great majority of it. You don't have to wait for it all. Even though you will be changed then, you nuts must need to begin, needs begin to be changed now, writes the apostle. You see, John was listening carefully to Jesus preaching about the kingdom. The kingdom which is coming and yet is here, now, which is future and is present Which is going to envelop the earth, but now envelops the heart. Lo, it is here. Lo, it is there. Behold, it is within you. So we won't misconstrue John's message. When he says that the believer will purify himself, it's a statement of fact, not an exhortation or a command, and we know what he means. There will be no idea of merit here. No notion of self-salvation. No, this is the child of God, so thankful to know that the Heavenly Father is leading upwards and onwards that he or she Strains every nerve to that end. That is to say, every Christian who hopes to be like Christ hereafter purges himself to be like Christ. Christ here. That's why we have that prayer of confession every Sunday morning here. I'm glad we do. I need to say that. And you The only way is in the fountain for uncleanness at the cross You see, that takes away all merit, doesn't it? But John says it is particularly that hope, the hope that we have of appearing before the perfectly sinless Christ And being made perfectly sinless like him, that's what drives us on to desire as much cleansing of our daily life as we can receive here and now. Remember Jacob at Paniel? I won't let you go until you bless me, he says to God. Living and true God. I won't let you go until you bless me. I think that he was hundreds of years before John ever said the believer purifies himself. Seeking just that. Now back to our text context. 228 says, those won't be ashamed when he comes again who have been abiding in him during this life. Why? Because they will have already been quite a bit purged, purified, and cleansed. We call it sanctification. If even our children want to copy us And we are so imperfect. How much more ought we want, ought we want to be Like Christ, purified as he is pure. Indeed, let all of you here tonight who have the elder brother Thank your Father in heaven that you are allowed to be his dear children, and as such, you are laden with such blessings that you cannot lift up your heads. The doctor and my wife constantly remind me to stand up straight, throw my shoulders back. But there's a sense in which spiritually we we can't really do that. We have to bow our heads in gratitude to our Father in heaven for adopting us, calling us united to be with His Son. And in his son, adopted into his family and called his sons and daughters. Sola Dei Gloria. Say it with me. Sola, Dei Gloria. Hallelujah.