This morning's reading is from the book of Job. In the nineteenth chapter, we'll read verses thirteen through twenty-seven. It's actually twenty-seven A, twenty seven. Job nineteen, verse thirteen through twenty-seven He has put my brothers far from me, and those who knew me are wholly estranged from me. My relatives have failed me. My close friends have forgotten me. The guests in my house and my maidservants count me as a stranger. I have become a foreigner in their eyes. I call to my servant, but he gives me no answer. I must plead with him, I must with with my mouth for mercy. My breath is a stranger is strange to my wife, and I am stenched to the children of my own mother Even young children despise me. When they rise, they talk against me. All my intimate friends abhor me, and those whom I have loved have turned against me My bones stick to my skin and to my flesh, and I have escaped by the skin of my teeth. Have mercy on me, have mercy on me, O you my friends. For the hand of God has touched me. Why do you, like God, pursue me? Why are you not satisfied with my flesh? Oh, that my words were written. Oh, that they were inscribed in a book. Oh, that with an iron pen and lead they were engraved in the rock forever. For I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will stand upon the earth. And after my skin has thus been has been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh I shall see God, whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold and not amazing Another the word of the Lord. John chapter eleven. And we're recounting the whole story just to keep the context fresh before us. John chapter eleven beginning at verse one. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary, and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. But when Jesus heard it, he said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was. Then after this, he said to the disciples, Let us go to Judea again. The disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you. And are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in a day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. If anyone walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought he meant taking rest in sleep. And Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died, and for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe, but let us go to him. So Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go that we may die with him. Now, when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming She went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live, and every one who lives and believes in me Shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Now, when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. And Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come also with her weeping, he was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. So the Jews said, See how he loved him. But some of them said, could not he who have opened the eyes of the blind man also kept this man from dying? Then Jesus moved again, deeply moved, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, and I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said these things he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. So the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered the council and said, What are we to do? This man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation But one of them, Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people Not that the whole nation should perish. He did not say this of his own accord, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation. And not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So from that day on they made plans to put him to death. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Or we pray now that you'll open to us this narrative, this seventh sign. the top of the mountain of Jesus in John's Gospel. We pray that you'll help us to understand it spiritually and apply it to our own lives and hearts, not just to tickle our intellect, but to change us inside out, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I hope that we get two things here today. And they're in the outline. First, behold the works and works of Jesus. The words and works of Jesus. And secondly, believe, personally believe, and see the glory of God. So first I want to show you the words and works of Jesus, and I want to show you Jesus outraged at the enemy. You see it there in verse 33. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping He was deeply moved in his spirit and greatly troubled. And then in verse 38, again, then Jesus deeply moved again. came to the tomb. So Jesus is outraged at the enemy. I can s I tell you that's what I think this deeply moved thing is about Jesus is outraged at his enemy. His enemy is the devil, Satan, sin, and death. Those are enemies. His foes. Now today is September 11th, and patriotic Americans like you are Were deeply moved. Fifteen years ago today. The September 11th attacks were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks by Islamic terrorist group Al-Qaeda on the United States on the morning of September eleventh, which was a Monday that year. The attacks killed 2,996 people injured over six thousand others and caused at least ten billion in property and infrastructure damage and three trillion in total costs. Four passenger planes operated by United and American Airlines were flown into The Twin Towers, the North and South Towers of the World Trade Center Complex in New York City. Within an hour and 42 minutes, Both of those 110-story towers collapsed, causing significant damage to the 10 other structures all around them. The third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, was crashed into the Pentagon, where some of you have worked or do work, leading to a partial collapse of the building's western side. This is certainly vivid to us. The fourth plane, United Airlines 93, initially was steered toward Washington But was crashed into a field in Stony Creek Township near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after the passengers overcame the hijackers. It was the deadliest incident for firefighters and law enforcement officials in the history of the United States, with 343 firefighters killed and 72 law enforcement. Enforcement. Moved deeply by this attack, tens of thousands of young Americans signed up to serve in military service. They wanted to strike back against evil perpetrated against our people. Yes, we were deeply moved, but Jesus feels even more deeply at the tomb. Of his friend, his loved one, Lazarus. Jesus feels the depth of sin and death even more keenly than we might on September 11, 2001. Jesus, you see, is the creator of the world, and he made a good world. And then he created the human race to spread his glory out throughout the whole world. And it was very good. It was created for his glory. Like a master artist who created the most perfect and beautiful masterpiece of artwork ever, who sees it now ruined and defiled. He is moved. And so he has entered this world in human flesh. And he now sees at this tomb and feels at this tomb the suffering and death of his friends, his loved ones, those created in his image And he is outraged, moved deeply in his spirit. One of our hymns, which we're going to sing a bit later, is a typical Christmas hymn But it says in one of those stanzas describing Jesus coming to defeat this enemy, it says about his birth, Forth today the conqueror goeth. Who the foe, sin and woe, death and hell o'er throweth. God is man, man to deliver His dear son now is one with our blood forever. Being with our blood, coming to the tomb of Lazarus, he is moved Brothers and sisters, he is still moved. He is still outraged at sin and all of its consequences. He is moved at outrage at what sin does to your soul. He is moved with outrage at what sin does to your body, how it disintegrates the person you were made to be, his perfect image-bearer. And he is set on rescuing you, his beloved. He sees how sin twists you into something ugly and distorted, far from his design. He knows how it messes with your mind and your will and your emotions. He sees your bitterness and hatred of others sometimes. He sees your shameful lusts, even though no one else may see them. He sees your idolatrous habits, your love for other gods that you set above him. It grieves him and it angers him. And if you belong to him, he will not let it go. The writer of Hebrews gives us one of the ways that God deals with our sin, our idolatry, our twisted ugliness. It says that he loves us and so he disciplines us. It says, have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons, not orphans, but sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him, for the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son whom he receives Now not all suffering, I've said this before, not all suffering comes as a result of being chastised. Sometimes we just don't know how these things happen, why God is doing or what he's doing, we don't know, but sometimes he does use troubles, difficulties to chastise us. And then it says in Hebrews, for it is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? And if you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. And he says, shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live? The Father who created us for the image of God, who created us to glory, to be in his glory. Shall we not much more be subject to this father, the father of spirits, and live? And then he says, for the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant. But later, see, God has a purpose. Later it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it, those who have been shaped by it. God is not okay with us the way we are. He wants us to grow into the likeness of Christ, be shaped. And so when he sees our twisted distortion He says, I'm angry at that. I'm not angry with you. You're my beloved, but I'm angry with the twist. I'm angry with the sin. I'm angry with the idolatry. And I'm going to root it out of you. So behold Jesus at this tomb, outraged at the enemy, and then know that he's also not happy. With our failure to be sanctified, our failure to grow into his likeness, and he wants to shape us into it Secondly, I want you to see Jesus sorrowful with the sorrowing. Not just outraged, but sorrowful. And we get to that in verses 34 and following. And Jesus said, Where have you laid him? And they said, Lord, come and see. And in that verse, the shortest one in the Bible, Jesus wept. Now there were wailers there. Sometimes they were even paid a bit to wail and scream and cry, but it doesn't say that. It says Jesus wept. Tears formed in his eyes and came down his face, Jesus wept. He may have even shaken as he wept. Jesus wept The Jews noticed this. It was visible. And they said, see how he loved him. Jesus wept loving tears. But some of them said, Could not he have opened the eyes of the blind man have also kept this man from dying? Jesus wept. He sorrowed with the sorrowing. He was sorry. He he felt the pain that Martha and Mary felt and that others who loved this man felt. He shared in it. And as I said recently, we are to share. We are to share with others Others at times of grief. We're going to have times of grief. It's inevitable in this world where we live. And we should share together and be comforted. by each other in the promises of the gospel, even in the face of death. Be angry at death and be angry at its cause, but weep. In sadness with those who are sad, like Jesus did. Grieve with those who grieve And it's okay, by the way, to grieve whether it's a tragic loss of a young child Or an aged person who's lived out many, many years, it's okay to be sorry and to be sad and to, in a sense, also feel a sense of outrage against this enemy. Behold Jesus next, constantly and publicly prayerful. Jesus prayerful. Verse forty one And they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said Father, I thank you that you heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me Jesus' life of prayer was constant. He said, You always hear me. His life of prayer was ongoing. He didn't pray for a bit and then get distracted and think about other things. And maybe a couple days later, pray for a bit again. No, he didn't do that. In fact, he thought about everything in the context. Of prayer, a prayerful life, a prayerful observation about everything constantly, and sometimes publicly, to bear witness I dare say that many of us don't talk a lot about Jesus out in public, do we? Now we don't know how to start that conversation. So at least pray publicly. When you sit down, you don't have to raise your voice to heaven and shout out loud, but at least demonstrate that you're dependent upon God. God, that every morsel of food that goes into your body is a gift from Him. Publicly demonstrate your prayers. Not only then, other times too. Don't be afraid to be seen and heard praying. Jesus constantly prayed and publicly prayed. It was so constant with Jesus that in John chapter 10, he could say to those who were listening, If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe in me. But if I do them, even though you do not believe in me, believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me And I am in the Father. There's such a coordination between the Son and the Father that he could say, we're together. I am in the Father, and the Father is in me. And that's the source of his constant praying. He's in tune with God. When he's in traffic, when he's in the grocery store, when he's anywhere he would be He's in tune with God in prayer, and he prays publicly at times. The Apostle Paul, writing to the Thessalonians, says, Rejoice always. How often? Always. Pray without ceasing. What? Give thanks in all circumstances For this is the what? The will of God in Christ for you. And then he adds this line. As if we, so we can understand what it means not to do that, do not quench the Spirit. The Holy Spirit has been given to us, who indwells us. And so when we Don't quench the Spirit. We will rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances, because we don't quench the Spirit. The Spirit puts these things into our Okay? Constantly and publicly. That's our Lord. And then our Lord is finally authoritative in command. Verse 43 and When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. By the way, this voice that he used, this this mouth, this voice of God the Son, is the same voice that called all creation into existence. The voice that in Genesis 1 said, let there be, and it was. This is the same voice. Jesus didn't have to do some incantation and pull out a cloth and do some tricks, or mumble some secret words like the satanic enchanters in Isaiah's day, who he describes as those who mutter and peep. He spoke and he said, Lazarus, come out. And verse 44, the man who had died came out. out his hands and feet bound with linen strips and his face wrapped with a cloth. That's the way they put people In the tomb in those days. Now, children, I told you that there was a question about exactly how Lazarus came out of the tomb, but Looking at the burial customs and even the description here, it's probably the case that he was laid on a shelf, kind of a bunk That is Lazarus was. And so probably when he heard the voice of Jesus and the work of God in him caused him to live again, he probably kind of swung his legs over and he probably started hopping because they bound their legs together and their hands to the sides, all bound up. So he probably had to kind of hop, right? And hopped his way out of the tomb. And when he came out, Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. Let him go. Let him go back to his sisters. Let him go back to his life. Let him go home. And let him go to proclaim the glory of God. I think we can also make a spiritual metaphor here. When we have been spiritually raised from the dead, and there's a definite parallel, I think, that John has going here, when we have been raised spiritually from the dead, we're still bound up. We're bound up with some of our bad habits and some of our lusts and some of our things that God is still wanting to get rid of in our lives. We need to be unbound from the wrappings of death. Jesus didn't say, Bring him here and I'll unbind him. I mean that would work too. That would be theologically correct, but in fact he says to those others, unbind him and let him go. So I'm going to make this application. God has called his people to be into a church. He's called his people to be in the body of Christ, a congregation, real people gathered together, serving together, loving together Someone has said like like porcupines we we prick each other, right? But we'd rather be together than apart. And together the grave clothes come off as we love each other, as we encourage each other, as we admonish sometimes one another, the grave clothes come off The bindings come off. And we're set free more and more. Part of our sanctification, part of our being made like Christ, is to live in community, to share together, to encourage. And sometimes even to correct in love one another. Unbind him and let him go. May we be unbound and let go for the glory of God. So there's Jesus. That's Jesus' words and works. I hope you see how wonderful they are. But we have also, as I said at the beginning. This final part. I want you to believe and see the glory of God. And we come to the verdict of the people in verses 45 through 53. I'm not going to read it again. But John and the Holy Spirit, working together, the writers of this gospel, want those who read it and those who hear it to make a decision. This isn't just interesting stuff, story after story. No, it's meant to bring people to a decision, to make some sort of verdict about these things. That's what John said at the beginning of the gospel back in chapter 3, in the very familiar words: For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. And then in verse 19 of that same text, and this is the verdict, that light has come into the world, and people love the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. We see the verdict here of the people. Some believe and some don't. Verse 40 Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? If you believe, you will see the glory of God. This is before he raises Lazarus from the dead. John Piper says: the glory of God is the infinite beauty and greatness of the gl Of his manifold perfections. Psalm 19 says the heavens are telling the glory of God. What does that mean? It means that in the creation, God is shouting at us. He shouts with the clouds. He shouts with the blue expanse in the sky. He shouts with the gold sunset on the horizon. He shouts with galaxies and stars, and he is shouting, I am glorious. Open your eyes and see my glory. Glory. The Bible also tells us in Isaiah chapter 6 how the holy angels continually cry, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty, the whole earth is Is full of his glory. The whole earth proclaims the glory of God everywhere. And if we have eyes to see, we will see the glory of God everywhere. We need eyes of faith. That's the eyes that are needed. We need these eyes more than we need anything else. Because the God of this world, Paul says, has blinded the minds of unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the knowledge of the glory of Christ. in the gospel. Now everyone who was there at that tomb that day, everyone saw the miracle, but only those who believed If you believe, you'll see the glory of God. Only those who believe saw the glory of God in the miracle. There's the old saying, seeing is believing. Well, no, it's not. Not in this case, because it says in verse 45, many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary And had seen what he did, believed in him. There's the verdict. They believed in him. But then the next verdict. But some of them others. Some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. They saw it too, didn't they? They reported The chief priests and Pharisees gathered the council and said, What are we to do? For this man performs many signs. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him. They don't want that to happen. Because then the Romans, the Romans, this is Israel, but now the Romans are ruling Israel. just allowed to occupy it and keep our own little system of local government and have our own little system of worship As long as the Romans approve. But if you believe in Jesus, the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. They'll ruin our status quo. That's what they were worried about. That's why the God of this world had blinded their minds from the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Even though they saw the miracle, they did not believe. You cannot prove God's existence. You cannot demonstrate enough miracles If people who don't have the work of the Holy Spirit in them, who don't want to believe these things, see a miracle on the spot, they will not believe. That's what happened here Interestingly, one of them, Caiaphas, verse 49, who was the high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people He said that. Hey, it's better to string him up, stone him, crucify him, whatever. It's better to kill one man than that we should all lose our place and our nation be taken away. It's in a sense what he said. But John says he did not say this of his own accord. But being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation. Sometimes those who bear the office of Leader, speak the truth, even unwittingly, and he did. And then John says, and not for the nation only He's telling everybody is this gospel, not for the nation only, but also to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. He sees the great purpose of God in all this, in the death of Jesus coming. So from that day on, they made plans to put him to death. I quoted one of the verses of that hymn that we're going to sing, but there's another. It says, He becomes the Lamb that taketh sin away. And for a full atonement maketh. For our life, his own he tenders, and our race by his grace meet for glory. Renders. These men were occupied, pre-occupied with their fragile positions as leaders, even though they were just puppets under the Romans Their positions would soon be gone. Their lives would soon be over. But they were focused on what was right before them. The status quo, money, power, position, and they wouldn't be bothered with God and truth and justice and righteousness and eternity. Eternity, even though they were supposed to represent these things as the Jewish leaders. No. They were quite willing to sacrifice a good man, a rabbi. A godly man, a man who raised Lazarus from the dead in order to protect their own sad little lives. That's the depth of human blindness. Now I ask you, are you willing to ignore Jesus? Are you willing to say, well, I've got my plans, I've got my things, I've got my hopes, I've got my dreams, I've got my money, I've got all kinds of stuff I've I gotta do, especially if you're young And I'll just push Jesus over here until later, maybe. Are you willing to ignore Jesus? Or do you see who he is and so believe into him and see in him the glory of God, your hope, your true destiny. 1 Corinthians, the 2 Corinthians chapter 4, God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, Paul says to these Corinthians, has shone in our hearts. Do you want that shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. That's where it is. As you see this man, his words, his works, his face, you see the glory of God if you believe. What is your verdict? Do you believe? And so believing, see the glory of God Glory of God. Amen. Lord, we thank you for The Holy Spirit's work in the writing of this gospel, we thank you for the Holy Spirit's work even here today, as we are challenged. To be unbinding each other and being set free from sin and death, as we are challenged to see the glory of God. In the raising of Lazarus from the dead, as we're called to, challenged to believe and see the glory of God, make a decision to follow Him. I pray for everyone here. In Jesus' name, amen.