Congregation, our first truth of reading tonight is from 2 Corinthians 10, verses 1 through 17. 2 Corinthians 10, 1 through 17. I, Paul, myself entreat you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ. I who am humble when face to face with you, but bold toward you when I am away, I beg of you that when I am present I might not have to show boldness with such confidence as I count on showing against some who suspect us of walking according to the flesh For though we walk in the flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive. To obey Christ, being ready to punish every disobedience when your obedience is complete. Look at what is before your eyes. If anyone is confident that he is Christ's, let him remind himself that just as he is Christ, so also are we. For even if I boast a little too much of our authority, which the Lord gave for building you up and not for destroying you, I will not be ashamed. I do not want to appear to be frightening you with my letters, for they say his letters are weighty and strong, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech of no account Let such a person understand that what we say by letter when absent we do when present. Not that we dare to classify or compare ourselves with some of those who are content commending themselves But when they measure themselves by one another and compare themselves with one another, they are without understanding. But we will not boast beyond limits But we will boast only with regard to the area of influence God assigned to us, to teach reach even to you, for we are not overextending ourselves as though we did not reach you. We were the first to come all the way to you with the gospel of Christ. We do not boast beyond limit in the labor of others. But our hope is that as your faith increases, our area of influence among you may be greatly enlarged, so that we may preach the gospel in lands beyond you without boasting of work already done in another area of influence. Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. The second reading is our text tonight. Which is 1 Peter 3, verses 13 through 18a. Now, who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled. But in your hearts regard Christ the Lord as holy. Always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience So that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Stop right there, even though it's in the middle of a sentence. Because we will go in, God willing, to the rest of that passage at another day. Beloved Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, if you have been following the national news lately, You will notice that there is currently a somewhat hot debate raging over the effectiveness or non-effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccinations. Don't worry. I'm not going to take sides on this matter, at least in this sermon. But rather just to use it as an introduction to our text, which is concerned not with immunity to physical health threats but with immunity to spiritual health threats, if indeed there is such. The apostle seems to be saying that consistent Christians have immunity to real damage when it comes to the realm of the Spirit. They're inoculated. And the argument of our text tonight seems to be that it is more important to do good than it is to avoid being harmed. Look at verse 13. Now, who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? This seems to be an implied promise, doesn't it? That harm will not come to those who seek to do good. However, the question will not down. What becomes of that promise since we face the evidential fact that everybody suffers harm? Even good people. Well, the answer comes immediately in verse 14. But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, You will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled. So, believers Don't be afraid. Rather, according to verse 15, in your hearts regard Christ the Lord as holy. That is, enthrone him in your inmost being. That vaccination that is truly effective. Suffering will prove a vehicle, furthermore, for witness to the gospel, it appears. Peter goes on to say, because people will have to question the ground of your hope, and you will have opportunity to present Christ to them. Never, however, do this defensively and pugnaciously, according to verse 16. You are strong in the right, with a clear conscience and never have to shine or plead against those who reject your witness. In fact, God may very well be pleased to work faith in those very people who seem so hardened and bring them to a complete about face that could happen in your lifetime. Finally, as we survey tonight briefly the contents of this text, you are not called to request suffering in some masochistic way If it comes, it comes according to God's will, and that's okay. Altogether, okay. So you don't need inoculation against evil. You are called to accept such gladly, knowing that you belong to God. Through his grace in Christ, those of you who do. Thus it is better, far better. To suffer as one who knows he is in the center of God's loving will, than as one who is able only to see that his trouble springs from his own evil doing. Listen to verse 17. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will. Than for doing evil. So that brings me to my proposition this evening. This is what the sermon is all about. The Christians' confidence in the face of persecution is the ultimate victory of those united by faith to Jesus Christ. So they cannot be scorched in soul by fiery persecution because they rest in the protection of God, and are thus invulnerable to final harm. A kind of vaccination. And I'm breaking up that proposition in three points. First, dealing with persecution, dealing with it. One thing is sure, there are many troubles in this world, often caused by harm dealt by other people upon us and other innocent victims. Jesus said Woe to the world because of its stumbling blocks, for it is inevitable that stumbling blocks come. And the Apostle Paul put it this way, adding, there must also be factions among you. According to this chapter of Peter's letter, one of the purposes of redemption includes our dealing With these results of sin. And if you are a Christian, you can and must deal differently than the people of this world do in the face of these troubles. They get them too, as you get them, but you have to deal with them differently. Not only as a single person or in a marriage, but in all spheres of your existence. This text, my friends, is very, very practical. That is plain from Psalm 34, quoted by Peter just prior to our text. Listen. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. The whole of 1 Peter 3 comes to a climax in our text tonight. Here we have the rhetorical question of verse 13. Now, who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good? Surely Peter was aware of Stephen's stoning, don't you think? He knew the beheading of James, the son of Zebedee. He certainly knew his own imprisonment He knew the sufferings of Paul and probably countless others persecuted because of Jesus. How then can he ask the question, who is there to harm you? And expect the answer, nobody. Didn't all the martyrs die? Hasn't their flesh been torn? Hasn't their blood been spilt? Yes, of course it has. But what is it to be truly harmed? Verse 12, just prior to our text, tells us what it is. Listen again. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. To have the Lord God against you, that is harm indeed, isn't it? And believers are safe from it. What is the explanation of their bold fearlessness in the face of enemies? Our passage gives the answer repeatedly, over and again. It is verse 16, having a good conscience Verse 14, suffering for righteousness' sake. Verse 13, proving zealous for what is good. Verse 17, suffering for doing what is right. All these follow Jesus' example. They're not ashamed. They do what is right and they trust God. However, a a consciousness, I'm afraid, of privately indulged sin, guess what? Will dog a Christian in all that he does. And will make a coward out of him in the face of trouble. But a right relation with God will have the opposite effects. King David forms a clear example of this. But he went out against Goliath like a lion. But then after his sin with Bathsheba, he more resembled a pussycat than a lion. Or take Peter himself. After he had dealt with his own self-seeking sinfulness and fear, he was no longer tempted to deny his Lord. but boldly defied the hostile rulers of the Jews. True is the proverb When a man's ways are pleasing to the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him. Isn't that something? You see, the secret of confidence in the face of persecution is just trust. Later, Peter would write in chapter 4, verse 19, Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will and trust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. Trust Him. But know this: trust in the sovereign God, who is in charge, is not to be exercised only when one has done good. But also when bad has been done to him. Both are true And if you need strength to deal with the sins of other people against you, you need to repent of your sins against them. It's like in the Lord's Prayer, isn't it? The secret here is assuredly true faith and genuine repentance. Peter says that you deal well with harm if you are. Zealous for what is good. Zealous. Zealous for the right burn with earnest desire. It's not that they withstand trouble because they submit weakly to the superior might which wins out over them. It's not that they give in or give up to the will of those who do them evil and harm. They have a zeal for righteousness, both in themselves and in others. They want their persecutors to be converted, and they pray for them. Or if those persecutors are actually believers, that they will repent and stop doing evil. In any case, Peter says, have no fear of them. Let me seek to apply this text to you, my friends. Do you receive persecution? Indeed, sometimes you suffer justly, don't you? Although you don't always see that you suffer justly. 1 Peter 2. 20A says, What credit is it? When you sin and are beaten for it, you should endure. You deserved it It was good for you. And you shouldn't complain at all when that occurs. But sometimes you do suffer unjustly. People don't always do right By you, as you know. Well now, how do you react then? Peter has already dealt with the wrong way for you to react in speech by hollering, complaining, and gossiping, particularly to other people than the people that are doing the harm. Or blaming others and repaying evil for evil. Or just unbelief that the Lord knows and answers your cry. I don't think he does. Or just plain denial of God's judgment, that He knows how to settle matters. These are all wrong ways. To react to persecution. Well then, what is the right way to react when you suffer unjustly? The answer is given in verse 14. In your hearts, regard Christ the Lord as holy Give him first place. Set him apart as Lord, rather than the fear which others inspire in us. Let him, not it, rule you. Troubles are all around you, and you have to learn whom you serve. Remember that, please, next, when sickness dogs at your steps With pain and disability. Your child is seemingly unresponsive to discipline. Perhaps your husband or your wife lets you down miserably. Can happen. Your parent will not take the time to even try to understand you. Or your friend, so called, cuts you down publicly. Whoa. You deal with persecution by hearing the word of the Lord in verse 14. But even If you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled. Be thankful because of God's great salvation and a humble recognition that He knows what He is doing and has His purposes. In all your troubles. If you don't know how to handle persecution, listen to what God tells you. Set apart Christ in your heart. Have no fear of them, and do not be troubled. Whom do you serve, anyway? Don't cope. Conquer. You have a higher calling than that modeled by this world. Secondly, let's talk about welcoming persecution. Welcoming persecution? Maybe you think this is too strong a verb. How in the world can you welcome it? Yet the Bible says through the Apostle James, consider it all joy when you encounter various trials. And Peter, here in our text tonight, sees persecution as involving opportunity. Consider verse 15b. Always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. The Greek word for a defense is apologia, an apology, a reason. The word originally referred to the defense put up by an accused person on trial. In Christian terminology, it came to mean an explanation for the faith. Seminary students take a course in apologetics. Sometimes it takes them This course is designed to equip them biblically to answer the gainsayers, to tell them why they believe what they believe. Literally, apologia means to talk off from. And was used of an attorney who talked his client off from A charge preferred against him. He presented a verbal defense. Now God doesn't need your defense. He can take care of himself. And his word stands without any crutch which you might pretend to supply. But what Peter is after here is a believer in the midst of trouble not going to pieces. But rather using the opportunity to tell why he doesn't fold. The world wants to know whether your faith is anything more than mumbo jumbo. I starkly remember Anna Strickwerda. Are any of you old enough to remember that name? Nobody here. Anna Strikwerda was a nurse in the OPC's Missionary Hospital in Ginda Eritrea. Way back in the 1950s, maybe that's why nobody raised their hand. Anna Strick was murdered by Muslim persecutors. Who hated her testimony to the gospel of Christ. And when KYWTV in Philadelphia asked John Galbraith, our Foreign Missions General Secretary, Why in the world are your nurses there? John told them. And he told them the answer in no uncertain terms, if you know John Galbraith. Then I remind you of the blind man, whom Jesus miraculously healed, who said, This I know, that whereas I was blind, now I see. That was because, as Jesus said, he had that trouble for the glory of God. I want to say something here too about intellectual persecution. You will get that. You have already in all probability. If you don't, then probably nobody knows that you are a Christian. But you want them to know that, don't you? That's another reason for welcoming persecution. And you need to know how to act at times like that. God tells you in 2 Corinthians 10, 4 and 5. That's why we read that passage. The weapons we fight with are not the weapons of the world. On the contrary, we have divine power. To demolish strongholds. We demolish arguments and every pretension that acts itself up against the knowledge of God. And we take captive every thought to make it obedient to Christ. Especially you need to be fortifying the young people of grace and peace, OPC, so that they might be prepared to do just that. By setting forth Christ as Lord in their hearts. That's what you should be praying earnestly for and working to achieve and to see achieved in the hearts of these our young people. And what is that? Well, it's not a mere intellectual exercise that's satisfied by a cursory recital of liturgical passages or documents. Or even biblical stories, for that matter, important as they both are. In their hearts regarding Christ as holy will be produced in our young people As they see it in their parents, in their elders, and in their fellow church members Sadly, we sometimes need rather to be taught ourselves rather than to teach. For we have so much to learn and to put in practice in our own lives. But then let us demonstrate it to the young people in this our church. And one of the very best areas for their true learning of it is that of trouble. And they watch you. They watch how you react when trouble comes your way. The young are watching you elders, you adults who are supposed to show them the way to do it. When disagreement, when bitterness creeps into the church, They will want to know how your faith sustains you. Do you care enough for God's truth to study His Word in times like that for direction and guidance? Or do you take whatever action you feel like taking? Whatever action seems the easiest, or which appears politically most advantageous to yourself. Or are you people of principle who do the right? Only such people Have set apart Jesus as Lord in their hearts. And finally, under this second point Do you courageously accept the rebuke of Jesus the Lord when He has something against you? When you are revealed as cool in zeal for him and for his kingdom, when sin in the camp may no longer be hidden. Yes, in that tribulation, for it's not enjoyable at all It can be not downright embarrassing. But even more, it ought to distress you that you have offended your Lord. In that tribulation, the tribulation of conviction of sin How do you react? Do you welcome it? Or do you respond with old excuses? Pitiful defenses and scrambling appeals to your past small obedience. And the youth are watching. As I said, they need to learn. And they will learn it more by example than they will by precept. Now finally and more briefly, valuing persecution, valuing it. Listen to verse 16. Yet do it with gentleness and respect, having a good conscience, so that when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. Huh? Peter seems to be telling us what God just might do as a result of your good behavior in the face of their persecuting you. Sometimes, as he says, evildoers who make false charges against you, literally who talk or put you down, whether it is an attack against you as persons Or the faith you profess, that they may be put to shame, can happen. On the contrary, of course, vindication may never be given in this life Or at least in the lives of those who suffer, perhaps even unto death. But the God who gave the supreme demonstration of vindication In the resurrection of his son, we'll see to it that the blood of the martyrs will be the seed of the church. The martyrs died, and their blood became the seed from which grew new members for the church. Those who persecute them will, in some cases, themselves become saved and be incorporated into that same church they hated. The seed of the martyr's blood will truly spring forth into the plants of new life in Christ's body. Their testimony will go on and on. Those who suffer with Christ will not only reign with him, but their suffering will be used by the Supreme King. to bring others into his kingdom. That's why I speak of valuing persecution. And I ask you, dear friends, are you looking for a way to witness to others the gospel of Christ? You may think that not many opportunities come your way to do just that. But you really could be wrong. There really are more, far more, than you are willing to admit, aren't there, according to tonight's text. One thing is for sure. If you are a believer, then troubles will come your way. You will experience persecution of one kind or another. And tonight's text says, there's your chance To be a witness. It will be so. So don't blow the opportunity Oh congregation, when will we begin to make the impact upon our world that we should and could? When we deal with persecution biblically, Peter says, when we see it as an opportunity for witness, when we really overcome it in resurrection hope. Then that's something of real value. Two it is that most are reluctant to pay the price of faith in the face of threatened death. Few, if any, of you, will be called upon to face that. Honest word, it did. But to pay the price of faith in the face of threatened life, ah, that's another thing altogether. Your life not as comfortable, not as easy, not as rich, not as pampered as you thought it would be. Facing such as a result of persecution could indeed present for you an unhappy future, to be sure. But let this conclusion of tonight's sermon ring In your ears tonight. Verse 17. For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will. Than for doing evil. May God let us all see and believe what He wants to do in us Because what he wants to do in us springs from what he did for us. According to verse 18. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us. To God. Thanks indeed be to God, who always leads us in triumph. Amen.