We'll read from Numbers chapter six, verses twenty-two through twenty-seven. Numbers six, twenty-two. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to Aaron and his son, saying, Thus you shall bless the people of Israel. You shall say to them, The Lord bless you and keep you, the Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. So shall they put my name upon the people of Israel, and I will bless them. The word of the Lord. The preaching text is from James chapter 3, beginning at verse 13, and going through chapter 4, beginning at verse, or ending at verse 12, James 3, 13. Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct, let him show his works in meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast and be false to the truth. For this is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you Is it not this that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. You adulterous people, do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says, He yearns jealously over the spirit he has made to dwell in us? But he gives more grace. Therefore, it says, God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify you hearts, you double-minded. Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. Do not speak evil against one another, brothers The one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks evil against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your brother, your neighbor? Come now, you who say, today or tomorrow, we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead you ought to say, If the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. As it is you boast in your arrogance, all such boasting is evil. So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Oh Lord, now by your Spirit who inspired your word to be Written and preserved and delivered to us by the same Spirit, speak to us, illumine this word into our life. lives and hearts, that we might live in grace and love and mercy and peace, and we might be like Christ. Amen. Well, it is a good group here today, considering the weather. But let me just say this. At the beginning, we were created for peace. We were created to be peaceful beings. God didn't create us for strife and trouble and Hurt and anger and rage. No, he created us for peace. You can see that as you see God walking with us in the garden in Genesis It is described there as God kind of blowing through the garden in the evening. He is the Spirit who blows through the garden or walks through the garden in the cool of the evening. What is being depicted there is a peaceful stroll with God. Man in perfect unity with God. No worry, no fear, no strife, nothing. Just perfect peace with God going through the garden. What a wonderful picture. And even before the fall, even the same picture was found with With brother and sister, or husband and wife, with Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve, well, it doesn't tell us all about it, but we can understand that they lived in perfect delight Perfect harmony, perfect peace, until sin entered the picture. Divine wisdom, which James is talking about here, tells us about this peace. As it was, first of all, but as it is recovered in the work of Jesus Christ. In Jesus Christ, new creation. the city. So new peace, a rebirth, a renewal of peace that we once had in the garden. In the context of this letter of James to all Christians, this isn't a letter written to one church like Ephesus or Corinth or Colosse. No, it's written as a general letter to all Christians everywhere. He is telling us about, first of all, about acceptance with God. And justification by faith and adoption. Adoption. Now, let me just stop there and talk about adoption for a second, because adoption is also in the New Testament called sonship. And some of the women in our society these days might say, I don't like that. It sounds very male-oriented and not, you know, let's not talk about sonship. Let's talk about something else. No, sonship is important for this reason. Because in those days when a wealthy person had no heirs, a wealthy man in particular, had no heirs, but had servants, and it came to the time that he was realizing he was not going to have any. any children, was too past the time, wasn't going to happen, then he would take one of his favorite servants. And he would take him from being a servant, a paid worker and adopt him and make him an heir of everything so that he would have someone to take all that he had accumulated and be trusted with it. So when God says that we are sons, please don't take it as against women in any way. It's about being heirs. It's about being privileged and being given great responsibility. So James is telling us about our responsibility as heirs, as sons. It's a wonderful thing. And so he's teaching us, and in verse 13, he says, Who is wise and understanding among you? Who's got this picture of what God is doing in the new creation? By his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. The meekness of wisdom. Well, what's that about? It doesn't sound like something that uh is very attractive. Meekness sounds kind of like someone who's real shy and who can't interact with people. That's not what we're talking about because in in Matthew 11, 28 and 29, Jesus says, Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am meek. Gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. The Creator, the new creation, Jesus Christ, says meekness is a good thing. Gentleness is a good thing. It's peace, you see, put into practice. So if you're wise and understanding about this gospel, By your good conduct, you should show it in meekness of wisdom. But verse 14, but if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast and be false to the truth. This is not the wisdom that comes down from above. Now the world's wisdom is get what you can, get them before they get you, take revenge when you get a chance. Stick it to 'em. That's the world's wisdom, isn't it? Yeah. Me first. This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but it's earthly. It's earthly. It's the way the world thinks, the earth, the people of the earth think. It's unspiritual, he says, and demonic. So that's not the way to be. Then he explains more in verse 16, for where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice. Now contrast, verse 17. But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable. Gentle, that's Jesus again, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. It's not fake. And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace, there it is again, by those who make peace. So the gospel is about peace. It's about renewing what we once were. And then he talks in verse 1 of chapter 4 about the fallen wisdom of the world. What causes quarrels and fights among you? It's amazing that this is addressed to Christians. Can that really be that Christians would have quarrels and fights? Yeah, sorry to say. What causes quarrels and fights among you, is it not this that your passions are at war within you? We'll get unpacked that a bit. Your desire, you desire, or in the Greek it's epiphymia, it's over-desire. You over-desire and do not have. So you murder. Wow, what a thing to think that Christians murder? Uh well, I suppose there have been actual cases of murder amongst Christians. I have to confess that there have been moments that I have had murderous feelings in my heart. I've never actually committed one. But he's got it right. The diagnosis is correct. So you murder. You covet and cannot obtain. So you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask. He says, you don't have what you want because you don't ask. That's the first possibility. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. You've got a wrong motive in the first place. And so that leads to all this anger and stress and rage. That's not what we were created for, folks. It is not. Now, I've been studying this lately. I was reading my cardiac rehab manual. And one of the factors of cardiovascular disease is uh stress. So I wanted to get a understanding of this stress thing. Here it is. When you have stress, there's an overproduction of testosterone in men, and then epinephrine, norepinephrine, and cortisol Which tend to make the blood cells sticky. Not a good thing. Epinephrine, also called adrenaline, causes elevated blood pressure. and an increased heart rate, which if chronic, some people live in this all the time, if chronic, may create tiny tears in the walls of arteries to which the sticky blood cells may stick and form a clod. Additionally, when blood is shunted away from the liver, is all this excitement, the liver becomes less effective in processing cholesterol. Increasing the opportunity for fatty deposits to form in the tears of the artery walls damaged by the high blood pressure, thus forming plaque blockages on the walls of arteries. You get the picture. Stress is wrong. It's not what we were made for, and it does have real consequences. We were not made for stress, but for peace and joy. And James is addressing that. And he says in verse 4, the root problem is spiritual. Spiritual. In verse 4, he says, you adulterous people. Wow. What does that mean? What is adultery? It's when someone has made a commitment to be faithful to their spouse. And then they break that commitment and are unfaithful to their spouse. There's a promise of loyalty here, and there's another loyalty over here. There's a divided loyalty. That's adulterous It's standing in God's new creation as a Christian while obeying the fallen world's advice. At the same time. See, that's the it's a tear, it's a split personality. He says, Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? You can't have God as your friend and the world as your friend. It doesn't work. Split. Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Do you not suppose it is to no purpose the Scripture says he yearns jealously over the Spirit He has made to dwell in us? God is a jealous lover. He commands our loyalty. And we promised our loyalty to him. But we're split, you know? And then he says, this is an encouraging note in verse 6, but he gives more grace. Isn't that great? Even when we're standing in this split way, God gives more grace. Therefore, it says God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. He gives more grace. R. V. G. Tasker says it is assumed by James that Christians, however great may be their temporary backslidings, are fundamentally humble. And are therefore the fitting recipients of the grace which God is ready to bestow upon all who are meek and contrite in heart. What is the cure? The cure to this split personality. Let me describe the split again in terms that maybe some of you who drive vehicles can can understand. understand. Have you ever driven a vehicle and you're going down the road, I may have used this illustration before, I know I have with some people. You're going down the road and boy, it's really, it's really yanking to the right. You're having to wrestle the Steering wheel to keep it from going to the right or the left, whichever way it is. And uh you know what's going on here? You got a bad alignment There's a split between the way the car wants to go because of its bad alignment and the way you want it to go down the road It's a struggle, it's rage. And if you keep going faster and faster, it just gets worse and starts vibrating, and it's really hard to yank it back. It's very dangerous. The cure to this split, he says in verse 7: Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Since God is your spouse, you've pledged your loyalty to God, submit to God. Resist the devil. Say no to the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts, you double-minded. See, there's the bad alignment. I want to go this way, but I want to go that way. No. I want to be loyal to God, but I also want to be loyal to the world's wisdom. No. He says in verse nine. Get a grip on this. He says, be wretched. Don't be happy with this condition. Don't get used to it. Come on. Be wretched and mourn. And weep. Don't let this be the way you're supposed to be. Quit laughing at it as if it's okay. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Get gloomy about it. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and He will exalt you. And then He says: as a result of your submitting to God and drawing near to God and turning away from the devil and He says, therefore, verse 11, do not speak evil against one another, brothers. See, that's that's that rage thing coming out. I'm speaking evil. Even if it's quiet, I'm just speaking evil about you. He says, because the one who speaks against a brother or judges a brother speaks against the law and judges the law. What did the law say? What did the law of God say? Love your neighbor as yourself. So when you don't love your neighbor as yourself, when you don't regard your neighbor as you would like to be regarded in yourself, You're basically saying, I don't care what the law says. I'll do what I feel like doing. But if you judge the law, and you think you're a good lawkeeper, if you judge the law, you're not a doer of the law, but a judge. There's only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? So there it is. And then finally, this last bit, another expression of arrogance, another expression of uh avarice Come now, you who say today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. You're not God. What is your life? You are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. It is you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. So whatever you know to do, through whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin. Okay, well, that's the teaching. Now let's put some uh application to it, some lessons here. I've said some of these things, but I'll reiterate them. First, put on humility. in Christ, because you're part of the new creation, because you're justified by faith, because you have peace with God, legally at least. Put on humility. A humble person accepts the reality of what God has ordained without expecting complete equality of wealth and health and physical and mental abilities and gifts and offices. So you don't have to be jealous of someone else's wealth or someone else's health or someone else's beauty or someone else's brilliance or gifts or offices. Instead, you rejoice in the gifts and graces and successes of others. That's the Christian attitude, isn't it? That's the biblical attitude. That's the healed, new creation attitude If you were like this, you will see yourself as a creature, which you are, limited, and you will see others as God's image bears all around you. Little pictures of God. And you will rejoice in the gifts and graces and successes of others. And I can say this as a testimony that in the years that we've had a session here in the past few years, our four members of the session Have learned, haven't we, brothers, to rejoice in the gifts and graces of each other? We're not all the same. We're quite different. We have varying opinions and viewpoints. But we have learned to appreciate the gifts and graces of others, and not just to think of our own point of view. If you're this kind of person, you will seek the wisdom that comes from God and obey his command to love others. That'll be your main point of view. This kind of person also is not passive in the face of injustice. They do what they can to make things right, but ultimately they rely on God to right the wrongs that can't be Riot right now. They refuse to retaliate, they refuse to take vengeance, they don't get caught up in that. This humble person in Christ does not have a low opinion of self. That meek idea isn't me Oh, I'm nothing. I'm just nobody. I'm just gone, you know. No, a person like that does not have a low opinion of self, but instead is not occupied with self at all. That's what What meekness is. Does this sound good to you? Does this sound like peace? Deeds done with this kind of humility are the result of heavenly wisdom. And they are pure and considerate and submissive. Verse 17, they're full of mercy and good fruit. Verse, they're impartial and sincere. There's no hidden motive. No double motive. And by the way, this is what James, the writer here, saw in his half-brother Jesus. These attributes, these attitudes. Because his half-brother Jesus was the eternal word of the Father. who is the second person of the Trinity, who is God beyond all telling, very God of very God, rich beyond all splendor, and he, considering our need, desires Desiring our peace came down to save sinners. See, he's full of mercy. And submitting to the Father, even to the painful and shameful death of the cross, he served. you and me. So be humble like him. And then secondly, put off worldly pride. Worldly pride is the product of worldly wisdom, which is earthbound, fallen earthbound. Heaven's perspective is locked out by earthbound thinking. And it leads to bitter jealousy. That's a desire for another person's place, possessions And that festers and becomes bitter from dissatisfaction. Bitter jealousy, when active, shows itself in selfish ambition that's described here. Well that is wanting to rise higher in life and being willing to rise at the expense of others. I'll step on others on my way up. Worldly pride produces quarrels and slander and makes a mockery of prayer by demanding of God things wrongly desired. I heard the story long ago of a little child who was heard praying in the presence of his dad. Dear God, please help Daddy to do for me what I want him to do. See? There it is. Worldly pride says, everybody exists to serve me, even God. Do you see how opposite this is? Of godly humility, how opposite of heavenly wisdom. And then there's one final example, this worldly pride, which we read from verses 13 down through 17. And that is the situation of the person who says, today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. What does God say to that? Now, the problem here is not planning. Planning is fine. We all have to plan, you know. The problem is in planning as if you yourself are God. As if you controlled the world and all the variables. The truth is that we are quite dependent. We are fragile. We are temporary. We are a mist. Just a little dew on the grass, and it evaporates, and it's gone So I ask you a question now. Are you from Chicago or from Carbondale? Hmm? What? The motto of the city of Chicago is I Will! The motto of the city of Carbondale, Illinois, in southern Illinois, is: if God wills, worldly pride is from, worldly wisdom is from the devil Who said, I will ascend. Christ's half-brother, James, and our Savior said, Not my will. But thine be done. Thirdly, resist the devil. Here human effort is called for. Human effort empowered by the Holy Spirit You have to make a decision, folks, to resist the devil. He is real and he is active. You do this not by having an exorcism But by saying no to the devil's ways and to the world's wisdom. There are imperatives here. The imperatives listed are submit to God Resist the devil. Come near to God. And what it means is stop viewing worldly wisdom and pride as if it were not a problem. See, if we if we're oriented toward the world's way of thinking, Pride is fine. Worldly wisdom is fine. Getting back is fine. Being angry is normal. good. Double-mindedness, which James describes. One mind here, one mind there That misalignment thing again? This is a problem. Trying to be like the world in words and attitudes and actions and dress and priorities is a problem for a Christian anyway So he says, Cleanse your hands, you Christians who are this way. Purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Don't let it be this way. And fourthly, imitate Christ. Imitate Christ. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. Again, we were made As I said earlier, we were made for peace. We were created for peace. Hostile stress is the result of sin in ourselves and others. The gospel of God's free, undeserved grace relieves you of the terror of the law and your guilt before God. But this same gospel must also change you from worldly, proud, hostile, envious ways which are against your covenant with God, and instead make you like Christ. Then you will enjoy the peace of Christ. This heavenly wisdom is James says it's peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace There it is. There are the prescriptions for us. Let us pray. Deliver us, good Lord, from worldly pride that still clings to you. us. Deliver us by your word and spirit. Clothe us in the humility of Christ our Redeemer That we might show ourselves and the world that we are the loyal spouse of God, our husband. Amen.