Chapter two, beginning at verse eleven, into chapter three, verse fourteen But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned For before certain men came from James, he was healing with the Gentiles, but when they came, he drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party And the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him so that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel, I said to see this before them all. If you, though it you Live like a Gentile and not like a Jew. How can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews? We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. But if in our endeavor to be justified in Christ we too were found to be sinners Is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not. For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. For through the law I died to the law so that I might live to God. I've been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for righteousness were through the law, and Christ died for no purpose. O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified Let me ask you only this Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you suffer so many things in vain? If indeed it was in vain, does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law or by carry with faith Just as Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness, know then that it is those of faith who are sons of Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. For all who rely on the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law and do them Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law for the righteous shall live by faith. But the law is not of faith, rather, the one who does them shall live by them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is every one who is hanged on a tree. so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. The word of the Lord. Abacuc chapter two. Now we're going to particularly look at verses one to four, but I'm going to read the whole chapter. So Habakkuk has complained before God about what he sees. God has answered him, saying he's going to send the Chaldeans or the Babylonians upon them. And uh Habakkuk comes with a second complaint. And then he starts out chapter two this way. I will take my stand at my watchpost and station myself on the tower and look out to see what he will say to me. and what I will answer concerning my complaint. And the Lord answered me, Write the vision, make it plain on tablets, so that he may run who reads it For skill division awaits its appointed time. It hastens to the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay Behold, his soul is puffed up. It is not upright within him. But the righteous shall live by his faith. Moreover, wine is a traitor, an arrogant man who is never at rest. His greed is as wide as Shiol By death, he never has enough. He gathers for himself all nations and collects as his own all peoples Shall not all these take up their taunt against him with scoffing and riddles for him and say, Woe to him who heaps up what is not his own, for how long? and loads himself with pleasures, will not your debtors suddenly arise and those awake who will make you tremble, then you will be spoiled for them, because you have plundered many nations All the remnants of the peoples shall plunder you for the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities, and all who dwell in them Woe to him who gets evil gain for his house, to set his nest on high, to be safe from the reach of harm You have devised shame for your house. By cutting off many peoples you have forfeited your life. For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the woodwork respond Woe to him who builds up a town with blood and founds a city on iniquity. Behold, it is not from the Lord of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire. And nations weary themselves for nothing, for the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea Woe to him who makes his neighbors drink. You pour out your wrath and make them drunk, in order to gaze on their nakedness. You will have your fill of shame instead of glory. Drink yourself and show your uncircumcision. The cup in the Lord's hands will come around to you, and utter shame will come upon your glory. Violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm you, so will the destruction of the beasts that terrify them, for the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities and those who dwell in them What prophet is an idol when its maker has shaped it? A metal image? A teacher of lies? For its maker trusts in his own creation when he makes speechless idols. Woe to him who says to a wooden thing, Awake, to a silent stone, Arise Can he teach? Behold it is overlaid with gold and silver, and there is no breath at all in it. But the Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silence before him. The word of the Lord. In times like these Anybody who has lived any period of time has been overwhelmed by the speed at which change has come to us in this country. Uh things that we could not have imagined five years ago are now current, hearing the news, people are accepting them. Um things that seem uh so clearly against the word of God are now celebrated. We are in Pride Month, and that has brought about all sorts of things that demonstrate the heart of man. So, how do we live in a time like this? Well, we're going to look at uh those first four verses of chapter two of Habakkuk. Some people think that these verses are the most important verses in the Bible. Verse 4. The second part of verse 4 anyway. Uh now you could say Genesis 1, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. is most important, or John 3. 16, God so loved the world. But uh this has a fair a fair number of people who would say it's the most important verse in the Bible Habakkuk 2, verse 4 is important for us because it tells us how to live in these times. Now we're going to look at it in three sections as we look at verses 1 to 4. Standing, listening, and believing. Standing, listening, believing. Three verbs. Hopefully pretty straightforward. Now Bekak is disturbed by the sin that he sees in Judah. He's a prophet to the southern kingdom, Judah. And he talks about that in verses uh 2 to 4 of chapter 1. Uh you look at those verses and you say, well, that kind of sounds like our world, doesn't it? Violence. The law is perverted. Why doesn't God do something? Why are we just waiting and waiting for some kind of judgment to come? But He is heartbroken over the fact that God is mocked. God's law is mocked. It's twisted and perverted, made to say what it doesn't say. And God seems to be silent. And then God responds in verses 5 to 11. He says, I'm I'm I'm aware of what's going on. Uh the way I'm going to judge is I'm going to send the Galileans to the Babylonians. And uh it's an overwhelming idea because it really is like uh God taking a sledgehammer to smash a net. Um Judah is just a little country and the Chaldeans are a fierce and violent people, pagan people. Um so Habakkuk is upset. And verses uh twelve to seventeen of chapter one, uh he talks about his complaint by God who is holy. would allow this evil nation, uh Chaldea, uh or Babylon, to come. Well That's the setup for verses 1 to 4 in chapter 2. Now, Habakkuk is a prophet, and that means he is part of God's early warning system. Uh I grew up in Hernan, Virginia, and uh Hernan didn't participate much in the Civil War, but it did participate some. There was a Union picket line that ran through Hernan. And so the uh the Union troops were very few there, but they stood as an early warning system against uh a Confederate advance toward the city of Washington in that day. Now we have very sophisticated early warning systems. We have planes that fly, radar, and all sorts of things that tell us about things, but the prophets are God's early warning system. They're telling God's people what's going to happen and how to prepare for it, what to do in light of things that are going to happen. And Habakkuk is on high alert. He is ready uh to speak out because the Chaldeans are coming Now, throughout this you want to be thinking about Christ because uh he is the final and great prophet And Christ as the final and great prophet is the one who speaks repeatedly about judgment. He's got a book that he inspires, the book of Revelation, that talks about judgment completely. But Abakah is going to be a watchman. Look at what he says. I will take my stand at my watch post and station myself on the tower and look out and see what he will say to me and what I will answer concerning my complaint. The rest of the nation might be sleeping, people might not be paying any attention, but Habakkuk is paying attention. He sees that things are happening and things are happening that shouldn't be happening around him. This is God's covenant people. And what are they doing? They're acting irresponsibly and against God's word. God's law is being repeatedly broken and and we look at ourselves and we're not a Christian nation, we can't claim to be. But we wonder what in the world is happening in our times where homosexuality, transgenderism, and abortion seemingly are triumphing every place What are we going to say? We get our questions and our complaints to God, but something sometimes worse can happen Because you pray for uh the conversion of a family member. You really want them to turn to Christ, and you don't want them to have cancer to turn to Christ You don't want worse things to happen so that they'll come to Christ. Or you think about our country and you think, Lord, why don't you send a revival to our country? Well, God is doing so much that it seems like everybody should be turning to Christ and crying out to God. They're not doing it. So what's God going to do? Habakkuk is waiting to see. He's taking the station before God, and he wants to listen. Now sometimes we really don't want to listen to God, do we? It's like you're listening to something on the radio in the car. If you still have AM in your car. You're listening to something in the car and you don't like that song, so you turn it off or turn to another station. Or if you're watching a TV show and something there offends you and so you turn it off. Well, sometimes we act like that towards God. We stop reading His Word. We don't want to hear him anymore. He's getting too close to home. A sermon's getting too close to home. So we go to another church because we just can't take what God's going to do. Habakkuk is waiting for God's answer. He looks to God for the answer, not to his own heart. And that's a tricky thing for us, isn't it? Sometimes what we ask from God is what our hearts actually desire. We don't want to know what He says, what His Word says. We want what our own hearts desire. We want to live according to our own flesh. Well, if we come to God truly wanting to hear what he's going to say, he's going to tell us in his word. We've got 66 books that tell us And I we have a savior, thank God. We have a savior who never ignored the word of God, but lived by every word that proceeded from the mouth of God. Habakkuk is ready to hear. He's ready to hear because he is eager to engage and tell people. Look at what he says. I'll station myself on the tower and look out to see what he will say to me and what I will answer concerning my complaint. What am I going to tell other people? about what God says. What am I going to say to those people who are believers? When the Chaldeans come, the faithful would be looking to the prophets then. They'd see that someone like Habakkuk had actually told them that this was going to happen. Are we ready as part of the body of Christ to tell others? You know, many times after church, and you don't have to confess this, many times after church, we talk about everything except the sermon. And we don't talk about the things that we're learning in the Bible during the week. Maybe because we're not really studying the Bible. But instead, Habakkuk wants to let people know what is happening, what God's going to do. So he's listening He stands and he listens. He listens to what God's going to say. And beginning in verse 2 to the end of the chapter, God speaks. Now, notice verse 2, and the Lord Yahweh answered me. The God of the covenant, the God who has promised Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob that he'll have a people for himself. He's going to answer. God gives Habakkuk an answer that's very detailed and that says the Chaldeans aren't getting away with anything. The Chaldeans are going to be judged. God isn't simply answering Habakkuk for Habakkuk's sake, but so that the people will see that God does have a plan. Now, when God answers, even if it's something we don't like, we should be thankful. You know, there is a part of the book of Amos, Amos chapter 8, verse 11, that uh is chilling. And God says that there's going to be a famine, and that famine is going to be for the Word of God. Now we think we've got Bibles all over the place. You probably have multiple Bibles in your homes. But we need the Holy Spirit. Suppose God were to withdraw the Holy Spirit, how would we understand the Bible? I mean, before I was a Christian, I couldn't make heads or tails of it. I couldn't understand it It takes the Holy Spirit to open our eyes to illuminate us, where blind people aren't able to see the light of Scripture. You think about the people you've known, people you've prayed for. You pray for them and you realize that they simply can't get it. It doesn't matter how often you give them tracks, or you play Christian music, or give them Christian cards, or whatever, they don't get it because the Holy Spirit has it up in their heart So, if God were to withdraw his word, it might be by the Holy Spirit, not illuminating our hearts. But God is going to do that. He's going to tell people what he said. And we have in the Word of God all the description of everything that God's going to do. The first thing he wants his servant to do is to write it down. Verse 2. Write the vision, make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it. For still the vision waits the appointed time. It hastens to the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay God wants his word inscribed. What a wonderful thing we have when we have the Bible. Do you really treasure the Bible Do you really treasure the Bible because God has given you his word? Because he's spoken to you through his word. Sometimes you wonder, you know, what does God intend for me? God's already told you so much in the Word. It's most of the time because we have not study the Bible. We have not really focused upon it. We learn it in it how to please God, what our sin is like, what it takes to deal with our sin. If you can imagine a world, a world without the Bible, Word of God, what would it be like if the gospel hadn't been declared? It'd be a world full of despair. God has spoken though, and he's spoken so that we can have it God tells his prophet to put it on tablets so he may run and reads it. Oh, this confuses us. He may run who reads it, it probably means that God wants um people to teach what he has said through the prophet Habakkuk and do something with it. We want to proclaim and preach the Word of God. Now, verse 3 is something that's plainer to us. It's an explanation of the vision he's about to reveal. The Chaldeans are going to come, but you're going to have to wait for it. God is the sovereign God who raises up kings and casts kings down. This is something that we should remember always, because we're in a time now where we wonder why God doesn't do more. Why doesn't he act more? But God raises up kings and he casts them down. It's not George Soros. It's not the mainstream media. What we have to look at is a sovereign God, a sovereign God who is at work in our world. It's not the progressives. The future of America rests completely in the hands of God. And he's going to use whatever he chooses to bring glory to himself. So that the glory of the Lord will uh the knowledge of the glory of the Lord will cover the world, just as the waters cover the sea. And it's hastening to its end. God's purposes are hastening to their end And the prophet Peter, 1 Peter or 2 Peter, he is a prophet, and he says, where's the promise of his Christ coming? Ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things have continued as they were from creation. That's how people think today, isn't it? We hear all this stuff about Jesus' return. It hasn't happened yet. Two thousand years. But God says, wait for it. It's going to happen. The promise of his coming is going to happen. People look at the universe like it's a self-sustaining clock. Just goes on, goes on, goes on. God says no. It only goes on as long as I say it. Still the vision awaits its appointed time and hastens to the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it, it will surely come. It will not delay And in 586 BC, the Chaldeans did come and they destroyed Jerusalem and they took the people into exile. So God does that. He keeps his promise. Peter tells us to wait because God, with God, one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day. So the test of faith for the believers in Habakkuk's day is can they wait? Can they wait in faith and trust God? Can we wait and still trust God? Things haven't happened the way we want them An election doesn't change things, does it? We've seen that again and again. We're foolish if we think that we're going to find the hope that God alone can fulfill by looking to an election cycle. It's only God who brings things about. And he raises up and casts things down as he pleases for his own glory. That brings us to verse 4. So we have to think about verse 4. Verse 4 talks about believing. There's two kinds of beliefs here. Behold, his soul is puffed up, it is not upright within, but the righteous shall live by his faith. There's a contrast between the two kinds of living, the two kinds of faith, you might say I've sometimes thought of my faith as a balloon. And before I was a Christian, I would look at that balloon and I'd say, I've got to prove to God how much faith I have. And the more faith I have, the more God will be pleased with me. And I forgot all about Jesus. Jesus is the object of our faith. He's the one who pleases God. So God begins, and he wants to have us think that there are people who are puffed up with pride. You can look at that and you can think about people in verses 2 to 4 of chapter 1. Those people are probably good Jews. They probably go to the temple. They probably offer sacrifices, but what is God saying about them? He says, their hands are filled with blood. They're violent. Their hearts are not right before me. Think about the man in Luke chapter 18. He says, I tithe of everything I have. I'm not like this tax collector over here who can't even lift up his head. I'm doing everything I should. Doesn't that make me acceptable to you, God? And he goes away puffed up in pride. And that's what we can do. After all, this is an Orthodox Presbyterian church. Is there any higher grade in the world than being an Orthodox Presbyterian? Aren't you at the top of the heat if you're a PC? God hates human pride. He hates it. He'll do everything he can to destroy human pride, self-wrought righteousness, a pride that leads us to think. that we have an acceptance with God by what we do. He contrasted in verse four with the verse that has changed the lives, but the righteous shall live by his faith. When Martin Luther read this verse from Romans, it rocked his world Utterly turned his world inside out. For in it the gospel, the righteousness of God, is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written the righteous shall live by faith. Paul was so captured by this verse that he quotes it again in the verses that we read from Galatians. Now it's evident that no one is justified before God by the law for The righteous shall live by faith. So Paul saw this as a key thing in how we're right with God. And the writings of the Hebrews in chapter 10, verse 34, quotes it the third time, but my righteous one shall live by faith. Habakkuk is probably echoing here, or God is echoing through Habakkuk, what God said to Abraham back in Genesis 15, 6. He, Abraham, believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. This little verse tucked away in this minor prophet, Habakkuk, has changed lives. Because it describes what a Christian is. The Apostle Paul saw in this verse the principle that gives us gospel hope Doing, doing, doing, trying to earn God's acceptance never works. Never You can do it for a thousand years, and you'll never be accepted by God, by what you do. Only by faith in Jesus Christ. We have a clause in our Constitution That says no person who is not a native-born citizen of this country, native-born, born here, can be president So it doesn't matter how skilled they are, doesn't matter how renowned they are, Henry Kissinger was very renowned. He couldn't have been president. Arnold Schwarzenegger, rich, famous, well known, governor of California as well as a movie star. He could be president. It would be easier to have somebody become president who is not a native-born American citizen. Than to be accepted by God, by your own righteousness. You're only going to be accepted on the basis of what Jesus has done for you. If you say that I can be accepted by God by what I do, it's blasphemy. Blasphemy. Because it's saying that God isn't that holy That God isn't that righteous, that God's willing to accept your 99% grade Instead of your 100% grade, could you get through Jesus? To think that we're good enough to approach God on our own. is an attack on God's character. We have to come before Him as sinners brokenhearted The Christian is a person who accepts, who finds acceptance with God, not in anything they've done, but only in trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. Only that way. That's what Paul means. Now, a batch is using a near-at-hand experience to explain things to the people who will read his prophecy. How is the righteous person going to stand when the Chaldeans come? What are you going to do when the society falls apart around you? When there isn't anything that seems steady, that seems solid anymore? How are you going to live? Are you going to live by faith in the God who is sovereign? Are you going to live with hope in the midst of the kind of evil we see in our society? The only way you can live is by faith in the God who is sovereign. To say we're God's covenant people. God has a plan, and He will love us and keep us. When I think about my own hope, I'm accepted, adopted, loved, declared righteous by God only for the sake of Jesus. No other way. Doesn't matter what I've done in my life. I come to him with nothing in my hands, but only Christ as my claim. Do you make that claim? Is that your claim? When you think about what the world is like around you, do you believe that God will keep you when you're dying? He says, I will never leave you or forsake you. Do you believe that? Are you living by faith in the promises of God? In faith, faith in a God who has power, we find ourselves secure, at peace. Christianity has to be a faith that faces the world as it really is. A world that is pushing up against us every single hour. We have a Savior who lived this way. Jesus Christ lived before God, trusting in his Heavenly Father even as he was crucified. Into thy hands I commit my spirit, he says, as he's thine. And yet he's finished because God had called him to that task. We live by faith. When the bills are due and the baby's sick and the marriage is rocky and the boss is mad at you and the culture's a mess, we live by faith that God is real. That he's Almighty, that he's active, able to deliver, that he loves us in Christ. We have to look at the world, the future, through the eyes of faith. Many years ago, there's a young man, John Crawford was his name, from Columbia Bible College, who sang a song. That began to work in me, song by Ruth Jones. She wrote it as World War II was winding down. In times like these, you need a savior. In times like these, you need an anchor. And faith responds, be very sure, be very sure. Your anchor holds and grips the solid rock. This rock is Jesus. Yes, he's the one. This rock is Jesus, the only one. Be very sure, be very sure. Your anchor holds and grips the solid rock. Paul writes there in Galatians chapter 2, the life I now live, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. This is what Paul's talking about. This is what Habakkuk is talking about. This is what we need for our day in the times in which we live. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we pray that you might, by your grace and mercy, help us to live by faith. Faith in your promises, faith in your power, faith in the gospel. Help us to turn from our sin daily. And trust only in Christ. We thank you that He is the sufficient Savior, that He will do for us what we could never do for ourselves. We praise you for that. And pray in His name.