Please turn with me in your Bibles. We'll start at Exodus thirty-one, eighteen, and we'll read only through thirty-two-six. 3118. And he gave to Moses when he had finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai the two tablets of the testimony. Tablets of stone written with the finger of God. When the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, the people gathered themselves together to Aaron and said to him, Up, make us gods who shall go before us. As for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. So Aaron said to them, Take off your rings of gold that are in the ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me. So all the people took off the rings of gold that were in their ears and brought them to Aaron. And he received the gold from their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool, and made a golden calf And they said, These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. When Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it. And Aaron made proclamation and said, To morrow shall be a feast to the Lord. And they rose up early the next day, and offered burnt offerings, and brought peace offerings And the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. The word of the Lord. And then please turn the New Testament to the book of Romans, chapter 8, verses 31 through 39. Romans 8, beginning at verse 31. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died, and more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No. In all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life Nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth Nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Lord, we thank you for your faithfulness. That you keep covenant, that you are reliable in an unreliable world. We thank you for your word, which you have caused providentially to be handed down and recorded and written and made available to us here today. And that it is also reliable and faithful and true. Help us now to receive it, apply it, and go forth rejoicing. Amen. Well we come to this uh chapter in Exodus. We have skipped over a large swath from chapters 25 on to chapter most of chapter 31 because it contains the various uh furnishings and preparations and clothing of the high priests and so forth. We will address those at some point. But we have moved on to the next portion of narrative in the story. uh of that for for the the present today. And so we begin with Moses up on the mountain getting all this information from God about how to do things and how to set things up and what everybody's supposed to do And we get there at verse 18, which was read, and I hope you'll have your Bible open because we're going to follow through this chapter 32. It's a narrative portion. So in verse 18, and he gave to Moses, when he had finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, the two tablets Of the testimony, tablets of stone written with the finger of God. So this is the tablet of the ten words, the ten commandments And Moses has been up there getting all this instruction, and he's bringing down now these two tablets. But as we talked about last week, how In chapter 24, there was a kind of wedding that took place. There was the gathered congregation, the elders before God, and there was the declaration of intents, yes, we're here to get married, God and his people. And then there were there were the vows that were said And then there was the the the covenant uh vows, the covenant uh signs and seals, which was the the sacrificed bulls, oxen, and the blood thrown on the altar, which represented the the um propitiation of God, and then there was the blood thrown on the people. A shower of hot blood flown on the people to clean them up and get them ready to be married to God to cleanse them from their sins. And after that there was a big wedding feast. There was this wonderful reception. And you could see God and it was beautiful. And they ate and had fellowship with God together in this beautiful wedding of God and his people. But now we come to this place and the honeymoon is over. The honeymoon is over because the bride has run off. With a new lover. It's so sad. So here we have it. Verse 1 of chapter 32. When the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountains 40 days, The people gathered themselves together to Aaron and said to him, make us gods who shall go before us. I think what they were really saying is, make us representatives of deity of some of Yahweh or whatever other gods there may be, make us some tangible things that we could see that we can put our hope in. Something we can touch and see and have a party with and so forth. Make us gods who shall go before us. And they say, here's their reason, here's their excuse. As for this Moses This Moses is the guy that God anointed. This Moses is the guy that's been leading them. This Moses is God's man, God's representative. And they say, as for this Moses Who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we don't know what has become of him. Such unfaithfulness, so short a time of peace and joy and happiness. It's already been tossed aside. In verse 2, Moses' second in command does this. So Aaron said to them, Take off the rings of gold that are in your ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me. Verse 3. So all the people took off all the rings of gold that were in their ears and brought them to Aaron, and he received the gold from their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool. This is very purposeful. You have to imagine him melting it down and beating it into sheets, probably and fashioning it with a graving tool. This is very intentional. He probably had help doing this too. He didn't do it all himself. And made a golden calf. A golden calf. Now you remember the commandments. Don't have any other gods before me, and don't make any what? Graven image. Of me, of the true God. Don't try to imagine me. Don't try to make me concrete. Don't do it. And what are they doing? They're doing it. And he said, and then Aaron, second in command, said, These to the people, these are your gods, O Israel. Who brought you up out of the land of Egypt? Man, this is crazy that he caved so easily, so fast under the pressure of these people. Honeymoon is over. And Aaron then made a proclamation. I think Aaron's trying to improve. He's thinking, I don't want to completely uh you know, go off into idolatry land. So let's try to clean this religion up a little bit, make it a little more acceptable, he says He made a proclamation and said, tomorrow shall be a feast to Yahweh. I haven't completely forsaken Yahweh yet. Let's just. Let's just change it around a little bit. . . We'll use this calf, we'll have this party, but we'll do it for Yahweh, because we like Yahweh. He brought us up and so forth. In verse 6, and they rose up early the next day and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. Well, that's good. That's what was prescribed. Burnt offerings and pre-peace offerings should be made to Yahweh on an altar of earth. Not by hewn stones, not by graven things. You're supposed to do this peace offering and burnt offering on an altar of earth. Remember that from earlier? Yeah? Well, this is not an altar of earth. This is graven images and stuff. They rose up early the next morning. They did their burnt offerings and their peace offerings, and the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up the clay. And the word play there in Hebrew. It's kind of hard to translate. But it it it indicates frivolity, fun, lots of dancing and singing and just having a good time, making a a party out of this. So that's the honeymoon is over. They have corrupted their their promises to God. They have gone off with who knows what, doing who knows what. And uh we then now will come to this portion where Moses, the man that God had actually anointed and God had actually set up for them to lead them, has to play The part of Christ. He has to play the part of Christ. The first thing he does to play the part of Christ, because they need Christ. We all need Christ. But to play the part of Christ, he does first, he contends with God for these sinners. He contends with God for these sinners in verse 7 through 11. And the Lord said to Moses, listen, the Lord is now speaking to Moses, still up on the mountain, haven't come down yet. Go down for your people. He doesn't say, My people. Remember he married them, but now he's saying, Your people, Moses. Go down for your people who you brought up out of the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have turned aside quickly out of the way that I commanded them. And they have made for themselves a golden calf, and have worshipped it, and sacrificed to it, and said, These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. And the Lord said to Moses, I have seen He's looking down at them. I have seen this people. And behold, it is a stiff-necked people. Now, when we talk about stiff neck, you know, if we get a crick in our neck, we slept on it the wrong way and our neck's kind of stiff Yeah, that's part of this, but it's really more about an animal, uh uh an ox or a donkey or something that you have in a harness and it's supposed to obey you, it's supposed to go the way you want it to go, and instead it cranks its stiff neck to go the other way. It's stubborn is what is being portrayed here. Stiff necked, stubborn, willful, doing your own thing. And that's what this is, he says, this is a stiff-necked piece. Verse 10. And then God says this, this is kind of interesting. Now therefore, he says to Moses. Let me alone, God says, that my wrath may burn hot against them, and I may consume them, in order that I may make a great nation of you Remember God has said, I'm going to make a great nation of Israel? They're going to, you know, they're going to be blessed and fill the world, and there's going to be great blessings. No, I'm going to start over with you. I'm going to, like Noah's days, I'm going to destroy them completely, wipe them off the face of the earth, and I'm going to start over with you. God is saying Moses, get out of the way. Don't stop me, Moses. I'm going to destroy those people. They're stiff-necked. So what does Moses do? He plays Christ, as I was saying. Verse 11. Moses implored the Lord. His God and said, Oh Yahweh, why does your wrath burn hot against your people whom you have brought up? Remember what God said that you brought them up, Moses. He says, no, Moses is saying, no, you brought them up, Lord, who you brought up out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand. He's playing the part of Christ. He's defending God's people. He's begging for mercy for them. And we read that in the Psalm 106, which we read responsively. In verse 19 it says, They made a calf in Horeb and worshipped a metal image. They exchanged the glory of God for the image of an ox that eats grass. They forgot God, their Savior, who had done great things in Egypt, wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome deeds by the Red Sea. Therefore he said he would destroy them. And then it says this had not Moses, his Messiah, chosen one, stood in the breach before him So you've got to see the scene again here. God is saying, get out of the way, Moses. Don't stop me. I'm going to destroy them and start over with you. And Moses, just what it says in Psalm 106, stood in the breach. He got between God and Israel, and he said, no, don't do it, Lord. Don't do it. And he's commended here in Psalm 106 for standing in the breach, defending God's people, interceding. He's playing Christ in this wonderful narrative. Secondly, Moses plays Christ in another way. He plays Christ by pleading the character and faithfulness of God for sinners. Verses 12 through 14. Here's what he says in defending and pleading. He says, why should the Egyptians say He's saying, you know what, Lord, if you destroy these people, the nations are going to hear about it, and they're going to rag on you. They're going to say bad things about you if you do this. Why should the Egyptians say with evil intent He brought them out to kill them in the mountains and to consume them from the face of the earth. He says, they're all going to just say you were just tricking them. You tricked them, brought them out, now you killed them because you hated them so much And uh he said he pleads God's he pleads God's character. Don't lie, don't be that kind of a God who would trick people and then kill them. Don't be that way, Lord. Don't let anyone say that about you. Then he says, turn from your burning anger and relent from this disaster against your people. And then he says, this is he's pleading the covenant faithfulness of God. Verse 13, remember, he says, Abraham. Remember Abraham. That was a long time ago. Abraham was a long, long time ago. Hundreds of years ago. Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by your own self. Remember that? He swore by himself. He on his oath Has sworn. And he said, I will multiply your offspring as the stars of the heaven and as the land that I have promised, I will give to your offspring, and they shall inherit it forever. He says, don't break your promises, God. Please don't do it. Keep your covenant faithfulness. Do what you've promised to do. And what happens here as he plays Christ by pleading the faithfulness and the character of God for sinners? How does God respond? Verse 14. And the Lord. Relented from the disaster he had spoken of bringing on his people So again, Moses appealed to God on the basis of his reputation and fame in verse 12, and he appealed to God on the basis of the promises, covenant faithfulness in verse 13. That's how he played the Christ. And then, thirdly, he played the Christ by offering himself As a sacrifice in solidarity with sinners. Verses 30 through 35. Verse 30. The next day Moses said to the people, he goes down now. He says to the people, you have sinned a great sin. And now I will go up to the Lord. Perhaps I can make an atonement for your sin. So Moses returned to the Lord and said to the Lord, Alas, this people has sinned a great sin. They have made for themselves gods of gold. Moses has now seen it for himself. But now, if you will forgive their sin, if you will, do it. If you will, forgive their sin, but if not. Please blot me out of your book that you have written. What book is that? It's the book of the covenant, the book of life. He says, if you won't forgive them, blot me out, please. I am standing in solidarity with those people, our people, your people, God. And if you're going to destroy them, destroy me too. Now, blotting Moses out of the book of life would not, could not atone for these people. He's making an attempt, he's hoping and wishing he could do this. But it won't work because punishing a sinner does nothing for other sinners. Moses could not become an acceptable atoning sacrifice because he too. Is a sinner. But what is good here, what is right in his bones, is that Moses feels the need to be in solidarity with sinners. That is right. That is Christ-like to be in solidarity with sinners As I was trying to think about some way to try to maybe illustrate this or get a word picture that would work, and this probably doesn't work completely, but I saw on the news That there were the police in Baltimore, the second day, I guess. And then there were citizens Who came and joined arm in arm, linked arm in arm, and stood between the police and the protesters. These citizens were showing solidarity with the police in maintaining order. They did not want any more riots. And they would be the first hit if bricks were thrown. So that's the kind of solidarity that I think is illustrated by that. Maybe it works, I'm not sure. But verse 33, let's go on. The Lord said to Moses, now the Lord is replying to Moses in this desire. Whoever has sinned against me, I will blot out of my book. But now go lead the people to the place about which I have spoken to you Behold, my angel shall go before you. Nevertheless, in the day when I visit, I will visit their sin upon them. Moses can't make an atonement. He can't do it And God is saying, I'm going to punish these people. I'm going to visit temporal punishments upon them. The atonement will come, but you can't do it, Moses. It has to wait. But now let's talk about temporal punishments and temporal judgments for a while. In Hebrews chapter 12. The writer of Hebrews, I think it's Paul, but uh others dispute that. But the writer of Hebrews says To those who were wondering and who were being tempted to leave the Christian church, he said, Have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? Quote, My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves. That's temporal. and chastens every son whom he receives. That's temporal. He says, it is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom the Father does not discipline? He's saying, Temporal punishments, temporal chastisements are necessary. They happen, and they are God's instruments in this life. He says, in fact, in verse 8, if you are left without discipline in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. So we see that temporal punishments like the one that's going to happen to these Israelites are indeed God's work and they are necessary and they are not for destruction, they are not for condemnation. Therefore, our good. We can see echoes of temporal punishments and temporal chastisements in Psalm 90, which is written by Moses. He says in verse 1 in Psalm 90, Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations, before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting, you were God. Good confession. And then verse 3 he says, you return man to dust and say, Return, O children of man. Now, that's a temporal punishment. It came from the fall of man in the Garden of Eden. In the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Death began in the Garden of Eden. And we see that in Genesis 3. Moses says it: return, O children of men, return to dust And we see in Genesis 3, verse 19, by the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. So, because of sin in the world, because of failure, because of covenant unfaithfulness, even on those that God has mercy upon, like we are. There's still temporal punishments that happen in this world. Verse 7 of Psalm 90, he says, Moses says, For we are brought to an end by your anger. By your wrath we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. And he says, For all our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. The years of our life are seventy, or if by reason of strength, eighty. Yet their stand is but toil and trouble. They are soon gone, and we fly away. Who considers the power of your anger and your wrath according to your fear? Moses is talking here In Psalm 90, about temporal punishment, about death, the fact of death that comes upon all human beings because of the sin of Adam and Eve. It will not be removed. These temporal punishments must come. They do come. Even in the midst of God's faithfulness, they come. And Moses says at the end of Psalm 90, let the favor of the Lord God be upon us. Establish the work of our hands upon us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. Moses is an effect saying, Lord, I know that because of sin, because of the fall of man, there will be trouble in the world, there will be death, there will be temporal punishments. But Lord, please, in your mercy, in your covenant faithfulness Don't let the work of our hands be for nothing. Lord, in your covenant, faithfulness and your mercy, establish our work in this world. Establish the work of our hands. Let your favor rest upon us, even though you still visit temporal punishments upon us. And then the end of verse of chapter 32, verse 35, it says this: Then the Lord sent a plague on the people, because they had made the calf, the one Aaron made. Well, what do we make of all this? This much God's people were unfaithful to him. But Moses playing Christ stood in the breach. Moses playing Christ interceded for them according to the faithfulness and the character of God. Moses in solidarity with them offered himself to stand with them and die for them if he could, but he can't He can't make an atonement for their sins. And until that atonement is made, and until we arrive in glory, there still are temporal punishments. We will all die. Each and every one here will die. That's a temporal punishment described in Psalm 90 by Moses. And yet, in God's covenant, faithfulness and mercy He establishes our lives. He establishes the work of our hands. He makes it productive. He keeps it from spoiling and being ruined. He saves and restores the lost things. Years later, as you know, the true Christ, the true anointed one, would come He also would contend with God for sinners. You remember what he said in Luke 23, verse 34? Father, forgive them. That's contending with God for sinners. And he says in Psalm 40, Behold, I have come in the scroll of the book it is written of me. I delight to do your will, O my God, your law is within my heart. He contends with God for sinners. The same one will come, pleading the character and faithfulness of God for sinners. We read it in our earlier portion of our service. My little children, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin, but if anyone does sin, We have an advocate with the Father Jesus Christ the righteous. And that's described also in Isaiah 53. He poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors, yet he bore the sin of many, and made what? Intercession for the transgressors. He pleads the character and faithfulness of God for you and me so that we won't be destroyed. And thirdly, this one who came later offered himself as an effectual sacrifice in solidarity with sinners. Moses was not an effectual sacrifice. Blotting Moses out wouldn't accomplish anything. But this one, this Christ. Is the effectual sacrifice in solidarity with sinners. Not just taking the common troubles of life upon himself, but absorbing the final judgment upon himself. On the cross. And so Isaiah says of him, We all like sheep have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. And then in verse 12, he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors, yet he bore the sin of many. That's an effectual sacrifice. He is the righteous one who is able to get the job done. Make the sacrifice in solidarity with sinners. And Isaiah says, and he makes intercession for the transgressors because he bore the sin of many. I have more here, but I think I've made the point, so I'm going to wrap it up. Why do we need this? Why do we need this this one? The real Christ, the true Christ. Moses played Christ, but we need the real Christ. Why do we need him? Because God still looks down. He looks down on your life. He looks down on your personal party. He sees your folly. He sees your unfaithfulness. He sees your covenant breaking. And he sees that although you say yes to the covenant as they did, although he sees that you say yes to the Savior, I want to be saved. Yes, Jesus. He sees that you also want something more tangible, something more reliable. Money in the bank. Something more dependable than God's promises Tim Keller was telling about a teenage girl in one of his early congregations, and she came into the office and she was down, she was depressed, she was troubled, she was She came to see the pastor and he says, you know, Jesus died to forgive your sins and to give you eternal life. And to raise you up at the last day and give you eternity with him forever. He loves you. He's glorious. And she said, I know all that's true, but what good is it if no boys will even notice me She wanted something tangible. She wanted something she could put in the bank emotionally And God's promises and God's salvation were just not good enough. That's what they were doing down at the bottom of the mountain with that golden calf. Choosing something else. God looks down and sees that in your life and mine. And we need a Savior. We need a Savior who will plead for God's mercy for us. Who will be in solidarity with us, who is able to make the sacrifice for us. And whose intercessions will never fail before the Father's throne. We need that. Amen. Lord, we thank you that we have an intercessor, a friend of sinners, better than Moses. We praise you for Christ. We come to you worshiping you in His name, and we pray that you will help us to cast away all idols. Amen.