Our scripture reading tonight is Ephesians chapter 2. And we're going to read together the first 10 verses. Ephesians chapter two, we're going to read uh verses one through ten together. Hear the word of the Lord. And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked Following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience Among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind And were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. But God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God. Not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are His workmanship Created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. This is the word of God Our confessional reading is from the canons of Dort. We're looking at the third and the fourth head of doctrine there in Articles 12 and 13 tonight. And really, beloved, for the sake of time, since I plan to just work through it, I'll just read it to you as I go through it. So just we're going to be working right through it. If I read it to you now, I'm just going to read it right back again to you. I've been looking at Canons Adored. As you can see tonight, the title for the sermon is Irresistible Grace. Uh maybe I attracted some of you uh here this evening. Um I don't know who uh if you've heard that term before and and know its meaning, its coinage or its usage. Uh Doctor Uh Robert Godfrey uh defines uh irresistible grace in in these terms The sovereign ineffable that means you can't express it. Work of God In renewing our hearts so that we will believe the sovereign, ineffable work of God in renewing our hearts so that we will believe. And that's what we're going to be looking at tonight in these two articles. And as I said, I'm just going to work through these, and as we work through it, making reference to the appropriate scriptural passages which support it and elucidate it for us And then end with a couple uh applications from the teaching here. So Article 12, uh regeneration of supernatural work It begins by stating, and and this is the regeneration, and the this is pointing back to Article 11 there. And if you weren't here with us the other week looking at Article 11. What we saw there is that the work of God's regeneration, it gets to the core of us. It's not just about filling our minds with knowledge. But it's about penetrating into the inmost being of man. It's about opening the closed heart. It's about softening the hard heart It's about circumcising the heart that's uncircumcised. It's about God infusing by His Spirit new qualities, new spiritual qualities in our will to make them the ones that are dead alive, to make the ones that are evil good, to make the ones that are unwilling willing, the ones that are stubborn compliant it's God activating and strengthening our will so like good trees we are enabled to produce um the fruit of good works. He's saying that, that work of God that gets to the core of us and changes us in our very inmost being, that's the work of regeneration. And it goes on and describes this regeneration as the new creation, the raising from the dead, and the making alive so clearly proclaimed in the scriptures which God works in us without our help. I read us those verses from Ephesians two because we read there verse five when we were dead in our trespasses. God made us alive. There's the making us alive. God raising us up with Christ. See God raising us up And in verse ten, we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. So you get this idea that When the Bible talks about this work of regeneration in us, the Bible talks about what God does in getting to our inmost core. It refers to it as a new creation, it refers to it as a raising from the dead, it refers to it as a making alive, which of course God works in us without our hell because God didn't work with any of us to make creation, did he? The work of creation out of nothing is not the work of man, but the work of God. Uh the work of calling dead people, right? The great Ezekiel prophecy over bones, God we may not be nothing in that sense, but we're dead. The great calling to life is the work of God alone, who's the God of the living so you c you see the point it's making here that regeneration is God's work And he doesn't use our help in doing it because you can see the way that he talks about it were his workmanship. God decided I'm going to make a new creation. I'm going to do a work in Jesus Christ. I'm going to raise dead people to life. I'm going to give the dead life. And so this is this work of regeneration is God's work in us without our help Then it wants to sort of clarify after that, but this certainly does not happen only by outward teaching. Now it does, right? How many of you were brought to faith by sitting in a room that was silent Right? No, God uses ordinarily means of grace. God sends preachers of the gospel. Your parents taught you the gospel. You're you heard your friend talking about the gospel. Whatever way that God used to bring his word It's saying that this certainly does not happen only by outward teaching. Now, the reason it's saying that is because the rejection of errors, some people taught This is number seven. The canons uh reject those who teach that the grace by which we are converted to God is nothing but a gentle persuasion. God just sits down and it's gently like if you've ever tried to gently persuade somebody to join your team. That what God is doing in converting us is gently persuading us to forsake Satan and his service and come on to his side in Christ. As others explain it, that the way of God's acting and man's conversion that is most noble and suited to human nature Now, here's a reasoning, beloved, that's more or less rationalistic, because who says? Who's to tell God what is most suitable to human nature and how to work in us? Its most noble and suited to human nature is that which happens by persuasion, and that nothing prevents this grace of moral suasion even by itself from making natural men spiritual Indeed, that God does not produce the ascent of the will except in this manner of moral suasion, and that the effectiveness of God's work, by which it surpasses the work of Satan Consists in the fact that God promises eternal benefits while Satan promises temporal ones. That's the only difference is Satan tempted them with the fruit and temporal benefits And God comes and promises us through Christ eternal ones in heaven. And the only difference between how Satan works on us and persuading us to sin and how God works on us becoming Christians is he just has better promises. Then right, who wouldn't choose better promises? Now it rejects that by saying this is entirely Pelagian. It's contrary to the whole of Scripture. Which recognizes besides this persuasion also another far more effective and divine way in which the Holy Spirit acts in man's conversion As Ezekiel 36, 26 puts it, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you, and remove your heart of stone, and will give you a heart of flesh. Now That's not to say, as it's saying here, persuasion is not a part of it. Our shorter catechism, question answer 31, when it talks about what's effectual calling, because it's in our effectual calling that the Spirit works faith in us, thereby uniting. Illumines our minds with the knowledge of Christ, it renews our will so that we are able Or that so that we are able to where we are persuaded by the Spirit and enabled to receive Christ as He has offered to us in the gospel. So the there is an aspect of persuasion There are real eternal blessings that God does promise. There is a gospel promise of forgiveness of sins and eternal life held out to men, which they, if they believe, will have. But that's not the only way that God works. Or by such and here's another way, or by such a way of working that after God has done his work, it remains in man's power whether or not to be reborn or converted. Now I don't really understand this. It's as if if if we follow, I think, the right the the line of reasoning that they're using here And already showing in God in his scripture refers to what he's done in converting us in Christ as a work of new creation and raising the dead and resurrection Oh you could imagine if we kind of use that line of reasoning it's almost as saying God in the beginning started to make heavens and earth and then sort of said, if you want to go on to creation, go on. If not, just go back into chaos, right? It's not how God works in us, that He does something to start in us, but the rest is for us to come and figure out. Are we gonna push on and reach heaven and be converted? Are we gonna fall back into A life of sin. It's as if that that's not a work, is it? You haven't accomplished anything. You haven't Do you, when you start projects, make a half thing and just leave it unfinished Or do you bring it to completion because you have a purpose in mind in it? And that's the way it's arguing here to set this aside. Rather, what we're dealing with here is an entirely supernatural work. One that is at the same time most powerful. Now here's one of those phrasings where I just think they get it so right. The wisdom of the Spirit in the in these men in this age, that this work is most powerful Now, if something is most powerful, right, it's gonna it's gonna happen, it's gonna achieve. Nothing's gonna stop, but the idea of most powerful is nothing is gonna get in its way. If we talk about we have the most powerful army, right? Everybody's going to bow down before us. We have all the powerhouses on our sports team, right? We're going to mow over the opposition, right? Most powerful means nothing's going to stop this work of God. But then comes this wonderful phrase and most pleasing Now, here is where I think many people get hung up about irresistible grace. Is The most powerful part, and then they think, well, I must just be a robot. Or it's just pure fatalism. There's no moral decision, there's no responsibility. What will happen will happen, and that's it. If you've been in the morning services with us, you know we've been singing Psalm 110. And uh how many of you know what those words mean there in verse 3 Your people will offer themselves freely or willingly, as other translations put, in the day of your power. It's referring to in Christ was raised and given glory and exalted to the Father's right hand and given the promised Holy Spirit and the Father because he asked it of him Ask of me and I'll give you the nations. He said, Dear Father, I've done the work. Now give me the nations. And he gave him the Spirit and He poured out the Holy Spirit. Recognizing as being enthroned in power, the people come to him willingly. And here's where I would just ask you. Do you want to be a Christian? Do you want to serve Christ? Do you want to praise Him, live for Him, die for Him, worship Him, hold up His name, do everything for Him? Or do you go about saying, well, I'm just here 'cause I gotta be here and God's gonna get his way done and that's it, and I I don't really have any desire to do this. Francis Turitan, another seventeenth century divine and systematic theologian, I think helpfully writes here on this passage. And he's dealing with uh the question of uh the perfection of sanctification in this life, when it comes up in his reference here. And he's talking about how can it be true for saints according to 1 John 5. 3. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. How does God work in us so we don't find his commandments burdensome, but a delight for us to do? He says, the Holy Spirit renews the hearts within and works a true and sincere love in them. By which as a willing people, quoting Psalm 110, verse 3, and not by compulsion, force, or constraint, And by the spirit of bondage, but spontaneously, that's right, occurring without apparent external cause. Have you ever just been outside on a sunny day, maybe reading a book and thought, I'm just gonna get up and go for a walk, right? You didn't plan it Nobody said, let's go go walkie. Just said, I'm just going to go do it. Right. It just seemed utterly spontaneous. But spontaneously and sweetly They are impelled by the spirit of adoption to duty, right? The spirit of adoption meaning We willingly want to serve God as his children. We're impelled to do it spontaneously and sweetly. by the Spirit's work in us, not in a way in which we feel constrained or compelled in a spirit of bondage. What we're really getting at, beloved, is I think it was a great denigration to the power of God and to his work To think that his prevenient grace, right, that's his working in us before we work, before we do, as we'll see. To think that it makes robots of us. Have you ever considered the Lord Jesus Christ I think it was St. Augustine already stressed this, but it's clear for all to say, what does Jesus constantly say about his life? It must happen as the scriptures have said. He lived the predestined life. Who's ever gonna say that was a force-constrained sacrifice he gave? But it wasn't the sun, willingly, sweetly, spontaneously, out of the very center of who he is. giving to God himself in love and obedience. And making the point, right? You know, Augustine and the reformers basically just went back to him and championing this doctrine in their day. Very big proponent of predestination, that's no different for us in Christ. It's a denigration of his work to think God can't work on us in such a way, so powerfully, but also to be sweetly and marvelous as a sea that you want to love him. And you want to serve. And it's all your joy. So I love the balance of statement here. It's most powerful. Nothing's going to stop it. But oh, if you've had that work in you, most Pleasant, most powerful, and most pleasant. A marvelous work, it's something that we marvel at. It's a hidden work. We sing that song, right? Was it uh it's uh hymn 427? Um I sought the Lord and afterward I knew. But often this way in which God is working on us to bring us to faith, we don't know in all the ways He's doing it's a hidden work It's an inexpressible work. Because who can describe God's told us he's made in six days, but who could ever express what that was? Who can ever fully express and say how God has so worked in this again wonderful way that you most powerfully Irresistibly and most pleasingly come to the Lord Jesus Christ and love Him and believe in Him. It is an inexpressible word Which is not lesser than or inferior in power to that of creation or raising the dead, as scripture inspired by the author of this work teaches. So you get the point they're making about this. This is a mighty, wonderful work of God, and to see it as less as you'll see will rob him of his praise and of your joy. As a result, the result of this work of God, this wonderful work, all those in whose hearts God works in this marvelous way are certainly that something is certain you can count on it happening, certainly. Unfailingly, to fail at something is to begin something and then to uh end it or not be able to bling it bring it to completion unfailingly And effectively, for something to be effective, it produces its intended result or purpose. God effectively These are certainly, unfailingly and effectively reborn and do actually believe you can see the rebirth takes place, the regeneration which leads to faith or belief. And then the will, now renewed, is not only activated, right? What's to activate something? To turn it on. So God's turned our wills on in regeneration And motivated, that is to get it moving. If you've ever seen somebody unmotivated, right, they're just laying around not doing anything. It's been motivated by God. But in, and this is again one of those wonderful, you can tell they just got it right in all the debates or go into scripture. But in being activated by God is also active itself. And I'm thinking, of course, of Philippians chapter 2, verse 13. Our will renewed is activated, it's turned on, it's motivated by God, but being activated by God, it is also now itself active. And for this reason, man himself, by that grace which he has received, is also rightly said to believe and to repent. God says, or Paul says in Philippians 2, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Now You see what the point is making here? Because then Paul grounds out in, for it is God who works in you, both who will and to work for his good pleasure. God has done the activating and the motivating. Therefore the apostles can preach to the faithful called people of God, work it out Because God, by his grace, has worked in you. And so you have a new, renewed will issued in faith in Jesus Christ. And with that faith, your will's alive, it's activated, and therefore get to work cutting out sin Get to work, loving the Satan. Get to work getting rid of old habits and bringing in the new. Get to work, working out your salvation The life given to you in Christ. I can say it to you. And I can come to your pastor and say, Why are you working? Don't you believe? And you're not going to be able to say, Well, you're just preaching moralism to you. But I say, No, I'm not preaching moralism to you. Because if you believe in Jesus Christ, I can say that's the work of God's grace. He's activated your will. He's motivated it You're just a little too attached to your sin now, of course, there could be reasons you're sad and I've I'll go gentle at first But beloved, we're called to work out our salvation with fear and trembling before God because of this wonderful grace. Paul says in uh Ephesians, if we turn back to Ephesians chapter uh in chapter one, he says In him also, verse 13, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, right? So they're saying It is right, as the Scripture says, that men believe and men repent, but men believe and men repent after God works in them in this wonderful, mysterious way in His grace to regenerate them. And if we go on real quick to Article thirteen, in this life believers cannot fully understand the way this work occurs. That's one of those other wonderful statements that I appreciate It there's no promise we're gonna understand the next life either, but let's not spend all this time trying to figure it out of this one because we're not gonna get to the bottom of it. Meanwhile, they rest, and here's the gold, they rest content with knowing and experiencing that by this grace of God they do believe with the heart and love their Savior So let me ask you, do you know that? That you love, that you believe with your heart, and that you love your Savior Jesus? And do you experience that? What that means is Actually believing with your heart and loving Him. This is so pastoral. This is why, when you pray to God Uh as you're going through trials for his help and why he puts you through trials, he doesn't have to believe. But he's working belief in you, which means you're gonna have to really believe You're gonna have to really trust him. You're gonna have to really repent. This is why you're gonna be doing work and it often feels like a death in conversion. Or as you go on and going through a trial that feels like you're being stretched to your sin because Your that's what believing looks like. As a repenting looks like, but what it's getting out here is We don't fully understand it, but what believers are content about is as God has worked this grace in them, brought them through trials. They rest in the fact that they know they believe in their hearts that and they experience that they love the Lord Jesus Christ and that is what they're satisfied, knowing It's real faith and experiencing the life of faith that God has given to us and experiencing what it is to love Jesus. The point of this all beloved is going to launch me into a little application. We believe and love our Savior Jesus Christ because God did an amazing mysterious and gracious work in us, and we are contented with this inexpressibly joyful new existence without needing to know how exactly he brought it about in us. And that's where I want to go first, right? I hope you understand that in this irresistible grace, in God bringing you to faith in Christ, that all your joy in the gospel rest here. What I mean by that, well those wonderful words, whom he called, them he also justified. But you don't get justified by hearing about the doctrine of justification and intellectually assenting it. No, if you've given your heart to Christ and believed on the risen Lord Jesus and surrendered to Him and taken Him as your Lord and cast yourself upon Him as your God That's being called. That's the faith God's worked into you. And he's saying that faith is the faith that's justified because Christ has done it in his work. That's the last thing for you to even worry about. You should know about it because what God's done to praise us, but don't worry about it. Just keep loving Christ and believing in him. That's the faith that is justifying But also, beloved, the joy, because this is a work of creation. Right? Out of the sinful chaos in this world, God is bringing light and order. And if we don't see this as his work, there's not going to be joy in us. It's going to be our doing. And you don't want that on you. The joy comes from the fact that this is God's doing. God's brought you to this wonderful life of faith. That is just what it means to be a Christian To have faith in Christ and live this life and to love him, and that's God's work and all your joy can rest there that God did this. I know, because the Apostle Paul also says there's sorrow to come because we think, Oh God, why can't you do it for them too? Well That has to leave up with God. But our joy rests in the work that He has done in us. Also, too, because I've had to have a seminary professor counsel me in this You can begin to feel guilty about God's grace. Have you ever felt guilty about God's grace? Why me? And not them. And begin to get down on yourself and feel guilty about it. Because You're aware of how inexpressibly blessed you are. You have everything. And you can't believe God loves you so much. But this is a helpful place to go back and rejoice that you don't have to you should never feel guilty about grace. The demon don't go there. Don't feel guilty about grace. It's God's grace. It's the work of his creation. He's done it. And rejoice in it. Finally, beloved, I really enjoyed that Francis of Sissy song we sung. Because that's what men should be doing. That's Christ and them calling the creation to praise God. That is what the redeemed, that's what we should be doing when we sinfully don't. That's what we should be doing. Well, beloved Many theistic churches who believe in some God marvel at creation, but it's only the Christian church that can marvel and praise at the new creation, right? If we don't see this as God's work He's not going to get the praise that he deserves. Our praise is going to fall short because it's only the church in Jesus Christ that knows of this new work and can praise him for us. So All of our proper praise rests in getting this right, in God's irresistible grace, and understanding his work And all your joy and comfort as believers, and joy in what God's doing in this world, rest in His work of new creation.