Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, communion, I'm certain is a word that is familiar to us all. We confess in the Apostles' Creed the communion of the saints, and Uh we keep here weekly holy communion at the communion table. But is there any link between these two? Communion of the saints and keeping communion at the communion table. But the Apostle Paul certainly thought so. He uh remind you and read for you again Uh what he said in 1 Corinthians 10 and verses 16 and 17, the cup of blessing that we bless, it's communion cup. Is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ? Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake. of the one bread. Now there's really no difference between saying communion and partake. Communion just means mutual participation, sharing in something that is common to all So you can say communion or you can say partaking or participation. I like the idea of communion. It just reminds us that it's common to everybody. The Lord is sharing something of His with all of us, and therefore uniting us all together as one. Now in this passage, Paul's not really asking the question here, you know, is it this and is it this because he's uncertain about it He's put the question about communion in Christ's body and blood to them in such a way that he's expecting the obvious answer of yes, because He's making a point and we'll talk more about that point next week when we deal with who should come to the table. But we're just going to deal with the reality that he is certain of communion in Christ's body and blood And when it comes to being one in Christ, he doesn't even do that much as far as asking a rhetorical question. He just flat out says to them that they are one because they do partake of one bread. So Christians then are one because they share together in the communion bread, and they do this because they share together, they have communion in Christ's body and blood, his body. His blood. There is true communion between Christ and His people. And the point of that communion is in His body and in His blood. And there is true communion between the Lord's people. And the point of that communion is the bread of communion, or the body of Christ. So, what we are going to talk about this morning is the nature of the union and communion that we have with the incarnate And crucified, risen, and descended Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we're going to kind of get at This question of the nature of it and understanding the nature of the union and communion by asking and discussing what exactly our Lord meant when he said Take, eat, this is my body. And what exactly Paul meant when he said, Is this not a participation in the blood of Christ, in the body of Christ? So to start, does Christ call the bread and wine of the communion table his body and blood because they become so? Because upon saying these words by a priest, this is my body, this is my blood, the bread and wine change into His body and blood. Is that why the Lord calls the bread and wine his body and blood? That teaching, the teaching that uh these things change is called transubstantiation. It means a change in substance from bread to Christ's body by saying the words, this is my body, and when you say that last syllable, E It then changes into his body. And from wine to Christ's blood I think if we kind of just sit with that for a minute, this is akin, it sounds akin, to something like when our Lord turned water into wine, which we know he did that Now it was a real change in substance. Ordinary water? Amazingly good wine. And those who teach this, this transubstantiation, say that when this happens Christ's body and blood then are under and present the form of bread and wine. So they're there, but they're under the form of bread and wine and because they of course know That anyone who has taken communion at a church that teaches this, you know that, well, that bread and wine still look and taste and smell and feel like like bread and wine That there's nothing outward, there's nothing to the senses that would tell you it's something other than bread and wine. So that's under the form of bread and wine, they say. But if we go back to that miraculous sign at Cana, you remember, right, Jesus told uh the servants to draw the water and then take it to the master of the feast And you remember that the master of the feast was not perplexed by what Looked like water being really amazingly good wine, meaning, wow, that's really good wine, but it's under the form of water He was perplexed that this amazingly good wine is being served now, at the end of the feast, or in the middle of the feast, and not at the beginning of And he also remembered that he didn't have a clue that moments or seconds before it was it was water to him that looked like and smelled like and certainly tasted like really good wine Now, I'm saying all this to say that the miraculous sign of communion is not a change in substance. The miracle of it all is not found there. The miracle is not to bring Christ down from heaven So, in some invisible way, he's bodily presence in the form of bread and wine, but it is to raise us up to heaven. And that's why we say at the meal, lift up your hearts. We're not wanting to bring Christ down, but Christ is raising us up at the communion. To feed us through his spirit with his crucified body and his poured out blood. And that truly is a miraculous and mysterious way. And if you'll press me on more, I'll say, I don't know. And I think I'm in good company, because John Galvin said, I don't know either. But we simply receive the words of our Lord. That this is Food for us. Otherwise the sign is meaningless. Why would he give us something that represents food if it doesn't actually feed? There's a purpose to it. But it is miraculous. It is mysterious. But the miracle Is not in a change of substance. The miracle is not bringing Christ to the miracles, raising us up, and doing what he does daily through us. feeding us with himself by the power and presence of the Spirit, but especially enjoyed and partaken of at this meal here. Now I know that for some the words of communion are difficult to say. Take, eat. This is my body. And some people prefer to just say, feed on Christ. It's fine. Jesus does say, you know, whoever feeds on me, but he also does say, this is my body and this is my blood. In the history of the church, you may know, Christians have been accused of cannibalism because of this as this teaching spread, and they heard about what this new religion was doing and this weekly meal and eating the body and blood of their crucified Xavier, they were accused of cannibalism. That's eating human flesh by human beings. But that is of course what's not happening at the tea. So then, how are we to understand our Lord's works? How are we to understand when he says plainly, this is my body, and this is my blood? But we should start by understanding that when he uttered these words, he was standing in a long biblical tradition, which of course he himself inspired as God uh speaking sacramentally. And uh I remind you that a sacrament is a visible Holy sign and seal of God's grace, of his covenant, outward sign and so representing an inward and spiritual truth and reality. With the sacrament, your senses are being presented with an object, and in the case of communion, it's bread and it's wine. And by them as representations and seals, you're also being presented with a promised blessing from God. And what happens as we read through Scripture is because of the relationship that exists between the sign and the thing signified The sign often gets referred to by the name of the thing signified. You'll call the sign bread by what it signifies is body. An example of this is found in Genesis 17 when God makes the covenant there with Abraham of circumcision. God calls circumcision his circumcision Covenant. Circumcision is the sign, as covenant is the promise to be our God, that God will call the thing signified as promise to be our God, that spiritual truth and saving glorious reality by the thing signified. Circumcision. In Exodus twelve, the Lord will call the lamb The Passover. The lamb didn't pass over. God passed over. The Passover is when God passed over them and didn't let the angel, the destroyer, come in. But the Lamb was the sign of that. As that blood is called a sign on your doorpost. And though God referred to that saving spiritual truth, that promise of salvation Through the sign. They'll call the lamb the pastel. So it is common in Scripture then to refer to the sign by the name of the spiritual reality, the things signified. But also, secondly, we should understand that our Lord is speaking figuratively here. He's using a figurative form of speech. And he did this on several occasions. You know that he called himself the bread from heaven. And not because that when you and I behold him in glory one day, we're going to see a giant wonder loaf of bread, right? I do mean the pun. Wonder bread. He called himself a vine and a door. But he's not properly either of those, right? He doesn't grow in soil and he isn't green and he doesn't swing on hinges But he speaks this way, and you and I speak this way using figures of speech to illustrate, to teach He wants to illustrate important spiritual truths to us that are very easy, much easier for us to grasp through things that are objects and tangible and ordinary to us. to show us what is wonderful and extraordinary and spiritual and not seen and the blessings of his covenant. And so we ask, what is the truth that Christ wants to teach us by calling the bread and wine at the communion table, his body and blood? What truth? Is he teaching us by calling the bread and wine his body and blood? But first he wants to teach us that they are our soul's food and drink for eternal life. Bread and wine, as we all know, sustain the life of every man, or the life of man, right, that's common to every man. We all share a common life. Everybody who is born into this world gets nourishment and refreshment from bread and wine. They get nourishment from bread and they get refreshment from wine. And I understand that some of us have uh food allergies, and you know we can't partake of bread and wine, and God does provide us nourishment and refreshment and other ways But bread and wine are chosen by our Lord for their scriptural significance, their biblical significance, because bread everywhere in scripture is referred to right as the mainstay of mankind. You know, man lives by bread. And the staff of bread. I will take it away when God wants to bring judgment, to bring famine upon them, to get them to teach, well you need more than just bread to live. But bread in every scripture just refers to the mainstay of human life. It's the most common thing throughout the world that feeds us and nourishes men for the life here. Wine is used in Scripture to refer to joyous and festive celebration. It came to be used by the prophets to depict the Messiah's kingdom. And so that's why Jesus turned purifying water into wine at Cana. He was announcing the coming of his kingdom. There would be no more need for purifying water now that he has come and the cleansing he would do on the cross for us. But he is teaching us there's a constant need to rejoice in the new line of the new covenant he's brought, and our saving union in reality with him. Being united to Christ's congregation, we have another life in us. We've undergone a second birth, the scripture says, a re-birth. We've been born from above. And the second birth, right, is just as supernatural and wonderful as our first birth, because it took an act of God to create you once, it took an act of God to give you new birth. And so as believers in Christ, born-again believers, we really have two lives in us. There's the earthly life here, physical life here. It's temporal, it comes to an end. But in our union with Christ, right, we have heavenly life. He's the bread from heaven. We have spiritual life. We have life that doesn't end. The second life is, as we know, not common to mankind. Only God's elect share in this life Being redeemed by Christ and called and regenerated and brought into the fellowship of the body of Christ through his spirit. But this second life needs nourishment. The second life needs refreshment just as much as our first life. The nourishment and refreshment of the new life are Christ's crucified body And it's poured out blood. And I know when I say that it sounds strange. And we want to know what does that mean? What does it mean? He feeds us in his crucified body. What does it mean? He feeds us and it's poured out blood. But if it does sound strange to us, you know, we should remember it definitely sounded strange to that congregation in Capernaum and what Jesus taught this to and preached this message to them. Even his disciples found it a hard saying and grumbled and bowed it. And I think more likely than not, when he instituted the words of the Lord's Supper You know, on the night of Passover probably sounded strange to his apostles too. You're handing me your body to eat, you're handing me your blood to drink But if we admit that Jesus speaks in a strange way, we should ask ourselves, why? Why does he then trouble our minds with this? You know. Why does he go why does he do this? What what's the point? Does he want us to think about something? Do you just want to trouble us to trouble us for trouble's sake? Is there something important here that We should get that these words are arresting and yet they're very important to grasp and understand. Now the chief reason that the Lord uh calls the The bread and wine is body and blood is to teach us that we do not have eternal life in ourselves. You can't produce it. You can't provide it. You can't go to the store and buy it. You can't work for it. But Jesus can get it to us Jesus provides it. But He provides it and He gives it to us in a particular way. We read again John 6. 51. And our Lord says, I am the living bread that came down from heaven. Incarnation. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. Promise of eternal life And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh So Jesus gives life to the world by laying his life down, by dying. And the communion table is really just a confirmation of this teaching. Jesus gives us his flesh, right? He gives us his crucified body and is poured out blood to eat. And to drink as the symbols and promise of eternal life And in his flesh and blood, we know Jesus accomplished all of the Father's will. He offered up to God in our human flesh and blood on the cross, right? A spotless human life, and in obedience unto death His flesh and blood, his human life, right, as we sung and praise the Savior now and ever, has merited for us eternal life. It has merited for us An everlasting inheritance. And when we accept this by faith, the working of God's Spirit in us, we become members of His blessed body. And now that same Spirit of Jesus, and by that same Spirit the Lord feeds us from heaven with his crucified body and poured out blood. Again, in a miraculous way. The Spirit, as we partake of the Lord, feed on him every day, as we partake of him in the supper, unites us more and more to Christ. Until we reach a perfect union with them in glory. There's a maturing in this sacrament. Baptism is the sacrament of initiation, the beginning. of our Christian life. As God washes us clean and makes us new and takes us into His family, all for the sake of Jesus. But communion is where we celebrate our continual commitment to Him But also where we grow up and mature in the Christian life as we feed in Christ, where we have a definite goal we're heading to as God's people. A perfect union. in heart, mind, life. So what we can say, right, his will is my will, right? That we could one day we'll be able to say, you see in me Jesus' works and only Jesus' works You hear in me only Jesus' words, and not my own, and the flesh, as we wrestle with that battle now. I like to think of it this way. If we take Christ crucified in, then Christ crucified is what's going to come out of us. Eating and drinking is also a Jewish idiom, a Jewish way of speaking, for taking something deeply within yourself, right? You imbibe it. You take it into you. And that's what Jesus is saying. You've got to take me into you and become one with me. I think that's what explains our Lord's words in verse 56 of John 6. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me. And I in him, this is a symbol of that truth, that spirituality, that we are taking Christ in us, but we want to take him more and more into us. This is where legalism can always damage a church. God's law is a rule for our life, but we always bring it down to this level. And we always think, I've done this, this, and this, I'm good. And we should always be hungering and thirsting for more and going deeper. More and more filled with God's Spirit, more and more surrendered unconditionally and completely offering ourselves to God. Well the spirit is only going to leave you in more and more keeping with God's law and holiness, but a very big difference between the Spirit feeling. And self-surrendering and just going to the law and keeping it in your strength and doing it and bringing the bar here and thinking I'm set with God. I've got here in my Christian life, good coast, excellent. It's not the Christian life. And that's just to encourage us, remind us that hungering and thirsting is right and good. We want to be going more and more one with the Lord Jesus. You know, the Lord Jesus came To give us life, right? That's the whole point when he talks about is the bread from heaven. You don't have life, but God sent me, because I'm the bread that can give life. So the whole purpose of the coming of Christ is to give life. You know, this is what he but the life he he wants to share with us, right, is his life. That's what he means when he says in verse 57, as the living father sent me. Who doubts right that the Father lives eternally? And again, that's not just mere existence. I remind you, I think I've said it, eternal life is used by John everywhere. It's a qualitative word. It's getting at a kind of life. A life free of sin. A life of holiness. A life of love. A deep, burning affection for one another. It's glorious, but the living Father, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. You know, Jesus is teaching us here that he gets his life from the Father. The source of the Son's life is the Father. He'll say in other places, right, that he abides in the Father's love. Of course, what kind of life is there without love, right? There is no life without love. Love. Love that makes life. We've all met people who began a romantic life together. It's like a new birth took place, right? Allah's got him. They are alive. We know what it is. That's what it's like when God loves us, puts his love upon us. Jesus tells us right his life that he lives, he abides in the Father's love. He does the Father's will. He he he he's saying that I live from the Father, for the Father, and with the Father. That's my life and that's What I've come to share with you. Jesus came so that by faith we may get life from Him and life for Him and life with Him. And of course, with the rest of the persons of the Trinity too, because, as I remind you, the Trinity is an uncreated, peripheric reality. And I'm not going to explain that I'd say go back to the Trinity sermon last year on this text on the Heidelberg. I won't go into it again here, but if you get where one person is, there the other persons are Heavenly life is holy life. Heavenly life is doing the Father's will. We pray, right? Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And we can pray this, right? Because Jesus has bridged heaven and earth through his incarnation, his redeeming death, his resurrection, right? The atonement where he's taken sin away. He has taken the one thing that keeps a distance between God and his people. That's sin. And he's taken it away through the sacrifice of himself on the cross. And now he has flooded us With God's presence and the Holy Spirit. I don't know how far away heaven is. Nobody knows. I don't even know if it's right to think in terms of distance It's another place, but think about it by the power of the Holy Spirit, you're able to be there in union and communion with the risen Christ. I don't know how to explain that. I don't have to explain. It's just the truth The wonderful, glorious truth that our God accomplishes through His Spirit when He unites us to Christ, that we might share in that heavenly life even now. That's why we pray and can pray Your will be done on earth. And it's not an impossibility. It's something God is wonderfully working out in us through Christ and His present kingdom. So it might sound strange to eat the body and blood of Christ, but it depicts a great spiritual reality. Heavenly life is only through the crucified, risen, and ascended Savior, and by faith in Him. In union with him, he truly gives us to partake of his crucified body and has poured out blood for our nourishment, for our salvation. When we partake of communion, the Lord Jesus is continuing his covenant with us that he made in his blood. By giving us to share in his body and his blood, he's assuring us that we truly share in these as if there are and all the benefits of his redemption by them. You know, there is no enjoying the benefits of redemption without enjoying the union and communion with Christ. It's in communion with Him. Personal, saving, relational communion, where we say Lord. Generally on our face before Him and we say Master And we say, my God and my Lord, it's in that union and communion that we share then in his benefits. His blessings and justification and adoption and sanctification and glorification and all the other ones that come from that. the the assurance of God's love and and joy in the Holy Spirit and an increase in his grace and a perseverance of it. All of that is through a personal saving union with Christ. Now I want to finish just by saying a few things by way of application a little bit. I know that several of you have food allergies And I know that that that can be hard. I don't I don't know from personal experience, but I imagine it's hard. Food you love you can no longer enjoy, or or the food you see others loving and enjoying that looks so and smells so good, you know, you you can't eat it. But you should take heart that you will never contract an allergy to Jesus' heavenly food. His flesh and his blood will always be the nourishment and refreshment. For your soul. And to all of us, since Christ provides the bread of heaven, as I mentioned, it's okay to hunger and thirst after righteousness. In fact, Jesus says that's a mark of being in his kingdom when you feel like I keep falling short and I can't live up and I just want to get there and I'm hungering after, you know, when you hunger after something, you're trying to attain to it It's a proper place to be spiritually poor in Jesus' kingdom, because that means you'll be dependent upon him and you'll come take the bread that he freely gives out So if you're here this morning and you're thinking, you know, I just want to keep God's law. Just want to keep my mouth shut. Just not want to speak behind that person's back again. Just not want to say that. Dang, I just want to have that thought. My relational problems would be solved if I could just do the right thing. Much of. My heartaches, my anxieties would go away if I would stop doing these same sinful things. Well, you know, good news for you. Jesus can feed you. Not promising you perfection yet. He is promising you that. But he can feed you. He can feed you to really change your heart. He'll feed you to really change the way you use your hands and mouth and feet and your whole bodies. He can change you to work at those relational dynamics in the way that they were meant to be by God when He created these relations and put us in them. But it requires coming to him, which is going to mean requires saying, I can't do it on my own. I need you, Lord Jesus, to feed me. I need you to pry my mouth open. I need you to put your word in it. Write it on our heart. I mean, isn't that how God speaks? He's got to actually write it on our hearts. Oh Lord, do something to me. And change. It's not just the prayer at the beginning of the Christian life, it's just a continual attitude. From the Christian life, as we settle into obedience to the Lord, we also need to settle into feeding on the Lord You must live like the wilderness people, not grumbling, but depending daily on Jesus' grace, depending daily on the manna for you. Daily. Today's troubles, not tomorrow's. What would you want to be in ten years right now? Food for today's Relations, today's labors, today's works, today's efforts, today's interactions, today. Tomorrow? You don't even know what food you need tomorrow. Not even gotten there Finally, communion is fellowship time. Coffee and snacks after the service are also fellowship. But so is the whole service of God's worship. We are fellowshipping as we sing his praises, we are fellowshipping as we draw near together to the throne of grace and confess our sins. We are fellowshipping together as we sit right now and listen to Jesus teach us. We are fellowshipping together when we offer our offerings to God and when we take communion and when we depart with the Lord's blessings, the whole service Is fellowship. Weekly communion is weekly staying in touch, connected to the Lord Jesus in his grace. But it's also weakly staying connected to one another, as we are one bread, because we all partake of it. Grudges and differences, hurts, sinnings against each other We need to cover and love, we need to repent, we need to make restitution where needed, but we also may just need to put these things aside. And we a we also may need to sit beside new people and have fellowship with the whole body. Congregation, the Lord is truly your shepherd. It's wonderful. In the presence of all your enemies, He has prepared a table for you. For death, for the devil and his demons, for the world. Come and feast Come sorrowful for sin, come hungry for holiness, and put off every weight of sin. And pursue holiness. Pursue communion with God and communion with one another. Amen.