Psalm 41 To the choir, Master, a Psalm of David. Blessed is the one who considers the poor. In the day of trouble, the Lord delivers him. The Lord protects him and keeps him alive. He is called blessed in the land. You do not give him up to the will of his enemies The Lord sustains him on his sick bed. In his illness you restore him to full health. As for me, I said O Lord, be gracious to me, heal me, for I have sinned against you. My enemy saith me in malice, When will he die, and his name perish? And when one comes to see me, he utters empty words, while his heart gathers iniquity. When he goes out, he tells it abroad. All who hate me whisper together about me. They imagine the worst for me. They say a deadly thing is poured out on him. He will not rise again from where he lies Even my close friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me. But you, O Lord, be gracious to me. And raise me up that I may repay them. By this I know that you delight in me. My enemy will not shout and triumph over me. But you have upheld me because of my integrity and set me in your presence forever Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and Amen. This is the word of the Lord. I've selected two readings from the epistles this morning, one from Hebrews, one from 1 Corinthians. Our first reading will be from Hebrews 12, verses 12 through 17. Just a words of context for you. Um Paul has just been talking about the divine chastisement that their persecutions have been. They've been under fatherly No it hurts, though persecution hurts, it is in the Father's good hand, and so he's encouraging them, the saints, to press on, strengthen themselves and to pursue these two chief duties of Christians, to pursue peace with all and holiness without which you'll see the Lord, and reminding the congregation that there is also a Pastoral mutual responsibility of the flock to look out for one another. We'll see in this morning the sad state of Judas, and that happens in churches that were called to Shepherd one another. So here, Hebrews 12, verses 12 through 17, hear the word of the Lord. Therefore, lift your drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees. And make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather be healed Strive for peace with everyone and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one fails to obtain this grace of God, that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble, and by it many become defiled. That no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal. For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected. For he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears. And our second epistle reading comes from 1 Corinthians 10, and we'll read verses 6 through 13. First Corinthians 10 6 through 13 and Paul has been speaking to the church that yes You partake of the sacraments, I remind you, so did the Israelites partake of Christ, and yet God was displeased with many and visit a warning As we see again in the gospel this morning, Judas may very well be at the Lord's table, but that doesn't save you just coming to the table without a real change of heart 1 Corinthians 10, beginning at verse 16, hear the word of the Lord. Now these things took place as examples for us that we might not desire evil as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. We must not indulge in sexual immorality as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We must not put Christ to the test, as some of them did and were destroyed by serpents. Nor grumble as some of them did and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction. On whom the end of the ages has come. Therefore, let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. And our gospel reading comes from Mark chapter 14. And this will be our text for this morning, verses 12 through 21. Mark 14, beginning at verse 12, hear the word of the Lord. And on the first day of unleavened bread, when they sacrificed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you, follow him, and whenever he enters, say to the master of the house The teacher says, Where is my guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples? And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready. There prepare for us. And the disciples set out and went to the city and found it just as he told them, and they prepared the Passover And when it was evening he came with the twelve, and as they were reclining at table and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me. They began to be sorrowful and to say to him one after another, Is it I? He said to them, It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread into the dish with me. For the Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. This is the word on the Lord. Dear Saints, it is again my joy and undeserved privilege to speak to you now in the name of the Lord from the Word of the Lord. And we come back to Mark's gospel, and I'll be speaking to you there in these verses we just read of chapter 14, verses 12 through 21. I remind you, because it's been some weeks, that we have come in Mark's Gospel to the passion narrative and all the events that make up Uh, at least in its heightened form, the Lord has been of course suffering in his whole ministry, particularly since his anointing. He has been rejected in his hometown and faced opposition and all these things. But here with the coming of the Passover season and the entering into Jerusalem and the conspiracy, uh the passion narrative, our Lord's sufferings as they are recorded for us. This is the um next to last section of the gospel. It will end of course with his triumph, his victorious resurrection, and then the commission to preach that good news. But We're looking at his sufferings. And what we've seen already about that is the plot there. How the leaders during this season were looking for a secret way to get a hold of him uh not doing it publicly because he had such favor with the people, uh, but wanted to get rid of him discreetly We saw in the midst of that darkness, even though there's still a tinge of sorrow there, we saw the wonderful deed of Mary of anointing Jesus' body for burial. You know, most people do not receive that loving kindness, that office of love, to have somebody anoint their body, right? Because you are passed. You're not sentient and present in spirit there to receive that love and Jesus acknowledges from Mary that office performed by her, though she may not have in any ways considered it that but Jesus was driving home the point. how near his events were, uh of his sufferings of death, that her lavish gifts of love to him, sparing nothing for him, was his own anointing for burial. And then with Judas's Going to the leaders and making an agreement, a covenant, a pact to betray the Lord for some sum of money, thirty shekels of silver. And now then in verses 12 through 26, or the first part of 26, verses 12 through 26 is Mark records for us the Passover. And it really breaks down into two parts in verses twelve through sixteen, the preparation for the Passover meal as Mark's given it to us. And then in verses seventeen through verse twenty-six, the actual partaking of the Passover. And so we're going to look this morning at The preparation briefly. And then we're going to look at the the first part of this Passover. Mark even then breaks down the Passover for us in two events. There in verses 17 through 21, we might call the traitor, this exchange with Jesus, this heart-searching question of a traitor and betrayal in their midst. And then next week, Lord willing, look at verses 22 through 25, the second part of the Passover with the table or the Lord's Supper. So the traitor and the table. So let's look together here at verses 12 through 16 first. This is what Mark tells us about the preparation for this meal. We see the first part there in verse 12 is the disciples' inquiry. They're in Bethany, they're outside of Jerusalem, they're good Jews, they've been trained in this. Um some of them as well may know obviously know how to prepare for the Passover. I'm not an expert, but I'm told uh Jewish boys, youth are trained in how to prepare Passover meals, may very well me be ahead of a household someday, and as the host it is their job to lead the family and those gathered at that table in its celebration. And so they are naturally asking, where shall we partake of this? We're in Bethany. It's supposed to be in Jerusalem, and we're out here. What is your plans, Jesus? And you might think, well, why is this recorded for us? Why is this significant? Well we you misremember, right? Jesus is a wanted man. It is not easy for him to go into Jerusalem and just find a place where he can eat that. And so they're naturally wondering. We in fact we don't hear it in Mark's account, I believe it's in Luke's or Matthew, when Jesus says we're going to Jerusalem and they're going, They tried to kill you last time you were there and they stirred up the courage and said, Let's go die with him. So it's not a uh we might think just an easy place for Jesus to wander into Jerusalem and every place is ready to receive him and his disciples to celebrate this meal which every Jew is supposed to do uh in the city Well, our Lord Jesus is not unprepared. We see there in verses 13 and 15. Jesus' instruction. He had thought this through and then instructs these disciples on how to carry out the plans that he's already made. He gathers them, he tells them to go in the city and a man carrying a jar of water, and you think, what is up with this man? How will they just run across the man carrying a jar of water? There's like three to six million people in the city. How are they going to find some man carrying a jar of water who will meet you, follow him, go where he enters, say to the master, the teacher, apparently this Master, this owner of this house, Jesus is known to him, probably some sort of friendship. Ask where this guest room is at where I may eat with my disciples. He's going to show you a room furnished, ready there, that you can then bring everything we need and set it up Now, I am of the opinion with many others that this had been prearranged by Jesus, the man at this house, and was somebody who knew Jesus a disciple, a friend with him, and also the man carrying a jar of water was a sign. I am told by the experts who know of the customs and practice in this day that uh it was not the role of a man to carry a water jug. Men carried wineskins, so it would naturally be a woman who was carrying a jug of water So to see a man carrying a jug of water would stand out. So I don't think that just happened by happenstance. It may as well God orders all things, but Jesus clearly I think had arranged this for his disciples on how they might safely, securely find a place to partake of this meal. And notice here, right, Jesus is about to tell, I'm going into the hands of my enemies But he doesn't just play into their hands. This makes me think of many Christian churches throughout the world, particularly in areas where there's heavy state oppression. They don't just play under their hands, how they will hold up Christ, they will carry the cross that is called to them, but they also go underground, don't they? And they meet. And they stay alive and they thrive. And here Jesus, yes, he's going to go in their hands, but he doesn't just dance to their drum. He has important business to do. This meal is important. It is impossible to overstate the importance of this meal for the Christian church. Hopefully, next week we can say more about that when we actually look at the Lord's Supper. But the significance of this Lord's Supper in the life of the Christian church, you cannot overstate it. And John gives us a larger account that Jesus also took this opportunity to give them Much needed important comfort and instruction as he was preparing his farewell The wonderful promise that they'll see him again. So here is Jesus again, the Lord of all Taking charge of the situation, planning for this event, and leading his disciples in how they should conduct themselves under his word And there then in verse 16, Mark ends with a note of information for the readers or an indication that the disciples set out Went to the city and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover. What a wonderful again reminder of how trustworthy Jesus' word is Children, have you heard your parents tell you how trustworthy Jesus' word is? That you can trust and rely. Don't we sing that wonderful song? Jesus loves me, this I know because the Bible, because the Word of God, because Jesus, the Spirit of Christ, speaks it and tells you, they go Found it just as he had told them and they prepared it. What a wonderful picture of the life of disciples Following out Jesus' word, trusting and relying in it, and knowing it brings forth the fruit he had said it most surely will So that's what Mark has to say about the preparation for the Passover. The Lord had planned for it, and it is an important meal. And now we go on and we're going to look for the rest of our time this morning at the first part of this meal. Uh the traitor. Although it might be wrong to name it, because the emphasis isn't necessarily on the traitor, but still on the Lord Jesus Christ. And how he handles this situation, how he shows us his majesty as the mediator of the new covenant, as the servant of the Lord, as the shepherd of his people. So in verses 17 through 21, we begin there at verse 17 is telling us that the Passover meal has uh commenced, and when it was evening he came with the twelve The Jews will read this next week in Exodus 12 and the institution of the Passover as we look more at the meal. But God passed through Egypt at midnight Where he put to death the firstborn of all the Egyptians, or those who had not their lintels of their house covered with the blood of the Lamb And firstborn of man and firstborn of woman. So this was a meal to be kept in the evening often round to midnight or late into the night So when evening has come, he was with them, and they were reclining at table. Now, when they ate the meal originally, they were to eat it in haste, but it had become customary in this day. Uh Jews normally sat at tables, so to recline at table was something special. I am very tempted to get down on the floor and show you how they sat because it heightens the intimacy And the point that Jesus is making, that he had brought all of them into his friendship, and it is a friend, one he regards as a friend. Who betrays them? Oh, I'm so tempted to just get down and do it. But you would put your feet behind you and you could imagine if you got down on both your knees And rolled over on the one side, so you're kind of laying on your left hip, resting on your left arm with your feet behind you, and you're sitting around like this. And John was sitting to his right, leaning back into his bosom. Most likely Judas was here to his left, so he could hand him the sob and say, It is you. This would be the order of the Imagine sitting at a table And you're in this really vulnerable, exposed position of intimacy, kneeling close down to one another. That's the atmosphere of this meal. It was an honor to be at this table And as we'll say more as we look at it. So they are partaking of this sacred meal together, remembering and calling to mind, not in a distant way, but as God's people calling to mind God's deliverance of his people in Egypt. But also living and expecting in the hope that God would remember his mercy and his covenant to their fathers and would send the Messiah to redeem them. That was the atmosphere in which they were partaking of this celebration, making what God accomplished long ago theirs today, as if they were that Exodus generation. That's how God speaks to them in Deuteronomy six and Exodus thirteen. That's how we are when we come to the table. As if we were those first century people gathered by Jesus, saw him die for us, redeemed by him, risen for us As the risen, crucified Lord who feeds us, we're to live in that atmosphere, not as some distant people two thousand years later keeping some empty ceremony, but call back to mind that we are God's people. And make to us every week and appropriate the saving power of Christ and His gospel. That's the atmosphere of this meal. And then we read in verse 18 that Jesus makes a prediction. But a shocking, stunning prediction. He says, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me. I remind you, it's been months now since the Lord Jesus had introduced this teaching to them. Right after they professed him to be the Christ in Caesarea Philippi, where Caesar would have been had professed as King and Lord. They made the profession, though, Jesus is the King of the world and Lord. And that was true. We also know that since that moment Jesus had begun instructing them about God's Messiah, and not the one that Satan had blinded their scribes. And the Pharisees and teachers and the wrong teaching of it, though they sat in God's house and synagogues. It was more a satanic lie that was preached to them about who the Christ truly is and they had a false hope. And that was not an unimportant thing as we'll see Judas cling to that As he must have been for months and years distancing himself from Christ as Jesus was not panning out to be the Messiah that he had hoped he would be He began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, teaching them from where? God's Word. We read in chapter 10. He told them, see, we are going up to Jerusalem, verse 33, and the Son of Man will be delivered. Now he had told them months ago. When we get to Jerusalem and here we are now, I'm going to be betrayed. But now he's saying, I'm going to be betrayed by one of you. One of you who's eating with me, and that's a reference to Psalm forty-one as we read it this morning that Jesus is identifying himself with that psalm as the poor, righteous sufferer, who suffers under the hands of those who are in power, but trust himself to God and his deliverance. We read there in Psalm 41 that even my close friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me. So he makes this, and we might ask ourselves, why does he make this? Well Jesus deals with that in verse 21. He makes this to buttress their faith. He makes this to drive on the point that I'm not this isn't a tragedy or an accident I'm unaware of. He makes the point that as they live through these events, we'll come to understand them after the resurrection But it was not a mere man offering his life, but God himself, who took on flesh, who willingly gave his life But also he says it in a loving appeal to Judas, and we'll say more about that. Well, in verse 19, so Jesus makes this prediction. In verse 19, we see, well, the disciples make a protest. Eleven of them make a true protest. One of them doesn't. They began to be sorrowful. This is quite a colorful word. The uh King Herod became sorrowful after Herodias' daughter's request. for John's head. There's a tinge, right, of of grief and remorse at saying something quite rash and having to face its disastrous consequences. This is the word used by in Jesus' parable of the wicked servant who has forgiven everything, and then went out and didn't forgive his own servant and threw him in the prison, and the other servants were sorrowful for him That sorrow we have when we see the misfortunes of others and how wrongly they were mistreated, maybe our close friends. There's a word uh used by uh the rich young ruler. Who had come with such hopes to enter into the kingdom, what must I do? And when he heard the cost, it's that kind of saw when your hopes are dashed. You start the day so hopeful, achieving what you set out for, and you realize they're utterly taken under your feet and beyond your grasp. That kind of sorrow when what you set your hopes on is taken from you. What if I said to you this morning, one of you is a secret apostate, and this time next year you won't be professing Jesus Christ. Now what that means a family member here. Means a brother, a sister, a friend, a mother, a father, a grandfather? It's that kind of sorrow when you get, have you ever gotten bad news? Unavoidable bad news. That's the emotion they're feeling as Jesus tells them. He's been telling them the betrayal, and now again they're here and it's one of you and it's an unavoidable event that now is sort of dampened the joyful celebration of this feast. They were this was uh they wore their festive garments, right? We on Easter, right, we wear beautiful dresses and hats This was a time for them, but now shadowed by this news that one of them would betray him. And they began one after the other saying to him Is it I? Now there is such a way as you're aware of that you can ask a question Where you you are expecting the answer to be yes or no to. And there's a way to do that in the Greek language, and they do it here where they're expecting the answer no. And so another way of phrasing the question is Not I, surely, but a real protest of their innocency that they are not conscious of making any plots for his betrayal But love him and cling to them. They may be a little overconfident in their flesh and how far they're willing to go with them. But in their heart of hearts, these leaven men love Jesus. And have chosen Jesus as he has chosen them and cling to him and believe in him to be the Messiah. And so it's a protest. And is it I is a fine translation if it's said right with a enough incredulity, right? It is it I you could say it that way, right? Is it I where it's a shock and stun to you to even hear mentioned that that Not only one of us, but even me might be the betrayer. And this points out too that they were not expecting Judas to betray him. John's account makes it clear that Judas left and they're wondering where is he going? Is he going to buy more provisions? Or is he going because it's appropriate at this time to give alms to the poor? They had no idea. That Judas was a secret apostate and a traitor. Let alone did they expect themselves. So we get their protest, is it I? Well, in verse 20, we get Jesus' pledge or guarantee or assurance as he just reaffirms his word. It is one of the twelve. The definiteness to that, yeah, it comes from the twelve. I chose the twelve after a night of prayer. On the mountain before God. This was all the way back in Mark chapter 3, and then he calls them up on the mountain, and he appoints to them their apostleship. You will be my commissioned men who will represent me before mankind and will share the good news and the gospel, even giving them a place to be with him You will walk with me, you will know me, you will support me. Luke has, and Jesus tells us in Luke's account that Luke says, You are the ones who've been with me through my temptations. As a man, he leaned on them for his support. He needed their friendship and their fellowship. He's saying it comes from one of these twelve, one who I would give you to share my own messianic authority to cast out demons, of which they did Judas and all of them were sent out and they preached to their brethren. Repent, be saved, believe in Jesus Christ, turn back to the covenant that you've left. They preached in Jesus' name. They healed in Jesus' name, and you can imagine Judas must have been happy in those days, right? That's the good days of ministry when things are well, when things are wonderful And never then in the mind that what Jesus is saying now, that one of you twelve, whom I've highly honored, whom I've imparted my own authority to Whom I've given a share in the very divine work of my Heavenly Father in which I do one of you Who be the one who betrays it. Why am I saying that? Because I think we can play up in our mind that Judas is just this utterly horrible figure. Judas did not commit the unpardonable sin. That's blasphemy against the Holy Spirit That's not saying that's not a great sin that he did. He was downplaying the sin that he made. But to make him out to be this completely evil person beyond the grasp of any of us. Misses the point of why Jesus in the first place says to all of them, one of you, and passes the searching question upon all of his disciples. And the final part is in verse twenty-one, which I would say is Jesus' plea. He says indeed, or let me say a word here about the dipping bread into the dish. That was a sign of friendship and fellowship. Here Mark it says they did together and Jesus handed that that sump to Judas. He would have handed it to all, but he probably handed the first somet to Judas, which was a sign to John that he was the one, but he handed it to all still. But the first person to receive it was a person of honor, of friendship. It was not, you might say, Jesus who let go of Judas. But Judas who turned from Jesus. If you've been with us in the evening in the canon's ador You know that's what we profess as Reformed Christians. We don't blame Christ, we don't blame the gospel, we don't blame God. It is the sinner. And the sinner alone, who is responsible for rejecting Christ, treats him as his friend. Honors him. You can see Jesus' love. How can he recover him? He does everything he can right. I'll give him the first honor. I'll hold out my hand still to him as a friend. And then I'll do the office of love and I'll award him in the strongest way I can. But woe to that man. Let me first say the about the first words here. Jesus says, the Son of Man indeed goes. Lord, that's another translation. For is not there in the Greek. Men there in the Greek. It's a contrast, there's a perfect balance between these the Son of Man, then Tom Tyson will know what I'm talking about because he studied Greek grammar, anybody who has, but it's the statement is the Son of Man, yes, on the one hand goes as written On the other hand, woe to that person, it's a perfectly balanced statement held on parallel ways. One doesn't trump the other. The sovereignty of God doesn't trump responsibility, they're held together in perfect statements. The Son of Man, what's that term? Because if you searched your Bibles as good Bereans, you know, where show me that passage in the Old Testament that says the Son of Man's going to suffer, and you'd be hard-pressed to find one. The only place that gets close to it is the end of Daniel 7, but it talks about the saints suffering under the little horn, and Jesus has spoken about that in Mark 13. Antichrist and the Great Tribulation, but also if you know, if you know familiar with Daniel's prophecy, which starts as the Son of man receiving that kingdom forever and to be served by all nations ends with the saints when he comes back receiving the kingdom. And there's this close identity between the Son of Man and the Saints of God So, where does it talk about the Son of Man suffering? Again, I say to you, I've told you before, but I remind you to understand Christ aright. is understanding that he is the union between the figure of glory, who has been given all authority in heaven and earth, who will come on the clouds to judge and to be savior. That figure is at the same time the servant of the Lord. He's the righteous sufferer depicted in so many of the Psalms in Psalm 41 and Isaiah 53 that he is Son of man, he is servant of the Lord. And Jesus says, yes, the Son of Man goes, goes where? Where is the Son of Man going I had questions answered by what is the Son of Man at now? At the Father's right hand. Ultimately, the destination, he is going back home to his father from where he's come, but approximately Going to his death. The Son of Man will go. So this is a reference to his death and his ascension. As it is written of him. We call God's word the Bible. Something wrong with calling it the Bible? If we lived as Jews, we would call it the scriptures, the things written. And we would celebrate it being broken down in the parts of the Pentateuch, the first five books, the prophets, and the writings. So when Jesus says that it is written He means the Old Testament, and he means the one that God wrote and spoke through his prophets, the Spirit inspired, and therefore he means, when he says equally as it's written, he means then the one that God authored. And therefore he means I am going according to my father's will. So he is saying in the strongest terms As our mediator, as God's Son become flesh, I bow down to the divine necessity of God's decree and what He has purposed for the salvation of His people. I walk according to what is written and I submit myself to God's word. Here is a word of encouragement to God's people and saints, right? In your darkest hour That same Holy Spirit, which inspired God's word, that same Holy Spirit which enabled Christ in his manhood to walk faithfully to God's word also dwells in you, God's people. Jesus says, Yes, this is the divine plan. My betrayal, even amongst one of you. And yes, I'm not a victim of it. Yes, this isn't a tragedy unforeseen by me an accident. But you'll understand later, this is me laying willingly my life down for you. So he acknowledges that. And the other breath he says, but woe to that man, because you get no past. You are not exonerated from your crying. Judas asks the question, Matthew makes it clear. He even says, Is it I? Judas says apparently, as he only found out later. Which he was utterly unaware of here. The responsibility of our action. That is probably why Jesus tried to arouse him and wake him. How many of you have experienced that as well? You may have friends, family, colleagues, people you love who are utterly insensible. To their responsibility before God, utterly insensible to the weight of sin and punishment they will endure if they do not repent And believe in Jesus Christ. The Apostle Paul preached this same message when he preached the gospel. This is part of preaching the gospel. And really, my plea is to anybody here who is harboring secret thoughts of apostasy in your heart. Who are just coming to the table to go through the motions. Who is not really Judas's great sin is he never really believed the gospel. He just suppressed for a while his ambitions, his sin. There was no real work of grace in his heart. There's no regeneration. There was no really accepting Christ as Lord and committing himself and entrusting himself entirely to him and living by grace, but he wanted to be his own man still. To serve him self. My plea would be if there's anybody here who's doing that That you would know just coming to the table as the apostle warned us does not just exempt you from God's judgment. As the Israelite people in the wilderness remind us. Paul preached this in Acts 13. He told them the gospel. After he preached to them the good news of Jesus Christ and told them about forgiveness of sins through his name. He said to them, but beware therefore lest what is said, this is Acts 13, 40, beware therefore lest what is said in the prophets should come upon you. Again, if God said in the prophets it's going to happen, it's decree, but he's saying, Don't let this word come on you. Look, you scoffers, be astounded, then perish. Try Him doing a work in your days, a work that you will not believe. Even if one tells it to you. God's declared, I'm going to do something so marvelous. They're not going to believe it. They're going to scoff and mock at it. And Paul's saying, don't let that be you. There you go again. The decree of God. Election and reprobation are true Jesus knows they are true. Jesus as a man, as the elect and chosen of God, knows they are true. Knows that he is the elect of God and chosen of him. Yet still acknowledges the decree of reprobation and yet loves the reprobate. How many of you think God doesn't have love for the reprobate I'm going to prove to you that he does have love for the reprobate. Does he have distinguishing foreknowledge? Choice of grace for them No. But he has real love, and I'll prove it to you from his own word and Jesus' example. Paul's example. Romans 9 begins: I am speaking the truth in Christ. In Christ, the Spirit of Christ in me. My conscience bears me witness in the Holy Ghost, Holy Spirit, that I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart. Why? What is the source of Paul's anguish? For I could wish that I myself were cursed and cut off for Christ for the sake of my brethren. Speaks to them about God's election and reprobation more in this chapter. And then he says to them that anticipated question that I'm sure he had learned to receive when he preached on this, and verse 19 and chapter 9, you will then say to me, Why does he still find fault? Why does God find fault? Who can resist his will? Why does God find fault with Judas? Did not God decree this from all time? But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? What does Mold did say the mold of ride you may be like this? Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use? And another for dishonor, then hear these words. What if God designed to show his wrath and to make known his power has endured with much Patience, long suffering. Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 13, love is patience. God lovingly suffers long for the reprobate. Paul ends chapter ten with these words from Israel, from Isaiah chapter 65, 2, God says, All day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. God has held out his hands to them. It is not God who has let go, they have turned from him. It is not Christ who has let go of Judas. It is Judas who has turned from him. All this according to God's decree, and yet Judas is still responsible, and Jesus is speaking to arouse his conscience. I speak to arouse anybody's conscience here today It would be better for you if you had not been born than to apostasize from Jesus Christ. That's the way Paul speaks in Hebrews. It is no light thing. Now I'm of the belief that according to Luke, Judas partook. It's debated because it's the issue with John. John doesn't really tell us much. We know that he leaves sometime in the middle. What time? I think he partook of it. Of course, it was not savingly to him, bought him. It probably aggravated his guilt just as much as Paul says it aggravates anybody's guilt. It is no right thing. To say, Jesus is my Lord, and I entrust myself to him who died for me and rose, and to be harboring in your thoughts Idolatry, adultery, grumbling, testing, thinking of leaving the faith and yet taking the bread and wine from him I was talking to my wife this week. She's been praying for me because I was telling her what a weighty sermon. But it is, and I would be an unfaithful minister to just go by this and say nothing to you. Nothing to call back you who may be departing in your heart from Christ, you who may be turning away to say, Woe to you if you leave the table of your Lord Jesus Christ Because it's not future sins and weakness that keep us away. They are all going to go and fall into great sin. And yet they rightly partook of the meal that's coming, and your heart has never been given to Christ. You've never really taken him as Lord. That's the issue. So let me leave you then with saying, I think that this is the proper question for examination before the table. Is it I? Do you have a clear heart before the Lord as you come and take the elements that it is the furthest thing for my mind to ever think of departing from Jesus Christ? I love him. He's my life. If he wasn't here, I'd be lost forever. In fact, Jesus, I'm longing for you to come back and it and it is agony every time I come to this table waiting for you to come back because I want you to be here. Is that the state in which you take the meal saddened that he's gone? Because that's the state they took it in. Greed at even the thought. Now we know our weakness and sin will make him fall into. Here's something I think they did right, rather than rashly saying, Never me, they actually listened to the Lord's word for once and said Okay, you know me better and we know our weakness, but still they could stay before God and his bar with pure heart Not me. Not I. I pray that is the examination of your own heart this morning as you come to this supper. Now children, I will speak to you last. I've made you listen the whole time. How many of you have lost a toy, lost a treat because you didn't listen to mom and dad's warnings? But persisted in your disobedience and sin. And only all too late had to sit in that sorrow and overwhelm with the sins of there's no going back, it's lost forever. Because that's how we pray every week, as Judas found out. The burden of our sins is intolerable And it led him to despair, and he died in despair Children. How many of you have thought, well, it's Christmas Day, or grandma and grandpa here at a birthday party, and surely I won't be disciplined or lose my treat here because of some special circumstances Judas may very well have thought, Well, I am one of Abraham's children and trusted wrongly, and his privileges as a child of God sealed him in his circumcision. No, change of heart, children Turning from sin, taking Jesus Christ, that's what's needed. Know just well I've been washed and baptized, and that's done, and God will never, ever actually cut me off If I just go and go and go in my sin and never heed his loving warnings and take Christ who holds himself out to me every week in the services as the gospel's preached As I see my parents and brethren sit at the table every week and take Christ and know that's what my baptism is calling me to. Know for certain. Woe to that person Who does not take Jesus Christ as Lord? May God give us all grace to hold fast to Jesus Christ. Amen.