New Testament reading is from Colossians chapter two, nine through fifteen. For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily And you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority. In him also you were circumcised. With a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism. in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him Having forgiven us all our trespasses, by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities, and put them to an open shame by triumphing over them in him. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Now, Lord, we pray that you'll help us to understand the portion of your word from Joshua chapter 5. Understand it spiritually, savingly, to our prophet, to our correction, our reproof, our training in every good thing. In Jesus' name. Amen. Oh yeah. So the first part of this uh passage tells how it's a wonderful thing in verses one and two, uh how the The Israelites were ready to take over Canaan. It says, as soon as all the kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to the west, and all the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea heard that the Lord had dried up the waters of the Jordan for the people of Israel until they crossed over Their hearts melted, and there was no longer any spirit in them because of the people of Israel. Wow, what a setup! The story has been gossiped and spread and told. It's been said everywhere, and everybody is afraid of the Israelites. They've heard. how these people have a God who caused the waters of the Jordan to stop and they were able to cross over on dry land. And now they're in the land of Canaan. And they're afraid. These people, these Amorites and these Canaanites are very much afraid. And I would think that the Israelites would at this point say, perfect situation, good, let's go in and take it now. They're fearful, they're cowering, let's take it now. But then this happens. Then God commanded Joshua to make flint knives. Oh wow, flint. He commanded Joshua to make flint knives and circumcise all the males of the Israelites. This is very strange to our late modern American evangelical. Years. Is this really necessary? What do you think? While you ponder At various times, in a similar fashion, I have been asked if baptism is really necessary. I understand the questioner in that case to be contrasting personal faith Personal faith and repentance over against an outward sign. Baptism. Is baptism really necessary? Even more frequently, really biblical and necessary. Well, let's just take that apart for a minute, think about it. Note this historically, it's true, historically, that Baptism was often applied to infants in the earliest years of the early church. Origen, who lived 185 to 254, And Cyprian, 215 to 258, reflect the consensus voiced at the Council of Carthage in 254 A. D. when the 66 bishops said Quote, we ought not hinder any person from baptism and the grace of God, especially infants, those newly born. That's what the 66th bishops said at the Council of Carthage. And then a little later, in the 16th Council of Carthage, in 418, a couple hundred years later They unequivocally stated, quote, if any man says that newborn children need not be baptized, let him be anathema. And then Augustine, writing in the fifth century, says this, quote The custom of our mother church in baptizing infants must not be accounted needless, nor believed to be other than the practice of the apostles. That's the voice of history. That's the voice of the early church speaking. Now, one of the reasons that Anabaptists, our modern Mennonites, are the heirs of the Anabaptist movement. That's the rebaptizers from the 16th century. One of the reasons that the Anabaptists in the 16th century believed that the church had come to ruin very early and was being restored by themselves in the sixteenth century was because of the universal early practice of infant baptism, which they were sure was unbiblical. They were sure that it was unbiblical, therefore the early church must have gone corrupt right away. So there's some testimony of history, all right? Councils can err and do err. So the Bible is our infallible authority. So, back to the question. So, at various times I've been asked if baptism is really necessary. I have often replied, That it is as necessary as circumcision was necessary for the Israelites. I have been asked if baptism saves the person baptized, and I have replied that, quote, No one should expect to refuse baptism and yet be saved. But, but There were, historically speaking, biblically speaking, some instances when God's people were not marked and were yet considered God's people. And this is one of them here in Joshua chapter 5. Joshua 5 tells us about one of these times and what God did about it. He commanded that this generation be circumcised before proceeding any further into the land, before taking conquest, before doing anything else, they had to stop Make flint knives and be circumcised. And it's explained here for us in verse 4, 5, and so forth. This is the reason why Joshua circumcised them All the males of the people who came out of Egypt, all the men of war who died in the wilderness on the way, after they had come out of Egypt, Though all the people who came out had been circumcised, yet all the people who were born on the way in the wilderness forty years had come out of Egypt, had not been circumcised. They had not been circumcised due to what? Disobedience and re-identification. With Egypt. They wanted to go back to Egypt. That's the point at which God said, this generation is going to die in the wilderness. Because they wanted to go back to Egypt. They wanted to return. That's called a little bit later the reproach of Egypt. This was a judgment on them, and they were not allowed to enter the promise. Promised land. Verse 6 explains it. For the people of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness until all the nation, the men of war who came out of Egypt, perished, because they did not obey the voice of the Lord. The Lord swore to them that he would not let them see the land that the Lord had sworn to their fathers to give to us, a land flowing with milk and honey. So it was their children whom he raised up in their place that Joshua circumcised, for they were uncircumcised, because they had not been circumcised on the way. Very redundant here, but But uh makes the point. Here in this circumcision, God is said to have rolled away the reproach of Egypt. It's a play on words, which I won't explain. Verse 8. When the circumcising of the whole nation was finished, they remained in their places in the camp until they were healed. Verse 9, the Lord said to Joshua, today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you. By the way, the name Gilgal means rolled away. And the name, the other one that I couldn't pronounce very well, and Pete tried and did pretty well, Gibeah, whatever it was, means Hill of Foreskins. Kind of gross, but there it is. The point of this all is that God wanted his people to bear a distinctive sign to set them apart from the nations. As his own people. He wanted them to bear a sign to set them apart, particularly from the Egyptians and the Canaanite nations, who were uncircumcised people. He also wanted his people to be reproductively healthy, because part of his promised blessing to them was that they would have innumerable children. The CDC, that's the community, the Centers for Disease Control. Thank you very much. And the Mayo Clinic. Released a report in 214, 2014, which concluded that the procedure really does prevent disease, especially in poor countries where hygiene is lacking. Circumcision, the cutting away of the foreskin, was hygienically important in a time and place where baths were rare and water scarce. And even the Hebrew word for making a covenant that's used throughout the Old Testament contains the word cut. You cut a covenant. And where does this all come from, by the way, in case you're not sure? It comes from Genesis 17, when God said, I'm going to make Abraham into a great nation, and I'm going to bless him, and I'm going to gonna multiply him and he was an old man and had an old wife and they had no kids at all. None. Zero. After all these years of marriage. And it says in verse 1 of chapter 17, when Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty. I got this. That's who I am. I am God sort of mighty? No. I am God Almighty. El Shaddai. Walk before me and be blameless, that I may make my covenant. I may not. cut. There it is. Bereath. I may cut a covenant between me and you and multiply you greatly. Then Abram fell on his face, and God said to him, Behold, my covenant is with you, you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham, exalted father. For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. And I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you, like King David later on, you know. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations, for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you which you don't have, the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. Wow. Amazing stuff And then verse 9, and God said to Abram, As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. This is my covenant, which you shall keep between me and you and your offspring after you Here it is. Every male among you shall be circumcised. Is this really necessary? Might have been Abram's question or Abraham's question. Is this really necessary? Verse 11: You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and that shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised. Every male throughout your generations, whether born in your house or bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring, both he who was born in your house, so foreigners could join us, right? He who was born in your house and he was bought with your money shall surely be circumcised. So shall my covenant be in your flesh, an everlasting covenant And then this, verse 14: Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. Now let's not get stuck there, because that was part of what God had planned for his people. It is not religiously necessary any longer. I want to make that abundantly clear. I'm not advocating this practice as something we do for God anymore. We don't want to get stuck here. In the longer view, this is just Uh early on, but in the longer view, the covenant of grace eventually expands to aggressively embrace all people And the boundaries of the land of Canaan will eventually expand to include all the world, as Paul says in Romans 4, 13, that Abraham Was promised that he was the heir of the whole world, not just that little strip of land in the Middle East. But at this time in history, At this time, at this moment, God wanted his chosen people, the Israelites, to bear a physical sign of membership in his people, in their male members, and upon the male reproductive part of those members' body. Through Circumcision. And he also wanted them to go in and take possession possession of the land of Canaan, which was promised to them long ago. But first, those who had not been needed to be. Circumcised. Now we learn as we go on in history that even Gentiles like Rahab could join by being incorporated into the people through conversion. But the males among them, those Gentiles, must ordinarily bear the mark of the covenant. Now, as I've said before, this is no longer necessary for our relationship with God. But as Reformed Christians, we believe that water baptism, water baptism into the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit Is the direct replacement sign for members of God's covenant community in this age of gospel fulfillment of God's kingdom? No blood is to be shed for relationship with God anymore. It has already been shed by Christ. His blood is sufficient. So, just as male infants were marked with the sign of circumcision, infants in the community of the covenant, both male and female now, are now to receive. Baptism. Where do we get this notion? Well, it was from the New Testament reading, Colossians chapter 2, where male and female members of the church are being addressed in Colossi. And Paul is saying to them, listen to it again, for in him, in Christ, the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, and you had been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority In him also you were, male and female, circumcised, with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. What does that mean? Well, I looked up to get some really good expert advice on this, and one of my My friends Nit Batzig, who writes for the Gospel Coalition and is a reformed minister, says these very helpful things. He says, circumcision is the act of cutting away the filth of the flesh, also representing the dual promise of the covenant. Two parts, dual In the covenant, God promised blessings and cursings. The removal of the corruption of the sin nature was the blessing promised. And the cutting off of the people from God, from the presence of God, was the curse promised. If the demands of the covenant were not met, even a circumcised man would be cut. This is what happened to the previous generation of circumcised people who came out of Egypt but were not obedient. They were cut off. Throughout the history of redemption, the curse was reiterated in temporal and typical forms. Just as Adam and Eve were cut off from paradise, God promised to cut off the covenant people for disobedience in Numbers chapter 15 when they did. Disobeyed. The sign of the covenant showed forth both the merciful act of cutting away the filth of the heart, that's the real spiritual meaning, as well as the justice of God in cutting off the covenant breaker. And in Isaiah 53, if you've never noticed it, there it is in Isaiah 53. Jesus was cut off out of the land of the living. Because of the transgression of my people, says God. In his bloody death he underwent the ultimate circumcision. That's what's meant by the circumcision of Christ in Colossians He underwent the ultimate circumcision. He underwent everything that the circumcision represented. He was cut off so that we might have our hearts circumcised. The covenant is broken by each and every descendant of Adam. It is only by the cutting off of the second Adam that the blessings of the covenant might be applied to you. The Apostle Paul in Colossians 2 speaks of the circumcision of Christ. This is often understood to refer to the circumcision of our hearts by Christ But it is more nuanced than that, says Batzek. In the immediate context, the apostle is speaking of the union that believers have with Jesus in his death, his being cut off. Buried and resurrected. When he died, they died. When he was buried, they were buried. When he rose, they rose When Paul comes to speak of the reality of the believer's union with Christ, he does it in light of what the covenant signs signify. And here it is again, in him you were also circumcised, with the circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ. buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him, through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead And you being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he is made alive together with him, having forgiven you all your trespasses. Let me explain it a little further. When old covenant believers had the substance, the spiritual substance of circumcision. They had union with Christ, who was to come centuries later. When new covenant believers are baptized in water and the Spirit, they have union with the Christ. Who came, who died, who was buried, and who rose again. Circumcision and baptism, you see, pointed to what Christ would do in the hearts of his people But the first pointed to what would happen to him in his bloody death. His death was circumcision. In that through his death the filth of sin was cut away by the bloody cutting apart of his flesh. His death is your baptism. In that sense, the filth of the sins of his people are washed away in his bloody death But the death of Jesus was not his only circumcision. He had one when he was young, too. He underwent physical circumcision eight days after his birth. The significance of this, coupled with the fact that he received the name Jesus at the same time, is full of theological meaning Jesus was marked with the sign of the covenant that was to go on and on to all those who he would come to represent as his people. The sin bearer and Savior. Jesus would receive the curses of the covenant and would be cut off for you and me. On the cross, even though he was the only one who kept the law of God. The covenant keeper was treated as the covenant breaker So that the covenant breakers, you and me, might have the blessings of the covenant by faith in him. The name Jesus again means Jehovah says. It is of no small importance than that he receives the sign of salvation and the name Savior at the same time. The bloody sign showed what work he had come to do. Jesus shed blood at his birth and blood at his death. The blood he shed at his birth was the blood of the sign prefigured in what he would do at his death. So back to the original question, is this really necessary? Yes. Why? Because it was the sign of God's covenant promise, of membership in his people, and of salvation provided when Christ was cut off on the cross. And rolled away your reproach and mine, our filthy sins. And buried them in his death and raised us up to a new and everlasting life. It is the sign that God will do what he promises. Is baptism really necessary? Well, I answer this question. Way. Faith in Christ, who was cut off on the cross and buried, is necessary. And in New Testament terms, that is baptismal faith Baptismal faith is not faith in baptism, but faith that receives what God promises by baptism. He promises that we are his people and that he includes our children too Of course, all who gain the mental capacity must come to personal faith and profess that faith. Yes. Luther's small catechism. Puts it this way, very well. In question three, how can water do such great things? And the catechism says, certainly not just water. But the word of God in and with the water does these things, along with the faith that trusts this word of God in the water. For without God's word the water is plain water and no baptism. But with the word of God it is a baptism. that is a life-giving water rich in grace and a washing of the new birth in the Holy Spirit One more illustration. Infant baptism can be compared to birthright citizenship In the United States of America. You see, those born in the USA are natural citizens. Those who come in from the outside are naturalized citizens, aren't they? Both those who are born in and those who come in have citizenship papers and can obtain a U. S. passport. Both should be loyal to the nation. Some, sadly, may become poor citizens. And some may even become traitors. But the privileges and responsibilities of citizenship are theirs from the first. In the same way, putting this together, in the same way, the Israelites were circumcised at Gilgal, marked out as God's people to be cleansed. forgiven, saved by faith in the coming Redeemer who would be cut off for them. But they had to follow in faith, whether adult or infant. This is most necessary. Baptism, your baptism, however it was and whenever it was, points you to Christ. Who was cut off in order to cleanse you of sin by his atoning death on the cross, his circumcision. So let me be clear: physical male circumcision is no longer necessary in relation to God and his people. And Paul makes that abundantly clear in his letter to the Galatians. But faith in Christ, who was cut off on the cross and buried, is what is necessary. And that in New Testament terms is what baptism means Do you have this faith? That you are unclean before God, filthy by nature, and outside God's family. Do you believe that Christ came and was pierced for you, and cut off in the judgment? Of death. And do you believe that your only cleansing is the blood of Christ? This is Is a circumcised faith. This is baptismal faith. I'm commending this to you, brothers and sisters. Amen. Lord, we thank you for things which sometimes uh perplex us. We don't understand the deep meanings of signs and seals and rituals and and uh things of long ago and even things current and present. We tend to gloss over them and simplify them or reject them because we don't understand them But help us, Lord, to not do that, but to make great use of what you have done and shown us, and then improve by faith what has been done to us in baptism. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.