To the choir master, a psalm of David. May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble. May the name of God The God of Jacob protect you. May He send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion. May He remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt off your burnt sacrifice. Sacrifices, Selah. May He grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans. May we shout for joy over your salvation in the name of Of our God set up our banners. May the Lord fulfill all your petitions. Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed He will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand. Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we will trust Trust in the name of the Lord our God. They collapse and fall, but we rise and stand upright. O Lord, save the King. May He answer us when we call. I'm going to divide this psalm into two parts, verses one through five. The people pray for the king and Verses six through nine, the triumph of the Lord's anointed and those who trust him. It is likely that David took A liturgical prayer by the people on his behalf, and shaped it into this psalm, a psalm to remember and to recall that Prayer. And so the first one, the people pray for the king. Verses 1 through 5. Verses 1 through 2 say, May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble. Answer who? Answer King David. David, who is praying for victory, for help. May the name of God of Jacob protect you, the king. May he send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion. This was a prayer from the multitude or the congregation. We know that based on the use of the plural we in verse 5. This is a prayer that God would answer the prayers of the one who, in the context here, is the king readying for battle. He's readying for some great battle, and he's gone into The tabernacle to meet with God, to make a sacrifice, to pray for success. And the people are praying for him that he will have success, that God will hear his prayers and answer him and help him. So the picture is that of King David before battle, probably something like the battle with the Syrians in 2 Samuel 10. He's at the tabernacle offering prayers and sacrifices, and here the onlooking multitudes of Israelites Respond to the king's prayer with the cry, May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble. Answer you means to defend you, to send you help, to strengthen you And after the pattern of Hebrew poetry, we see the idea is intensified by repetition and by new phrases that pretty much express the same thing with slightly That's a Hebrew way of doing things. May the name of the God of Jacob protect you. May he send you help. May He give you support from Zion. You could have just said one of those. And they would have been significant, but he intensifies it three times. Because King David was about to lead Israel as a whole into battle, the language is full of references appealing to the Lord. Lord as the God of Israel. So he uses the covenant name of God, Yahweh, and then he says the God of Jacob, remembering Israel's great patriarch. And then from the sanctuary, calling to mind the tabernacle, the center of Israel's worship, where God meets with them. And then Zion, referring to the hills of Jerusalem. Jerusalem. In verse 3, the people say, May he remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices. See La. Let's take that up. May he remember all your offerings. Sacrifice was commonly made at important moments, such as the eve of battle. This is a prayer that the Lord would see and receive the sacrifices of King David that he would make before the war. May he remember and accept your burnt sacrifice. This understands that not all sacrifices are accepted before God. They're asking God to remember David's sacrifice. If sacrifices were not offered in faith, in accordance with the Levitical system, they would not be remembered or accepted by God. So they're asking for it all to be. Accepted by God. And then what is being accepted is the word in Hebrew is Olah. That is a burnt sacrifice. That is a bloody sacrifice. It's not one of the peace offerings, not grain or anything else, but it's a bloody sacrifice. The blood of the victim was spilt on the altar, and the flesh was consumed. Consumed. And faith, as we said before, was important in the sacrificial system. The one who brought the offering had to trust in the ultimate perfect sacrifice that God would one day provide. So they had to believe the promises of God, all of them, the big ones, the long way out there fulfillment, not just the immediate things. Each animal sacrifice pointed toward God's ultimate fulfillment of all sacrifice. We can see a bit of that from what happened to their father, Abraham, in Genesis twenty two, where God said, Abram, take your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love, and go up to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains. So Abraham rose in the morning, saddled his donkey, and the two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac. And he cut the wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. It's a long journey now. Listen. Verse 4. On the third day Abraham lifted up Then Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will return. Now, is he being sneaky here? He's been commanded to go and offer the boy. Is he Saying, I'm going to tell you this lie so that you won't stop me from going? Or is he exercising faith? We understand from the Book of Hebrews. Hebrews that he was exercising faith. He believed he would receive him back from the dead. And Abraham said to his young man, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship and come. So they went both of them together. And Isaac said to his father, Abraham, my father, my father, and he said, Here I am, my son. And he said, Behold the fire in the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? Here's Abraham. Abraham's faith again. Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son. That's faith, isn't it? I don't understand what you're commanding me. I don't get it, but I'm going to believe you and trust you. So they went on, both of them together. And then of course, when they came to the place of which God had told them, Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood on the altar in order, and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son. But the angel of Yahweh called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. Exalted Father or Exalted Father. Father of a multitude, Father of a multitude. He said, Here I am. He said, Do not lay your hand on me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram caught in And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. beautiful picture of substitution instead of his son. So Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide. Isn't that faith? The Lord will provide. And so even in these offerings that David would make going into battle, he had to have faith that the Lord would provide. Now we come to this little word which I don't think we've discussed too much in our journey through the Psalms yet. I thought it was worth a mention. The idea in Hebrew for this word, which occurs 74 times, is for a pause. Most people think it speaks of a reflection. A pause to mediate meditate on the words just spoken. It may also be a musical instruction for a musical interlude of some kind. So I think what happens is when we have a a hymn on Sunday morning with five verses and it's a big hymn and then there's an interlude that Jeff plays. That's a selaw Uh whatever. Whether it's a musical interlude or whether it's just a time of silence to meditate on what was just said. It's here. Sila. Meditate on the fact that God provides. And then they go on in their prayer, verse 4. May he May he grant you your heart's desire. David is praying. He's praying for specific things. Victory in battle, no doubt. And they say, may God grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans. In this moment, David had one desire to defend the people of God and the covenant with God. Therefore, it was good to pray. May he grant you your heart. Desire. I think we can say this. When our hearts' desires are in accord with the plan and will of God for us, we can pray the same prayer with confidence. We can also look for God to bring our desires more and more into conformity with His in the course of our Christian growth. Since David's purpose was victory for the people, This was a good and necessary prayer to pray. We can also see how this applies in our understanding of Christ Christ, our great King, the son of David, went into battle to accomplish our salvation, our victory With the perception of faith, we looked at Jesus struggling in battle in the Garden of Gethsemane and saying, To him, may God grant you according to your heart's desire and fulfill all your purpose. And brothers and sisters, you are caught up by grace and God's plan. For the ages. Your life has meaning and purpose. Every day of it, God gives each of you a purpose to fulfill in His great plan of the ages. The key to a life of fulfilled desire and achieved purpose is to find your place in God's great plan instead of what we commonly do, hoping to make God an actor in our great plan. The difference. Jesus knew this fulfilled the desires and purpose shown by his prayer in John 17. When he prayed that God would help him to finish the work that God had given him to do. The Apostle Paul knew this fulfilled desire and purpose shown by his word. at the end of his life when he said, I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. And so These people pray for David's prayer for his heart's desire to be fulfilled. Then in verse 5, may the Lord answer prayer. May we see you see here The congregation, may we shout for joy over your salvation, and in the name of our God set up our banners. May the Lord fulfill all your petitions. This was the confidence the people had in King David's success. They had so much trust in God's deliverance that they had already at least a Now it might be useful here to make a few notes about the Hebrew word salvation. It's the word Yesha from which we get the name Yeshua, Jesus. In the Old Testament, it means to save, to help in distress, to rescue, to deliver, to set free. So in the context of David's prayer, it's mostly focused in that direction. Rescue, deliver, set free, help in distress, a time of battle. In the New Testament, it speaks uh more of the spiritual battle, the employment of soteria in the New Testament. Does sometimes include material preservation and deliverance, but it usually has a more spiritual significance. In addition to the notation of deliverance, the Bible uses salvation to denote health and well-being and healing, but mostly spiritual rescue. Our forgiveness of sins, our being right with God, our being found in His sight perfect and clean. So they were praying for that. And as I said They were so faithful in their understanding of God's purpose, His covenant, the fulfillment of it, that the banners were ready to go forth. What are banners about? If you look at if you watch some of the Civil War movies, or some of the old English Civil War movies, or the wars between the Scots and the English, you'll see see both sides gathered on the field and they've got their swords and their spears and and um Civil War in America, they had their guns and everything, but they always, both sides had their banners, their standard bearer, had to carry that flag forward on the front. part of the line to show that this is our side and our side is still in the battle, still prevailing. Our flag is still Flying. And the banners of the Old Testament were like that. Our flags, our defiance to the enemy. Are tokens of triumph to God's glory, who has given us the victory. So the church is like an army. With banners, someone has said. Banners flying. Scary to the enemy. We don't always feel that strong, but in history The church is an army with banners flying. This is true both of David and the son of David, of the king of Israel and the King of Kings. Jesus prayed for success in his work on the cross, and it was unthinkable that the Father would not answer the prayers of his Son. And so the banners go forth. Flying. The second part of the Psalm, verses 6 through 9, is the triumph of the Lord's anointed and those who trust in Him. I think this is David's voice. We had the voice of the people listening to the prayers of David and responding with prayer for David. Now I think we have Mostly David verse six. Now I know that the Lord saves his Christ. Well it doesn't say Christ, does it? It says anointing Appointed. He will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand. Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed. Here King David expresses the great confidence that God would answer the prayers of his people. that God would rescue the king, his anointed. And his anointed here, well, in a certain sense, every king of Israel was God's anointed because Remember the prophet Samuel poured oil, went out in the country and found little David. Well, he wasn't that little, but young David, shall we say, and anointed him with oil. This literal anointing with oil was a picture of the spiritual anointing Of the Holy Spirit needed for their duty of leading God's people as king. In saying his anointed, David refers to himself as king here. At the same time, it was also the faithful Israelites who understood that there would come an ultimate anointed one. That's the word Messiah. A perfect king of Israel, the Messiah, the Christ, that we find in Psalm 2 and many other Psalms as well. It was true of David and Israel. In his day, that the Lord saves his anointed, his people, is even more perfectly true of the ultimate and perfect anointed one, Jesus Christ. The verb saves here is from the same root as victorious, could yield the translation, the Lord gives victory to his anointed. So says Van Demmeren, one of the old Dutch commentators. And so we see with the eye of faith that the great battle fought by King David is also fought by his greater son Jesus, the son of David, the king of King. We can see this prayer being offered prophetically for Jesus as he pointed himself toward the cross, where he would fight. The greatest battle against sin, death, and Satan's power. David Goodzik says that God does save his anointed. He says this. The Father saved the Son from sin. He was the only sinless one. The Father saved the Son from pride. He He was made perfect through suffering. The Father saved the Son from self-reliance. He needed the Father. He prayed to the Father. The father saved the son from doubt. He gave him assurance. The father saved the son from failure. The father ultimately saved the son from death, raising him up on the third day. God answered him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand. He saved him with skill and favor and strength that comes from his right hand. hand his right hand. Well, I did a little research about right hand because why did Why does it say that? Well, um seventy-five to ninety-five percent, no one knows for sure because we don't take a survey of such things, but seventy-five to ninety-five percent of all the people are right-handed and you're stronger with your right hand if you're right-handed. So that's anthropomorphically what God is saying about himself, the God's right hand, his best arm, his strength, he saves with that. Then we get to this Next phrase, verse seven. First time I ever really heard this was uh at a general assembly worship service in the PCA in Birmingham, Alabama, Briarwood Presbyterian Church. The pastor Frank Barker got up and this huge crowd of people And it was just an amazing thing to hear these words. You got this big church full of people and general assembly and very grand in many ways And you could trust in that. You know, we have a big church. We have a fantastic work and we have beautiful facilities. We are strong. We are great. What a fantastic powerhouse we are here in Birmingham, Alabama. You could have that attitude. Frank Barker got up in his humble way. And said, Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we will trust in the name of the Lord our God. And that was the call to worship. Pretty cool. David knew that kings of the other peoples all around trusted in things like that. They laid their battle plans, human strength, iron chariots, horses everywhere. If we were writing this today, David might say something like this: some trust in nuclear weapons and some trust in tanks. And submarines and F-35s and nuclear warheads. It's part of human nature to put our trust in such Things. And I'm not denigrating our national defense. But as the Church of Jesus Christ, we don't trust Trust in the sword. We don't trust in human power. We don't trust in fancy buildings, although it would be nice to have some fancy buildings like they have in Birmingham We trust in the name of the Lord our God, not in things external that may be grand in the eyes of many, but are nothing in the eyes of many Eyes of God. Part of the reason that David refused to trust in chariots and horses was because God had commanded that he not trust in chariots and horses. In the law of Moses, it was commanded that kings of Israel would not multiply horses for themselves. That's probably the reason why Jesus came into Jerusalem. Riding on a donkey. A king of Israel was not to be a horse guy. Either for cavalry or for pulling war chariots, it says in Deuteronomy 17. In the spiritual war, in which we are all engaged, the first and necessary step to victory is to renounce all confidence in the wisdom and strength and nature of the world and to remember that we can Do nothing but in the name and by the merits and through the power and for the sake of Jesus Christ our Lord and God, so says Charles Horne. David put his trust in the person, the character, the nature of God. He didn't carry the name of the Lord as a magical incantation. Rather, the name speaks. Of the comprehensive character of God and an expression of his faithfulness to his covenant with Israel. The character and faithfulness of God was stronger to David than thousands of chariots or horses. And so he says in verses 8 and 9, they collapse and fall. But we rise and stand upright. O Lord, save the King. May He answer us when we call. David's trust in God could be justified on many grounds, but one of those was simply the proven fact that trusting God works. Jesus, Jesus, how I trust him, how I've proved him, or and or Trusting God works. Those who trusted in the name of the Lord have risen and stand upright. This is the language of faith. But before For the battle. Spurgeon is my final word. And he says this: the prayer that God would strengthen you out of Zion is fitting For more than the field of battle. It is also appropriate for the church pulpit. Let me pause there to say. The Israelites were praying for David as he prayed for strength to do what God had given him to do as the leader of God's people. Spurgeon is saying, you do that when you pray for your pastor. Your pastor is going into a battlefield. It's called the pulpit. He's going to preach the word of God. It's a battlefield, so you should pray for your Pastor, he says, It is also appropriate for the church pulpit, which is a field of battle in a spiritual sense. This verse is a benediction befitting of Sabbath morning. And may be the salutation either of a pastor to his people or of a church to its minister, says Charles Spurgeon. So I urge you to use Psalm 20 To pray for your pastor and other uses as well. Amen. Lord, we thank you for this great psalm of David as he collected the prayers of the people. And form them into this psalm that we have. May we make good use of it in our own prayers For your kingdom to come, your will to be done, for the preaching of the gospel, for the conquering power of the Church of Jesus Christ to be seen. And felt and known, even as we have sung this evening. The church will never perish, her dear Lord, to defend She keeps on going. She keeps on defending. He is with her to the end. We pray, Lord, that you'll be with us to the end. Build your church. Strengthen your people in the faith. Amen.