I'm going to be reading in a few different places, sometimes just a few verses, even one, because I'd rather you have these readings in your mind as we hear Hebrews, so we might be able to hear them a little bit as they were read to the congregation then who would have had this knowledge of these Old Testament passages. So we're going to start in Exodus 28 and read together verse 2 and verse 40. So hear the word of the Lord in Exodus 28, verse 2. And you shall make holy garments for Aaron, your brother, for glory and for beauty. Again in verse forty. For Aaron's sons you shall make coats and sashes and caps. You shall make them for glory and beauty. And we'll turn now to first Samuel. And chapter two, God is giving a promise. Samuel two, verse thirty-five. And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, who shall do according to what is in my heart and in my mind. And I will build him a sure house, and he shall go in and out before my anointed orever. And then to uh the prophet Isaiah in chapter forty one, verses eight through ten, forty-one, eight through ten. In the word of the Lord, but you, Israel, my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, The offspring of Abraham, my friend, you whom I took from the ends of the earth and called from its farthest corners, saying to you, You are my servant. I have chosen you and not cast you off. Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. And then Isaiah forty-nine verses twenty-four through twenty-six, the word of the Lord. Can the prey be taken from the mighty? Or the captives of a tyrant be rescued. For thus says the Lord Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken, and the prey of the tyrant be rescued. For I will contend with those who contend with you, and I will save your children I will make your oppressors eat their own flesh, and they shall be drunk with their own blood as in wine. And all flesh shall know that I am the Lord, your Savior, and your Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob. And then to Hebrews now, this will be our passage for tonight. Hebrews chapter 2, and we'll read beginning of verse 5 to end the chapter. Hebrews 2, beginning of verse 5, hear the word of the Lord. For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere. What is man that you are mindful of him? Or the Son of Man that you care for him. You made him for a little while lower than the angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now, in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present we do not yet see everything in subjection to him. But We see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death. So that by the grace of God he might taste death for every one For it was fitting that he for whom and by whom all things exist And bringing many sons to glory should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies, and those who are sanctified, all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children God has given me Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things. That through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death. That is the devil. And deliver all those who, through fear of death, were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps. But he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect So that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. This is the word of the Lord. Congregation, we continue tonight our study of this letter. I remind you that the letter was a sermon written to Christians who were in a crisis. And the crisis was, are they going to hold fast to their confession of faith in Jesus or compromise with some sort of idealistic Judaism view of things. And that's important in helping us a bit of understanding some of the emphasis behind the letter. But the main thing is, no matter what compromise and what compromise is being offered to Christians in any age, it's always deadly. And so we must continually look to our Savior. We must continually consider again, right, the Christ that we confess. and see him. And that's really what this whole letter about is, to encourage these Christians to hold in there And on top of that, encourage them, look again at Jesus Christ. Consider again who he is in his person and his work as God's Redeemer Now, tonight we will be considering the fitness or suitableness of God saving us by a crucified Redeemer. You see how verse 10 begins. We got to verse 9 last time, and we'll talk about it in a minute, but you see how verse 10 begins. For it was fitting. Now I can only imagine why he writes it was fitting is because some people didn't think it was fitting. And maybe we're arguing that this method of saving sinners, as he so strongly puts it in verse 9, The Son of God taking on flesh and by God's grace tasting, experiencing death for everyone. might not have thought that that was fitting to God to do, to get mixed up here in the realm of suffering and of death. We know that for Jews because the Bible tells us, Paul tells us, how scandalous the cross was. how offensive this message was, and couldn't grasp how someone so utterly forsaken of God could be right their redeemer. Now praise God. I don't think that that is generally our issue today. But we've been made wise and know the cross of Jesus Christ and hopefully nobody here finds it a stumbling block. that God's Son would become a man and suffer and die to save us. That this uh is fitting for God and suitable for our salvation. And that's what we uh what I'm looking at tonight So if I can put it to you this way, the sort of proposition for tonight is this. It is God's fit way in bringing many sons to glory to make the founder of their salvation perfect. Through sufferings, because it perfectly answers to man's need, and because it perfectly answers to God's glory That's what we're going to look at tonight. And what you might say the gospel of Christ crucified and risen. But she expands to say It is fit for God in bringing many sons of glory to make the founder of their salvation perfect through sufferings. Because it perfectly answers to man's need and perfectly answers to God's glory. All right, let's take a look at this and unpack all that means Our preacher has been arguing a point going back to verse Or in chapter one, that Jesus is superior to the angels, that the exalted Son who is seated at God's right hand is superior to any angel And he demonstrated that to the names that he has, God and Lord, and his status to sit at God's right hand. And then he took a break and applied that by urging us to pay attention. Through the word of salvation that God has spoken to us in Jesus and through Jesus. And then in verse five of chapter two, he resumes in support of what he said in verse 14. Are they not angels, all ministering spirits, sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation? And why is that Well, because God has not subjected the world to come to angels. It is fitting then that angels should be sent out by God to minister on behalf of those who will inherit salvation, and that means glory, that means the eternal inheritance. Because God has not subjected the world to them. It it makes sense that they would not be ruling and those in charge Because God has entrusted or put in charge over the world man, as Psalm 8 says. It has been testified somewhere. He gives us evidence what is man, that you're mindful of him, or the Son of Man, that you care for him. You made him for a little while lord and the angels. You've crowned him with glory and honor, putting everything in subjection under his feet. But he does say at present we do not yet see this, God's purpose or man to make man the rulers of his world we don't yet see Now, he doesn't say we won't see it. He just says we don't yet see it. And if you know about Psalm 8, Psalm 8 is meditating on creation, Genesis 1 and 2, but the way our author's using it He's using it as a prophecy of what God is still gonna do for mankind, even though man has fallen into sin. And can have no claim upon his created right and his created place, having sinned away. God is still going to fulfill that purpose. But he says we don't see this, but then he says in verse 9, what do we see? And here for the first time he uses Jesus' name. First, the Son of God is Jesus, speaking about him in his incarnate state. But we see him. Who for a little while was made lower than the angels. You made him for a little while lower than the angels. Well, here we see God made his son for a little while lower than the angels. Jesus. You've crowned him with glory and honor. God says I'm going to crown man with glory. glory and honor. But then notice what it says in verse 9, because this is the part that was a stumbling block. This is the part they're going, I don't get this. He says it was because of the suffering of death. It was not in spite of or despite that Jesus suffered and died that he was crowned with glory on earth because He suffered death, that he was crowned with glory and honor. And that then speaks that there must be some kind of intentionality. to his sufferings and death. And that's what he makes clear to them in the last line there, verse nine. So that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. Now he is saying that it is because Jesus tasted death for everyone that God has exalted him, that this man One man has reached the divine purpose that God intends for man to be exalted to glory. And this one man, Jesus, reached the goal of humanity, the goal that God has for man, not in spite of his sufferings and death. But because of his sufferings and death. So he puts the sufferings and death, the point that is probably Most disputed, most distasteful, the hardest one to deal with, right before them and says, You want to see God do what he intended to do for man? Then you can't get around the sufferings and death of Jesus. You want to understand how God is going to bring man to glory, then you better understand it is because Jesus Christ suffered and died. And if he didn't, there will be no reaching glory. There would be no fulfillment of God's purpose for man. And that's what he's asserting in verse 9. But then he goes on in verse ten, and this is where we'll pick up and look at. He says that it was fitting that God should do this. It was fitting. Let me explain some of these words. It was fitting I want you to look at the rest of verse ten. It was fitting that he will come back to this language about for whom and by whom and bringing many sons to glory when we talk about how this answers to God's glory. But I need we need to make clear what we mean by the founder of their salvation, and we need to make cle no make sure we know what's clear about perfect through suffering. So what does it mean that it was God's fit way? Remember this is what we're dealing with tonight, it was God's fit way, his fit method To reach this purpose, bringing many sons to glory, to make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. Let's consider those words, the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. W what do those words mean? What is a founder? Well, I think maybe the easiest way to illustrate it is fads. You know what a fad is, right? Or a trend? Somebody starts a trend, and then other people follow that trend, right? I remember this is a silly one that came up in my head, but in high school, for whatever reason, it became a fad for people to pop the collars of their shirts. They would pop I think they just say yeah. They would pop their collars and whoever started that, next thing you know, like a store, everybody who's cool pops their collars, right? Somebody started it And then others follow. Now sometimes we start fast, we just do it for ourselves because we like to do it and unintentionally people follow But sometimes we start things for the purpose of bringing others to do it. And that's what the word founder means. Jesus is the founder of salvation because he's the first one who reached glory. In chapter 5, we'll get to later, the preacher tells us that Jesus in his days of flesh offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears. to him who is able to save him from death. Salvation here is it has a future aspect, a strong future note to it. He's talking about salvation in its perfect, fullest sense. of no longer being under the corruptions and evil and decay of this world, no longer being subject to death, but as we're told, Jesus is risen never to return to corruption. That salvation, raised in glory, immortal, incorruptible, in glory at God's right hand. He's saying Jesus is the first one to reach that. And by God's grace, He won't be the last one, or the only one. And there in glory, there in salvation, being raised from the grave. He then brings others into the salvation that he reached. I think the Nicene Creed says it perfectly. He is very God, a very God, who for us men and for our salvation came down from heaven and was incarnate of the Holy Spirit And of the Virgin Mary and was made man. Jesus didn't need salvation for himself. He did it for us. He did it for the children God gave to him. But as our trailblazer, as a man, right, he blazed the trail. See, there was no man, we're all sinful falling short of glory. Jesus came down and said, Let me show you how it's done, men. Let me show you what it is to be a man. Let me show you what it is to be a son of God. Let me show you what it is to bear the image of God. And through his life. And not in spite of his sufferings and death, but because of his sufferings and death, as the pinnacle of his obedience, he was crowned with glory and honor and was the first to reach salvation. And there he brings his children to. Now what does he mean then? So I hope that's clear what we mean by founder. He starts it. He's the first. He's reached it. He's reached it. A man has reached it. When you read Psalm 8 and he talks about God crowning man with glory, you should say, we've seen one do it And that should cheer us all. Those who have faith in Jesus, right? That should cheer us, because one man has achieved it. One man is there. And give us hope, those united to him, to be there too. Now that's what it means that he's the founder of their salvation. He's achieved it, and he then brings them into that salvation. These many sons that God would bring to glory. What does it mean that he was made perfect through suffering? That's a difficult one. We'll have time to continue uh to look at perfection in this letter. It's a it's a big concept. But in the context it means really from going from being made low To now exalted in glory. Remember, it was because of his sufferings and death he was exalted. That is what is asserted here. Crowned with glory and honor, because of suffering and death. So if exaltation or glory was God's intended goal for man, that's what Psalm 8 says, right? You made him lower, but you've crowned him with glory and honor. For for Jesus to be made perfect through sufferings is for Jesus to enter into that glory. So through sufferings, Jesus comes to glory. That's part of what his being made perfect by God is. He attained the goal of which God has for man through his sufferings. But it also has a sort of vocational meaning. If you start a new job and get a new calling, you usually go through a circuit of training, right? You go through a series of tests, a series of trials, a series of instruction, so that you might be perfectly fit for the job you've been called to. And that's the second thing of what it means that he's made perfect through sufferings. Through his sufferings He has been personally prepared in glory to be that founder and bringing the children to that same glory. That's what it means that he was made perfect. And so he's saying you look at the cross and you think it's horrible and you don't get it, and he's trying to say, no, no, step back for a minute. And see, God was doing something very suitable here, very fitting here for you men, and your salvation, that it was through our Savior's sufferings and death. That God has perfected him, bringing him to glory, and making for you an accomplished Savior who can save you. A Savior who can minister to you and bring you to this salvation. So far from thinking that the salvation or the sufferings of Jesus had no purpose, he's arguing that they were part of his perfection as are Redeemer. Now let's pause in for a minute real quick because it says a lot here before we consider how this perfectly answers the man. Who is Jesus in this? Who is the Lord Jesus Christ in this passage? Verse 7 says something says something very wonderful, and that fits a lot of the foundation here. For he who sanctifies That is the one who consecrates us and makes us holy by his blood, by his spirit. And those who are sanctified, these children, God would bring to uh glory those who have Jesus' blood applied to them, those who are indwelt by Jesus' spirit. All have one source or all have one origin. And I think you can read the commentaries and you can uh decide which translation you like best 'cause it's debated on what exactly it means here it's vague, but I think it means something like they all have one family. Or they are the same family, they have one father, and then he quotes a bunch of sayings, or then he draws an inference from that. That's why Jesus isn't ashamed to call them brothers The sinfulest, vilest, unholy creature that God has pledged to Jesus to save, Jesus is not ashamed to call that person brother. Jesus, the Son of God, and all of his eternal glory, is not ashamed to call us human beings. Brothers. Why is that? Because we all have the same father and all have the same spiritual family. And then he gives a bunch of quotations Look at what Jesus says. He says he puts these words on Jesus' lips. This is what Jesus says. I will tell your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation I will sing your praise. Who are his brothers? The word congregation there is the word ecclesia. If you know that's the word translated everywhere in your New Testament as church. These brothers of Jesus are the members of his church. And who are these? They're the ones who put their trust in God, the faithful men then. Who are these ones who put trust in God? This next passage comes from Isaiah. Faithful remnant. God gave Isaiah in his day. His sons were a pledge of God's faithfulness, but they were only a few faithful people. And Jesus says, Behold, I and the children, God has given To me, and on the foundation and of this unity, he takes on our flesh and redeems us All right, well I said it was a fit way for God to do this and bringing many sons to glory, to make the founder of their salvation perfect through sufferings, because it perfectly answers to their Man's need. Now I know that was a a lot to even start with. I have racked my brain for hours on this sermon. Hours upon hours to get at what's here. It's so dense And there's so much VMPAC. And I've tried to put in the most condensed statement I can to open up and to explain it here. The the issue is is we're not first century Jewish Christians who know our Bibles like they do and read it in the Greek. like they do and are used to mid rashes and homilies on scriptures the way they are and to see how tightly they read and so it can be a bit dense sometimes to get through all this. I'm trying to give it a most concise way to get out what he's saying here. The most fundamental thing he's arguing at is that what God did to Jesus Christ in putting him to death for us, in bringing him to glory. was very suitable and fitting for our salvation. And here's why. It perfectly answers the man's need. Look at verses 14 and 16. You know, you remember in creation God made man to be lords of dominion. God intends for man to be in glory, but look where these sons are at. Look where these children's are children are at. They are enslaved under an evil tyrant. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil. And deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. Now it's hard to be uh in charge of anything when you're a slave, right? When you're in bondage to your sin Bondage to do Satan's will, and living in the fear of death because you are a sinner. That's a low state for man to be in. That's a low state for these children to be in But it's only the sufferings and death. It is the crucified and risen Christ who answers perfectly to that need. Because what did men need? They need a better pleader for them, right? They need someone who take their place, suffer and die on their behalf, and take away the sting of death. And that's really what's being talked about here Uh nobody thinks that God gave uh the devil the absolute power over death. It's talking something about, as Jesus says, uh the devil was a murderer from the beginning Death is in this world, yes, because of man's sin, but w what was the source of that? The instigation of Satan and his envy uh and his wickedness and tempting man to sin and to rebel. And in that sense, because of the heinous guilt of which man's sin takes on it as listening to Satan. It's in that sense in which he has the power over death. But through the redemption in Jesus Christ, I think it's Calvin who says this. Uh death is no longer an entrance into hell for the believer, but a gateway right into heaven. as his power, Satan's power, whatever it is over death has been nullified. Death's power has been broken. So we're talking here about Jesus and his in his victory. And I I love the words from um Romans 8 picturing this. And I won't we don't have time. You can look at Zechariah chapter 3. There's a picture there of of Satan and Joshua the High Priest, and Satan is accusing Joshua the High Priest. And God says, Isn't he a brand plucked out of the fire? What does Paul say? How is it that we as believers in Jesus Christ can can talk to ourselves? He says this. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? This is Romans 8:33. It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. So Satan loves to accuse us But we have Jesus Christ as a better defendant in that high court and who can bring a charge against us because of our Lord Jesus Christ and his intercessions for us. So Jesus taking on flesh, suffering, dying, has brought to an end Satan's tyranny over God's children. has released them from their bondage and service to him, and they no longer live or should not, at times though, in the crippling fear of death. And it may be because this congregation was being tempted and afflicted. that Satan was probably up to some sort of demonic activity and threatening them with death, bringing around, you know, the forces of the state or whatever, that he drives home this point That praise God for Jesus' sufferings and death. Praise God for God perfecting him through those sufferings. That you no longer live under his tyranny, but you live in the kingdom of Jesus. So that means man's need here here's the Perfectly meets man's need. Here we are enslaved under an evil tyrant, and what can we do to get out from under it? What can man do to free himself from Satan's grasp? Nothing Only the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ has done anything to free us from Satan's home. Secondly, look at verse 17. Man is guilty before God. Therefore, he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, incarnation, in our afflicted estate. So that he might become a merciful and hate faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation or reconciliation for the sins of the people. Look at man stated, what can man do to reconcile himself to God? What can man do to atone for his Sins. Nothing. What is the answer to that? God perfecting Jesus Christ right through the sufferings of death, as he became our high priest. Third, look at verse 18. And luckily, uh most of this he's going to expand upon for the rest of the letter, so we'll have plenty of time to consider Jesus as our high priest. Look at verse 18. Man tempted, children sorely tried in this suffering and at times very miserable life. What can help us in that? What can encourage us? Who can we go to get help in our afflictions? The one, because he himself has suffered when tempted, is able to help those who are being tempted. They have all the man's needs, all the needs of God's children that he would bring to glory are met perfectly through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Secondly, I said that this method of saving us perfectly answers to God's glory. How does it answer to God's glory? We'll go back and look at verse 10. For it is fitting that he for whom and by whom all things exist What happened to God's purpose in the garden? What happened? I mean look at this state. We saw what God did not God did not intend In his put it this way, I know we're so used to. We've got to be very careful we talk about this. We have God's decreed of will, which is no way ever the rule of our living But to say that uh but the point is when God made man, he made him to have dominion. And never did he say to man, you know what you should do, man? You should go sin so I can redeem you, right? No. That was the glory of his grace. So when we look at the world under the bondage of Satan, who what right did God ever give to Satan to enslave men? And set up the worship of idols, right? We have man before God, guilty before God and afraid of him and ashamed to draw near. That's not what God intended for man. Did God intend man To hide behind the tree, right, and not draw near to him because he's guilty, and therefore he's afraid, and therefore he's ashamed. That's not what God intended for man. Did God intend for man to live a suffering, miserable existence That's what he's talking about being tried. He's talking about you're being tried because you're going through horrible sufferings. Could be of chronic illnesses. It could be of deadly plagues, it could be of wars, it could be of persecutions. Those are not things that God intended for man when he made his world, right? What has brought that on? Sin? The work of the devil? And so what we're saying then is this perfectly meets God's glory is God is the one for whom and by whom all things exist. He is the one whose will is going to have the final say, right? Not a ruined creation by Satan. But a glorious creation by his grace and the Redeemer. And that's what we see really in those words, in bringing many sons to glory. God's purpose will stand, right? Remember what Paul says about what happens when uh the children are brought in that glory? What's going to happen at the same time you and I reach that glory? Creation's gonna be set free You're gonna have the renewal of all things. God still has that purpose, and that purpose is not going to be sorted, and it can't be sorted Why? By God's grace. And how is God? And how does God and how will God and how is he achieving this purpose? This fit way through perfecting Jesus Christ through his sufferings. Because he's bringing many sons to glory. One is there, the Redeemer Jesus, who brothered us. One who's there who knows all of our sin, or not all sins, all of our trials in this life, all of our temptations and suffering. And it is by thinking about it by he's God's not saving whales, as he says here. God's not saving angels. He's saving men. He's saving men in this condition. He's taking men from their fallen estate and all that that means to be in bondage, to be afraid, to be suffering, to be hurting, to be anything. But in glory and ruling, and God is taking them and bringing them to glory Because he has decreed that the sanctifier and the sanctified shall be one. And through Jesus Christ and in Jesus Christ, God is bringing us to glory. And that's his point, and I I doubt I did uh justice to what is said here and this kind of extended meditation by the preacher on how fitting this is But I do hope it has at least caused us to consider again, as we were reminded in the Psalm, what high purposes God has for us. And what high plans God has decreed for us that we shall know that glory that the Savior is in. And we shall be in that glory and be those perfect images of His that He has intended us to be And it will be because of one thing or by one way, Jesus. So if you want to get there And if you want to be there, there's only one way, calling on Jesus Christ. Trusting in this high priest. Holding on to him. You can see then the danger of this congregation that he's speaking to. As they are losing sight of Jesus and letting go, that is synonymous with losing your own salvation, right? Falling short yet again, right? of this glory because there's no way to get there but by Jesus Christ. It's really marvelous and I pray we would all Spend some time tonight just thinking on what it is that Jesus brothered us. Spend some time thinking again what he's trying to say, that all of Jesus' life matters for your salvation. Because you've got to walk through that. You've got to walk from here into tomorrow and into the next day and whatever days are after that to get the glory And whatever trials and temptations, whatever difficulties and troubles that await you in it and that are there, there is one who can help And that is the Lord Jesus Christ. He wears your very flesh The solidarity between you and him necessitated that he be conformed to your same nature. And knows your same condition. He knows what it is to be weak, frail, flesh and blood. That's the Savior that God gave us. So let us always worship Him. Let us do what He wants us to do, turn to Him. Trust in him. Call on his name. And attain to that glory that he has laid hold of us for, as verse 16 says. Jesus lays hold of you. The Lord Jesus has laid hold of you. And he is bringing you as the founder of your salvation. The glory. So continue, as he'll go on and say next, consider congregation, the apostle. and high priest of your faith, Jesus Christ. Amen