Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the book of Leviticus, the 23rd chapter of Leviticus, verses 33 through 44. Leviticus 23 verses 33 to the end of the chapter verse 44 And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the people of Israel, saying, On the fifteenth day of this seventh month, and for seven days is the feast of booths to Yahweh. On the first day shall be a holy convocation, you shall not do any ordinary work. For seven days you shall present food offerings to Yahweh. On the eighth day, you shall hold a holy convocation and present a food offering to Yahweh. It is a solemn assembly. You shall not do any ordinary work. These are the appointed feasts of Yahweh, which you shall proclaim as times of holy convocation for presenting to Yahweh food for offerings, burnt offerings, and grain offerings. sacrifices and drink offerings, each on its proper day, besides Yahweh's Sabbaths, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vow offerings, and besides all your free will offerings, which you give to Yahweh. On the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the produce of the land, you shall celebrate the feast of Yahweh for seven days. On the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest. And you shall take on the first day the fruit of splendid trees, branches of palm trees, and boughs of leafy trees, and willows of the brook. And you shall rejoice before Yahweh, your God, seven days. You shall celebrate it as a feast to Yahweh for seven days in the year. It is a statute forever throughout your generations. You shall celebrate it in the seventh month. You shall dwell in booths for seven days All native Israelites shall dwell in booths, that your generations may know that I made the people of Israel dwell in booths when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, for I am Yahweh, your God. Thus Moses declared to the people of Israel the appointed feasts of Yahweh. This is the word of the Lord. John chapter 7, 1 through 24. It says 31, but I've shortened it a bit, so 1 through 24. We just read about in from Leviticus about the feast of booths or tabernacles. And so here we have it again, John chapter 7, verse 1. After this, Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. Now the Jews' feast of booths was at hand. So his brothers said to him, Leave here and go to Judea that your disciples also may see the works you are doing. For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world. For not even his brothers believed in him. But Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always here. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I testify about it that its works are evil. You go up to the feast. I am not going up to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come. After saying this, he remained in Galilee. But after his brothers had gone up to the feast, he also went up, not publicly, but in private. The Jews were looking for him at the feast and saying, Where is he? And there was much muttering about him among the people, while some said, he is a good man. Others said, no, he is leading the people astray. Yet for fear of the Jews no one spoke openly of him. About the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching. The Jews therefore marveled, saying, How is it that this man has learning when he has never studied? So Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine, but is his who sent me. If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching Teaching is from God, or whether I am speaking on my own authority. The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory, but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true. And in him there is no falsehood. Has not Moses given you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law? Why do you seek to kill me? The crowd answered, You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you? Jesus answered them, I did one work, and you all marvel at it Moses gave you circumcision, not that it is from Moses, but from the fathers, and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath If on the Sabbath day a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a whole man's body well? Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you that you have delivered your word. Old Testament, New Testament Psalms The whole thing is your holy word. You've delivered it by your providence. You spoke through those who were inspired by you And so we have the very Word of God. Help us to hear it, help us to receive it, help us to apply it. And by your Spirit, make it live in us. We pray. Amen. So the Jews were looking for Jesus to come up to the feast. They hated Jesus and wanted to kill him. That's why they were looking for him. You have to remember the context of this coming up to the feast and these Jews wanting to kill Jesus. The context goes back to chapter 5. Where this is the chapter 5 is the very previous time that Jesus was in Jerusalem. After that, he'd gone to Galilee, but he was in Jerusalem. And uh it says there in chapter 5, verse 18, this is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath when he healed the man who had been lame for thirty-eight years by the pool of Bethesda. Not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. That's why they wanted to kill him. And instead of smoothing this offense over by explaining it, he didn't really do that. He doubled down on it And so in verse 19 of chapter 5, he said, truly, truly, that's amen, amen, I solemnly swear. I say to you, the son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, the Son does likewise. Basically, what is he swearing? He is swearing That what God the Father does, He does. And what He does, God the Father does. That's a pretty bold assertion for yourself. He is saying that there's absolute coordination between himself and God the Father, Yahweh. This is the biblical Jesus. One with the Father, but not the Father. And we see this in the next verses, the shared unity and divinity. In the next verses, verse 20 of chapter 5, he says. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing. There's no lack of knowledge between the Father and the Son. And he says, greater works than these he will show him, so that you may marvel. They marveled at the healing of the man who had been lame 38 years, but he says, greater works. And then verse 21, for as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will. And then in verse 26, for as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself He is saying that he is God the Son and that He has life in Himself. That claim is really big because only God has the power of self-existence. And Jesus is saying, I have the power of self-existence. So he's making huge claims. And then he said that he was going to execute judgment in verse 27. He has the authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. And then he goes on. So he is making huge claims in chapter 5 after healing this man beside the pool of Bethesda. And he goes on then, and we've had this a few weeks ago, to give three witnesses. In order to establish something as an absolute proven fact, you had to have three witnesses. in the Old Testament. So Jesus gives three witnesses. In verses 32 through 35, he says that the Son himself has the endorsement of John. So that's the first witness. John is one who bore witness to me when he said, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And in verse 33 he says, you sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth, and so forth. So he has John as the first witness. And then the son has the endorsement of the father. He says, first of all, the very works that I do testify about me. They come from the Father. And then we can also remember when Jesus was baptized that the Father said, This is my what? My beloved son. So he has the endorsement of the father as his second witness. And then he says he has the endorsement of Moses. In verse 45, do you not think that I will accuse you to the Father? There is one who accuses you, Moses, on whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you do not believe his writings, how you believe my words. So he's got Moses as his third witness. So that was back in chapter 5, back when Jesus was in Jerusalem before and he healed the man beside the pool. But now he's there again in the middle of this feast. This is an eight-day feast, and we'll get into the feast of Booze next time when I preach. But um the Feast of Booze was a an eight-day period when the Jews would Camp out basically. They would build little huts and put leafy green branches over the top and around the sides to keep the sun out in the daytime, and they would eat their meals in there and sleep in there And look up into the sky from the the cracks in the in the brush on top at night, and they would remember that God delivered them. So this was the feast, and that he's about halfway through it when he arrives in Jerusalem. And this is the first scene. But before we get to that, before we get to that, back in chapter 7, the first part is the first scene of his speaking with his unbelieving brothers. His unbelieving brothers. It says, after this, after the healing of the invalid man, Jesus went about in Galilee. He wouldn't go up to the feast. That's 60 miles from And when you say the Jews here, you're talking about the Jews who want to kill him, the official Jews. in Jerusalem, the leadership. Then he goes up. He's not going up yet. His brothers tell him he should go up. Now who are these brothers? We call each other brother and sister around here sometimes, don't we? And that's not the kind of brothers we're talking about. We're talking about his natural brothers. He had four brothers, uh half-brothers, the sons of Mary and Joseph. And these four brothers that we learn about elsewhere in Scripture are urging him to go up. You should go into the feast. You should show yourself. You should do your miracles there. All the world will be there. All the Jewish world will be there And you'll be able to show that you are the Messiah if you really are. And uh John says they didn't really believe in him. So they were kind of urging him to go and prove it if he really is the Messiah. And he says, my time hasn't yet come. It's always right for you to go. It doesn't matter when you go, but I have a specific schedule. And my time has not yet come. So he remained in Galilee. That's the first scene. This unbelieving brothers urging him to go up, and he says, No, I'm not going now. And then the second scene is in Jerusalem. He does go up. Verse 10, his brothers, after they had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, but not publicly, but in private. And again, the Jews were looking for him at the feast and saying, where is he? The Jews, again, are the leadership who want to kill him in this case. And then in verse 12, there was much muttering about him among the people, while some said he's a good man, others said no, he's leading the people astray. And yet these people, for fear of the Jews, no one spoke openly of him. Everybody's keeping a hush on any opinions about Jesus at the feast. at this moment. These mixed opinions. And you have probably the people in Jerusalem Who are the Jewish leadership, they want to kill him because they understand what he's claiming about himself. The people who've come up to the feast from the countryside, the folks They like him. They saw the miracles. They heard his teaching. They weren't offended by it so much. So these differing opinions are going on. And yet there's a political correctness that's fallen over the whole feast. Everybody's afraid to take a position about Jesus. Jesus openly. They don't want to get in trouble with anybody, so they're keeping their mouth shut. They don't want to be thrown in jail for the fear of the Jews who hate him and want to kill him. So they're keeping their mouth shut. And then in verse 14, about the middle of the feast, Jesus went into the temple and began teaching. This is a public thing. He was private before, kind of hidden. Now he shows up in public. And the Jews, that is the Jews who want to kill him, marveled, saying, How is it that this man has learning when he has never studied? In effect, they're challenging his right to be teaching in public. Show us your license. What are your credentials? Who commissioned you? What right have you to teach? And he they actually say he doesn't know letters. That's in the Greek language, if you translate it literally. He has no letters. He doesn't know letters. He hasn't been taught. So how can he be teaching? Here's a study with the rabbis. And I'm going to guess that they probably We're trying to say, don't listen to him. He's a nobody. He knows nothing. Just listen to him. He has a Galilean accent. How can anybody with a Galilean accent have anything worth hearing to say So that's the second scene. And the third scene is the one we're going to focus a little more on. The third scene is Jesus' answer to the Jews and to all those who are listening. And to you and me. Jesus answered. Verse 16. Jesus answered them, My teaching is not mine. Now he's not saying he's not schizophrenic here. What he's saying is my teaching is not mine alone. I'm not teaching on my own authority as if I were didn't have backing. My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I'm speaking on my own authority. What a challenge. They're saying, what right have you to teach? He's saying, if you really want to know God's will You'll have the ability to discern whether my teaching is from me alone or whether it's from God. You'll know if you have the will to know God's will. So he's really doing is a spiritual anatomy lesson here. When people hear the gospel, when you and I hear the gospel. There is first of all the facts. The facts. God has come through Christ. To save his people and bring his kingdom. That's the facts, kind of the bare bones facts of the gospel. And then there's the personal interpretation of the facts that come. God has come to rescue and redeem me, if I take it rightly, to set me free by the payment of a price. The price of the death of Christ. That's a personal interpretation. The facts are just God sent Jesus into the world. He's the Son of God. He died on the cross. He rose the third day. Those are facts. But the second part is interpretation, personal interpretation. This is for me. This was done for me personally. And the third part is love. A love for God and his Christ. Only this love changes the will. Only this love changes the will Only this love turns us from hatred and enmity toward God, which is natural. We're born with that. To love, to love. And only the Holy Spirit can cause that to happen. I mean, people hear the gospel, and they may even make a right interpretation of how it works in personal situations, but only the Holy Spirit can create love. For God. And that's what he's talking about here. If you love God, if you want to know God's will, if you have a desire for God. Then you'll know whether these teachings are true, he's telling these Jews. He said something like that back in chapter 6. He said to the Jews, do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. It's about something that God does inside you, interiorly. And he says, I will raise that person up on the last day. It is written in the prophets. They will all be taught by God. He says, everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. If you have this desire, if you have this inward working of the God's Spirit in you to come to the Father, then you'll come to me, he says. And then he says in chapter 6, verse 63, it is the Spirit who gives life. He says, the flesh is no help at all. The flesh just hearing facts The flesh just saying, I know how these facts fit into narrative. I know how that works. That's not enough. It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. You need the Spirit's work. to cause you to love the God who is announced in the gospel. And he says at the end of that section, this is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted to him by God. the Father. That's very important. Years ago there was a preacher named Thomas Chalmers. Thomas Chalmers And he preached a famous sermon that I had to read many years ago when I was in seminary. The name of that sermon is The Expulsive Power of a New Affection. The expulsive power of a new affection. He says that we have bad things in our lives. We have bad loves. That we're entrenched in loving bad things. The only thing that can expulse them, get them out. Is a new affection, a greater affection, a greater love. The only thing that can remove the evil loves of our hearts is the greater love of loving Jesus What are the loves of our hearts? We could find many places in the Bible that tell us what they are, but there's a little list in Galatians chapter 5. 19 through 21, where Paul says, Now the works of the flesh, that's the normal fallen human condition, the works of the flesh are evident. These are the loves of our hearts. Sexual immorality. I love sexual immorality. Impurity. I love impurity. Sensuality. Focused on what I can see and feel and do. Idolatry. I have certain idols that I love to worship. Sorcery, enmity, strife. People sometimes just get off on Anger and strife and jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions. They just thrive on such things. And then envy, drunkenness, orgies. And then he ends by saying, and things like these. You know, the loves of our hearts. How are we going to get them out? How are we going to remove them? How are we going to be changed? The only thing that can remove the evil loves of our hearts is the greater love of loving Jesus. If anyone's will is to know God's will, to do God's will, then he'll know whether the teaching The Holy Spirit will apply it and change that person. So you can make a list of the idols of your heart. Maybe money. Maybe power, if you have a power position somewhere. Power position doesn't mean a huge CEO in a large corporation. I don't think we have anyone in that condition here. It can just be power over one other person in your life. Power. Possessions Some people, wow, I gotta have this, gotta have that, gotta have another thing, after that, another thing. Lust of the flesh. You could describe all the things that the desires of the flesh Pride in ourselves, in our accomplishments, these can only be cast out by a greater love. The Jewish leadership, to whom Jesus was speaking at this point, the Jewish leadership loved their positions of authority. They loved the lifestyle of going around in town and having everyone speak to them with great courtesy and great demure. Perhaps most of all, though, they loved their interpretation of the law. They were proud of their interpretation of the law. You can't heal anyone on a Sabbath We have it figured out. Don't contradict us, Jesus. And he had healed that man on the Sabbath. They hated him for it. They were proud. They loved their interpretation. So he could not be their Messiah. No way. No matter how many miracles of healing he did. No matter how much water he changed to wine. No matter how many people he fed, he can't be their Messiah never. Because their Messiah must affirm them, cannot contradict them How about you? Can Jesus be your Lord? Lord means boss, as one of our elders said yesterday. If he is, he will contradict you. He will contradict you. What if he tells you that you're a miserable sinner who deserves hell? And that you're so bad that he had to die on a cross and suffer hell because of your sins. What if he tells you that? That's not very flattering, is it? But you have gotten into the habit of congratulating yourself and cultivating a proud and positive self-image What if he tells you to stop thinking hateful and murderous thoughts and cursing God and those made in God's image? But you have gotten into the habit of cursing under your breath, fuming with anger against the people and circumstances. which are in God's control. What if he tells you to be sexually pure, whether married or not, and faithful in marriage But you're in the habit of letting your mind wonder, if not your computer screen, and your body, what if he calls you to give of your time and talent and precious money? But you're in the habit of worrying about yourself and cherishing your time and cultivating and preserving your talent and money with great care. These loves, these habits of your heart can only be cast out by a greater love. And that's what he was challenging these people with. They loved what they loved, and he was saying, I have a right to teach. I'm teaching what the Father teaches. And if you want, if you have it in your heart to know God's will, you'll know it. You'll understand it. You'll perceive it that way. So Jesus in verse 16 answered them, My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. If anyone's will is to do God's will, he will know whether the teaching is from God or whether I'm speaking on my own authority. The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory, but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true. And in him there is no falsehood. William Hendrickson commenting on this, great commentator, said, knowledge, that's the gospel facts Therefore, will never be sanctified to the heart and lead to true discernment of the divine character and origin of Christ's teaching unless the willingness to do God's will is present first of all. When the latter is present, one will perceive immediately the base charge of the Jews, namely that Jesus was expressing his own private opinions, is utterly false. This is certainly true also in the case of everyone who hears the gospel. As I said earlier, contemplation of the gospel facts, knowledge alone, never produces love. You can attend church and hear the gospel and down deep hate God for existing. Interpretation of the significance of these facts of the gospel. Contemplation of the benefit alone never produces love. You can have a real understanding of the reason for Christ's coming into the world and contemplate your own brokenness and still love your habits of sin more. That's just the way it is. Only the Holy Spirit creates the heart response of love for Christ who first loved me. Only the Holy Spirit creates repentance, which is expulsive. Repentance isn't just, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's expulsive. It throws some stuff away, gets rid of it. It pushes out self-rule And sin. And turns your heart to a love for Christ and others for the sake of Christ. That doesn't mean you'll never sin again, but it means that when you do, the Holy Spirit will push it out again. And you'll be willing to have it pushed out. So Hendrickson says, finally, he says, we can no longer speak of the primacy of the intellect in conversion, or the primacy of the emotions. Or the primacy of the will, but the primacy of the sovereign grace of God, influencing and transforming the entire personality for the glory of God. Back to the scene that Jesus was with these Jews. He says, has not Moses given you the law yet none of you came the law. He's calling them out on their hatred. They're thinking that they know it all and they have it all and and he says no. You don't keep the law. Why do you seek to kill me? The crowd says, do you have a demon? Why do you think people are trying to kill you? Jesus knows the reality He says, I did one work, and you all marvel at it. Moses gave you circumcision, not that it's from Moses, but from the fathers, and you circumcise the man on the Sabbath. He's defending himself here. If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, why are you angry with me? Because on the Sabbath I made a whole man's body well. Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right. Where do you get this right judgment? By the Holy Spirit's power working in you. To love the things of God. To love God. So Jesus set them straight about the meaning of the Sabbath and the sign of the covenant and the grace of God. But they love their interpretation of the law enough to murder him. So the good news to you and me is Jesus has come to contradict you. And if you yield to him, if by the power of the Holy Spirit you say, I know that I am the sinner that needed you to die for me, if you yield to him, and if you say, I will let you Throw out the idols. I will let you push them out of my life. Come in and change me. Then he will. You need to come to the place by the sovereign working of the Holy Spirit alone where you say, I love you, Lord Jesus Thank you for dying for a wretch like me. Cast out every idol. Destroy everything that competes with serving you. That's the challenge that Jesus was giving to them and gives to you and me. Today. Let's pray. Lord, even though we have heard the facts many times, we rehearse them in songs and in creeds Even though we have a right interpretation of how they work into personal situation, we still very much need. The expulsive power of a new affection. We need to want to do your will, to have a love for you that wants to obey you first. We need you, Lord. We cannot do this. It's not possible. So please help each one of us to come to you and say, cast out every idol, destroy everything that competes. Beats was serving you, Lord. Amen.