Our Old Testament reading is Daniel 7, 13 to 27. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days, and was presented before him, and to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom That all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, in his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. As for me, Daniel, my spirit within me was anxious, and the visions of my head alarmed me. I approached one of those who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me and made known to me the interpretation of the things. These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth But the saints of the most high shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, forever and ever Then I desired to know the truth about the fourth beast, who was different from all the rest, exceedingly terrifying, with its teeth of iron and claws of bronze. and which devoured and broke in pieces and stamped what was left with its feet, and about the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn that came up, and before which three of them fell The horn that had eyes and a mouth that spoke great things, and that seemed greater than its companions. As I looked, this horn made war with the saints and prevailed over them Until the ancient of days came, and judgment was given for the saints of the Most High, and the time came when the saints possessed the kingdom. Thus he said, As for the fourth beast, there shall be a fourth kingdom on the earth, which shall be different from all the kingdoms. It shall devour the whole earth, and trample it down, and break it to pieces. As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them He shall be different from the former ones, and shall put down three kings. He shall speak words against the most high, and shall wear out the saints of the most high. and shall think to change the times and the law, and they shall be given into his hand for a time, times and half a time But the court shall sit in judgment, and his dominion shall be taken away, to be consumed and destroyed to the end And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. Their kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey them. The word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning comes from 1 Timothy in chapter 6, and we'll read together from verse 11 down to verse 16. So 1 Timothy chapter 6, beginning at verse 11 to verse 16. Hear the word of the Lord. But as for you, O man of God, flee these things. Pursue righteousness. Godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness. Fight the good fight of faith Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called about, and which you made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses. I charge you in the presence of God, who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus, who in his testimony before Pontius Pilate made the good confession. To keep the commandment unstained and free from reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, which He will display at the proper time He who is the blessed and only sovereign, the king of kings and lord of lords. Who alone has immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or can see. To him the honor And eternal dominion. Amen. And we'll read together now our gospel reading in Mark chapter 14. As we continue with the passion narrative of our Lord, and we'll read through to chapter 15, verse 5. So Mark chapter 14, beginning at verse 53, through the word of the Lord. And they led Jesus to the high priest. And all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together. And Peter had followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest, and he was sitting with the guards and warming himself at the fire. Now the chief priest and the whole council were seeking testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but they found none. Or many bore false witness against him, but their testimony did not agree And some stood up and bore false witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands. And in three days I'll build another, not made with hands. Yet even about this, their testimony did not agree. And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you? But he remained silent and made no answer. Again the high priest asked him: Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, I am, and you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power. And coming with the clouds of heaven. The high priest tore his garments and said, What further witnesses do we need? You have heard his blasphemy. What is your decision? And they all condemned him as deserving death. And some began to spit on him, to cover his face, and to strike him. Saying to him, Prophesy. And the guards received him with blows. And as Peter was below in the courtyard One of the servant girls of the high priest came, and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with the Nazarene Jesus, but he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you mean. And he went out into the gateway, and the rooster crowed. And the servant girl saw him and began again to say to the bystanders, This man is one of them. But again he denied it. And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, Certainly you are one of them, for you are a Galilean But he began to invoke a curse on himself, and to swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak. And immediately the rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. And he broke down and went. And as soon as it was morning, the chief priest held the consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council And they bound Jesus and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate. And Pilate asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? And he answered him, You have said so. And the chief priest accused him of many things, and Pilate again asked him, Have you no answer to make? See how many charges they bring against you? But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate was amazed. This is the word of the Lord. Congregation of the Lord. We continue this morning in the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, as Mark the Evangelist wrote it. We continue in the Passion narrative, detailing for us the sufferings of Jesus Christ for us. And there's nothing like looking at these sufferings to remind us that as followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, we can fast the King. And follow the Lord and Savior who carried a cross and reminded what it is to be a Christian. What it is to be born again in God's kingdom, what it is to be led by the Holy Spirit and filled And to confess Christ before men. And this morning we are called upon to look at our Lord's trial and also Peter's trial. We're called to look upon this perversion of justice and come and understand why this is taking place. And remind ourselves, this is taking place so that you and I won't have to stand before God in this manner. For all those who believe in this gospel, who receive this Lord, this King who's coming And profess faith in him, won't be snatched up by the angels and arrested by them. Won't be brought before the judgment seat of Christ and the tribunal there in infallible testimony given. And the books are opened, and all your deeds are made known, and condemnation and a just sentence passed upon you, and then you go into that eternal prison. Of hell and of the lake of fire. That is why these events took place. That is why our Lord Jesus Christ is suffering to undergo The treatment of a criminal before man's tribunal, the highest power that God had set up in the council, so that all those who believe in him won't have to go through this. have a much different reckoning and account to give to their Lord, a joyful accounting of the talents he's given to them, and service spent to the Redeemer who loved them and saved them and washed them clean and made them do. We left off last week, as I mentioned in there, Jesus being arrested, Jesus being snatched up by the temple guards as if he was the top man on the FBI's most wanted list. Our Lord Jesus protesting that, not with force or violence, but with his words, that your treatment of me is no way matches with who I have been amongst you, teaching you openly every day in the temple. And obviously as we are aware in our own nation and in criminal courts after an arrest Comes a trial. Because surely they have solid evidence. They wouldn't be arresting you if they had good reason to do it. And yet we read today they don't have such good reason. They have to go find the reason He is arrested first, and then reason, then evidence is sought to put him to death. Oh, we're going to look um at first Jesus before the council, which is his trial. There in Mark 14, and we're going to look at Peter's trial before the servant girl, and we're going to then look at Jesus' trial there before Pilate briefly in those verses, focusing and looking at Jesus' good confession. And seeing Peter's denial of his good confession he had once made And remind ourselves as the followers of Jesus Christ, as Paul reminded Timothy, we are called upon to make this good confession. And to hold fast to this good confession, because it is those who hold fast to this good confession that shall enter in to eternal life. Verses 53 and 54 introduce us to the trial, and it begins there telling us that after Jesus was arrested, they took him the six-tenths of a mile. Stuck between these big burly guards and marched him back up the hill into Jerusalem, brought him to the high priest. To the high priest's house. This is not normally where the council met, but this was a kind of a night secret meeting. They're trying to do this before the morning. So they could have something to bring to Pilate and get him executed before the people are aware of it Because we know that the people hung on Jesus' words. They were for Jesus. And in their envy and hatred of them, the rulers sought a way to get rid of them. All the chief priests and elders and scribes came together. They were probably put on alert. Judas had gone and said, I'll do this for 30 pieces. The plan started taking place. Phone calls or emails or text messages Or couriers were sent out to let them know it's happening, get ready, we'll have Jesus soon. In verse 54, Mark pauses there and introduces Peter and what he did. Because part what what Mark is doing is you can only narrate events in order one after the other. That's the only way we can speak. You can't as you're telling the events, you can have events taking place at the same time, but when you're speaking of them you can only speak of one first and then the other. But Mark wants us to understand that Jesus' trial was happening at the same time as Peter's trial. And so we'll see how that unfolds here in the exposition too. Now I think you either look at Peter here and you say, Well Peter, look how far he made it. Good for Peter. He went further than the rest. Although John does tell us another one of the disciples with him, most likely that John was able to get him into the high priest's house because John was known by them. So another disciple did go. So people look at Peter and say, well he he made it further. He boasted he would never go away and he made it further than most There's another way of looking at Peter and saying, Peter, you had already failed. You had no promise of success here. The Lord had told you it happened. And in your foolheartedliness you are entering into a situation you could never stand in and will find yourself falling into great aggravated sin. So you either go, Wow, good for Peter going this far, or you go, Peter, you should have quit while you were ahead. Oh Peter follows. But he follows at a distance. He follows Jesus at enough distance so that he can still convince himself he's a follower of Christ. He follows Jesus at enough distance that the world still seemingly thinks he's a follower of Christ. But he follows Jesus at enough distance to show his principle of self-preservation still reigns. Not yet willing to take up the cross and follow Jesus to the end. I wonder is there anybody here like that this morning who follows Jesus at a distance? You convince yourself you're following him. The world at times might think you're following him, but you keep him at enough distance. To preserve your sadhana, you can deny him and stand apart from him instead of standing with him. And we'll talk about God's grace to such people, as God showed his grace to Peter Peter follows at a distance. He goes right into the courtyard. He was sitting with the guards down there, those who brought Jesus. Normally probably would have gone home, but on this special occasion stayed. As we see, their work wouldn't be done. This was only really a preliminary hearing. They knew they had to get pilot as well. So they're staying down there and he's warming himself at the fire. The Greek is He's warming himself at the light, of course it's a fire giving light, but the idea of setting you know this was a big enough fire to cast enough light that Peter could be recognized as a follower of Jesus. So here's the scene set And really, from verse 55 down through verse 64, Mark tells us what took place. Then we read in verse 55, the chief priest. And the whole council, that's the Sanhedrin, is modeled after Moses and the seventy in Exodus. The Sanhedrin was uh the president of it, and there were seventy other elders and scribes involved in this council All of them were gathered together, and here they were seeking testimony against Jesus to put him to death. And they weren't seeking testimony against Jesus to find out what he did or didn't do Which is how a court should normally handle itself. No, they had a verdict they wanted, a death sentence, and they sought testimony however they could get it, so they could put him to death So Mark tells us this is what took place here. They were seeking testimony against Jesus. They wanted to put him to death, but they didn't find any. And then he goes on in verse fifty six to explain that to us. He says that many people, whether there was many of the Sanhedrin, or whether they suborned others and brought them in and colluded with them to come up with this false evidence. We don't know what else they may have on standby. We're just told that many bore false witness, and that's a violation of the ninth commandment. This is supposed to be This is God's court. This is the Supreme Court of God's people. This is the highest power amongst them. This is supposed to be where the righteous judgments of God are enacted in this world This justice and truth is held forth, and here we see that they're all violating the ninth commandment, bearing false witness. Their testimony didn't agree. Now you know what happens when testimony doesn't agree. It's inadmissible. You can't charge somebody if one person says this, another person says this, and they don't match up. Without two or three, there's no foundation for an accusation. None of their testimony agreed. Therefore, no evidence was admissible to enter into Jesus to bring about a uh condemnation of death. Some stood up and bore false witness against him, saying here in verse 57. Now they apparently testified about many things, but then Mark gives us even one example of testimony of which they couldn't even agree about And that's what Jesus said or didn't say here concerning the temple. Many stood up, some or some stood up, and said, Well we heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands. And in three days I will build up another not made with hands. Now you can search all of Scripture and never find Jesus saying these words. You will find him back in Mark 13, saying to his disciples, Do you see these great buildings? There will not be left here one stone upon another, not be thrown down And nowhere does Jesus say, I'm going to be tearing it down. He understands in God's judgment. The Romans are going to be coming and tearing it down at God's plan and purpose for your wickedness, for your evil, for your rejection of Christ. You'll find Jesus back in chapter 11 when he enters into the city, going into the temple to clean it, because it was God's house, set up to be a house of prayer, not for just the Jewish people, but for the nations. But maybe you're thinking what Jesus said in John chapter two in verse nineteen when he was down in Jerusalem early in his ministry. And they wanted to know on what authority he did this. Jesus said, destroy this temple, and in three days I will rise it up. And the Jews misunderstood him here. They said It has taken 46 years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days? But he was speaking about the temple of his body. When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the scriptures. So Jesus did speak about destroying a temple, but not the one built in 46 years by Herod. But his body, his temple, and three days later to raise it up. So even in this, as they got up and tried to find some evidence because to speak against God's holy place To speak about destroying a sacred place is a crime worthy of death? Is a crime worthy of punishment? So trying to find what did he say, and yet even in that They found not evidence or witnesses that agreed. Now at some point, the high priest, seeing that this is going nowhere, in verse 60, stands up. He's the president of the meeting. Goes into the middle of the council and he asks Jesus, have you no answer to make? Or it said here is, Will you not speak anything? Or what he's saying is, surely you're not going to just stay there and be quiet Goading Jesus to say something. What is it that these men are testifying against you? But we read now in verse 61. He remained silent and made no answer. Now I think here is uh something for us to learn. Because you're aware, beloved. Uh this has not only happened to the Lord Jesus, this would have been a great encouragement to the Roman Christians that Mark is writing in their own persecution to see that their Lord Faced a mockery of a trial, chumped up charges to get rid of them, as Christians throughout the ages, as Christians today. Face Supreme Courts, local courts that don't want the fair hearing but want to find some reason to get rid of them. Bring charges and things they've never said. Well what should you do in that situation? Well, what does Jesus do? Now think about this is your trial? Many witnesses have got up and said there are things agree. Should you speak into that? There's no evidence for it. There's no charge, worthy charge that's been brought against you. He said that, she said this, and doesn't agree. What's there to respond to? You know there's no charge. You know you didn't say these things, and you know as soon as you open your mouth, they're just gonna twist your words. And use them against you. But also, if they weren't so blind in their prejudice against Jesus And their pride and hatred against him, they would see here Isaiah 53 being fulfilled before them. They would know that God wrote of his Messiah. In verse 7, He was oppressed and He was afflicted, yet He opened not His mouth. Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. He's revealing to them, even in his silence, that he is their Christ. Even in his remaining silent, he is showing them, I'm the Messiah. You adamantly don't think I am or ever could be. But I am him. This will be remembered afterwards. Maybe some of these men remember that hearing and hear Peter's preaching. Have these words of as I expounded to them and say, I just saw that fulfilled before me on that shameful night fifty days ago when I stood there and assembled with them. But also, what I want you to see, beloved, and I said this last week, and the more I the more we see this and see Christ in his sufferings, we should be reminded. It is not so much darkness that's winning here, and evil. Jesus sees a higher hand than theirs, his father's hand. He's submitting to that. He knows his vindication will come. He knows he'll be raised from the dead. He knows who he is. He knows in the last day he'll be seen in the Father's glory, and all will acknowledge him as who he said he was when he came on this earth two thousand years ago, the Son of God. The Messiah. And if you ever find yourself in the spot like that or need to encourage people in that, don't play into their trap. See the higher hand that this is your Father's will. Jesus is going to make it explicitly clear and remind us. God can give 10,000 angels right now. We could rid this whole world of wickedness and have Zion here on earth. This is not the Father's way. This is not what He has purpose. He has a reason why we bear and carry the cross. To plan and purpose beyond us, beyond ourselves. So don't be confused and think, I've got to vindicate myself, I've got to say to the Father will vindicate you As we saw in Daniel 7, judgment will be given to the saints. They will reign on earth. You will be seen as you truly are, sons of God, what you're persecuted for in this life. So let's go on. Jesus remained silent for good reason. He had no nothing to answer. There was no credible witness brought against him. At the same time, he's not going to play in their trap, and at the same time He saw his father's hand in this, and he submitted to it. In verse 61, Jesus remained silent. The high priest then asked him again, straight out, are you the Christ? That is, are you the promised deliverer that God would send, put us in expectation, one who would recover us from our exile, restore us to favor, bring us the kingdom? Uh Matthew two gives us a good idea what the Jews meant by the Messiah when the wise men arrive in Jerusalem. And scare everybody by saying, Where's the Christ? Or where's the king born of the Jews? And Herod is frightened and grabs all the scribes there and what's the question they ask? Where is the Christ to be born? So Christ here means King. Think of Psalm two, think of the anointed one, think of the one who reigns. We know and understand in the fullness of it. According to Psalm 10, Christ also means a high priest. Christ also means a prophet. But what they're dealing here particularly And the second statement makes it clear: are you the Christ? Are you the King? Are you our Redeemer? Are you our Deliverer? Are you the Son of the Blessed? There's a couple ways to interpret those words. You can interpret them as are they asking you are they asking Jesus straight out? Are you telling us that you're divine? Are you they're asking straight out, are you telling us that you're God's son? That could be what they're asking. We know Jesus had made those claims. We know that even the week prior, while he was teaching there, he told the parable of the wicked tenets. God, who owned the vineyard had sent the prophets, finally God was going to send the sun and the air, so maybe latching onto his words. It could also just be understood messianically that as God had revealed his Messiah in Scripture He made it very clear that he would be his son, and so they may not be thinking divine, but like David was called God's son. Daniel seven fourteen, God made a promise to David after you pass I will be uh God to your son, and he will be a son to me, and I'll establish your line forever. Or in Psalm two, which is about the Messiah, against his anointed Which we read then in verse eight of Psalm two, Ask of me and I'll make the nations your inheritance. An inheritance is something you give to your son. We understand in the fullness of revelation Jesus is divine and we affirm that. The question is, is just are they asking that of him here, or is the blessed one or the son of the blessed just another way of saying Messiah? You can go either way, which one is. I think it's another way of just saying, Are you the Christ, the Son, the Blessed, because they understood the Messiah to be in a unique way God's Son, but not in a way as we know to be the Son of God, and that's why they repudiated him. Because Jesus did claim that. So he asked him, Are you the Christ, the Son, the Blessed? And notice what Jesus says. He says, Yes, I am. He affirms for us before them, knowing that these very words are going to be my demise, that I am the Christ, but he does not answer it in the way they think. He does the same thing before Pilate when he answers Pilate and he says those words, you have said so. That's a guarded way of saying yes, but with some reservation, because you think King of the Jews means I'm challenging your authority and Caesar's authority here on earth and an earthly kingdom, and I'm a threat that you need to get rid of me as the Jews are presenting you to me. Which Pilate does not see in Jesus, 'cause if Pilate had any inkling that Jesus was truly a threat to his authority there and Caesar's, he would have executed them on the spot. But we know he waffled about it and just appeased the Jews. But Pilate himself was convinced He hasn't done anything worthy of death. He knew they were just envious of him. And Jesus says the same thing here. This is why they reject him, because he's not the Messiah they want. He's not their national messiah, the Savior of only the Jewish people? He's not their political messiah that's going to establish Zion and Jerusalem here on this earth now? But he says, Who I am. You will see the Son of Man. We read that in Daniel 7, seated at the right hand of power. Now they're in the position of power. We call the Supreme Court a place of power in the land. Jesus is saying, you and I are gonna meet again. You and I are going to meet again in the context of a courtroom in judgment. And you're going to see me, the Son of Man, at the right hand of the highest power of God. And you're going to see me coming with the clouds of heaven. That's the kind of Messiah I am. I know what you want. You want out of Roman rule? I know what you want. You want out of American rule? Nigerian rule, corrupt Korean rule. I know what you want. You want to be reigning in the land. You want all your laws to be recognized. You want to be in power. You want everybody serving you. I know what you want You gotta wait. When is the Son of Man coming? At the end. After the fourth beast, after the little horn makes his war, oppresses God's people. Then I'll come. Then judgment will be given to the saints on earth. Then they'll reign forever. So Jesus is making the good confession: I am the everlasting king of God's everlasting kingdom. But I'm not the king you're looking for. I'm not the savior you're looking for merely to get out under Roman yoke. Every king promises their subjects safety. Health care is not a new thing Armies aren't a new thing. Environmental protection agencies aren't a new thing. These things have threatened people in every age. And kings have promised ways to deal with them. Jesus promised, I'm going to give you the greatest healthcare one day. I'm going to raise you to everlasting life. I'm going to give you the greatest environmental protection agency one day. I'm going to lift the curse from this world and make it new. But I've come here to save you from something no king has ever boasted to save you from. Your own sins and judgment before God for them. And the wrath and anger of God that is justly deserving of them, and from hell the place of punishment for them. What king has ever said, I will take on death and save my people from death? That's the Savior Jesus is. Oh yes, He will make this world new. Yes, the saints will reign on it. Yes, you'll be in the positions of power. Daniel 7. 22, judgment will give the king. Paul applies that in 1 Corinthians 6. Don't you know, you Corinthians, you'll judge the world one day. Don't you know, Christians? He doesn't spell it out, you will be involved in God's end time judgment as believers in Christ. You who are rejected, drugged before the powers of this land, not given a fair hearing, treated as scum of the earth Kicked out of this world, you'll be in position of power one day. You'll judge angels one day. Well, don't misunderstand me By all means, let's have good laws. All means that to have Christian magistrates God gives these, God grants these. But by all means, understand the kind of king you have in his promises. Understand the nature of his kingdom and his salvation. Understand that God, the church is not failing when it carries the cross. It's not failure. Because we don't carry it at our own will. God brings these on. God gives the church that cup. Father does these things. I think really it the church is being persecuted, doing something right. They're making the good confession. Jesus is King. And they're making that confession not just before each other, but before the world. And they're living and applying that in their lives. Love the good confession that Jesus made that He is King and He's coming. That's what we're called to make. And it is one thing to make it before the church. Peter made it before the church. He made it before Jesus. He made it before the apostles. That was the little church Jesus started. P Peter didn't make it before the world The first time, God word grace, and he went on to make it before this very court. But we are called to profess before men Jesus is king. When we go and do good deeds, we say this, right? Many Christians love they go on mission trips around the world and natural disasters, they go across their own streets when you hear your neighbors having a hard time What is the reason why we do this? I hope the reason why you do everything as a Christian is because Jesus is my King. This is what He says to do. And when you're challenged to make call people by pronouns you shouldn't call them by, you say, I can't do that because Jesus is my king. Jesus said God made man and woman. But when they want you to affirm marriages, you can deform, you say, I can't. Jesus is king Jesus says, God made man and woman to marry each other. Therefore, the man will leave the woman for life. One man, one woman, a monogamous union, for life together. I can't, Jesus is king. We can also imitate Jesus here. Jesus didn't shout down the Pharisees to bring forth that justice in the Lamb. The way to get that isn't to shout louder than the opposition today. Prayer in the Spirit. I love Isaiah 42. I love how Jesus fulfilled it. You love it. We all love those verses. He's so gentle and meek he won't break the bruised reed. That's in context of him not shouting the Pharisees down over right Sabbath keeping, but when they wanted to kill him, he meekly withdrew to the sea, continued teaching Because he brings forth his justice not by shouting louder on Twitter, not by being more obnoxious than the other people, but prayer And standing firm for the truth. So I hope that Jesus is king is the reason for everything you do as a Christian. And I hope the truth that he's coming is what gives you the courage to persevere. Helps you to understand again, as I already said, if you're brought to this. I've not been in it, so here I am preaching about things I don't personally know, yet have to preach on them because they're in here in the passage, and who knows one day may know personally. It's no fun to have lies told about you. It's no fun to be misrepresented. And treat it as haters of mankind because you won't join the latest ideology of mankind as it wants to just move further from God. And all you do is because you have God's heart in you is you love mankind like God loves it, not affirming mankind in its sin. But calling mankind to repentance, calling mankind back to God through the sacrifice of Jesus and His mercy, that they might truly know what it is to be a human being and have life. It's no fun to undergo that. But I hope the truth that Jesus is coming gives you patience in that. Gives you the same grace, the same humility that tables will be turned, Jesus promises. You'll be in a position of power one day if you persevere in your confession to Jesus in this life Hold on to your good confession. Hold on to what we every week gather together and make together as a body of believers: that Jesus is King. And that our King is coming. And he will be the Savior of those who are waiting for him. Have been washed clean by his blood, serve him, and he will be the judge of those who deny him. Seek to stamp out his name in this world. So may God give us all grace, and may we together remember each other in our prayers. There are people in this congregation who are called to make this confession and not great places. It is happening. The elder people in this congregation I've met with and even out tell me, I don't recognize America anymore. It's not what I was growing up. Not saying it's hopefully lost, it's just dealing with the facts. It's not the same place it was 30 years ago, 50 years ago. I think Carl Truman's probably right in his in his book, The Church, you know, uniting Christendom under Aquinas' philosophy is not going to work. Christendom uniting everybody in a godly magistrate doesn't seem to be the same place. It's going to be more like Christianity in the second century. That's years one hundred to two hundred, where it cost something to follow Jesus Christ. People were committed to Jesus Christ. And society could look by their actions and their behavior You're with Jesus Christ, or you're with them. We know you who you are. So there's Grace, even in you might say, cultural Christianity being weakened, exposed, it's a place where people can hide out. And not face really, am I for Jesus? Am I not for Jesus? So let's remember each other in prayers. Let's make together the good confession. Let every reason and everything we do in our life because Jesus is King. And let us live our lives in a joyful hope. He's coming. Jesus tells us a wonderful parable that people who make that confession and live it, they learn for that day. They're going to say, Jesus, here's the five talents you gave me. Here's how I spent them for you. The knowledge that Jesus is coming must stay there, but you must make that confession before people. It's not enough just to say he's king. You've got to say he's coming. Because that's going to be either judgment or salvation for that person. It's going to make it imperative. You need to make a decision, which side am I on? It reminds us too, am I really seeking to serve Jesus and follow him? Because I imagine it's a it's a scary thing thinking about going before him. If you've not really turned from your sins, but if you're a Christian now, you know you're already saying, Lord, I live by your will. It won't be a big surprise what he brings out that day because you walk in the light Because James says, all you people that get up and say, let's go here and make a buck. Let's go here and make a buck. What do you say? You should be saying, Lord, if you will, we'll go make a buck. Lord, if that's your will for us. You're already talking now about where you fall short as Christians and confessing your sins to Jesus. You're already bringing yourself before his seat, that throne of grace. Jesus is King and Jesus is coming. That is a good confession that we are called to make as Christians and continue to make. May God give us his grace to continue making it. Amen.