The text of the Scripture for preaching today is John chapter 2, verses 1 through 11. John chapter 2, 1 through 11. On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee. And the mother of Jesus was there. Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples. When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine And Jesus said to her, Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come. His mother said to the servants, Do whatever he tells you. Now there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification. Each holding twenty or thirty gallons. Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water. And they filled them up to the brim. And he said to them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast. So they took it. When the master of the feast tasted the water, now become wine, And did not know where it came from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew. The master of the feast called the bridegroom and said to him, Everyone serves the good wine first. And when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. But you have kept the good wine until now. This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee and manifested his glory, and his disciples believed in him This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we pray that you will speak to us through this portion of your word. We thank you for The historical narrative that you caused to be written down by the Apostle John, so that we might recount these things and ponder them in our hearts. And make application to our own life. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Dearly beloved, we are gathered here together in the sight of God and in the face of this company to join together this man and this woman in holy matrimony. which is an honorable state instituted of God in the time of man's innocence, signifying unto us the mystical union that is betwixt Christ and his church Which holy estate, Christ adorned and beautified with his presence and first miracle that he wrought in Cana of Galilee. So begins the service which is used in very many churches, the wedding service. Used in Anglican services, Methodist, Presbyterian. These words, this service of wedding, originated in the eleventh century as part of The Sarum Rite. Serum was the ancient name of Salisbury in the south of England. 400 years before the Reformation, these words, these wedding words were originated. So I would suppose for about 900 to 1,000 years, most weddings, not all, but most weddings have recalled the text. of John chapter 2 about Jesus performing this sign at the wedding in Cana of Galilee. Let's look at this story, this true story, under the terms of a novel or a play. First, what is the setting? What is the setting? Well, it's in verse 1. On the third day there was a wedding at Cana in Galilee. The third day here is being reckoned from Philip's calling. And so it's being counted like the third day of Jesus' resurrection. Friday is one, Saturday the other, and then Sunday the third. So that's the same way this is being done. It took two days to travel from where they were by Bethany, where John was baptizing, up to Galilee. any part of Galilee. Now we don't know exactly where Cana was because it's a very obscure place and it's gone. So there's some questions about exactly where that was, but it was in Galilee and it would take that much time to get there. So here they are at Cana in Galilee. And there is a wedding. That's the setting. And the cast. The cast. It says, and the mother of Jesus. That's interesting. Nowhere in John is Mary's name given. She's always called the mother of Jesus. So that's part of the cast. The mother of Jesus was there. And then verse 2, Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples. So here we have these folks gathered. Now. Jesus and his disciples were invited guests at this wedding. They were not wedding crashers. Weddings were a very important affair. Weddings were a big deal. Weddings. People looked forward to a wedding all year long if they knew one was coming. It would be very, very important. They would plan everything around going to a wedding. Weddings, you see, were the cause for extravagance. Even poor people would go way over their budget to have a great and fantastic wedding Weddings were family reunions. Weddings were community events. They were amazing. Now, I personally was not well acquainted with big weddings And so we moved to the East Coast. Small-town Midwest weddings, in my personal experience, were um tended to be modest affairs. You would have a wedding in the bride's church, and you'd have some sort of reception in the church hall afterward. uh maybe cake and ice cream or some fruit, maybe a meal, if it was a bigger affair. But then everybody would go their way. When we moved to Wilmington, Delaware, I attended my first wedding with 300 attendees. and limousines parked out in front of the church to take the bridal party and and others away to the DuPont Country Club or some other auspicious place. Even then, even then with with the pre-wedding uh party given for the bride and her maids and for the groom and his groomsman, even with those things Those big, big weddings, East Coast weddings, only took three or four days. But Jewish weddings In the first century, included everyone connected with the families and communities of the bride and groom. And these weddings went on for at least a week. The best foods were prepared for ongoing feasting. It's like being on a cruise, I suppose. You know, feast after feast after feast after feast. Eat any time you want. And this would go on late into the night. And there would of course be an abundance of drink. Wine, wine, wine, wine. And it was very, very important. So here's the crisis, the plot crisis. Verse 3. It says, when the wine ran out. Oh no. Then it says, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. Oh no. It's a terrible, terrible embarrassment. It's worse than you or I would normally think. We could just go out and get some more, you know This would be a terrible embarrassment. Wine was an essential part of such events. Weddings were so important. You need to grasp the crisis. Now, let's just try to think about it in modern terms. Sometimes couples these days invite a couple of hundred people to a wedding and hope that only half will actually attend. You invite all the relatives that live on the West Coast and wherever, and you don't expect them to come. And you book a hall in advance, say for 110 folks to come. And you order catering for 110. And what would happen if on wedding day the extra 90 that you didn't expect to come suddenly showed up? Emergency fire alarm. Cut the meat portions in half and triple the mashed potatoes. Evidently, Mary has some role here and assumes some responsibility for this catering. And she knows that Jesus is someone who can do some very amazing things. And she believes that this wedding is important enough to ask him to act. She knows in fact that he is the Messiah. She remembers the word of Gabriel when she was told that she would conceive and bear a son and he would be Emmanuel God with us. She remembers the words of Simeon and Anna in the temple who spoke such things about Jesus. She knows who he is. And so she asks him. She thinks this is important enough to ask him. Now there's a theological plot here as well as the surface plot. The theological plot is this. Weddings and feasts with plenty of food and an abundance of wine. In the Old Testament, weddings and such things like this were signs of the hope of the messianic age. Let me show that to you. In Amos, which was read, Amos chapter 9, It says, in that day, that's the day of the Messiah, in that day, I will raise up the booth of David that has fallen. What's he saying there about a booth that's fallen? David lived in a palace, didn't he? He was the great king. He was. So Amos is saying that palace has diminished down to a hut. That line of David, that kingly line has broken down badly. But I will raise up the booth of David that has fallen and repair its breaches and raise up its ruins and rebuild it as in the days of old. So it's definitely talking about a messianic age here. And then in verse 12, that they may possess the remnant of Edom, that's the crushing the enemies. And all the nations who were called by my name, that's the promise that was made through Abraham, that all the nations were called And then here's the description that I want to get to in verse 13. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when the plowman shall overtake the reaper. Now we're not a very agricultural people, so we have to think about that. What it means is that the plowman is the one who is planting a new crop in the spring. And the plowman, there's going to be so much harvest to reap in the time of the Messiah that you won't be finished reaping the harvest. It'll be time to plow and plant again already, you see Abundance! Too much almost. The plowman shall overtake the reaper. And the wine part here. And the treader of grapes, that's the one who squeezes the grapes out, you know, with your feet. Him who sows the seed. There's going to be so many grapes, so much grapes, so much wine that you won't be finished treading the grapes until it's time to sow the spring crop again. And then, to top it off, the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and all the hills shall flow with it. See, you've got to picture that. floods dripping down these cascading uh vineyards on the hillsides of Galilee and Israel And then another one like it, another messianic picture of abundance and feasting and wine, Isaiah 25, verses 6 through 8. Let me read that. On this mountain, Isaiah says, and that means the government of the Messiah, on this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples. That again is the promise to Abraham that Messiah blesses all the nations. He will make a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine. This is fermented stuff, folks. Of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. So there's a picture, isn't it? A beautiful feast of so much and such abundance. And we know it's the Messiah because in verse 7, he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples. The veil that is spread over all nations, and he will swallow up death for ever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. So these things are combined. The age of Messiah, rich feasts, plenty of wine, amazing abundance. And God taking away the curse, all the things of the curse, death and sorrow and sickness, all removed in the time of Messiah. We have some non-scriptural references to the same idea, which Jesus and his disciples were probably well aware of. The Book of Enoch, which was contemporary with the Gospel of John, and the Book of Baruch. And the book of Enoch is a Jewish apocryphal book, and it predicts that in the messianic age, the vine shall yield wine in abundance. So it's parallel to what I've already shown you. But then in 2nd Baruch, here's a description of the abundance. The earth shall yield its fruit ten thousandfold Each vine shall have, listen, each vine shall have a thousand branches, each branch a thousand clusters, each cluster a thousand grapes, and each grapes. Each grape about a hundred and twenty gallons of wine. Now we we know that's exaggeration, of course, you know, but the point is in the messianic age there will be so much of This beautiful wine, so wonderful, such feasting, such pleasure, such joy, such fulfillment as cannot be imagined. And that's what happens in Jewish weddings. They want to get a taste of the messianic age. So then we have some plot tension that now comes in verse 4. Plot tension. And Jesus said to her. Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come. Now, unless you To keep you from mistaking this, according to Liddell Scott and Jones, the word used here for woman is a term of respect and affection. It is Jesus' normal, polite way of addressing women in Matthew and Luke and John and elsewhere. This is his normal way of addressing women. This isn't harsh or cold or mean. He's addressing her respectfully. This is, by the way, the same way he addresses her when he is hanging on the cross And John comes there and he says, woman, behold your son, and son, behold your mother. So this is the same word being used here. So it's not disrespectful. Scholars have said, however, that it would be usual for Jesus to add something to that word to show the relationship with his mother. But he doesn't do it. So what's probably being indicated here is a new relationship. Whereas beforehand he's had a mother-son relationship with her. Now there's a more distant relationship relationship as he has entered into his public ministry, he's not going to do everything Mother says But she begins to resolve the situation in verse 5. His mother said to the servants, Do whatever he tells you. Jesus didn't say no. He didn't say, I will not act, leave me alone, this is not going to happen. He didn't say that at all. And so she said, do whatever he tells you. And then we have the picture of verse 6. Now there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding twenty or thirty gallons. Each of these pots held what are called two or three measures. A measure was approximately nine gallons, and each jar held therefore between 18 and and twenty-seven gallons for a total volume of liquid of a hundred and eight to one hundred and sixty-two gallons. And this was for purification. What's that about? Mark describes the custom of Jews at that time, especially Pharisees. In Mark chapter 7, he says, When the Pharisees gathered to him with some of his scribes who had come from Jerusalem and saw some of his disciples, ate with hands that were defiled, that is, unwashed. He says, for the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands properly, holding to the tradition of the elders. And so he's describing that Jews at that time were really into hand washing. And they would use a lot of water to So these people are coming to this wedding. There's this ongoing feasting. People are gathered, and uh the servants would pour water over their hands and they would wash their hands. hands. And that's what the six stone water pots were for. So here we have it. I guess they're all empty now. The washing's been done, the feast has begun, they've been eating for a while, and they've run out of wine. Verse 7. Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water. And they filled them up to the brim, so there's no space for adding anything else. And he said to them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast. So they took it. When the master of the feast tasted the water, now become wine, and did not know where it came from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew, so now you have an independent witness. to what's happening here. Someone objective is making an evaluation about what's happening here. And then they said to him, Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. You know, the good stuff comes out, and when you've gotten a little bit, you know Gotten a little bit uh loose in your in your feelings, then the poor wine doesn't bother you. But you have kept the good wine until now. Isn't that amazing? And there's a theological resolution here. In verse 11, and this really should be our focus It's interesting to walk through the plot and see how it develops and understand the customs behind it. But this is the point, verse 11. This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee and manifested his glory. And his disciples believed in him. You say, well, didn't they believe in him before? They were following him, yes. They followed him, but as they saw more and more of who he is and what he is able to do, and they began to put the pieces together in their minds. They believed in him. They began to see, this is the Messiah. This is the one who brings about the great feast. This is the one who can shower us with abundance. This is the one who wipes away all tears and removes death. This is the Messiah who blesses all the nations. They began to see more of him and began to believe more into him. And we should too. The more we know Jesus, the more we understand of Jesus, the more we see how he is the fulfillment of everything promised in the Scripture. we should believe in to him more and more and more. Become more committed, more firm in our faith as we grow and understand. Great New Testament scholar Raymond Brown says this. In the Gospel of John, one of the themes of chapters two through four is the replacement of Jewish institutions and Jewish religious views. Then he says in chapters 5 through 10, we are dominated by Jesus actions and discoursions on the occasion of Jewish feasts by way of replacing the motif of the feasts. He's giving us an outline of the gospel. And then he says this as he shows what's going to be in that outline. Jesus is the real temple. The spirit he gives will replace the necessity of worshiping at Jerusalem. His doctrine and his flesh and blood will give life in a way that the manna associated with the Exodus from Egypt did not. At the tabernacle's feast, it's not rain-making ceremony, but Jesus Himself who supplies the living water. Not the illumination of the temple court, but Jesus Himself is the real light of the world. At the feast of dedication, not the temple altar, but Jesus Himself is consecrated by God. And in view of this consistent theme of replacement, it seems obvious that in the introduction of Cana as the first place of the signs of Jesus. He is fulfilling these things. John the evangelist intends to call attention to the replacement of the water of purification By the wine, the choicest wine, celebration, happiness. We have been purified in Jesus. We don't need to be washed anymore. And so we rejoice and celebrate. This replacement is a sign of who Jesus is, namely the one sent by the Father, who is now the only way to the Father. And so here we have it. All previous religious institutions, customs, feasts lose their meaning in his presence because he is the fulfillment of the world. This is the purpose of the gospel, as we said some weeks ago, that you might believe And have life in his name. This is the purpose of the gospel, that you might have life abundant, like this feast is abundant. Life that transcends time and present troubles. Life that stretches on into eternity, culminating in the endless feast described by John, the same John. In the book of the Revelation, here's how he describes that feast. Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude like the roar of many waters, like the sound of mighty peals of thunder crying out, what is all this noise? What are all these voices? What are they saying? Hallelujah, they're saying, For the Lord God the Almighty reigns, let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come. And his bride has made herself ready. It was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, pure and bright. And the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. And the angel said to me, write this, blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he said to me, These are the true words of God. I do not doubt that Jesus, at that wedding at Cana, with that couple and that crisis and his miracle was thinking ahead. Of the great wedding feast of the Lamb to which you and I are invited as we trust in Jesus. We will be there, we will eat, we will share in that joyful abundance. It would have been an amazing thing for you to attend the wedding at Cana in Galilee, where Jesus performed this first miracle. But I tell you, on the authority of God, you are invited to a greater feast, of which all good weddings is a sign. The feast set before us today on this table is a sampler, it's a foreshadowing, a foretaste, and yet at the very same time it is a participation in the great feast that is to come. At that feast we shall enjoy rich food, well-aged wine, a feast of rich food full of marrow. The Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let the one who hears come. And let the one who is thirsty come. Believe. Amen. Lord, we thank you for displaying your glory so that your disciples Could see how you are the fulfillment of these things and put their faith firmly in you And we thank you for the feast set before us, both here today and in the great eternity. We ask you to bless your congregation. Help us to personally, individually believe into you more and more. We pray that's through Jesus, the same one who did these things. Who creates faith and gives life. In his name we pray. Amen.