Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the 8th chapter of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy 8, verses 1 through 20. The whole commandment that I command you today, you shall be careful to do, that you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land that the Lord swore to give to your fathers. And you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you, testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. And he humbled you and let you hunger and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Your clothing did not wear out on you, and your foot did not swell these forty years. Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, the Lord your God disciplines you So you shall keep the commandments of the Lord your God by walking in his ways and by fearing him. For the Lord your God is bringing you into a good land A land of brooks of water, of fountains and springs, flowing out in the valleys and hills, a land of wheat and barley, of vines and fig trees and pomegranates A land of olive trees and honey, a land in which you will eat bread without scarcity, in which you will lack nothing, a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills you can dig copper And you shall eat and be full, and you shall bless the Lord your God for the good land he has given you Take care lest you forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commandments and his rules and his statutes, which I command you today. lest when you have eaten and are full and have built good houses and live in them, and when your herds and flocks multiply, and your silver and gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied Then your heart be lifted up, and you forget the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery Who led you through the great and terrifying wilderness with its fiery serpents and scorpions and thirsty ground where there was no water, who brought you water out of the flinty rock Who fed you in the wilderness with manna that your fathers did not know, that he might humble you and test you, to do you good in the end. Beware lest you say in your heart, My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth You shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth, that he may confirm his covenant that he swore to your fathers as it is this day. And if you forget the Lord your God and go after other gods and serve them and worship them, I solemnly warn you today that you shall surely perish, like the nations that the Lord makes to perish before you. So shall you perish, because you would not obey the voice of the Lord your God. The next reading is 1 Corinthians 10, 1 through 13. And it recounts some of the same things that were read in the Deuteronomy passage. For I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea And all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might not desire evil as they did Do not be idolaters as some of them were. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play We must not indulge in sexual immorality, as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day. We must not put Christ to the test as some of them did and were destroyed by the serpents. nor grumble as some of them did, and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now these things happened to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction, on whom the end of the ages has come Therefore, let any one who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. And then the gospel reading from John chapter 6, 22 through 51. This takes place just after Jesus fed the 5,000 men and others. John 6, 22. On the next day the crowd that remained on the other side of the sea saw that there had been only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but that his disciples had gone away alone. Other boats from Tiberias came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks. So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, They themselves got into the boats and went to Capernaum seeking Jesus. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. Do not labor for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal Then they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? And Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent. So they said to him, Then what sign do you do that we may see and believe you? What work will you perform? Our fathers ate manna in the wilderness, as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. Jesus then said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. They said to him, Sir, give us this bread always And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me, and yet you do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven, not to do the my own will, but to do the will of Him who sent me And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day So the Jews grumbled about him because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble amongst yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Every one who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God. He has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is My flesh. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. O Lord, illumine our hearts and minds by your Spirit, that we may understand this your holy word. Lay it up in our hearts and practice it in our lives. Amen. There are many teachings here. Many sermons could be preached from this large passage of Scripture in John. There could be sermons about the miracles of Jesus, because he fed these 5,000 men and many others along with them. And then in the immediately preceding passage, he walked across the lake. That's why they didn't know how he got over there. So miracles could be a sermon. The nature of the Lord's Supper is, I believe, discussed here in some sense. Eternal life is mentioned several times by Jesus, and the very concept of what it means to have eternal life could be preached very effectively. And then of course forgiveness through atonement, because Jesus talks about blood. There's a clear opportunity to preach about the Trinity because we have God the Father, who sent the Son. The Son listens to the Father, and who Sends the Spirit who enlivens and makes alive. So the Trinity could be preached very effectively. And of course, the work of the Holy Spirit himself could be preached as a separate sermon. But today we're going to focus in one area, and that is what I would call spiritual anthropology. Anthropology is the study of man, so this is a the study of the spiritual nature of humans. What are people like then and now? What is true of you, all of you, without exception, outside of Christ, by your fallen condition? What is true of unbelievers in your family, in your workplace, in your neighborhood? Well, as we see here in John 6, as we think about this, some of them were materialists. Like people around us who are only concerned about what they can taste or touch or feel or see which meets their desires and their needs. Materialists Jesus was addressing a crowd of people who were there because he had filled their stomachs with bread, and they were looking for a free food supply to satisfy their cravings. So we could call those people perhaps first century foodies. Now there were others who were sensationalists Like people around us, they were never satisfied with the latest entertainment or thrill, but were always craving more. They had just seen and experienced the miracle of the feeding of the five thousand, with a few loaves and fishes. But now they were craving more miracles. Show me another miracle, and I will believe. So we could call them kind of first-century funnies. But all of them, whether foodies or funnies, were selfies, always preoccupied with themselves. They were turning the camera back on themselves, just like in selfie photographs these days. These Jews who should have known better were treating God like the pagans treat their gods Asking in effect, how can I manipulate God to get what I want? How can I get this stuff, this experience? And this is also the condition of our present-day culture, but even more so now. You know, Christianity once shaped our culture, even though we never lived in a Christian nation, in my opinion. But Christianity pervaded and shaped the ideas and thoughts of people. And I'll give you just an example of that. In 1961, when JFK was inaugurated, he asked very famously, ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country. And what is he saying? He's saying that we should serve others before we serve ourselves, that that is the more important principle. And in 1950. The Rotary International Convention in Detroit decided to adopt as a slogan, service above self. That is a Christian concept But we have the opposite now. We have self above service, self above everything. The Christian ethic of those days, last century, was the ethic of the greatest generation. as it's called, willing to give their lives for this country. But generations that followed, having lost all influences, have become, in most cases, selfish. Self-absorbed, unwilling to serve, but demanding to be served. So what did Jesus do when he encountered the selfie people? Well, first, Jesus spoke to their deepest needs in order to engage them in conversation. This is found in verse 25 and following. I'll just read it out again. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? And Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me not because you saw signs but because you ate your fill of the loaves. Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you For on him God the Father has set his seal. They were interested in food, so he took that idea and he told them they needed to seek real food, permanent food, the food that lasts forever. You see, Jesus knew that people need spiritual sustenance. And materialism and entertainment and intoxicating pleasures cannot meet this need. It's like trying to warm a freezing person with a little handkerchief. What is really needed is provided by this person that he calls the Son of Man. And that's code word for the promised one that God the Father would send. That's code for the person and life and death and resurrection and ascension and return to consummate. Of the Lord Jesus Christ. And there is no other salvation, no other savior. All religions do not lead to heaven. All religions are about humans trying to get to God. or please God or the gods, or become a God, or deny the existence of God. Only Jesus, the Son of Man, gives eternal sustenance. Only Jesus is sent by the Father, and he gives the food that endures to eternal life That is the claim Jesus makes here. If it were not true, he would be perhaps the most arrogant person who ever lived. But it is true. Secondly, Jesus encountered these people and challenged their false assumptions. Get this in verse 32. Because he says to them, Truly, truly I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven. They were saying, Are you better than Moses? He gave us bread, and Jesus says, no, no, no, you got that wrong. And that reminds me that we need to ask the question About people's assumptions about Jesus, what they actually know about Jesus, what they believe about Jesus. And false assumptions abound. Much of what people think they know about Jesus is incorrect because they have failed to read the actual text of the Word of God. I'll give you an example. Many millions of people have seen the movie The Da Vinci Code, and they've watched it as if it were history. And it was the second highest grossing film of its year, 2006. Many millions of people have seen it. And some of those people think that it's accurate and true. Some of those people, if you ask them, would say Yes, Jesus married Mary Magdalene and they had a daughter named Sarah. That's completely false And I can give you another example. Time magazine, every year around Easter, it comes out with its ridiculous Easter issue full of ridiculous ideas From the so-called Search for the Historical Jesus. And that is a forum which was began years ago by deconstructionist scholars, scholars whose starting point in studying the Bible is this, that the Bible cannot be true. So, by this kind of method, the Jesus of the Bible is distorted and demoded by liberal critics of the Bible, especially in the old-line Protestant denominations. They are sure of not much, but they're sure that Jesus was not born of a virgin, nor did any miracles, nor rose from the dead. And they do not believe he fed 5,000 men on the shore of Galilee. I would call them Bible subtractors. But there's also Bible adders that mess up Jesus. Jesus is embellished and crowded by a pantheon of saints and apparitions of Mary, along with relics and indulgences. And is set in the context of a salvation by the death of Jesus plus. Plus all these other works, all these efforts, all these intermediaries. But that's not the true Jesus. He is the true bread, the source of life from heaven, the Jesus of the text. Just as Jesus corrected the text twisters of his audience, we must believe the text and proclaim the text today. It is the source of our spiritual truth and life. Thirdly, Jesus invited them to trust and believe. Instead of looking to the giver of life and the gift that he was giving, these people were looking to themselves and what they could do. In verses 28 and 29, listen to it. They said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? And Jesus answered them, this is the work of God, that you believe in Him whom He has sent. Believe in him. That's the work of God. Not a bunch of effort, not a list of to-dos, but believe in the Son of God. Now, this idea of pulling ourselves up by our bootstraps and relying on ourselves is well illustrated by the famous poem of the late Victorian poet. William Ernest Henley. The title of the poem is Invictus, which in Latin means unconquered. The speaker in this poem is agnostic, or maybe even an atheist, and so Invictus serves as a testament to Henley's own personal philosophy as it demonstrates the individual's own inner strength and indomitable free will as being his only source for survival. Listen to some of it He says, In the fell clutch of circumstance I have not winced nor cried aloud. Under the bludgeonings of chance, my head is bloody, but unbowed. What is bowed head? It's a symbol of prayer and submission. He goes on, Beyond this place of wrath and tears looms but the horror of the shade, and yet the menace of the years finds and shall find me unafraid. And then he says, it matters not how straight the gate. You know what Jesus said? He said, straight is the gate and narrow the way that leads to life. So he's referring to that. He goes on, how charged with punishments the scroll. The scroll is the law of God. And then he says, in concluding at the poem, I am the master of my fate. I am the captain of my soul. You may have heard this before. A doctor who treats himself as a fool for a patient. A lawyer who represents himself as a fool for a client. A human sinner who has himself as Lord and Savior and captain of his or her soul will hear Jesus say, depart from me, I never knew you. So believe in Jesus. There's plenty of confirming evidence. Surrender your pretended independence from God Resign as Lord of your own life and captain of your own soul. Believe in the one the Father has sent. Fourthly, he encountered these people and he relentlessly pointed to himself. In verses 34 and 35, they said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. Now, this is the first of the great seven I am statements in the Gospel of John. Elsewhere, Jesus says, I am the light of the world. And he says, I am the gate for the sheep. And I am the good shepherd. I am the resurrection and the life. I am the way, the truth, and the life. And I am the true vine. So in this and every other I am statement, Jesus is calling attention to himself, saying in no uncertain terms, if you want fulfillment of your true needs, Look to me. I am all you need. If you're in a place of darkness, I am the light you need. If you are facing a hopeless situation or the fear of death, I am the resurrection and the life. If you are lost, I am the good shepherd who will lead you home If you are searching for answers to the questions worth asking about life, I am the truth. If you are desperate and lonely and without meaningful relationships, He says, I am the vine that will connect you to the most fulfilling relationships you will ever know. People made in God's image are longing, longing for satisfaction, for love, for eternity. And we, as his ambassadors, are competent to say to them, Oh, by the way, that truth that you've been seeking, that God that you've been waiting for, look no further. Here he is, revealed in Holy Scripture and present today by the power of the Holy Spirit. So this is how Jesus encountered the selfie people. But there's just one more thing. He explained To his disciples who were listening, he explained the variety of responses that took place. In the hymn that we're going to sing during the distribution of the Lord's Supper, one of the stanzas asks the question: Why was I made to hear your voice and enter while there's room? When thousands make a wretched choice and rather starve than come, God graciously moves some of us. Thank God he moves some of us to respond, to hear, to enter while there's room. And that's what we see in these passages that I'm going to highlight now. In verse 37. Jesus says, all that the Father gives me will come to me. See, it's about that. It's about the Father giving people to the Son. And they will come to Him. And down in verse 43, Jesus said, Do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. You see, it depends upon the Father drawing. In verse 63, it is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. And then in verse 65, this is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted to him by the Father. So much for our pretended free will. We were made with free will. We were created with free will. But by our free will We chose to be a slave. Adam and Eve in the garden chose to disobey and rebel against God, and they became slaves to that rebellion. And a slave must be redeemed. That's the only way a slave can get out of slavery, is to be redeemed. And what redemption means is to be purchased out, bought off of the auction block of slavery. And set free. That's what Jesus is promising. That's what he does. Our entitlement culture Has been growing bold. The once extreme fringes used to be ashamed but are ashamed no more and have moved loud and proud to center stage. Such persons demand to express sexual promiscuity as a civil right, demand abortion as birth control, demand to choose their gender or change it at will. And will expect us to pay for it and applaud their choice or else. So what will we say? to those who, having lived this way, become refugees from this terrible, broken, ruined culture. Theologian Phil Ashley says, history proves that this godless lifestyle never ends well. He says, look at Romans 1 for a picture of what that looks like. Such a culture cannot keep its promises of personal happiness and fulfillment for individuals whose needs and cravings will inevitably be at odds. So the culture is going to produce a bunch of refugees. What will we say to those people? And what will we say to the children? that we are raising, who are breathing the polluted cultural air of this godless, selfish individualism. What do we tell them about the reality of God, of Christ, of new heaven and earth? and the justice of hell. What shall we as families, as a church, as followers of Jesus Christ have to offer those who will be the broken and wounded refugees of this new selfish individualistic entitlement culture From all eternity, God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit have lived in loving service and glorified one another. And out of love and service before self, the Son took on the flesh of the womb of Mary. That's what we tell them. And out of love, he suffered in the service of our world, even to the point of dying on the cross for those who made him their enemy. And in service to enemies, he substituted his perfect record of love and obedience and took upon himself on the cross our record of selfishness. This he did purchasing us out of slavery to the devil, who is the Lord of selfishness. So we proclaim him. We must proclaim him Jesus who heals people's deepest needs, sometimes beginning with their surface needs as a as a point of contact. Jesus who challenges and corrects all false assumptions about the reality of God. Jesus who lovingly invites all to surrender, trust, and believe in Him alone. And Jesus, who will not allow his people to credit themselves with their own wisdom, insight, background, education, race, or anything else as their reason for salvation. Jesus says to our culture, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never go hungry, and he who believes in me will never be thirsty. This is the Jesus who we must proclaim in the selfie culture. He's the only Savior, and He came to seek and save a multitude. A chosen many, a whole world of fallen and hurting people, chosen by grace. Amen. Lord, we thank you that you have given us your word and have revealed to us the Lord Jesus Christ. We did not come to know him by our wisdom. by our culture, by anything in us, not by the flesh, but you have revealed him to us in the words of the scriptures and by the power of the Holy Spirit. You have drawn us to him Now please draw many, many more, Lord, chosen by grace to come to Him and believe in Him and be redeemed and saved as you have redeemed them at the cross. Cross, we pray in his great name. Amen