Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the 17th chapter of Exodus. Exodus chapter 17, the first seven verses. All the congregation of the people of Israel moved on from the wilderness of sin by stages, according to the commandment of the Lord, and camped at Rafidim. But there was no water for the people to drink. Therefore the people quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. And Moses said to them, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you test the Lord? But the people thirsted there for water, and the people grumbled against Moses and said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst? So Moses cried to the Lord, What shall I do with this people? They are almost ready to stone me. And the Lord said to Moses, Pass on before the people, taking with you some of the elders of Israel, and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile, and go. Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock at Horeb, and you shall strike the rock, and water shall come out of it, and the people will drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel. And he called the name of the place Masa and Meribah. Because of the quarreling of the people of Israel, and because they tested the Lord by saying, Is the Lord among us or not? Now we turn to John chapter 7, 25 through 52. Jesus is at the Feast of Tabernacles. And we are in the middle of that section, so 25. Some of the people of Jerusalem therefore said, Is not this the man whom they seek to kill And here he is, speaking openly, and they say nothing to him. Can it be that the authorities really know that this is the Christ? But we know where this man comes from. And when the Christ appears, no one will know where he comes from. So Jesus proclaimed as he taught in the temple. You know me and you know where I come from, but I have not come of my own accord. He who sent me is true, and him you do not know. I know him, for I came from him, and he sent me. So they were seeking to arrest him, but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. Many of the people believed in him. They said, When the Christ appears, will he do more signs than this man has done? The Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things about him, and the chief priests and Pharisees sent officers to arrest him. Then Jesus said, I will be with you a little longer. And then I am going to him who sent me. You will seek me and you will not find me. Where I am you cannot come. The Jews said to one another, Where does this man intend to go that we will not find him? Does he intend to go to the dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks? What does he mean by saying, you will seek me and you will not find me, and where I am going, you cannot come? On the last and great day of the feast, Jesus stood up and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who who believed in him were to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not yet been given. But Jesus was not yet glorified, because Jesus was not yet glorified. When they heard these things, some of the people said, this really is the prophet. Others said, this is the Christ. But some said, Is the Christ to come from Galilee? Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David and comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was So there was a division among the people over him. Some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid a hands on him. The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, Why did you not bring him? The officers answered, No one ever spoke like this man. The Pharisees answered them, Have you also been deceived? Have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in him? But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed. Nicodemus, who had gone to him before, and who was one of them, said to them, Does our law judge a man without first giving him a hearing? And learning what he does, they replied, Are you from Galilee to search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee? This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Lord, we pray that you will bless now the reading which has been read of your holy word, the singing. The exposition, the application. May it be attended by the power of the Holy Spirit so that we will actually benefit from it. In Jesus' name, amen. So as I mentioned a few minutes ago, we're still at the Feast of Booths. That sounds funny to us, you know. We think of, at least if you're my age, you think of booths as a phone booth, right? What other kind of booth? Maybe a booth where you go in and have your picture taken, you know So feast of booth, what is that? It's eight days of backyard camping. Eight days of camping. The Israelites were commanded in the Old Testament to build little huts. Little houses, little lean twos, and put branches over them to keep the sun out and to camp out, have their dinner, and even sleep out in these little these little booths, these little tabernacles Tabernacle means a movable house, right? So it's a movable house. As I was thinking of this, I remember our son Isaac, when he was about 16, he decided we were visiting my sister in western Maryland And uh and he decided to camp out. He wanted the experience of camping out in the wintertime. So he pitched his tent and and everything and had his his zero sleeping bag and was out there and uh that night it snowed about eight inches and then the wind blew and it got down to zero. When Isaac came in the next morning, that was enough for him. One of those experiences of camping was enough. Well, God wanted the Israelites to have an experience that would be annual and would remind them. So he created these eight days of camping to remind them. of the forty years that they had spent as his people in the wilderness, going toward the promised land, but not going directly. It wouldn't have taken very long to get there if they had gone directly But because they were rebellious and because God wanted to test them and teach them, he had them kind of go in a circuitous route in various places and stop and stay awhile and Learn lessons. So it took 40 years. A whole generation passed away, died while this was going on. He wanted them to remember how he took care of them, how he provided for them in the wilderness. So uh this this week, uh eight days of festival, this tabernacle, this booths ceremony, included uh light ceremonies. Why would it include light ceremonies? Because when the people were traveling through the wilderness, whenever God would move them on to a new place, the pillar of fire by night would illumine their way. And the cloud by day would show them which way to go. So so there were torches carried around Jerusalem to recall the light that God had provided for them. And then there was a water ceremony as We'll talk about that a bit. This is a festival, the last one of the year. There's a series of Jewish festivals. This is the last one of the year. And it's also been combined with harvest. So it's a very joyful time. You've got your harvest in and you're camping out and you're fellowshipping with all your friends and neighbors and eating. And there's also a lot of sacrifice going on. There were 70 bulls sacrificed in Jerusalem during that eight days of tabernacles. It would start with eleven bulls on the first day and then decrease until you got down to just a few, I guess, at the end. Seventy bulls sacrificed. And that's a great thing because you got lots of meat. The priest couldn't eat all that meat, so it was it was partly passed out to the people to enjoy as well. So very joyful. And it was also not just a remembrance of the past, but it was a it was a look to the future. A look, it had an eschatological eschatology as the last things, the future things. So it had an eschatological dimension. The Israelites who were doing this would say, This Canaan that we now live in, this place where we have the temple and all that It's not yet what it's going to be. God is going to give us the whole world. God is going to restore the kingdom to David. God is going to give us rule and dominion and he's going to bless all the nations through us. It hasn't happened yet. But it will happen. They believed that. Some of them did anyway. So it was for those who were faithful, it was eschatological to go to this feast. But this one was controversial. This particular feast was controversial this year because you can hear the voices of people. Jesus has come. This Jesus who's been doing miracles in various places. People have been talking about him. Is he the prophet Is he the Christ? Who is he? And what do the authorities think about him? So we look in verse twenty-five and so forth. Some of the people of Jerusalem said, Is not this the man whom they seek to kill? He had come to the feast. Late, but he came. And here he is speaking openly, and they're not saying anything to him. Can it be that the authorities really know that this is the Christ? So they're thinking about this. But we know where this man comes from. Some theory of some of them was that Christ will somehow appear out of nowhere. And we know where he comes from, so he can't be the Christ. So it's it's kind of a a controversy to think about him. Verse 30, so they were seeking to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him because his hour had not yet come. Yet many of the peoples believed in him. They said, when the Christ appears, will he do more signs than this man has done? So various opinions about Jesus at this particular feast. And the Pharisees in verse 32 heard the crowd muttering these things about him, and the chief priests and Pharisees sent officers to arrest him. We gotta stop this. We can't let this go on. We gotta put an end to it. So not everyone is faithful to believe God's promises. Some people are doubtful. And some, even then, had given up hope completely that God's ancient promises, the eschatology, would ever happen. And you know, you can understand how they might have come to this kind of doubtful position of mind and thinking. You can understand because in Israel's history After the great kingdom of Solomon, when the wonderful temple was built, and when Solomon was the greatest king in the whole Near East. After that, some other things happened, and we went downhill. The Assyrians came in 722, and they took the whole northern kingdom away and destroyed them. That had happened and it was a real big disappointment. What about God's great promises? Well, a lot of them thought, well, you know, these the uh the northern kingdom was really bad people anyway God is going to keep his promises through the southern kingdom, the Jews. He's going to keep his promise through us. Well, guess what happened? In 586. The uh Babylonians came and took the southern kingdom away, made them captives, made them slaves in Babylon. And they were there for 70 years as God had promised. So a lot of people were, no, they were back now. I mean there was a time when they got to come back and and they had rebuilt the temple. That's in the book of Ezra and Nehemiah and so forth. It wasn't as nice as the original temple, but it was sort of a temple. And the walls around Jerusalem were kind of junky walls, not real good walls like the old walls used to be But it was a semblance of progress, but a lot of them just said, forget it. This is never going to happen David's household, Messiah's kingdom, Israel's restoration, nah, that's not going to happen. We've given up all hope that that will ever happen. No Messiah will come to rescue us. So they would come to this feast, those who didn't believe, just as a matter of tradition. Just, you know, it's a nice tradition. It's a nice Jewish tradition. To come to Jerusalem and do this thing and live in these booths and eat this food and have a nice time. Kind of reminds me of some people in the Christian tradition. They want to keep the Christian tradition. They want to sing the Christmas carols, but they don't really believe in the virgin birth of God incarnate. Right? And some others who come to church on Easter, but they believe in the resurrection about as much as they believe in Santa Claus or the Easter bunny. And when they say the Apostles' Creed in such worship services, they say it with their fingers crossed. They don't really believe it. It's just the tradition that we keep. Others kept believing. Even then, even at that particular feast, others kept believing in the promises of God. The wonderful promises of God. These are the kind of people who focused in and sang and read Psalm 72. Psalm 72, we have it in our hymn book as Jesus shall reign where'er the Son does his successive journeys run, his kingdom spread from shore to shore. till moons shall wax and wane no more. That's paraphrases of Psalm 72. What does Psalm 72 say? It says about the great messianic king I'm going to read part of it beginning at verse 7. In his days may the righteous flourish and peace abound Till the moon be no more. May he have dominion from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. That was the promise. May the desert tribes bow down before him and his enemies lick the dust. May the kings of Tarshish and the coastlands render him tribute. May kings of Sheba and Sebah bring gifts. May all kings fall down before him, and all nations serve him, for he delivers the needy when he calls. the poor and him who has no helper. He has pity on the weak and the needy, and saves the lives of the needy from oppression and violence. He redeems their life, and precious is their blood in his sight Long may he live, may gold of Sheba be given to him, may prayer be made for him continually, and blessings invoked for him all day. May there be abundance of grain in the land, and the tops of the mountains may wave fruit like Lebanon, and may peoples blossom in the cities like the grass of the field. And then verse 17, this is the fulfillment of the promise made to Abraham. May his name endure forever. His fame continue as long as the Son. May people be blessed in him. And all nations call him blessed. There were people at the feast that year who believed in those promises too, who didn't discount them even in light of Israel's history. And there were people long before that in Isaiah's day, Isaiah the great seer, the prophet, in Isaiah 44. Looking down the Babylonian gun barrel, he says this, thus says the Lord, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts, I am the first and the last. Besides me there is no God. Who is like me? Let him proclaim it, let him declare and set it before me, since I appointed an ancient people, Israel. Let them declare what is to come and what will happen. Fear not, he says to that people, in spite of the coming Babylonian exile. Nor be afraid. I have told you from old and declared it. You are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? There is no rock. I know of none. That's the kind of promise that some of the faithful believed. God will do what he's promised. So Jesus, John here and Jesus is challenging His readers with Jesus recorded words and actions. He's challenging them. The people who are reading this Gospel of John, or it's being read to them. He's asking them, do you believe in Jesus? Do you believe that the promises of God that are coming through Jesus really will come? Are you thirsty for God in a barren world, a barren land? Are you thirsty for the promises of God? And that's why we get to these verses that Jesus said here. John tells us what he said. If anyone thirsts, in these ways, if anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. So the question for the first hearers and readers of this gospel as well as for us today is, will you believe in him? Do you believe in him? Yes. Amen. Here's what he did to bring that message home. Here's what he did. Verse thirty seven. On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Now he did that in a particular context because on this last day, the high priest Would take a gleaming gold picture. I'm sure a lot bigger than this one and not this color. But he would take a gleaming gold picture picture And he would, in a procession, march down to the pool of Siloam. And all the people who could gather around to see it would be watching. And he would go down to the pool and he would fill that gold pitcher. And carry it in a procession up to the temple, up into the Holy of Holies area. And where the altar of sacrifice was not in the Holy of Holies, but the holy place, to the altar of sacrifice, and when he got there he would take that picture, and all the people would be listening, watching, seeing. He would take that pitcher and he would empty it into a funnel on the top of the altar. And then that water would course down through the stone. Inside the altar, and it would come gushing out the front of the altar toward the people. It would come gushing out and running all over the place. And that was to remind the people that when they were in the wilderness, for those 40 years, God supplied water for them. God supplied water for them from a rock. This stone altar is that symbol of that rock. The water comes gushing out, the animals are watered, the people, their thirst is quenched, and God will supply even in the wilderness. And that's what he did. And Jesus said this in that context. If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. He is the rock. Remember what we read in Exodus. Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock at Horeb, and you shall strike the rock God's telling Moses what to do. And water shall come out of it, and the people will drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel. So, what Jesus said here in this particular context is very shocking to many hearers. Jesus is claiming to be the source of life. He's claiming to be the water of life when there is none. He's claiming to be God's provision. He's claiming to give all that is truly vital. And you know, water is vital, isn't it? in it. Water is a very great symbol of vital. I was looking about water and just wondering how long you can live without water and I came across this this uh place on the web, the survivalist three rules. Uh the links vary a bit based on conditions of the body and environment, but the three rules are these. You can live three minutes without air. You can have three hours to survive in a sub-freezing environment without clothes or shelter. You can make it three weeks without food. And you will not live long after three days without water. Three days. Water is vital. The people had arrived in the desert. They started complaining. God, you brought us out here to kill us. Jesus is here at the Feast of Tabernacles. He says, if anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. This happened again later. It's recorded in Numbers. In Numbers chapter 20. Then Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock. Here's another rock. And he said to them, Hear now, you rebels, shall we bring water for you out of this rock? And Moses lifted up his hand and struck the rock with his staff twice. That's not a good thing. And water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank and their livestock. So it happened again. And so here's what the Apostle Paul says about that in First Corinthians 10, 1 through 4. He says to them For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud. That's the cloud that followed them, you know. And all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food, and all the same spiritual drink For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them. And the rock was Christ. That's what the Apostle Paul says. And Jesus is saying here, hey, that's me. If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. I am the fulfillment. of this ceremony and of these truths, these historical events. And John goes on to comment, now he said this about the Spirit. whom those who believed in him were yet to receive, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. Jesus said, Whoever believes in me as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. So here's the message for you and me. Believe believing into Jesus, you will get the supply. And the source. You won't just get the supply of water that you need. You'll get a source within you so that you can't run out of it. The source, the fountain, the Spirit of God will come to live in you and dwell you. It'll be in you. Without Jesus, you may live three, score, and ten years, but you will be dying forever. But Jesus, Israel's Messiah, the one who was promised from the beginning, he's the one who gives the source within. And those who believe in him will have that source That's the message. Now the the responses to what he said then and there are these. First one was belief Verse 40, when they heard these words, some of the people said, this really is the prophet, and others said this is the Christ. So some said, hey, I believe he's the one. Another response was skepticism. Some said is, is the Christ to come from Galilee? That's the northern part of the country. That's the Hick area. He's not supposed to come from there. Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David and comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was So they're skeptical. He's not from the right place, at least as far as they know. So there was a division among the people over him, and some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him. And then here's the third. A response, rejection. Who's that from? The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, uh, who said to them, Why did you not bring him? The officers said, No one ever spoke like this man. The Pharisees answered them, have you also been deceived? The Pharisees are know-it-alls. Have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in him? Hey, nobody with any credibility believes in him. Are you going to believe in him? But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed. Don't believe anything they say. And then when Nicodemus stands up and defends Jesus, In some sense, at least defends his right to be treated fairly. They say to Nicodemus, you remember Nicodemus, don't you? They say to him in verse 52, Are you from Galilee too? Search and see that no prophet arises from Galilee. So they've got it all figured out and they reject Jesus. Hands down. People still do that these days. based on little or no or false information they do. People still respond in these ways, but John shows us what some of them could not yet see. What's Jesus was born in Bethlehem, wasn't he? David's royal city. Jesus is in David's royal line. And Jesus is the rock of supply, the giver of the Holy Spirit. Jesus is the subject and the goal of all the feasts and all the offices and all the ceremonies and sacrifices ordained by God for Israel. He is the one. So, do you want to see the world put right? Seems like it's coming apart. Do you want justice and mercy in perfect harmony in the world? Do you want to live forever with a quality of life? That even surpasses the life of Adam and Eve in the garden? Do you want that for yourself? Jesus is still the hope. of believers for resurrection and eternal life and a renewal of creation He is the hope of believers for a righteous world that is coming, eschatology. And he is your hope. for being fit to live in that righteous coming world. Because he died To pay for your sins, to forgive your sins, to give you his own perfect righteousness as a gift, so that you'll be welcome, you'll be fit, you'll be at home in this perfect, wonderful new creation that He is going to bring. Do you want that? If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink says Jesus. Amen. Amen. Lord, we thank you for your marvelous words and acts At crucial moments in Israel's history, in Judah's history, announcing yourself and as the fulfillment of all the promises to them and to us here today. And as we come to this table to eat and drink, Help us, Lord, to trust your promises, believe your promises. Help us not to be just keeping a tradition, but believe the things that we say. In Jesus' name, amen Well, if you