Please open your Bibles to the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 22, where we'll read verses 22 through 24. Deuteronomy 22, verses 22 through 24. If a man is found lying with the wife of another man, both of them shall die. The man who lay with the woman and the woman. So you shall purge the evil from Israel. If there is a betrothed virgin, and a man meets her in the city and lies with her Then you shall bring them both out to the gate of the city, and you shall stone them to death with stones, the young woman because she did not cry for help, though she was in the city, and the man because he violated his neighbor's wife So you shall purge them from the the evil from your midst. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. This is the text for preaching today, John chapter 7, beginning at verse 53, which is the very last verse, and going on to chapter 8. In some Bibles it might be attached to chapter 8. They went each to his own house. But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. Early in the morning he came again to the temple. All the people came to him, and he sat down and taught them. The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery And placing her in the midst, they said to him, Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. Now, in the law of Moses, Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say? This they said to test him, that they might have some charge to bring against him. Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground. And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her. And once more he bent down and wrote on the ground. But when they heard it, they went away one by one, beginning with the older ones. And Jesus was left alone with the woman standing before him. Jesus stood up and said to the woman, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you? She said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn you. Go, and from now on, sin no more. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you that you have caused your word to be written down. In manuscripts and portions numbered by the thousands, so that we have before us reliable, reliable Written Word of God. We pray that you'll help us now to understand it spiritually, apply it spiritually, and make every good profit from what you have given us today. In Jesus' name, amen. The passage that I just read is not supported by the best manuscripts The best manuscript evidence in the science of textual criticism. So among scholars, there's serious doubt as to whether it should be included in the Bible. Some Bible publishers have removed these verses. The NIV in particular has removed it entirely and placed it in a footnote. Because we're talking about certain editions of the Bible being different in certain ways, I want to say a few words about the reliability and inerrancy of Scripture to begin with. We believe, that is, we in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church and other very conservative churches believe that the original autographs are inerrant. The original autographs are inerrant. But none of the original autographs exist today. What we have today are thousands of ancient documents and citations that have allowed us to virtually recreate the autographs. And I have this accompanying page that's in your worship folder by John Piper from Desiring God Ministries that explains the science of textual criticism and manuscript evidence and all that. Don't read it now, please. But refer to it later if you want to understand this stuff better. But this is the upshot. The occasional phrase, there are some, or verse, or even a section like this may come under scholastic review and debate But no important doctrine of Scripture is put in doubt due to these uncertainties. That the manuscripts are the subject of ongoing scholarship does not prove that there's something wrong with God's word. Instead, it is a refining fire, one of the very processes that God has ordained to keep His word pure. So a belief in autograph inerrancy. Underpins a reverent, careful investigation of the text. It's not a problem. We believe it's God's word. Notable New Testament scholars, D. A. Carson from Trinity Divinity School, and Bruce Metzger from Princeton Seminary, and F. F. Bruce from England. believe that these events described in this passage I just read really happened. And Arthur W. Pink from the last century believes that it actually belongs here and nowhere else. And we're going to take it here. In the preaching today. This story comports with the overall teaching of Scripture, and we consider it the Word of God, even though we're not sure exactly where it belongs. You see, the scribes and Pharisees were always after Jesus, always trying to catch him up in some word or some deed so they could find fault with him and destroy him. This is in keeping with that very thing. That's what's going on in this passage. The setting of this begins in the last verse of chapter 7. Where it says, they went each to his own house. Who were they that went each to his own house? It's probably they in chapter 7, verse 32. who sent the uh the Pharisees heard the crowd muttering about these things, and the chief priests sent officers to arrest him. They were trying to catch him then in that particular time. And when they sent the officers, did the officers arrest him? No, they couldn't do it. The people wouldn't allow it. And so they each went to their own house. They gave up for the night. But then in chapter 8, verse 1, we find Jesus getting up early in the morning. And he went to the Mount of Olives And then it says, early in the morning he came up to the temple again. It's not very far between the Mount of Olives and the temple. And all the people came to him and sat down and he taught them. So Jesus has quite an audience on this morning. And evidently during the night, someone had somewhere caught a woman and a man, no doubt. Committing adultery. And so they took her into custody and kept her overnight so that they could haul her out and put Jesus to the test. This is probably, by the way, the eighth day of the feast of booths, because in Leviticus 23 it says, on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the produce of the land, You shall celebrate the feast of the Lord seven days, and on the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest. So this is probably the eighth day, and it's a day of solemn rest. And the people have come. They're not working. They're not busy. They've come to hear Jesus in the temple this morning. And here we have it, the challenge in verses 3 and following. The scribes and the Pharisees. Scribes are the people whose job it is, whose work it is. They're kind of like secretaries. But their job, as particular as secretaries, is to copy Scripture, to write Scripture. They didn't have printing presses. They didn't have all this stuff that we have today Uh long before Gutenberg was uh on the scene and invented the first printing press, uh they had to copy scripture and they copied it very carefully. And that's what a scribe did The scribes and the Pharisees, we know the Pharisees are the very strict religious party, very interested in keeping the law of God, interested in throwing out the Romans, interested in establishing Israel as the greatest nation on earth. That's who they are. The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and placing her in the midst, they dragged her out and put her right down in front of Jesus while he's trying to teach. Quite a disturbance. I can just see them dragging her in. Maybe holding her by the hair or by her arms. They drag her in and they plop her down. They say, hey, here's something for you. What do you say about this, Jesus? They want to catch him. Verse 4. They said to him, Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. Now they say in the law of Moses, who they purportedly are great supporters of, they the law of Moses commanded us to stone such women. We read that from Deuteronomy. You read it, you heard it, uh red. And so they say, what do you say? What do you say, Jesus? Moses says this, here she is, we caught her. What do you say? Shall we get the stones and get at it? And then the commentator, John, says, they said this to test him, that they might have some charge to bring against him. And then John says, Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground. This is a strange response. He's been challenged. This woman is here. He seems to almost ignore her. And ignore them. Instead, he's gone over and he's writing on the ground with his finger. It's a very curious situation. But before we go on, the treatment of this woman is very suspicious. If she had committed adultery the previous evening. We can assume that the opponents were holding her during the night, awaiting for Jesus to show up so that they could put him to the test. And she would have been terrified and humiliated the whole night long. Probably kept in chains, too. And they drag her out into this crowd as a way of humiliating her. They don't care about her. She hasn't been tried or found guilty yet. Their prejudice against women comes across when they say that the law of Moses commanded the stoning of such women. Did it say that, by the way? Is that what it said when you read it? It did not. It said the man and the woman, right? Right That's what it says in Leviticus 20 and in Deuteronomy 22. So these guys are trying to put themselves forward as having a zeal for righteousness. But it's a very shallow righteousness. It's a righteousness for show only. And they have shown no concern for her soul. Her soul. They should be concerned about what's going on inside this woman that she has turned to this particular thing. But they don't show any concern. No, no, not at all. They're being hypocritical, too, because if you study the time and period and history of Israel in the New Testament era, they didn't stone people to death anymore. It just didn't happen. There's probably good reasons for it not happening, but it didn't happen. So this is hypocritical to try to see if we can get this happen to happen here now. They're just using the woman to pose a question in the name of loyalty to Moses. And yet they're ignoring Moses' teaching about justice and righteousness. and truth and equity. And where was the man, by the way? I mean Where is the man with whom she was caught having adultery? I I suppose it's possible that he was a real good runner and he got his toga and took off real fast and they couldn't catch him. But they caught her, didn't they? If they were really committed to God's law, they would have brought the woman and the man To the Sanhedrin and prepared for a trial. They would have called witnesses, they would have presented evidence, and they would have allowed for defense as well The hypocrisy of these guys is clear. And that's what John says in verse 6. They said this to test him. That's their whole motive. That they might have some charge to bring against him. Now, how are they going to get a charge against him by doing this? Here's how. If he's lenient toward the woman, If he's lenient about the law, then he is condemned for being lenient. We are the Pharisees. We are the upholder of God's standards. And if you, Jesus, who claims to be the Messiah, if you don't uphold the law of Moses, then we will know for sure that you can never be the Messiah And we will condemn you and denounce you, and people will stop listening to you. That's what we're hoping for here, Jesus. Or If he doesn't uh have the woman stoned, he also um is letting uh the Romans are if he does have the woman's stone, sure. If he does have the woman's stone, the what are the Romans going to do? They're gonna say, wait a minute. You're in our territory. This is Roman territory, and it has to be Roman law that prevails. And if you go stoning people without observing Roman law, You have been uh inciting rebellion against Rome, and that'll be another problem. So either you're gonna go against Moses or you're gonna get to go against Rome. If he also if he uh has a woman stoned, another problem is that he's actually caving into their ungodly treatment of her. He's actually caving into their hatred and their you know he would be doing a terrible sin himself if he had the woman stoned. The leaders here are putting God to the test in the person of his son, Jesus Just as they did on other occasions in the Old Testament. They put God to the test at Meribah, in Masah, it's in Exodus 17 and in Numbers 20 and in Deuteronomy 6. It's described in Psalm 95 and in Psalm 106. All these places where they put God to the test, and here they are again, Messiah is in front of them. He's teaching them God's truth, and they're putting him to the test. What's Jesus' response? Verse 7. As they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her. And once more he bent down and wrote on the ground, Jesus' response to the opponents is very memorable, isn't it? People still use this phrase, even though they have no idea where it comes from these days. They still use these phrases. Whenever they get accused of something, whenever they feel like they're being sat upon morally or judged morally, they'll say, Well, let him who was without fur without sin cast first stone They don't know where it comes from, but they got it from here, right? Jesus remains seated, but he bends over and writes with his finger on the ground. And this is something that we sometimes might not catch, and I didn't know it until I studied more deeply here. The act of writing on the ground is itself very significant. Ken Bailey has pointed out that it is unlawful to write even two letters on the Sabbath, and this was probably a Sabbath. But that writing in the dust was permissible. So according to the 39 Melakote, which is the 39 things you can't do on Sabbath, number 32 is you shouldn't write more than two letters. And number 33, you shouldn't erase more than two letters. But writing on the ground is okay. You can write all you want on the ground. It's not forbidden in the 39 Melakote. So if this was the eighth day of the feast and kept as a day of rest, and Jesus riding on the ground would show, he's kind of doing this right in their face. He's saying You guys like to keep the law. You're really big on keeping the law. And if I were writing on paper, if I had my pen and papyrus out, or or my vellum out, And I was writing, you would say, Sabbath breaker, we got ya. But now he's writing on the ground. They can't say anything He knows the law. He knows the law. He knows not only the law of Moses, but the oral traditions that they would observe as well. And here's another interesting fact about this writing on the ground, a writing in the dust thing. What is he doing when he's writing in the dust? Jeremiah 17. Verse 13 says this: O Lord, the hope of Israel, all who forsake you will be put to shame. Those who turn away from you will be written in the dust. Wow. Because they have forsaken the Lord, the spring of living water. Those who forsake you will be written in the dust. That is as opposed to being written in the book of life. You're either written in the dust or you're written in the book of life. And Jesus is writing in the dust, and he's bending down and writing in the dust. What's he writing in the dust? What's he writing in the dust? Do you know? He's probably writing this verse from Jeremiah, first of all. Oh Lord, the hope of Israel, all who forsake you will be put to shame. Those who turn away from you will be written in the dust. And then when he stood up and spoke, and then bent down again, I think maybe the second time, probably he was writing some names. Their names. And they're seeing this. I can't prove that because it doesn't stay in the text. But it really makes sense, doesn't it? He's writing their names. All who forsake you will be written in the dust instead of written in the book of life. And so it's very ironic here. They have got this woman and brought her to Jesus in order to catch Jesus, in order to condemn Jesus and condemn her, and what happens is they actually end up condemning who? themselves. Because when Jesus says, let him who is without sin throw the first stone at her, what do they do? They condemn themselves. Very quietly condemn themselves. They just kind of condemn themselves by They condemn themselves by walking away quietly. When Jesus calls for the one without sin to cast the first stone, he accomplishes these three things at least. It relieves him from the charge of having instigated a stoning. A charge they'd like to bring against him in the case of the Romans. It ensures that there will not be a stoning since none of the accusers will want to take responsibility for it. And it causes them to reflect upon their own sinfulness before God. Many preachers and commentators have suggested that if the eldest accusers were the first to leave because they recognized their own sinfulness more readily, But in the customs of the day, maybe just the older would go first and the younger would defer to them, and so the younger would follow, deferring to the older. In any case, their withdrawal was in fact a confession of sin. Those who came to condemn ended up being condemned themselves by not casting the first stone. There is one person still present there who could condemn, who has the right to condemn Who is just and true and has never sinned. He is without sin. He could condemn. This one person could condemn, and that is Jesus. He's the only one without sin. He could throw the stone. But she becomes in his presence. An example of what John said elsewhere. In the first part of John's Gospel, he said: God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. And she's an example of that. He sent his son to save the world. Jesus grants pardon here, not acquittal. He doesn't say, oh, you're not guilty of anything. He pardons her for her sin. Since he calls her to leave off sinning, This shows that he knew she was really, truly guilty of adultery. But his failure to condemn her is quite different from theirs. They wanted to condemn, but they lacked opportunity. He could have condemned, but did not do so. Here is mercy and righteousness coming together in one person. He condemned the sin, but not the sinner. St. Augustine says in his commentary, but more than that, he called her to a new life. The gospel is not only the forgiveness of sins, but a new quality of life that overcomes the power of sin. This story, therefore, raises significant issues. The first issue is the nature of the commandments of Scripture. Have the scriptures changed? Is the Old Testament passe? Is it God's word emeritus no longer to be thought of or observed? Are the laws of Moses null and void? Not according to Jesus. He doesn't say that. We see Jesus upholding the law's teaching that adultery is sin. You see, the implication is that the law contains the revelation of right and wrong, which is true throughout history. Never changes. Because it embodies the character of God who is holy, holy, holy. We must understand the law as a revelation of right and wrong that is not an arbitrary set of rules that God made up to cause people to have to work harder or be more diligent or something like that to test our obedience. Rather the law is an application into human society of the patterns of relationship that reflect God's own immutable character. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are faithful, always faithful. Never failing in faithfulness. And we are to reflect that reality of faithfulness, that truth of faithfulness Adultery is wrong because it violates relationships of faithfulness. And such violation is wrong ultimately because God is characterized by faithfulness. The morality of Scripture is a pattern of life that reflects God's own life. So Jesus isn't casting off the law of Moses here. He's affirming it, but he's also showing mercy. God is merciful. God is merciful and kind. Jesus elsewhere said in Matthew 10, Do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. And as you think about Jesus sitting in the presence of this woman, this guilty woman, you and I must identify with her as sinners. Romans 3. 23 says, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. So you are, or ought to be, whether you are or not, ashamed. You ought to be ashamed and disgraced before the Holy Son of God, who sees right down into your heart, even at this very moment. You ought to be disgraced and ashamed before him, but not merely ashamed, like the men who went away in silence. Unlike them, you must also gladly receive Jesus' offer of righteousness and peace. Psalm 85 verse 10 says, steadfast love and faithfulness have met. Steadfast love is covenant mercy. And faithfulness is truth and righteousness. Steadfast love and faithfulness meet. Righteousness and peace kiss each other in Jesus. They do. He is the law keeper and the one who kept the law by dying on the cross to take the punishment for our law breaking, our shame, our guilt. And so the last word is, neither do I condemn you. Go, and from now on sin no more. One 18th-century theologian said, Should we fall into a sin, let us humble ourselves sorrowfully in his presence And then with an act of unbounded confidence, let us throw ourselves into the ocean of His goodness, where every failing will be canceled, and every anxiety turned into love. That is possible because righteousness and mercy have met and kissed in Jesus Christ. So he says to you and me today, neither do I condemn you If you repent, if you turn to him, you trust in him, you keep repenting and keep turning to him and keep trusting in him. He keeps saying to you, Neither do I condemn you, even though you're You're sinful. Neither do I condemn you. Go. And from now on, sin no more. And when you do sin Let us humble ourselves sorrowfully in His presence, then let us, with an act of unbounded confidence, throw ourselves into the ocean of His goodness, where every failing will be canceled and anxiety turn into love. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this Important passage of Scripture which so wonderfully comports with everything else that you taught us in your word about Jesus, about love and mercy, about righteousness and peace. And we thank you that these opponents were foiled. And yet we see ourselves like them in many ways. And we see ourselves like this woman in many ways. Help us all, Lord, today and every day, in every moment, to keep turning to you and finding in you. Righteousness and peace, mercy, grace, and non-condemnation. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.