Ezekiel thirty-six, twenty-two through twenty-seven, and then thirty-seven, one through six. Therefore, say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name Which you have profaned among the nations to which you came. And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them And the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. I will take you from the nations and gather you from all of the countries and bring you into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you. And you shall be clean from all your uncleanness, and from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you And cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. Now going to chapter 37, beginning to verse 1. The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out in the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones. And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord God, you know. Then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones, behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. And I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord. This is the preaching text, John 2, 23 through 25, and then chapter 3, 1 through 15. Now, when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing. But Jesus, on his part, did not entrust himself to them, because he knew all people. and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered him, Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things? Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know and we bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so the Son of Man must be lifted up, that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Oh Lord, send your Spirit now to empower your servant and to administer your word to those who listen, that we may profit greatly From your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we're continuing in the series in the Gospel of John. And in chapter 2. Jesus had chased the animal sellers and the money changers out of the temple area. Not just any part of the temple, but the part that was reserved for the Gentiles so that they might worship God. Jesus was angry, outraged that the Gentile area should be crowded beyond any use by the Gentiles. He was angry because this was to be a fulfillment of God's promise to Abraham that in Abraham all nations, even Gentiles, should be blessed. So this action of Jesus got some people's attention. It angered the Sadducees greatly. But it pleased the party of the Pharisees. Who were they, the Pharisees? They were the vocal minority in the ruling uh administration, the Sanhedrin, the ruling council. They were the vocal minority. They were like a minority in the House of Representatives in the U. S. or in Parliament in the United Kingdom. The Pharisees were generally people who revered the scriptures and carefully tried to keep the cleanliness rituals and rules. The Pharisees hated the Roman occupation, and they longed for the golden age of Israel. The Sadducees, on the other hand, were generally religious liberals. They did not really believe the scriptures, but they liked tradition. And they liked the prestige of Judaism. They were complicit with the Roman occupation. So quite a very big distance between them. Annas, the high priest at that time, was one of these Sadducees in the ruling authority who had brought the market to the temple. who had brought the animals and the money changers from where they had been once parked on the nearby Mount of Olives He had brought them into the temple area. The Pharisees did not approve of this having the market in the temple court, but they also didn't have the votes to prevent it. So there it was. Jesus expressed his outrage in violent action. He chased out the money changers and the animal sellers and knocked over the tables of the money changers. And he did this by swinging a cord of ropes, chasing these people out. This violent action of Jesus as I said before, got the attention of many people and some real appreciation from the Pharisees. They believed that he was sent from God to do such things, and they wanted to know more about him. So that's where we come in John chapter 2, verse 23. Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, Many believed in his name when they saw the signs he was doing, the signs like the one I just described. But Jesus, on his part, did not entrust himself to them because he knew all people, and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in a man. This particular brand of belief that's described here was not the belief that John was urging in this gospel. It's not the kind of belief that is created by the Holy Spirit and leads to salvation. It's another kind of belief. It's the kind of belief that a prospective voter may have when a politician promises to pay for everything and defeat all our enemies You may believe in them until you see that they have no way of delivering on their promises. Then you look for someone else. That's why Jesus does not entrust himself to them. He knows that many of them will fall away when things don't go their way. This leads directly on then to Jesus being visited one night by one of these Pharisees who was attracted to him and his deeds. So we get to it in chapter 3. We read it just a moment ago. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. And this man came to Jesus by night and said, Rabbi, we know that you were a teacher come from God. That's Pharisee talk. For no one can do the signs that you do unless God is with him. And then you know the answers that Jesus gave, beginning with the emphatic words, truly, truly That's equivalent to saying, Amen, Amen, let me tell you something. What Jesus there was announcing to Nicodemus is that the time has now come for the new covenant. The old covenant was great, and it was a gracious gift But it was now time for the new covenant, because the old covenant was being replaced by being fulfilled. Jesus was now come. The wind of God's Spirit was now going to blow and usher in a new age. The time has come. The old must be pushed out. Now, let me try to illustrate this in modern everyday terms. Imagine a young couple who have found delight in one another. and have become engaged. I'm actually thinking of one that I know. The guy purchased the ring after finding out exactly which ring she would want. She took him shopping. Then carefully he planned the proposal, including a fancy dinner and a hidden photographer. Soon after, they were given an engagement party as a surprise with many friends and family members attending. They began to plan the wedding and the reception well in advance. They spent every possible time together. But then the guy had to go away to join the military. He had to be gone through basic training And after a brief celebration and sweet reunion, he was away again for months of technical training. All this time away was in order to prepare a career and ensure their life together. Their engagement has been a delightful and fulfilling thing in many ways. It has given them strength to get through many trials, and they have grown through the hardships of their separation. The separation has increased their anticipation of their future wedding. The engagement is great. So much fun. Happy excitement. So why not just continue it indefinitely? You know why. Engagement is temporary. It's not permanent. Engagement leads to something greater, doesn't it? A new life together. And Jesus was telling Nicodemus that very thing about a new life together in God's kingdom. Verse 9, Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered him, Are you the teacher of Israel? And yet you do not understand these things? Jesus was saying to Nicodemus that he should know that the engagement period had to end. It was over, and the bridegroom had come. And why should he know such things if he was the teacher of Israel? He should know such things because of passages like Ezekiel 36 Listen to those words again, Ezekiel 36, 24. I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses and from all your idols. I will cleanse you, and I will give you a new heart And a new spirit I will put within you. I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And the passage about the dry bones also. The hand of the Lord was upon me. He brought me out into the middle of the valley, and it was full of bones. And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord, you know Then he said, prophesy over these bones and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. And what happens? The bones are in flesh, the bones come alive, new life comes. And Israel's teacher, Nicodemus, should have understood that that has to happen to Israel. The engagement is over and the wedding must take place. The old covenant was laying dead. In the valley of dry bones, and Israel needed new life, new birth that comes by the sprinkling of water and comes by the Spirit blowing through and giving life. That's what these passages talk about. And then there are two passages, two images I should say, to keep in mind from these passages in Ezekiel. One is the image of the heart of stone And that is the other one of the heart of flesh. Now, if we don't think carefully, we are accustomed to think That this is a metaphor, we think of being stonehearted as to be uh having a hard, dead heart While being flesh-hearted means to have a soft and alive heart. That's a good illustration of some spiritual things, but that's not what is in view here. One New Testament commentator said this. The old covenant, he says, was stone-hearted. That is to say, its central feature was the word made stone. The Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments were deposited in the Ark of the Covenant in the center of the tabernacle in the temple. Everyone in the ancient world knew that temples were microcosms of both the universe and the individual person. And the most holy place contained the heart. The heart of the old covenant, namely the stone tablets of the Ten Commandments. So stone hearted refers to The Ten Commandments in the heart of the temple. By the way, by the time this happened, by the time Jesus is speaking, there is no Ark of the Covenant in the temple. It had been lost in B. C. 787 when the Babylonians destroyed the temple, and the ark with the stone tablets had been carried away and has not been found to this day That's why we have movies like The Raiders of the Lost Ark. It had already passed away In chapter 1, we have to go back and put some pieces together here. In chapter 1 of John, Jesus is revealed as the Word of God made flesh. The Ten Commandments were what? The word of God made stone and placed in the heart of Israel, the temple. And about that, it was said by John, for the law was given through Moses, grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. And so what we're hearing here is that the age of the heart of stone, the ten words written on stone tablets and placed in the heart of Israel's temple, that age is over. And the new birth, the new life with God and his people together, that's what's up. Fulfillment, wedding, consummation, feast, that's what's up. And Jesus Himself is the heart of flesh, the word made flesh, the new heart of God's true Israel and God's true temple. He said, as you'll remember, destroy this temple, and I will raise it up in three days, referring to what? His body. Jesus brings the Spirit, brings new birth, brings new life. And so Jesus is saying to Nicodemus and to all of old Israel, You must be born again. The old life under the types and sacrifices and shadows of the law will not do. The engagement period is over. And so Nicodemus and all Israel, get married to the bridegroom, or there is no future for you. He is ready and waiting. Ready to drink the wine of wedding joy with his bride. And if you think I'm mixing too many metaphors here Just remember that the previous chapter, Jesus attended a wedding and supplied the celebration with abundant wine as the sign of the Messiah. So let me go through quickly and give you a list of comparisons and contrasts that we've already seen in John's Gospel. The word made flesh versus the word made stone. The temple of his body versus the temple in Jerusalem, with no heart anymore. The darkness of the past versus the darkness are the light of the glory of God in Christ. His own who did not receive him, old Israel, versus those who believe and become the children of God. So who is the Messiah, the bridegroom, the heart of flesh for the new Israel, the new temple that will be raised? Who is this? Well, he is the one speaking to Nicodemus, saying, Truly, truly, I say to you We speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. You old Israel do not receive our testimony. He is the one who tells you heavenly things, new birth, new life, wedding, union. And verse 12, if I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? He is the one who bridges heaven and earth, as he says. No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. He is the one, finally, who will be lifted up, lifted up like the bronze serpent that was affixed to the pole in the wilderness What is that about? That is from the book of Numbers, when Israel's people sinned against God, and he sent serpents into the camp to punish them. They were told that if they should look to a brazen serpent that Moses was to raise up on a pole, if they were to look to that in faith, they would be cured from the bites of the snakes. And Jesus says, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. He is therefore the one who brings new birth And how does this birth happen? How does that birth happen to you? Well, for God's part. It is by his sovereign grace. We do not save ourselves. We do not make ourselves acceptable in any way to God. It is by his sovereign grace. He brings new birth. God creates new life. God creates faith. For man's part. The new birth is by faith, trusting into the Messiah, who was lifted up on a cross, believing that his nakedness and his disgrace Paid for your shame and guilt, believing that his death paid the penalty for your sins. Believing. And that's what we get at the very last of the passage here, verse 15, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. So let's paraphrase this whole thing, this conversation with Nicodemus. Jesus is saying, Nicodemus! Will you stay where you are, stuck in the old covenant, waiting for something to change, waiting for a political messiah to throw the Romans out? Waiting for another prophet to come, waiting for some champion to come, wishing for the good old days of Israel's glory and Solomon's time. Or are you ready for new birth? And that basic question still comes to every one of us. We see that we are sinners and that we are not being transformed by our own efforts. Neither our good, upright morals, nor our indulging in sins of the heart and mind and body are serving us at all. We are a day older and deeper in debt before God, and we have no peace. But God offers new birth. He offers new life. He offers union with himself. He offers a new heart. Christ in you, the hope of glory. God offers eternal life, the unending life of God Himself with God, in God. He offers it. And Jesus says, as he said to Nicodemus, he says to you and me, whoever believes in him may have eternal life. The new birth that Jesus is describing and prescribing for you is not merely an event that happens and is over and gone. When you are born again, a great change has indeed begun. But repentance, turning away from sin and turning to God must happen again and again. And there will be many old life battles and struggles, but faith will get the victory. The sovereign spirit, you see, will transform you. Jesus told Nicodemus about the new birth of Israel by water and the Spirit, so beautifully described in Ezekiel, the new birth that is necessary for every person. Well, that was an interesting interview that Jesus had with Nicodemus that night, wasn't it? But now for the rest of the story. Was Nicodemus born again? Was he? We can get a peek at that in John chapter 19. Because there we have it, after Jesus had been buried, after he had been crucified and laid in the tomb, John chapter 19, verse 38. After these things, John says, Joseph of Arimathea, who was at a disciple of Jesus, but secretly, for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate gave him permission So he came and took away his body. Then verse 39, Nicodemus also, who earlier had come to Jesus by night came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about 75 pounds in weight. So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews. What do we see here? We see Nicodemus' love and devotion to Jesus indicated that he really was born again and became a part of the newborn Israel, the church His faith led him to risk his life and reputation by associating with the condemned and crucified Jesus. He had to deal with the unanswered questions about Jesus' tragic death and apparent end of the kingdom that Jesus had proclaimed. But that faith at the grave, at the tomb, with the spices and all those things, that faith there would soon be rewarded, would it not? It would. The one lifted up on the cross would be raised up in glory and draw all people to himself. So what about you? Do you believe in him? Not like the people at the beginning of this passage. Who believed for a bit and then turned away a little later? Do you believe in him not just a matter of historical fact, but as the living Lord and Savior? Are you living in the new creation now? Living the born-again life that is always repenting, but always finding joy in the mercy of God. And will you stay with Jesus, even when in your own life, in your own situation, sometimes you do not understand what he is doing? Will you keep faith with Nicodemus until the resurrection day? Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for how Jesus Fulfills so many things and announces a glorious future for all who believe in him We pray that you will open our hearts by your sovereign spirit to believe in Jesus, not just in a temporary way or a mere historical way, but to cast ourselves upon Him To trust wholly in him, we pray in his name. Amen