Hear the word of God, Psalm 118. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. Let Israel say his steadfast love endures forever. Let the house of Aaron say that his steadfast love endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord say, his steadfast love endures forever. Out of my distress I called on the Lord. The Lord answered me and set me free. The Lord is on my side. I will not fear. What can man do to me? The Lord is on my side as my helper. I shall look in triumph on those who hate me. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. All nations surrounded me. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me. Surrounded me on every side. In the name of the Lord, I cut them off. They surrounded me like bees. They went out like a fire among thorns. In the name of the Lord I cut them off. I was pushed hard so that I was falling, but the Lord helped me. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. The right hand of the Lord exalts. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. I shall not die, but I shall live. And recount the deeds of the Lord The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. Open to me the gates of righteousness that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. The Lord is God, and He has made His light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords Up to the horns of the altar. You are my God, and I will give thanks to you You are my God. I will extol you. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. This is the word of God. Beloved Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Psalm 118 is the last of the Psalms of Ascent. Psalms 113 through 118. Sung by the Israelites during the Feast of Tabernacles, and also at the Passover While ascending the hills of Judea on their journey to the temple of the Lord. It is clearly liturgical in form. With the priests and the people alternating stanzas of praise. Let Israel say his steadfast love endures forever. Let the house of Aaron say, His steadfast love endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord say, his steadfast love endures forever. Also, it begins and ends with a call to worship that has been precious to saints of every age. Verses 1 and 19. Simultaneous. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. The psalm proceeds from expressions of grateful anticipation of drawing near to Yahweh, who is Israel's deliverer. As the psalmist Speaking in the first person singular, but clearly expressing the gratitude of all the Israelites. Pens verses five through eighteen. That magnificent passage rehearses How Yahweh, by the strength of his own right hand alone, has become their salvation. With the result that glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous. Truly, the psalmist intones the thanks of every person. In the words of verse 18. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but He has not given me over to death. Now beginning with verse 18, if we may do that, all Israel speaking as one man In tone their thanks to the Lord and rehearse the wonderful scene over and again. As the pilgrims approach year by year the place where God caused his name to dwell. That's Mount Zion. For there stands the temple, the symbol of God's presence in the very midst of his people, who Arriving at its very portal, and although they are unworthy, are nevertheless admitted Therein. As they cry out in verse 19: Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks. to the Lord. Oh, how the gracious and merciful reply must ring in their ears. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. And you know, folks, there is one reason only why that was so, and is still so today. How it could be. That the holy sovereign of the universe would and could welcome a whole nation of guilty sinners. Into his very presence. That reason becomes clear as Aaron the high priest, in verses 26 through 28. Is enabled to bless the people because before Aaron could enter the most holy place He had to pass by that one particular piece of furniture, the brazen altar. Upon which the festal sacrifice was bound with cords up to the horns of the altar. Yes, needed sacrifice has been made. All the sins of all the blessed people of Yahweh's merciful choice were atoned for and removed. And we today, from the perspective of the cross of Jesus, know full well what all that prefigured. And can look back to that sacrifice every day, even as the Israelites looked forward to it year by year Now, however, you approach the psalm, and with whatever structure you analyze it It stands as an incomparable pion of praise to the Lord for his steadfast love that endures forever My friends, this psalm preaches itself. And all believers in every age need to do To be comforted is to meditate upon it deeply, to chew on it, and receive its balm. I'm sure that every one of us stands in need of comfort at any time. Gene and I do too. Especially right now. When our normal round of existence like yours seems scrambled and uncomfortable It's difficult to relax, isn't it, and enjoy life. To some extent, at least, when you can't go wherever you want and are pleased to do. Whenever you like, without timing, social distancing, and yes, that face mask Let's face it. It's just plain uncomfortable, isn't it? Well, the thing that I, for one, have to tell myself over and again is this, these are small problems. And God's steadfast love endures forever. He's in charge of my life. And that stability is certainly sufficient to enable me to get through these little bumps. I need Psalm one hundred eighteen, and I suspect that you do too. Understandably, the psalm was Martin Luther's favorite. No doubt it spoke with particular relevance to the former monk. Totally distraught and captive to a graceless and hopeless life of self-salvation that brought him to despair of ever dwelling. in the eternal kingdom of God came Psalm one hundred eighteen. His church Had taught him that all he needed to do was pay attention to the outward institution of the church. With its sacraments and its ritual, and follow strictly to its procedure of confession to the priesthood And participation in the purely man-made payment of indulgences But he received no comfort whatsoever from this rout. And all his remorse, all his remorse, provided no healing whatsoever. He needed to be reborn by grace through faith. Faith in the Lamb of God, whose penal sacrifice availed for him. There and there alone was full comfort to be found. And Martin Luther was bathed in it as he came under the light of the gospel set forth in the 118th Psalm. Truly, the grace of the gospel is no more clearly evident in all of Scripture. Than it is right here in this wonderful, worshipful, inspired poem recited countless times by the ancient Israelites, and then received through the Holy Spirit's intervention In the heart and life of that medieval former comfortless monk And you need that too, believer, tonight, to equip you in any hour, day or night, of stress, disappointment, Depression, and to rescue you out of them. So with Luther Let's listen together and profit by this precious message of God's Word and give thanks to God for his grace in our lives as well. Nevertheless, in considering this precious text, in order to appreciate its full biblical theological force We must point to one detail of the gospel narrative of Passion Week of Jesus And its events. I refer to those words found identically in both Matthew and Mark. Quote, and when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. That was Jesus and his disciples. And they were just then concluding their table fellowship, known to us as The Last Supper. This was Passover time. And Jesus, in order to fulfill all righteousness, once more meticulously observed the rubrics. of that precious season, as it had been handed down through generations of Jews. He was, after all, in his state of humiliation. And that meant more, more, than the sufferings of Calvary It included these moments as well. And this one. They went out to the Mount of Olives When they had first sung a hymn. Yes, imagine what it meant for the Son of God To break that bread and pour out that wine. He knew full well their meaning and force. But that memorial meal was not concluded without a closing hymn. Not any hymn, a certain hymn, or strictly speaking, a psalm, a particular psalm Psalm 118, our text tonight. Yes, Jesus sang then about the festival, festival sacrifice Bound up with cords to the horns of the altar. And he knew, I tell you, full well, What that was talking about. Now I want you to understand that the Bible does not say that they sang Psalm 118. Anywhere. For this we must rely upon Jewish historical sources other than the Bible. There's nothing bad about doing that. And though not inspired and infallible as Scripture, those sources sometimes can illuminate the perfect biblical record. I'm not aware that anywhere in the covenant of promise, the Jews were commanded by God to do this. But for whatever reason, they apparently did. At every Passover meal By every truly pious Israelite family, this psalm was sung or chanted Or intoned. We're not sure exactly which. No, we're not sure of the form, but we do know the words they used Psalm 118, the last of the Psalms of Ascent used at the conclusion of the Passover meal. This Jesus did, apparently, together with his disciples. Yeah, together with his disciples. That family. That Jewish family, too, copied a worship liturgy that had a very long history. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. And we know what happened next. Next came the actuality, of which their hymn had only spoken prophetically. There would be no more psalms of ascent sung by a certain people who needed deliverance. For now the Savior was about to accomplish salvation for the world. In a matter of a few hours, the Israelite would ascend once for all the hill of the Lord And be himself bound on the altar. Not as a festal sacrifice. But as the true and final atoning Lamb of God. Yes, my friends, Psalm 118. was apparently Jesus' last hymn in his humiliation. And he was joined by his wide-eyed and wondering groupies. His understanding of what these lyrics truly involved was so far something less than full. But soon they will understand. So, with these considerations in mind, let's briefly look at the Psalm once more. But this time thinking about what it meant for Jesus to sing it. Verses 1 through 5. Let Israel say, His steadfast love endures forever. Let the house of Aaron say, his steadfast love endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord say his steadfast love endures forever. Out of my distress I called on the Lord. The Lord answered me and set me free. Jesus sang that. Because the covenant of redemption was about to be fulfilled by Yahweh's Messiah. From all eternity, the Father and the Son, coequal with the Spirit in Trinitarian harmony, did purpose to deliver human beings created in his image. But fallen into sin and condemnation. For his steadfast covenant love endures forever. Israel would extol him for it. The house of Aaron would praise him for it Now the Lord's Messiah actually come to earth in humiliation and about to die as planned would sing it. His steadfast love endures forever And he, of all the Israelites, knew full well what it would mean for that love to endure. Forever. He would have to go to Calvary Then we get verses 5 through 18, and I don't think it's necessary for me to read that whole section again. I hope you were listening. I'm following carefully when I read it a few minutes ago. 5 through 18. That's a stanza. Which will be more difficult for us to understand how those words could be on the lips of Jesus The Israelite of our Psalm is delivered out of distress, and helped by the Lord, triumphs over his enemies. But that was not Jesus' fate. Hear him cry, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? However, could he have sung these words of Psalm 118 in truth? Would not the very opposite of what they affirm take place in his case? Would not the evil one bruise his heel? Would not the nations represented by the Roman executioners be anything but cut off? As they nailed him to the tree? Would he not indeed die? Surrendering up his human spirit and being given over through death and the grave? Would he not indeed? And so, how could Jesus truthfully sing these words? Ah, believer, you know the answer. Because as the Messiah, as the priest after the order of Melchizedek, Jesus Christ represented not only God to us. But us also to God. Yes, because of what He would do, we can sing these words. Thus, when he sang them with his disciples, he was singing for those disciples. And that means he was singing it. for you. Still, still Jesus was strengthened, no doubt, in that his state of humiliation. When he came especially to verses 17 and 18, those I will read again. I shall not die, but I shall live and recount the deeds of the Lord The Lord has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. Yes, he was telling the truth. He would suffer a penal death, the extreme discipline, the apostles' creed would put it. He descended into hell, but he would not be utterly and eternally given over to it. I shall not die. But I shall live. The brightness and joy coming of Resurrection Morning As well as the darkness and sorrow of Calvary's attention is found clearly in Psalm 118. And my friends, Jesus sang all the verses. Let me come to verses nineteen through twenty-five. I will read those Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter through it. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray. Give us success. Now notice, congregation, that the Israelites who enter the portal, the gates of the temple, were to be righteous. Only those characterized by righteousness. That means, by the way, total and exclusive conformity to the law of God are permitted to enter. Now, those Jews who entered the courts of Yahweh were anything but righteous in themselves, as you. They were sinners, to be sure. How then did they get in? Even in the person of Aaron, the high priest. It wasn't exactly characterized by goodness day by day. Look at verses 21 and 23. God has become their salvation. This is his doing. And his route Was unlikely by human reckoning. According to verse 22, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. What's the picture there? It is of a construction site. There is a pile of good stones chosen for their shape, beauty, and fitness for the wall being built. And then on the other hand, there is the refuse pile. Stones that are rejected as unfitting for any use in the project But it's from the latter pile. One stone is chosen for the highest service, that of being the cornerstone. That is exactly what God did through Jesus. Despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, as Isaiah would describe him. A rejected stone. Through the scandal of Calvary, God would build a church of living stones identified by and resting upon their chief cornerstone, Jesus Christ, the righteous Savior And the blessedness of and for you, believers here tonight, is that your Savior sang those words. Anticipating your incorporation into his church on the night before he climbed the hill of Calvary. There to lay down his life. And so you can join in the Hosanna of verse 26. And cry, Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. You can pray that with confidence that you will receive an affirmative answer. Then finally we get verses twenty-six and twenty-seven. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We bless you from the house of the Lord. The Lord is God, and He has made His light to shine upon us. Bind the festival sacrifice with cords up to the horns of the altar. Now you see the temple priests welcome and declare blessed those who come to the house of God in his name. In his name, that is, by the route he has ordained. That route is made crystal clear by the light that he has made to shine. He has ordained a penal sacrifice. The animal so designated is to be bound with cords. Destined to be brought to the altar, there to have its throat cut, its body parts dismembered Its entrails removed and discarded, and its choice meet made an offering by fire until so consumed upon the altar. There it is. That's the Psalms climax. Yes. For only on that basis May the worshipers give thanks to their God. He is a holy God. And cannot abide with sin. Their sin must be done away with, totally eradicated, consumed by the fire of judgment. And it was Or rather, it would be. For what transpired again and again with thousands of bullocks and over a dozen centuries Would avail for nothing until the sacrifice would be offered This Jesus sang. He sang of his own binding with chords and of his own transport up to the horns of the altar of his father in heaven. Who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all Be filled with praise, thanks, and abundant comfort, believer. Today. Yes, our text tonight was the last hymn Jesus sang in his humiliation. No doubt, however, he will take up a new stanza when in exaltation he is joined by you. his bride at the marriage supper of the Lamb. But for now, Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ As Jeff goes to the piano, sing with your Jesus as his disciples with him tonight sang this psalm of salvation. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever.