We're going to read Genesis 1, 1 through 5 and 14 through 19. So Genesis 1, 1 through 5, and 14 through 19. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light. And there was light. And God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. And there was evening, and there was mourning the first day. And God said Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night, and let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years, and let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth. And it was so. And God made the two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night and the stars. And God set them on the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth, to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening. And there was morning. The fourth day. The word of the Lord. Thanks. Peace to God. And the sermon text is John chapter 8, beginning at verse 12. John chapter 8, beginning at verse 12, and going through verse 30. Again, Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. So the Pharisees said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself. Your testimony is not true. Jesus answered, Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going. But you do not know where I came from or where I am going. You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one. Yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for it is not I alone who judge, but I and the Father who sent me. In your law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me. They said to him, therefore, where is your father? Jesus answered, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. These words he spoke in the treasury, as he taught in the temple, but no one arrested him because his hour had not yet come. So he said to them again, I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. So the Jews said, Will he kill himself? Since he says, Where I am going you cannot come? He said to them, You are from below. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. So they said to him, Who are you? Jesus said to them, just what I have been telling you from the beginning. I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world what I heard from him. They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father. So Jesus said to them, When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know That I am He, and that I do nothing on my own authority but speak just as the Father taught me. And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. As he was saying these things, many believed in him. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray together. Lord, we thank you for this confrontation, this conversation between Jesus and the Jewish leaders That took place in the temple at the Feast of Tabernacles. We thank you that it has been faithfully written down and conveyed to us. Written down by inspiration and conveyed by providence, so that we have the very Word of God to examine and to Lay up in our hearts and practice in our lives today. We pray that you'll bless this ministry of your word now, in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I don't have an outline for you because we're on a little bit of a summer thing here where Helen is in Aruba. Very nice pictures on Facebook if you are friend of hers. And she has delegated some responsibilities, but I didn't want to bother Rose, who's helping us with this time, to produce an extra thing. So the outline is not before you. So you'll need to pay a little more careful attention. You don't have an outline as a crutch to get by. And I'm going to ask you to actually turn to a couple of passages of Scripture because I want to make sure you see certain things that are kind of why otherwise escape notice here in the text. The first thing I want to begin with is number one, Jesus' provocative claim. If you want to take notes, there it is. Number one, Jesus' provocative claim, and it's in verse 12, it's a very famous speech. It says in verse 12, again, Jesus spoke to them saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. This was an amazing claim to make. It's being made at the end of this great eight-day festival, the last festival of the seasons. And this festival was a festival remembering the 40-year journey from Egypt to Canaan, a journey that, by the way, should have only taken a few weeks. But because of Israel's stubbornness and need for God to teach them and rebuke them and train them in righteousness, it took 40 years. But this is a festival remembering that huge journey. Festivals like this shaped the hearts and minds of Israel and gave them understanding and hope Just a word about festivals and things like this. Drew Johnson is an associate professor of biblical and theological studies at the King's College in New York City. He was the Templeton Senior Research Fellow at the Analytic Theology Center, the Institute for Advanced Studies in Jerusalem. And he serves as co-chair for the Hebrew Bible and Philosophy Program Unit in the study of the Society of Biblical Leaders. Well, that's what does that tell you? He's a good guy, and he has something to think about and to say and to offer us by way of his studies. And in his book, Knowledge by Ritual, I just ordered that book yesterday, Knowledge by Ritual, he argues that the rituals, the rites, the festivals of Israel As portrayed in the biblical texts, dispose Israelites to recognize something that they could not have seen apart from participation They couldn't just hear it or read about it. They needed to participate in it. That's according to his thesis here. And so God could have told them just to read the story once a year about the 40 years journey and what happened. Just read it out, just have a big gathering and read the story, but he didn't do that. He created this feast of tabernacles, this eight-day remembrance, and they lived in booths and they Marked many of the things that happened in the wilderness as they celebrated this eight-day festival. These were more than just propositions. Reading the story out would just be propositional, but these were experiences. These experiences reenacting and recreating those experiences. And that's better than just reading a narrative, you see. By the way, that's one of the chief reasons for the New Testament sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper. We see, we feel, we taste, we smell the gospel in baptism and Lord's Supper. We don't just read about it or get it as propositional truth. Now, we've been looking at this Feast of Tabernacles for a few weeks, and uh a few weeks ago we looked at something that happened on the last day. And that was the water ceremony. And I'll just briefly review that. Back in verse 37 of chapter 7, on the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out. If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. Sounds like a crazy person, doesn't he? But what would happen on that last day? On the last day, the high priest would take a gold pitcher, and he would go down to the pool of Siloam near the temple in grand procession, everybody watching. And then he would fill this pitcher with water and carry it up into the temple, and he would pour it into a funnel on the altar. And then the water would course down through pipes in the altar, and it would come out the front of the altar, running out onto the steps in front of the altar, and the people would see it. They could even touch it, perhaps This was to commemorate the provision by God of water in the wilderness. Remember the rock that followed them was Christ, and Moses struck the rock, and the water came forth, and the people had all they needed to drink, otherwise, they would have died. You can only live three days, as we heard a few weeks ago, without water. Now, here in verse 12, he's doing another thing like that. Jesus is taking another festival ceremony and claiming to fulfill it These words, it says in verse 20, he spoke in the treasury as he taught in the temple. So that's the location of what's going on here, the treasury. And during the Feast of Tabernacles, also called Sukkot. There was a great ceremony called the illumination of the temple, which involved the ritual lighting of four golden oil-fed lamps in the treasury. In the area called the Court of Women. These lamps, you have to imagine this, these lamps were huge menorahs, candelabras. How big were they? Seventy-five feet. feet high. Seventy-five feet. Those pine trees up and down Benswood Road, maybe about seventy-five feet some of them. They're huge During the festival, these lamps would be lighted in the temple at night to remind the people of the pillar of fire that followed the Israelites in their 40-year journey through the wilderness. All night long during the festival, the light shone its brilliance. And it is said that these Lights so illumined, and the light would bounce off of the gold on the facade of the temple, Herod's temple, and it would illumine the entire city And this in a city where there are no street lights, otherwise it's always dark, you see. In celebration and anticipation The holiest of Israel's men would dance and sing psalms of joy and praise before the Lord during this lighting ceremony. And the festival was a reminder that God had promised to send a light The light to the sin-darkened world. God promised to send the Messiah to renew Israel's glory, to release them from bondage, and to restore their joy. Imagine that you are attending this feast in Israel, in Jerusalem, during the Feast of Tabernacles, and visualize seeing these massive menorahs giving this tremendous amount of life. And it's also a fulfillment of prophecy, too. Tabernacles is the Feast of Tabernacles is unique from all the other feasts of Israel And then all the other feasts, it was only for Israelites. Gentiles were not welcome. Israelites were invited to these holy feasts, but Israelites only. But in Deuteronomy 31, we read that tabernacles is unique, that Gentile nations were invited to come up to Jerusalem along with the Jewish people to worship the Lord at this appointed time. Time. Again, in fulfillment of the gospel to the whole world, not just to the Jews. The Lord told Moses to gather all men, women, and children along with the foreigners in their land, so that they could learn from the Lord. Now, have that all in mind and imagine the impact of the words said by Jesus in the temple courtyard when he announced. I am the light of the world. Imagine. And now let's step back for just a second to think about light itself. Where did light come from? Pete read from Genesis. Where did light come from? The first day it says, and there was, and God said, let there be light, and there was light. And God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day and the darkness he called night, and there was evening and there was morning the first day. The first day, God created light. Light comes from God. God is the giver, the source of light. And then what did God do on the fourth day? This is three days later. The fourth day, God said, Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night and so forth. So he created the light-giving things, the light-imanating things. He is first of all the source of light himself. And then he gives sources, secondary sources, for the light in the creation. Put this together, this is a magnanimous claim. Jesus claims to be The source and the creator of light. And he also claims to be Yahweh who delivered Israel from Egypt. And remained with them in the wilderness for 40 years as their light. Wow, that is an amazing claim. What will the hearers do? Well, we know what they do. They question and puzzle and argue with Jesus. That's the next section, verse 13 and so forth. Point two, Jesus' defense of the truth, and witness of the Father. Verse 13. So the Pharisees said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself, your testimony is not true. Jesus answered, Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true. Now I'm going to summarize this section. Jesus said, I don't need other witnesses. Yes, in the Jewish law, you're supposed to have two witnesses to verify anything. But because I am who I am, I can bear witness by myself. I'm always truthful. But he says, if you think maybe you need another, I'll give you another witness to me, the Father. Me and the Father. You want two witnesses? There they are, Jesus says. And then they say, Who is your father? Where is your father? They ask questions because they're not getting it. They're arguing with Jesus as he's making these tremendous claims to be who he is. And we're not going to analyze all the words there. There are many important phrases. But you get the gist of it there at that point. By the way, Jesus is arguing with the most privileged people in the history of the world. People who should have been able to figure this out. In Romans 9, verses 4 through 5, Paul says about the Israelites, the people that Jesus argued with. They are Israelites, and to them belong the adoption. God adopted them as his own. The glory, the Shekinah glory that was with them in the wilderness, see. The covenants, the giving of the law on Mount Sinai, the worship service, the promises of the Messiah. To them belonged the patriarchs, all the wonderful patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and the prophets. And from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ, who is God overall, blessed forever. So Jesus is having to argue with the people who should have known who he was. The most privileged people ever. And without getting too deeply into the argument, he moves on into the third point: the heavenly departure and heavenly origin of Jesus Verse 21. He said to them again, I'm going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come. So the Jews said, Will he kill himself? Since he says, Where I am going you cannot come. He said to them, You are from below, I am from above, you are of this world, I am not of this world. I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. So they said to him, Who are you? They're not getting it. Jesus said to them, Just what I have been telling you from the beginning. I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world What I have heard from him. They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father. So there we have this continuing Lack of putting things together as Jesus proclaims himself. And then finally, number four This is important. The cross will reveal Jesus' person and claim. Verse 28. So Jesus said to them When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He. And that I do nothing of my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me. And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. Jesus said, You will figure this out, at least some of you, when you have lifted up the Son of Man. What does that mean? They don't know But he's saying things that are going to be very important for gospel hearers in the future. When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am Now, you've got to be careful and pay attention to this I am he thing. I didn't understand how how important it was myself until I had to study it. But if you will turn in your Bible to Isaiah 41 and then Isaiah 43, Isaiah 41 Jesus is alluding here to a phrase that Israelites should have known about. Many of them did. Isaiah 41, verse 4. Who has performed and done this? Calling the generations from the beginning. In other words, who's the Creator? I, the Lord, the first, and with the last, I am He. Did you hear it? He's the creator of humans. Jesus is saying, you will know that I am He. And they're Starting to tune into Isaiah as they hear that phrase. But then go to Isaiah 43, verse 10. It's not just once, not just one kind of random phrase that gets thrown into the Old Testament somewhere. No, it's repeated. Verse, chapter 43, verse 10. You are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God form, nor shall there be after me any. So he's saying, I am He, the only God, the uncreated God. I am he. And then verse 13. Also henceforth, I am he. There is none who can deliver from my hand. I work, and who can turn it back? So he is saying, I am he the governor and the judge. You won't escape me. And then if you would flip over to Isaiah 46, verse 4. Isaiah 46, verse 4. This is actually found in one of our hymns, the hymn How Firm a Foundation. It talks about: Een down to old age all my people shall prove. Well, here it is Isaiah 46, 4, even to your old age, I am He And to gray hairs, I will carry you. I have made and I will bear, I will carry and will save. So he is the personal savior. He is the national savior. And in Isaiah 48, if you flip over there, verse 12, listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel whom I called. I am He. I am the first, and I am the last. Have you ever heard that before? You've heard it in the book of Revelation, haven't you? Absolutely. But now we're going to go back to Isaiah 43. I missed one or I passed it over on purpose. Isaiah 43, 25. How will you know when you lift up the Son of Man? How will you know that I am He? And it's in verse 25. I am He who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. When they lift up the Son of Man on the cross, mercy, forgiveness of sins, blotting out transgressions, when they lift up Jesus on the cross I am He, the Savior, the one who makes atonement for sin. And so Jesus is Adding all those things together and putting them to himself. I'm the fulfillment of these things. I'm the light of the world. I'm the Savior. I am He who does all these things. I'm God incarnate. And we have one more point. It's a very short one. That's number five: the power of the word. The power of the word. Verse 30. Verse 30. As he was saying these things, many believed in him. It's the word of God, you see. I mentioned earlier how important ritual is to help people remember and experience and reenact and shape. It is important, but not without the Word. The Word of God. is powerful. Hebrews 4, verses 12 and 13. For the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and spirit. It goes right down to the heart of people. The joints and marrow and discerning, the thoughts and intentions of the heart. Oh, there were thoughts and intentions here, weren't there? And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. Word of God proclaimed by Jesus coming from his lips, saying who he is and what he's doing and who his father is and why he's here. Many believed. Many believe. The Lord Jesus Christ, whom we preach here, is the Word of God. He speaks for the Father. He is the creator of the world. He is the only redeemer from sin and death and hell. And he accomplished this by being lifted up on a cross to die. Some of you may have grown up hearing this gospel But like the Jews of Paul's tears and the Jews who were speaking to Jesus, it has not really taken root in you. It's not personal, just cognitive. You're not committed. You're indifferent to the Lord Jesus Christ This is not a trivial matter. Because as he said to the Jews, if you believe in him, your sins are forgiven. If you do otherwise, you will die in your sins. Your sins will separate you from the life and light of God. And your existence without God, without Christ, will be dark hell. Come to Jesus, the light of the world And find rest, as we say in our communion. Find rest and refreshing and nourishment for your weak and weary soul. Come to Jesus, the light of the world. Amen. Lord, we thank you for this dialogue that you had with these people as you told them the truth. Tell us the truth down deep in our hearts. May the word of God be sharp and incisive and discerning the thoughts and intents, and may it bring Not just hurting, but healing and life. Amen.