Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the first chapter of Genesis. Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 through 31. Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it. And have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves on the earth And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit You shall have them for food, and to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creeps on the earth Everything that has the breath of life I have given every green plant for food. And it was so. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning, the sixth day. The New Testament reading is from the Gospel of Luke, Luke chapter 10. Verses thirty-eight through forty-two. Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village. And a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet. and listened to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her, then, to help me. But the Lord answered her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. This is the Lord's word. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you for this, your holy word, inspired by your spirit. preserved by your providence, handed down to us and given now in print form, and in reading, and in hearing, and finally in preaching. Speak, Lord, through your servant, by the power of your spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Imagine growing up as a girl. Some of you will find that easier than others. But imagine growing up as a girl, and when you get to be 12 or 13 years old, your father might sell you to an older man who happens to want a young girl for a wife. You might be terrified at the prospect of being married. You might not like the man who was chosen for you, but it doesn't matter The law gives your father the right to do with you whatever he wants. He may pay no attention to your wishes. He may sell you to anyone who can pay his price. And more than that, once you're married, you become your husband's property. He has the power of life and death over you. The law gives him the right to beat you and punish you if you don't please him. In some circumstances, he may even kill you. With no penalty under law. An expert on Rome, ancient Rome, says that the conversion of the Roman world to Christianity. Brought a great change to women's status. You see, for a thousand years, Roman law had upheld the policy called patria potestis Patria potestus was the absolute authority of a man over his wife and children, including the power of life and death. But shortly after Christianity gained acceptance in the Roman Empire, this thousand-year-old standard was repealed. Men no longer had the right to harm or kill wife and children. Women gained the right to have property and to have custody of children. As Christianity gained ground, it became less and less common for fathers to give child brides to older men. Rather than girls getting married at age twelve, most Christian women married later Parents, by the way, could still be involved in matchmaking in various ways, but Christian girls were less likely to be forced to marry men against their will Wherever Christianity took root, the free choice of a spouse spread. And this isn't just something from Ancient history, this attitude and practice of oppressing women. Even in today's world, there are cultures with little Christian influence in which parents get money by selling young girls to older men who want a child bride. The girls have no right to say anything about it Some cultures still order women to wear veils in public and refuse to educate girls. We've seen this even in America with women wearing burkas when you can only see their eyes, and yet the husband who's nearby is dressed in ordinary Western clothing The Taliban's treatment of women in Afghanistan may have struck some outside observers as very odd. But this is quite common in many cultures and in many parts of the world. But for many women The situation is now very different. Thanks in large part to the powerful effect of Jesus Christ and his work. In light of this, it's ironic, isn't it, that modern feminists claim that Christian faith oppresses women. The truth is that Jesus and his followers have lifted up women and family more than any other influence in the history of the world. You see, Jesus treated every woman he met with holy love. He cared about them as persons, not just what their bodies looked like. He taught his followers that adultery was wrong, and that lust is a form of adultery, and that a man who divorces a woman on a whim and marries someone else is guilty of adultery. Jesus treated women with respect. In the Old Testament, God taught that male and female were created in his image. That's what we read from Genesis. And so Jesus coming as God in human flesh restores the dignity of women as image bearers of God. Jesus made it clear that women would be filled with his Holy Spirit and would be baptized and would share in the Lord's Supper right along with men. And that they were valued participants in God's mission. Christ was a blessing for women, and women were powerful in spreading the faith In the early years of Christianity, many churches met in homes hosted by women and benefited from the hospitality of godly women Christian women have led others to Christ through their words and example. They did not serve as official preachers. and teachers of doctrine in worship services, but they could speak and prophesy in worship if they did so with proper decorum. That's what's taught in the scriptures. They could help the church grow through personal evangelism. And they did. And they also contributed to the rapid growth of the church by rejecting abortion. And infanticide, and raising large families of godly, well-taught children Christian fathers and mothers didn't follow the pagan culture by dumping girl babies, leaving them exposed to die. In fact, the Christians rescued abandoned babies. And this added even more women to the thriving Christian families. The church began to grow faster than the baby-killing pagan culture And that's happening again today, isn't it? But in short, the coming of Jesus was the turning point for women. Now, I've made some important claims here, and you may be inclined to agree with me, but let me show you this from the gospel narrative which we read from Luke. First of all, we see an expression of unbiblical patriarchy in Luke 10, verse 38. It says this. Now they went on their way, and Jesus entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But Martha was distressed. Distracted with much serving, and she went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me. Jesus and his disciples were guests at the home of a man named Lazarus and his sisters, Mary and Martha. Mary was busy doing what is called women's work. as a hostess. But Mary sat at the feet of Jesus and listened to him teaching God's truth. The real problem between Martha and Mary wasn't the workload that Martha had in the kitchen and Mary's refusal to help. That wasn't the real issue going on here. That was real enough, but it wasn't the main thing that was upsetting Martha. Nor was it, as some have suggested, that both sisters were romantically attracted to Jesus, and Martha was jealous of Mary's adoring posture sitting at Jesus'. No, that's not it either. The real problem was that Mary was behaving as if she were a man. In that culture you see, and in many parts of the world this day, houses are divided into male space and female space. Male roles and female roles strictly defined. And Mary had crossed the invisible but very important boundary within the house. and had another place that she was not supposed to be. The public room where men gathered was a place where only men gathered. And the kitchen was a place where only women worked. And these things were set in stone. You did not cross those boundaries. Only outside the house where little children would play and in the married bedroom, that was the only place where male and female would mix. So for a woman like Mary to settle down comfortably among the men was bordering on scandalous. Who did she think she was? Only a shameless woman would behave in such a way. She should go back into the kitchen, to the women's quarters where she belongs. But she was sitting, it says, at Jesus' feet. Now, I have a wonderful golden retriever named Samson. And he makes it a practice to sit at my feet. If I go to the family room to watch television, Samson will come into the family room and sit at my feet. If I go to the dining room to work in my computer, It's an office in my house too. Samson will follow and lay down and sit at my feet. And sometimes Samson will even jump up into my lap, all 80 pounds of him. This is not what Mary was doing. She was not adoringly sitting at Jesus' feet, oblivious to his teaching. She was acting like a rabbinical student. You see, Paul, it says in Acts chapter 22, had been taught by Gamaliel, and it says there he had sat at the feet of Gamaliel, the great rabbi. And so this is what she was doing. She was sitting at his feet like a rabbinical student, like a man. And she was learning and she was focusing and she was analyzing as a student. This is radical. One rabbinical teaching said this: Let the words of the law be burned rather than committed to a woman If a man teaches his daughter the law, it is as though he taught her lexury. That's what the rabbi said Another of the rabbis declared, he who talks with a woman in public brings evil upon himself. And another one said, one is not so much as to greet a woman in public. Contrast those ideas with the biblical order of things which we read from Genesis. God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness and let them have dominion. over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth So God created man in his own image, in the image of God. That's important. The image of God. He created them, male and female. He created them And God blessed them and said, be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth, have dominion over the birds of the sea and over the birds, the fish of the Wait a minute. I've got to read it right. The fish of the sea, the birds of the heavens. I got it right. Dominion. Male and female. Both men and women are to have dominion. What is dominion? What is it? Dominion is science. It's learning, it's knowledge, it's application of knowledge. Dominion is science and mastery and rule. By Adam and Eve. Let them have dominion. That's what the Bible teaches. And after the fall, after Adam and Eve sinned, women have had a huge role in fixing broken and ruined things. Women have had a very important role. We read the wonderful exclamation of Mary when she was told she was going to be the mother of Christ. She said in Luke chapter 1, Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For from behold, now all generations will call me blessed, for he who is mighty has done great things for me. and holy is his name. His mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in their thoughts He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things. This is revolution. This is big change wrought through a woman. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. She fulfilled her role as a mother, and God began to repair the ruins of the fallen, broken world. And this is also taught in Acts chapter 2, when the promise of Pentecost was there. Acts chapter 2 says, this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel in the last days, that is the days we live in now. It shall be, as God declares, that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh and your sons and your daughters. Did you hear that? Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams. And then again, even on my male servants and female servants In those days I will pour out my spirit and they shall prophesy. Women will have a great role in the proclaiming of God's word and in the salvation of Christ. When the Spirit comes, you see. And we see that later in the book of Acts. Now a man named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to Ephesus. He was an eloquent man, competent in the scriptures. He had been instructed in the way of the Lord. Being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus. though he knew only of the baptism of John. And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. So this man came, someone who knew something, and he was preaching in the synagogue. In Alexandria or in Ephesus. But when Priscilla and Aquila, that's a man and wife, when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, what'd they do? They took him aside and explained to him the way of God more accurately. A man and his wife taught this man The way of God more accurately. And then, as a result, he went forward preaching more and powerfully refuted the Jews in public, showing by the scriptures that Christ was The Son of God. Jesus was the Christ. So there's another example. And then how about Galatians chapter 3? Paul says this in summarizing the powerful work of the gospel, he says, for as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free. There is no male or female, for you are all one in Christ. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs, according to the promise. Women are included in this great blessing. So who can be a student of Jesus? Women can. Women can And so we have now, secondly, the answer against unbiblical patriarchy, Jesus' answer, in verses 41 and 42. Verse 41, but the Lord answered her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her Martha wanted Jesus to order Mary back to the kitchen. But Jesus said that Mary's choice was better. And that it was good for a woman to be educated in God's truth and to be prepared to explain it and to defend it. Jesus affirmed Mary's right to do this. Jesus therefore rejected unbiblical patriarchy. Instead, he taught God's truth to women. And you can see this early on. I've been preaching, as you know, through the Gospel of John. And when Jesus encountered this woman by the well in Sikar, Samaria, And he spoke to her. His disciples were astounded that he would speak to a woman. In broad daylight, in the middle of the day, he spoke to a woman. And she was very surprised that Jesus spoke to her because it was so extraordinary. And what did he say to her? He spoke of sin and of salvation and of a new life in himself. John records that Jesus' disciples were surprised, it says, to find him talking with a woman. But the disciples got used to such things, didn't they? Because Jesus made it a common practice to preach to crowds that included women. He engaged women in personal conversation and teaching. He showed them God's love. And you can see this very clearly here in this gospel narrative of Mary and Martha. So this narrative is not about temperaments, the active versus the contemplative life, as some have preached it. This is about God's creative design, about God's work in the world, and the need for intelligent, godly workers, including women. Now I've said some important things, but I want to countersay this. This is not modern feminism. One commentator said, this teaching has little to do with the women's movement in the modern West. Jesus' valuation of each human being is based not on abstract uh egalitarian ideals, but on the overflowing love of God, which like a great river breaks its banks and flows into parched countryside and irrigates those parts of human society Which until now have remained barren and unfruitful. The congregations in which I have served have benefited from well-educated, theologically acute women. Many women have well advanced degrees, scientists, physicists, artists, musicians, Bible teachers. Christian educators, Christian counselors, home school teachers. And many of these women have advanced degrees. Godly women. Mothers, grandmothers. Jesus treated women with respect Because he knew, as was taught in the whole teaching, the whole scope of Scripture, that male and female were both created in the image of God. In his ministry, therefore, Jesus restored the dignity of women as image-bearers of God. While most other rabbis would not even teach a woman, Jesus gladly taught them and engaged them in discussion. He was even willing to make them partners in his work. We can see that in the New Testament. A number of women, grateful for his friendship and help, provided financial support and other assistance to Jesus and his disciples in Luke chapter 8. It says there, he went on through the cities and villages proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him. And then it says, and also some women. who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out. And Joanna, the wife of Chusa, Herod's household manager. And Susanna and many others who provided for them out of their means, women with money. At the end of the Romans, end of the letter to the Romans, there is a list of persons whom Paul addressed and gave thanks for for his ministry and help in the ministry. And this list at the end of Romans chapter 16 includes at least eight women. These women Were drawn to Jesus and to the church, not just because they liked his general attitude toward women, but they had come to know and to understand. That Jesus was the Savior of the world. You see, friends, Jesus came to live and to die to save women And men, and to give abundant life in the restored image of God to all, including women. Jesus always puts things right. He doesn't do this by making women less feminine. and more masculine, or turning women against men, as some feminist activists try to do. He did this and does this by loving women, honoring their God-given feminine nature. and commissioning them to serve in his kingdom. He does this and did this by instructing husbands To be faithful and loving toward their wife, following the example of Christ's love for his church, and by renewing God's gospel pattern for family life Jesus did this and does this by making every member of his church equal in value, whether male or female, married or single. Most of all, he did this by hanging on the cross. By hanging on the cross on Calvary's Hill. While a number of women stood by watching him bear their sins and their guilt and their condemnation. He earned the right to forgive women's sins and men's sins and to fill them with his Holy Spirit and unleash their potential and give them eternal life. And what Jesus has done in the past, he continues to do today. You see, as I said before, throughout the centuries, Jesus has been a world changer And still today, Christ remains the turning point for women and men. Still today, he gives eternal life to those who believe into him. And so believe this for yourself. Show it to others. Many people have the mistaken idea that Christianity is regressive and oppressive and Terrible, but it's not. It's liberating and joyous and freeing and uplifting, and it brings wholeness and health to a broken world. Believe this and teach it to others. Remember this for yourself. When you're tempted to fall into a pattern which is unbiblical, break out of it. And most of all, believe the gospel that Christ came to die on the cross, to save us, to forgive our sins. And by faith in him, by trusting in him, by throwing ourselves upon his care and keeping, we have salvation. We have eternal life You have it today when you trust in Him. Amen. Lord, we thank you that you are in the business of restoring all things to their created. Goodness. We thank you that you sent Christ Jesus, the Son of God, the Savior of the world, into the world. To undo the broken and fallen conditions of this world. We pray that you'll help us to follow Him, first of all, by believing in Him, trusting in Him, hoping in Him. casting ourselves upon his saving work and then teach it to others. Help us to be faithful to all the calling that we have to restore what was broken. In Jesus' name. Amen.