Isaiah 56, 6 and 7, and then Malachi 3, 1 through 5. Isaiah 56, 6. And the foreigners who joined themselves to the Lord to minister to him, to love the name of the Lord, and to be his servants Everyone who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it and holds fast my covenant, these I will bring to my holy mountain. And make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. And then please turn to Malachi 3, 1 through 5. Malachi 3 verse 1. Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple, and the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming? And who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller's soap. He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings in righteousness to the Lord. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord as in the days of old, as in former years. Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against those who swear falsely, against those who oppress the hired worker of his wages. The widow and the fatherless against those who thrust aside the sojourner and do not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. And now the New Testament reading, which is the text of the preaching, as we continue in the Gospel of John, but I will ask you, as I mentioned earlier, to hold a spot in Isaiah 56. Because I will refer to that to some extent. John chapter 2, beginning at verse 12, reading through 22. After this, he went down to Capernaum with his mother and his brothers and his disciples, and they stayed there for a few days. The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. In the temple he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons. And the money changers sitting there. And making a whip of cords, he drove them all out of the temple with the sheep and the oxen. And he poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. And he told those who sold the pigeons, Take these things away, do not make my father's house a house of trade. His disciples remembered that it is written, zeal for your house will consume me. So the Jews said to him, What sign do you show us for doing these things? Jesus answered them, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The Jews then said, It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days? But he was speaking about the temple of his body. When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray together. Lord, we pray that you will now help us to understand your holy word. Help us to understand it theologically and historically, but send your spirit so that we may apply it and understand it deeply and personally. Amen. There are, I suppose, a few verses of Scripture that people consider to be important enough to commit to memory. And you know, the one that's most popular out there, you see it at sports events and everything, is John 3. 16, which is absolutely important verse, wonderful verse. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, so that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life That is an important verse. But there's one in the Old Testament, in fact, many, but one that I say If you understand this verse, if you capture this verse and remember it and keep it in your heart, then you're going to be able to understand The whole of Scripture. You're going to be able to understand how it is that we come to John 3. 16, where God so loved the world that he sent his one and only Son. And here's the verses that I'm in referring to. They are Genesis, believe it or not, 12, 1 through 3. Genesis 12, 1 through 3. Very pivotal verses. Here's what they say. It's a narrative. It says, now the Lord said to Abram, go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. He's leaving one place, that's Ur of the Chaldees and Heron of the Chaldees, and he's now going to a place that God's going to show him. Then verse 2, and I will make of you a great nation. And here's the important part and I will bless you and make your name great so that you will be a blessing. What's the big deal about that? God is calling this pagan, this Gentile, this Abram, this Babylonian, and saying, go to the land I'll show you. I'm going to make you great. I'm going to make your name great. I'm going to make your family great. And you're going to be a blessing. Now he expands that in verse 3. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse. And then finally this. This is the part to memorize. If you don't memorize the rest of it, memorize this. And in you, Abram, all the families of the earth will be blessed. That's the key to the whole Old Testament. God is promising to take this one man and through him. Bless the whole world, all the families, all the nations, all the peoples everywhere. to bless them through him. Now how does that happen? Well that's the story of the Old Testament. But if you get this part, then you'll be able to see how it all starts to fit together. So what he's saying here is to Abram, I'm not just going to be your God as if pagans have their gods and this other nation, this other tribe, this other people have their own particular gods and they ask their gods to protect them and their gods to bless them and so forth. No. I'm going to be your God so that you will be a blessing to the whole world. I'm for everyone, he's saying. And then we come to Matthew chapter 1, and there we have a genealogy. And a lot of times people look at the Bible and say, oh, genealogies, how boring. Lists of names and so forth, but they're important. Matthew chapter 1, it says, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. So we go back to Abraham, see? Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. So here is in this gospel text in John chapter 2 where Jesus is at the temple. Here is Jesus Christ, the son of Abraham, at Mount Zion, the Temple Mount, in Jerusalem. Where because of God's working in history, God has chosen to have his name worshipped here and to dwell with his people here. Here is Jesus Christ, the Son of Abraham And he comes to this holy place where God's name dwells. And it says in verse 14, In the temple he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons and the money changers sitting there Now, we have to back up a bit to get a little more of the picture here. The word temple in that verse is the word Hieron. Hieron. Now there's two words for temple. There's naos and there's Hieron. Hieron is the part of the temple courts where non-Jews were allowed. Non-Jews, it's about 14 acres of space where Gentiles are allowed to come. They're separated from the inner court by a chest-high wall. So they can look over the wall, but they can't go over the wall. In fact, there were ominous signs posted all along the wall in the Greek language and in the Latin language. to catch the Gentiles' attention, forbidding Gentiles from entering beyond that on penalty of death. And there were also on the outer parts of the walls here colonnades shelters, if you will, on the exterior's walls to provide shade and shelter from the elements for those waiting to worship. So this is the Gentiles part of God's holy temple It always was ordained that way. And then there's another word for the part where only the Jews can go. It's the naos part of the temple. So Jesus comes to the Hieron, the Gentile court of the temple, not the inner part where Jews only could worship, where males only could worship, where priests only could go. And it was this Gentile court where Jesus found these sellers of sacrificial animals and currency dealers. He had been brought there before, as we read it in the Gospels, at age 12, and perhaps other times. And we learn from history that in the past times, these animal sellers who he sees here today weren't there. They were parked Across a valley on the Mount of Olives. That's where they used to have their animal markets and their and their um other things. They sold animals there to those who traveled long distances, it was a convenience, who couldn't bring their own animals from their own farms So here those people had moved somehow. I think it's by the Annas priesthood. They've been allowed now to park their wares in the court of the Gentiles. And they're camping out there, taking up space reserved for non-Jews who had a spiritual interest. In God's covenant, who were interested in learning about God, who was promised to be the God who would bless all nations, so they had a legitimate claim to come and worship God there. Many of these Gentile people would come and share in the worship. They would hear the songs of praise. They would learn the songs, even though they could not enter into the holy place. Beyond that low wall, they could at least come this far and worship God. But here and now they were being crowded out by animals and by currency dealers Now, what is that about? The currency dealer thing is this. The Jews had to pay a temple tax. That was required of them. And when they would come for Passover, they would bring their temple tax to pay. But it could only be paid in sacred currency. The currencies that were throughout the Roman Empire always had on the coin an imprint of the Roman Emperor or some other pagan symbol. And those were not allowed to go into the holy place. You could not pay your tax with it with a coin that bore the image of some ruler. No way. So they had to exchange it They had to exchange it, and that's what these currency dealers were there to do. I remember when I went to Brazil many years ago with my son Isaac on a mission trip. And uh the the Brazilians would be happy to have dollars. They would be happy to accept your dollars anywhere you wanted to use them. They they were happy. But when you were waiting for the change to come back, you better watch out Because uh you you might not get any change at all. You know, this is how much it is in hay alls, but uh you gave a you gave two dollars and wait a minute, a hay all and a dollar are not the same and And the uh merchant would say, uh, Taha G Conversio. In Brazilian Portuguese, it's the tax of conversion. And you're paying it. It might be double the price. Well, that's what's going on here too. These people are being cheated. They're coming with their Roman coins, and they're being cheated. In addition to that, we have the sale of animals. And one of the kinds of animals that was for sale, it's mentioned here, was doves or pigeons. And um by the way, we'll note this that Jesus doesn't drive out the dove sellers and the pigeons He drives out the cattle and oxen and sheep, but he doesn't drive out the dove cellars. He speaks to them, but he doesn't drive them out. The cost When the dove sellers were over at the Mount of Olives in the past, the cost of a dove or a pigeon was four cents. But now, parked at the temple courts, the price has gone up to 75 cents. Quite a bit more, isn't it? This market scheme and this price gouging is being done under the hand of Annas the high priest, a Sadducee. A liberal, and it's being against the strict guidelines of the Pharisees who were not in power at that time. Jesus here is with the Pharisees on this issue But later on, he'll rile both parties and be condemned by the Sanhedrin in an illegal trial. So Jesus is really, really angry. here as he sees this scene, as he hears all this going on in the court of the Gentiles. whom Abraham's family are supposed to be a blessing to all nations, the Gentiles. And he's seeing all this in the court of the Gentiles And by the way, let me just point out one more thing as we see here in the description that the animals that are being sold here are oxen, sheep, and pigeons. All these animals are meek and submissive as they go to sacrifice, just as Jesus will be in a few years when he is arraigned. When he is scourged, when he is derided, and finally crucified. But for now, he is angry and he is violent. And so, what does he do? I suppose he walks around and gathers up pieces of rope and he ties them together. He ties them into pieces that get longer and longer and he bundles them up and then he goes around and he starts swinging that rope whip. with knots in it and scaring people and the animals are running every which way and there's mooing and bleeding and sounds and then he knocks over Money Changer's Temple and there go the coins rolling everywhere and it is chaos. Jesus is angry and he does something about it. Then he told those who sold pigeons, take these things away Do not make my father's house a house of trade. And then in verse 17, his disciples remember what was written from Psalm 69. Zeal for your house will consume me. So it's a fulfillment of prophecy, you see. Zeal for your house will consume me. What is Jesus fighting for here? What is he fighting against that has him so upset, so incensed? He is fighting for God's mission. He is fighting for God's plan to invite the Gentiles into the covenant. He is fighting for them to have a welcome into the house of prayer for all people. as we read it from Isaiah 59. He is contending for God's salvation to be provided to Gentile outsiders. as well as to social outcasts and the poor and the disadvantaged persons, and even to the poor Jews. Now I ask you to turn to Isaiah 56. Isaiah 56, and we'll read and I'll open to you Isaiah 56, 3 through 8. Here's a description of God's promise to the Gentiles. Listen to it. Let not the foreigner, that's Gentile, that's what foreigner means here. Let not the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord, that's people who have an interest in God's grace. Let not that person say, the Lord will surely separate me from his people. And So he's saying, don't say that. Just because you're a Gentile, don't say you're excluded. You are included. God's grace is for you too, because that's what he promised to Abraham And then he says, and let not the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree. What's that about? Well, a man who had been emasculated was not allowed to worship God, not allowed to come into the central part of the temple. He was not allowed. So what God is saying is, I'm going to make the change here. You too, even you eunuchs are going to be allowed. He says, don't say, behold, I am a dry tree. I have no children, in effect. For the Lord says, to the eunuchs who keep my Sabbath, who choose the things that please me, who hold fast my covenant, I will give in my house, here's the temple, and within my walls a monument and a name, better than sons and daughters. He's going to include these people who are not included. I will give them an everlasting name, verse 5, that shall not be cut off. Before they're cut off from the naos, the central part of God's worship. Now they're going to be included. And then verse six, and for the foreigners, again Gentiles, who joined themselves to the Lord to minister to him and to love the name of the Lord and to be his servants Everyone who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it, and who holds fast my covenant, these I will bring to my holy mountain. Zion, the Temple Mount. And make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar, not excluded, not pushed out, but included. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. There it is. And that's quoted in the other gospels when Jesus cleanses the temple. Verse 8: The Lord God who gathers the outcasts of Israel declares, I will gather yet others to him besides those already gathered. So there it is. God is fighting. Christ is fighting for the others, for people to be included, not pushed out, not left aside, but brought in and included in His grace. And then secondly, he is fighting against those who make true religion, that is the worship of Yahweh, something available only to those who are racially favored and rich. He is fighting against that. And I want to show you how I can see that here so clearly. Did you notice that he did not chase those who were selling doves and pigeons? He did not chase them out with the whips. He told them this is not the place to do this. Take these away, he said. Poor needed these for worship. This was not the right place to do this business. So he did not chase them away. He cares for the poor. He wants to provide for the poor. And what is the reaction to all this? Verse 18, the reaction. So the Jews said to him, What sign do you show us for doing these things? Jesus answered them, and he didn't really answer them, did he? No. But he did give a word. He said, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The Jews said it has taken 46 years to build this temple, and will you raise it up in three days? Now let's stop for a moment and consider the temple. The temple in Jerusalem had a temporary purpose. It was to be the place in the promised land for God's covenant people to worship him according to the law given by Moses. until the Messiah should come. That's how long it should work and be there and serve there. Until Messiah should come. But it was always an only temporary. It was always an only partial and incomplete. The first temple built by Solomon was destroyed in God's judgment through the Babylonians in 586 or 587 BC. So temples don't always last, do they? And this one, called Herod's temple, had been in some state of repair since the days of Ezra, but was being rebuilt for the past 46 years. And it still wasn't finished. It would not be completed until 30 years more, just seven years before it would be utterly destroyed by the Romans. So temples are temporary. Jesus was here, therefore, speaking in a sort of code, wasn't he? The message was meant to be understood that he Jesus was the new temple. Jesus is the new temple, the dwelling of God on earth He called the temple that was standing there that day, my father's house. How arrogant is that unless it's true? And yet later he will say, I know and understand that the Father is in me and I in the Father. I am in the Father, the Father is in me. And he will also later say that all who are united to him are in the Father. So you see, Jesus is the temple. He's the place of worship. He is the place where we come into the Father's house. What higher place could there ever be? What earthly structure, however glorious, whatever geographic setting it may be upon, could surpass Christ? Nothing could surpass Christ. His body is the indestructible temple. And though it be destroyed, laid in a grave for three days, it will rise. And that's why we have verse 21. But he was speaking about the temple of his body. His body is the temple, finally, for all people, not just Jews. It is for male, it is for female. It is for rich, it is for poor. It is for people who are maimed. And people who are whole, it is for everyone. It has a perfect priest. Jesus Christ Himself is the perfect priest. It has a perfect sacrifice Jesus Christ himself is the Lamb of God. His body and blood is offered in the temple of himself He is indwelt by God, the Spirit who raised Jesus from the dead. And you and I must enter it by faith and worship in it by faith. Faith. Verse 22. When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken. They believed. He did all these things. He cleansed the temple. He he said these things in the context of the whole history of Israel so that his people would believe in him. They would trust. in him they would say he is my temple he is my priest he is my sacrifice and so I ask you today This is just an interesting story about temples and about Jesus and what happened long ago. No. Do you worship God in his temple? Do you worship God in Christ who came to be the dwelling of God? Do you worship him now? way? Do you trust in him? Are you like the disciples at the end here, believing the scriptures, believing in Jesus, trusting in him? as your priest, as your sacrifice, as your entrance into place of prayer for all nations. Children, this is not just what mom and dad told me to believe. This is not just intellectual assent. This is not like getting the answers right on a quiz. It's really like this. It's saying, Jesus I believe in you. And if I die on the way home today because of snow on the road and slipping off and hitting a tree. If that happens to me, I believe that you have made me acceptable to live with God forever. I believe into you. I trust you It's not just checking off a box of intellectual belief. I imagine John telling the good news to the Gentiles. In various ways, this is a great announcement of the good news to the Gentiles, isn't it? A Gentile could say to a Christian evangelist, Look, that's for you Jews. It's not for me. I'm a Gentile. I'm a pagan. It's not for me. I'm an unclean Gentile, according to you Jews. And John would say back to that person, no, Christ gives you his perfect status as God's chosen people. He gives you the circumcision of Christ who went to the cross and was cut off on the cross. He gives you the obedience of Christ to the whole law that you have not kept. He removes the filth of your sins, all of them by his blood, and he clothes you with his perfect, sinless life. That is what you need to hear and believe and know in your heart. Now the same John who wrote this gospel Later says this, he sees this in the book of Revelation, and I want to stop there for a moment too. In Revelation chapter 7, verse 13, John sees the scene in heaven. Then one of the elders addressed me, he says, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes? And from where have they come? And I said to him, Sir, you know, and he said to me, these are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. The great tribulation is the troubles of this world. All the difficulties, all the stresses, all the strains, all the temptations, all the failures. All of the good things as well as the bad. It's the troubles of this world, the great tribulation. And he says about those people, and we live in the great tribulation right now, our life is not easy. Easy, it is troubled. He says about those people who have trusted in the temple, trusted in Christ, he says, They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore, are they before the throne of God, here's the temple scene again, and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst anymore. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. Those who trust in Christ, those who believe in him come out of the great tribulation, come out of the troubles of this life with all of its difficulty, and they're washed white as snow. I'll close with this quote from Matthew Henry. He describes those who have come through in the temple worshiping Christ. They are happy in being delivered from all sorrow or occasion of it. God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. They have formerly had their sorrows. Shed many tears both upon the account of sin and affliction. But God Himself, with His own gentle and gracious hand, will wipe away. Those tears. And they shall return no more forever. And they shall and they will have been without those tears when God comes to wipe them away. In this he deals with them as a tender father who finds his beloved child in tears and comforts him and wipes his tears and turns his sorrow into rejoicing This should moderate the Christian's sorrow in his present state and support him under all the troubles of it. My dear friends. Christ is the temple. Come into him by faith. You will be cleansed, you will be made new, and you will come through the great tribulation. Your white robes will shine. in glory, washed in the blood of the Lamb. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for the promise that was made so long to Abram. That in his descendants all the families of the earth should be blessed. Gentiles. We who sit here today are Gentiles. I don't know of any Jew who's present. Maybe there is, but I don't know. We are outsiders, we are outcasts, but we've been brought all the way in to the holy place by the blood of Jesus So, Lord, help us to do this personally as well as corporately. Help us to believe what we say in our creeds, to trust in the Savior Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us. Amen