Paul says, brothers, join in imitating me. Of course, what that means is Paul's doing something and he thinks they should be doing it too, and he invites them to do it. So Paul's saying, follow me But then he said, it's not just about me. Keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example that you have in us. Paul's saying there's there's others there around you, uh Timothy, Epaphroditus, and others in the congregation. who are walking in the way that I walk, and this and it's a common way, and their way is to be an example to you. And keep your eyes a is a fine translation, but it also means And it plays earlier with the word back in verse Fit fourteen about pressing towards the goal, right? A goal is something you're trying to achieve Older translations will translate as mark them. And what that means is not just to mark that they're there. It means put a nice bullseye on that person and aim to follow them is what it means So Paul is saying, follow me and follow those who walk like us. So Paul should tell us real quick, we're coming. Does he want me to follow me or does he want me to follow them? Well, Paul wants you to follow those who are on the way, is Paul's point. Fun point is that uh I want you to cut your hair like me. Eat the kind of foods I eat, go to bed when I go to bed, raise your children exactly like I raise my children and clothe them and feed them and all that. That's not the Christian way that we share in common. We can differ on those things. But there better be, though I was thinking actually this week maybe an illustration. Y'all know Alexis de Tocqueville and his work on a democracy in America, and if you don't Hooray, all these classical education children, you're gonna get to read it. Uh he visited a Frenchman he visited America to see this great experiment in democracy because it was something new in the annals of history. Um I wonder if somebody came and to all of our homes who was an outsider I'm not gonna say that's for the faith, because they probably wouldn't understand, but uh what if somebody from the Presbytery Here, another church, spent time with everybody in this congregation. You think they think there's anything that we have in common? Would they be able to say, oh, I see the Christian way? Because I've just been with them. You see, this, beloved, has been a sermon it's been very hard for me to prep prepare for it, if I'm honest with you. I think it's because I just want to overcomplicate it. But secondly, because Paul is saying here, I think most of us I probably think we know the doctrine of salvation rightly. But Paul's saying, I have a walk that I know that ends in salvation. Do you know for certain that the manner of life you are leading right now ends in glory? I imagine most of you think that the doctrine you preach of the cross ends in glory. You can tell me and tell us the doctrine of salvation. But can you say, follow me, because I'm on the road leading to salvation? That's a bit of a different thing, isn't it? That's what I find so challenging about this verse, but it's also something very helpful as it reminds us that Christianity is a way of life. It's not something we just talk about. It's something that we do. And if you know your Bible, you can go through Acts 19, and that's actually what Christianity was first called, the way. And the way deals with how we worship God. Paul tells Felix, I confess, I worship the God of our fathers according to the way. And Paul's going to talk about the way that those who are not on this way worship and what they worship. So the way the Christian life has everything to do with worship of the true God And that is not merely in the songs we sing. It's not merely in the prayers we offer. It's not merely in the thanksgivings that we say. Oh, that that's those are the worship that God involves it. But Jesus made it very clear. You do not worship God when you dethrone him and set up your own man-made laws So you can get around doing what he says, like caring for your aging parents. You don't get to say, Well, I'm given all that money I would help them with to the church so I can free myself from a burdensome duty of honoring my parents in their old age. That's not worshiping God. And that's not in the way. And that's not crucifying all that time you get to spend overseas and on your yacht. Because you've got to be holding your sick, aging parents' hand That that comes home, doesn't it? About what it means to carry the cross. It's not an airy, ethereal thing. It's actually something, if you're a believer in the way, you deal with every day. Dealing with it this morning when you got up. You'll be dealing with it later. You'll be dealing with it tomorrow. You're gonna be dealing with it Always. And you'll be trying to rejoicing in it. But it's it's not always a easy thing. It's never an easy thing. It's a vessel. But it is a part. Not even a part. This is a Christian life. Worshiping the God crucified and walking in his steps with him. So Paul says, Beloved, follow me and follow those who are following us. Why does he say it? Well, in verses 18 and 19, he gives us the first reason, or the main reason. Notice what he says, he says many. That is a frightening word. Many. I don't know if he means many in Philippi, or if he means many because he's been around the block as a church planter He has been all over and see not just the church in the east. He's starting to see the church in the West And it's not like he saw this as an isolated problem in that region just for those believers, but he seemed to see it wherever he went and gathered with saints who profess faith in Christ. That many And we're going to skip over these other words real quick in commas. Many do what? They walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. What does it mean to walk as an enemy of the cross of Christ? Let's start with looking at what it doesn't say. They don't talk as enemies of the cross. These aren't people who say who deny the cross and the saving efficacy and death of Jesus. They could probably give you a very orthodox statement of how God has saved us through the cross and the necessity of the atonement and what was accomplished there. And all the blessings accrued to us through the Savior's death Paul's not talking about people that talk as enemies of the cross, because right, beloved, those people we just discount already, don't we? In no way are we tempted to follow them. You know where they stand, talking as enemies. The Paul says they walk as enemies and remind you, walk Uh isn't Paul's not just talking about the steps they take, but a metaphor for how you live your life. What you think on How you plan, how you purpose, what you live for, everything that goes into making of your day and your life here, they live. as enemies of the cross. And Paul just means very simply what that means is they won't get on it themselves. John Bunyan talked about this person in Pilgrim's Progress. We all like to talk about being saved by the cross, right? And yes, amen. We have been saved by the cross. Redeemed. We will not face the judgment. We will not be punished for our sins. We have a righteousness that is sure, Jesus's, by which we inherit. Many can talk about that, but they want to be saved from the cross, and they don't want to get on it themselves and die. Dietrich Bonhoeffer in a very, I'm sure, difficult place. The Third Reich? National Socialist Party? Not an easy time to be a Christian. He died for his faith in prison. He was very right when he said when Christ calls a person, he calls him to die. Because honestly, beloved, if you'd been on the other side of that experience, you'd probably agree with God's judgment. A person really isn't worth living. Do you like to be with your old self? Do you know your old self? Man, I don't want to live forever with that old self in a world filled with people like that, right? But it is, I remember when I was converted, I remember going, now I know why we can't convert ourselves. There's many reasons, but we can't die to ourselves. We're too scared to do it We don't actually believe there's something on the other side of dying with Christ, life. And we too much hold on to what Paul's saying the earthly things. And we don't see the as we sung wonderfully the blessings in Jesus' hand that he came. So we mind earthly things instead. Paul says, but notice what he says here. This is why I thought of Proverbs 4 for us. If you're a parent And you don't know the book of Proverbs, I encourage you to put that on your next read for parenting because it's the best book I've ever read on parenting. There are others some really good ones, obviously, but it's it's it's great. But like the father there and the mother there, if you read through Proverbs, they are regularly warning their children About the wrong way. And pointing out the kind of people that are on it. So if you don't know it yourself, God's word does know who the wicked are God's word does know who the unrighteous are. God's word does know what that path looks like. God's word even knows what they're thinking in their heart to put them on the path. And that word can search out your heart and your child's heart. So uh notice we when we understand a little bit of Paul's pastoral ministry to a congregation, it involves a lot of warning. Because he's a parent who loves the church as his children. And he's aware. I I know that you're aware as he launched into college. You might just launch them, I don't know, go across the street or something. You love your children so much that you're gonna warn them of the dangers. And tell them, right? These pay attention to these people, the ones that are diligent in their studies, go into class on time, doing the right things, and be with them Because these people, if you're going to spend your time with them, you're going to end up like them, wasting your time in debt, flunking your courses, all that stuff, right? And using it as an illustration. But Paul says often Often, often he spoke to the saints at Philippi about people who want to be saved from the cross, about professing Christians who do not have Christianity. Who are not in the way that leads to eternal life. Paul said he often talked and warned about them. And then he even says, I'm going to talk to you about them again now, with tears. And I don't I don't know. I've been thinking on it. Obviously because Paul loves and cares and I don't know and we don't have to know exactly, but is it for the Philippians? Because It's his loving children, and he knows there's so many people around him in this world who would love to lead them to their death and away from Christ. So he's weeping because of the of the of the of the plight that they're in, because he's away from him in prison? He wants to be with them and it saddens him to think about it Or is he weeping right for those that are just so deluded? Because I think it's very hard to talk about To people who think they're Christians and they're not. Obviously, probably tears Come in what he says in verse 19. Their end is destruction. That's what they're heading for. That's what that means. If you if you walk as an enemy to the cross of Christ, you may say you love Christ. I've met people who love say they love Christ. But they love their sin more than Christ actually, and they won't obey Him and trust in Him and ask for His grace and ask for His help and turn from their sins. Paul says, if you walk this way, what looks like life to you because you're getting the things you want, your belly's being satisfied. doesn't end in it, but ends in destruction. Of course, this is why Paul's saying, Follow me, he's on the path to the cross. He's embracing it as we should as Christians embrace the Messiah and embrace the cross. Because that's the path that leads to the glory, because that's that's what it led for Jesus, right? The cross, let me make it clear, just remind us, isn't the destination. Destination is glory. The cross is just the way. The cross is not Jesus' destination. You've read the Gospels? He never said, I'm going to suffer and die and leave it there, did he? And three days later, rise again. That's the destination, the glory, the kingdom. power. So the cross is the way. Notice what he says about who their God is. Rather than the Christ of the cross being their God, their bellies their God. That is such a humbling word, isn't it? Guilty to think that I would rather go without God so I could have a belly full for a moment. That's a choice we all make. We're saved by grace. Paul's sitting in a prison right now. I doubt it's like an American prison where they've got sports and I don't even know what the chow's like there, but probably better than a Roman prison. The belly's not the first thing on Paul's hierarchy of what he worships. Paul says in this very letter, I've learned how to munch. Beloved, I'm going to pig out in our fellowship meal today. I hope you do too. It ain't about having a full belly, it's just about when push comes to shove. What are you going to obey? God or your belly? Of course, we can talk about the physical belly, and that's true, many people. Don't want to give up. Don't want to surrender their life to Christ because they like the American cuisine better than Chinese cuisine and they don't want to be sent as a missionary. But you know, if Christ calls you, you're going I remember a friend of mine in seminary. He was he cared way too much about what he ate, and he had a friend who lived in the mission field. He's like, You there's no way you can be an overseas missionary. He was definitely a Christian, but his guy but his belly was a bit too up there. On so anyways, just but Paul also means the belly is a bit of a metaphor too for just Our hungers, our desires, our hopes, our dreams, our ambitions, we serve those. And if we are honest, beloved If we were left to ourselves, we just want God to leave us alone so we can obey them, and everybody else will obey them too. But praise God, he doesn't let that happen. Because he's promised a wonderful kingdom where everybody obeys him, and it works out really great for all of us. But people who are walk as enemies of the cross of Christ do so because the Christ of the cross is not their God. But their belly is. And they would rather have a full belly than stand for the truth Stand for what's right. I don't know what's going to happen in our own country. Nor do you. We know God's sovereign and we can trust Christ with our lives and our families' lives and all of that. But when push comes to shove and you're unable to because well you stand for abortion and I hope you call it murder because it is Will you stand against gay marriage because it's not marriage? We stand against LGBTQ and all that because gender is not a social construct. God has assigned it wonderfully at birth and there's only two of 'em. And as you stand and make that, I don't know what the state might threaten to take away from you. They might take your health care, your retirement. Your savings. They're going to attack your belly because they're the kingdoms of this world and those are the things that they have control of. You probably need to ask yourself right now: who's my God? Because the way of the cross isn't just when you're on it. The way of the cross begins when you renounce the world, the flesh, and the devil, and you swear allegiance to Christ. That's when it began. And you never put it down. It doesn't stop. They glory in their shame, Paul says. I mean you could imagine if imagine if this was your child. I went off and married my I'm I'm I'm your daughter and I've got a girlfriend. Come home and say I have a girlfriend. Stop crying right now. They glory in this and it's but their shame, their sin is their shame. Not even that, it doesn't even have to be the hot topic things. It can be people who are reveling that they just got a giant new 90-inch television and they can spend all Sunday and the Sabbath before it worshiping NFL. That TV ain't gonna be there forever. It's not just, he's not talking about sin. I mean he is, but not just. He's talking about the way we I think Um Samuel Rutherford, if you want to r if you want to boost your spiritual life, if you don't know who Samuel Rutherford is, he was a Scottish minister, Presbyterian in the seventeenth century By a copy of his letters, that's where I learned a lot about pastoral ministry just reading him, and I thought, wow. The way he would counsel grieving widows and airing children and carnage just marvelous to me, gold to me. But one of his lines he uses everywhere in those letters is And I think he's right. I think he's justified in saying it. When he refers to this world as the clay idol, people cling to it. Because they don't see the blessings that Christ descended with, of life with Him and His eternal kingdom. glory and they cling to the clay idol. Let's make it clear, God didn't make the world to be an idol. It's his place, it's lovely, it's beautiful. We should praise him and thank him for it and have a just and right use of all the blessings in it. But we shouldn't worship it. I meet neighbors who won't go to church because they worship God in nature and hear him out there. How many of you have heard that? No, you just don't want to be around messy sinners and submit your life to Christ You just want to be left alone and not be challenged to live a different way in a body of believers and die. And you pretend you're so close to God in nature, and you're not. You might think, wow, you're pretty fiery this morning. Well, there is destruction. And it's a sad thing to see any mortal. Worship their belly rather than the true God. That is what fires Paul, right? That is what fired John Piper, right? Why does he say evangelism exists? Because worship doesn't Preaching the gospel is preaching to people who their God is and calling to worship him who is so lovely and glorious and has promised them to spite all their sin. Himself and everything. You don't get better than that right. So it's a sad thing. That's what fired Paul to go preach the gospel, to see men become men again. And by men, I'm talking human beings. I'm old school. When I say man, I mean men and women. But women to be women and men to be men. That's why Paul preaches the gospel, that Christ may be glorified in worship. And when we worship it, you know what it says in the Bible, right? What you worship is what you become. Psalms say it, prophets say it, if you worship dead idols, you just become dead. Their minds are set on earthly things. That's it. All that fills their mind is the present reality. They don't seem to understand and grasp the significance of the resurrection, that there is things above and there are things to come. And in change for those, they're going to cling to these instead of letting go of these and hold to those because nobody can even hold to these, right? You and I just cannot stay here. God has not decreed it. He has decreed a new heavens, new earth. John has already told us that the city's built. We're waiting for it to descend. God's made it. This is not God's kingdom, what you see with your hands and build that human beings build. The kingdom of God does not come by man. It is God's creation. Oh, it's visible when you see people turning from sin and worshiping God. When you see them putting their earthly things to serve their neighbors And help, and care, and make good sacrificing uses of it. So don't don't don't misunderstand me. You see the kingdom and how believers who are obedient to Christ live. But the kingdom is not of this world. Let me think about this for a moment before we move to the second verses and wrap up. The cross of Christ, real quick. Let's go back to that and think of Christ for a minute. We talked a lot about us carrying it, but what about Jesus? He carried it first. I was thinking on it this week, even this morning. What did he have when he went to the cross? See, because his liberty was taken from him, his clothes were taken from him, his dignity was taken from him Hung naked on a cross, his earthly possessions, taken from. What did he have? Did he have anything? Was it did he die empty-handed, you might say? No. He has what Psalm 16 said he had. You will not leave your holy one to see decay. He had God's promise to be raised from the dead. You will see the travail of your soul and be satisfied. He would see you and I, the suffering children of his, whom he died and bled for, made new, and dwelt by his spirit. You will be exalted to my right hand and reign forever over all the nations I will give you all authority so that you can put everything under your feet and bring in the kingdom of God so that I may be all in all. Hardly did he die without anything, did he? He also had probably the thing most precious to him, his father's love. He abided in his father's love. Remember when Jesus was at the well in Samaria, and the disciples said, where does he got this food at? What's this food that's feeding him? He says, my food is to do my Father's will. Jesus didn't die hungry on the cross, but full. Because he was obeying his father, abiding in his love. Why am I saying this to you? Yeah, some things he didn't have, the earthly things. And as Christians, you're going to be called to sacrifice a lot of earthly things. And God may call on you to this extreme way. But please, please know. You're not empty. You actually have the things you can possess The things above, the things to come, the promise of the resurrection, the food of doing the Father's or the joy You have the joy, you have the victory as you triumph over this world by the blood of the Lamb. Those are not things. Already the glory beginning to come in. And you have Christ. Christ. You have Him. Paul says here, if you want to know a bit about Paul, right? I want to know him. I want to know the power of his resurrection. I want to share in his sufferings by that power, and I want a life conformable to his death. What does he mean by that? I want to die obedient to Christ. As Christ died obedient to his Father, I want to die obedient to him and have my life, whether living or dying, my body, Christ to be honored in it. Christ's honor was far more important to Paul than his honor. God's glory as God was far more important than his belly. He wanted everybody to know You can take everything from me. Caesar, I will render to you what's your due absolutely. Caesar, you can't have what's not your due. My allegiance fully. We can have allegiance to earthly rulers, and there's a right place. But you do not get my heart and soul. You do not get first place. You do not own me. Christ owns me. And I belong to Him. Verse 20, Paul tells us why a Christian cannot live here with his mindset on earthly things, because he's not a citizen of this world anymore. R. Strahl tells a wonderful illustration of this when he was traveling overseas in an eastern block country. They were bringing him Bibles, which wasn't exactly legal. According to that Caesar, very legal to God, who said, Go Christ, who said, Go make disciples of every nation, and I don't care what they say. And he was stopped on a train, and they were searching, and they thought, oh no, here it is. And the man who was searching him found the Bibles and they're like, What's he gonna do? He turned his Bible to Philippians three verse twenty and said, But our citizenship is in heaven. He said, These men are okay, let 'em go. He was a believer too. Part of the same kingdom he was a part of. Knew he was doing the same work of making Christ known. That's a man who rendered to Caesar his due. He probably paid his taxes. He worked for his government. But he also rendered God his due. Make your gospel known. Help his servants out. Joy What a delight. Who knows? Maybe that cost him a job. I've no idea. I'm not even going to spend his time speculating it. It didn't matter to him. He knew that his allegiance was to a higher authority, Christ. And his citizenship trumped his earthly citizenship. And he belonged there. You can't stay in this one. We might have great blessings for America. This was a Roman colony. They enjoyed, they're in Macedon, I don't know how many thousands of miles east of Rome it is They're enjoying speaking like they're back home. It's almost like if you go to a military base overseas, right? All your PX, all your movies, they speak English, they bring McDonald's in, you're like, wow, am I back in the States? Oh, this is like living in in Philippi. Oh wow, Mike back in Rome. They speak Latin tongue. We live under Latin administration. We wear Latin clothes But Paul reminds him, you're not Latins primarily anymore. Citizens of heaven. So you need to act like it. Because from that very heaven We have an eager expectation of the Savior, the Lord Jesus. By the way, Savior was a title given to Roman emperors. So Paul's using it intentionally here. Lord was a title given to Roman emperors. That's the problem with the state. It grows too big of bridges and it deifies itself and it wants allegiance from man that man must only give to God, even taking its own titles, want to be a savior state. Beloved, the Sate cannot atone for your sins. It cannot free you from the power of sin, and it cannot raise your body from the dead. Only the Lord Jesus Christ can do that. And Paul says he's going to do it. This body that so many people cling to and spend all their time and effort and energy clothing it and taking care of it and all their finances toward it. I know this takes wisdom But God's going to raise it up someday. You don't even get to stay in this body. You've got to let go of even this body. Now please take care of it and love the one you've got, but do it with the knowledge that you can't live in it forever. Because God is not because he's going to take something away, he's going to give you something better. The very glorious body that Christ has. So I've said it to you before. We've been set free from our sins and the fear of death. I never want to say throw our lives away because that's wrong, because life is too valuable, but the Bible's language is you can lay it down. We don't throw anything away because life is precious. But you can't lay it down. And that's right. Christ is going to do this by the power that enables him to subject all things to himself. Oh man, wouldn't the Caesars of this world love to have that power? Wouldn't they love to just be able to make everybody their subject and everybody be like China, everybody like Russia, ever be like America? Everybody likes Spain. Everybody like the UK. Why don't they just wish they could just get our obedience and their evil ways? Only Christ. And he will can bring everything to his subjection. Beloved, are you of the many or the few Paul says, many are on this path. Jesus said, many are on the broad way. Few are on the narrow path that leads to life. Which one are you on? Are you the many, the few? Are you are you let me just answer this because Paul is saying, follow me, and Paul is not a mean, evil, hypocritical person. Who's leading blind sheep into their death? Paul's saying, I know, I'm confident, I'm on the way of life, because that's the way of the cross. He says, follow me. Are you confident that your path Your way in life ends in glory and salvation. Are you 100% confident that you are walking on the right path? Because if you are not turned to Christ, He can put you on it. And He alone can do it. We may all, and I hope we be confident. That the salvation I talk about is the right one. But is the life you lead the right one? Because Christianity is not merely talked about. It is something that is seen. And it is something that is seen most clearly in the cross of Christ, in the God who loved us and took on flesh and calls us to love Him. If you are on if you are not on that narrow path, please get on it. Please From someone who's on it himself by God's grace, who knows what it is to cling to this world and turn from God, because you think if you follow him you won't have anything. But I tell you you have everything if you come back. And if you're on the narrow path already, I hardly have to encourage you, because you know how great it is. But I will encourage you. Keep going. The cross is the where Christianity is most clearly seen about who our God is and about what it means to be His people. We love Him first. That is in our lives, who loved us first and laid it down for us. May God keep you. May God bring you, if you're not. Into the narrow way, and may God keep you who are on that way. Amen