Psalm ninety-eight, a song. Oh sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. The Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. He has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Break forth into joyous song and sing praises. Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre, with the lyre and the sound of melody, with trumpets and the sound of the horn, make a joyful noise before the King, the Lord. Let the sea roar and all that fills it, the world and those who dwell in it. Let the rivers clap their hands. Let the hills sing for joy together before the Lord, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness. And the peoples with equity. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Luke 1, 57 through 80 We often sing the song of Mary, but this is the song of Zechariah or the prophecy of Zechariah, which is in poetic form, so that's That's why we call it a song, beginning at Luke 1, verse 57. Now the time for Elizabeth to give birth. came, and she bore a son, and her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown great mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her. And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child. And they would have called him Zechariah after his father. But his mother answered, No, he shall be called John. And they said to her, None of your relatives is called by this name. And they made signs to his father, inquiring what he wanted him to be called. And he asked for a writing tablet, and he wrote, His name is John. And they all wondered. And immediately his mouth was open and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, blessing God. And fear came on all their neighbors, and all these things were talked about through all the hill country of Judea. And all who heard them laid them in their hearts, laid them up in their hearts, saying, What then will this child be? For the hand of the Lord was with him. And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying Blessed be the Lord, God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old. That we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us, to show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant that he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us, that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before him all our days. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High. For you will go before the Lord to prepare his way, to give knowledge of salvation to his people, in the forgiveness of their sins. Because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of And the child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his public appearance to Israel. Israel. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you for your word, and we pray that you'll Teach us from it and teach us in it, as the Holy Spirit inspired it to be written down for us and has preserved it all these centuries, may we also be helped by the Holy Spirit to understand and apply it today in Jesus' name Amen. According to C. S. Lewis in his letter to his friend Malcolm, joy is the serious business of heaven. In our culture, joy seems to be rare. And even when we are joyful, we're sometimes afraid to let it show very much. It seems like the only exception is with reference to fans and their sports teams. I have two sons who are fans of the Philadelphia Eagles. Who recently clenched the NFC East. And when the television is on at our house and the Eagles are playing, you can tell how the game is going. By the loud yelling of yes! Woo-hoo! That can be heard anywhere in the house, even when they intercept the ball or when they score a touchdown, or even if they just get a first down. So that's the exception, right? One of the exceptions. Presbyterians can be particularly stayed in worship. But I will say this in praise of our congregation, that we do sing joyfully and participate fully in the liturgy, and that is something to be thankful for and to be encouraged. We should be joyful far more than grim and melancholy. Joy should dominate. Sadness should be rare. Because we are blessed beyond measure. We are heirs of Christ. And of heaven. People get excited because they have a rich uncle or someone who's going to leave them a fortune. But we are heirs of Christ. Of all that he has, and he has everything. And of heaven. We are redeemed. We are justified. We are at peace with God. And that should bring us joy. And we see real joy in this Psalm 98, which is, as I've said before, the psalm from which we get joy to the world, paraphrased by Psalm 19 Isaac Watts. Let's look at verse one. O sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things. Okay, let's stop there. What does he mean by new song? What does the psalmist mean by new song? Is it just, let's find a new song. Somebody should write one. Let's you know, get a new tune so we can have something new. No, that's not it. New songs in redemptive history were sung whenever there was a major turning point. When there was a major great thing happening, a new song was called forth. Let's listen to the joy of some of the new songs that we see in the Old Testament. In Exodus chapter 15, after the people had fled Egypt and then backed up to the Red Sea, and then God had opened the way through the Red Sea, and they had come through on dry land. And then the Pharaoh and his armies went into the sea and the waters came back and destroyed them. A new song. Then Moses and the people of Israel sang this song to the Lord, saying I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he is thrown into the sea. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. This is my God and I will praise him, my father's God, and I will exalt him. The Lord is a man of war. The Lord is his name. Pharaoh's chariots and his hosts he cast into the sea, and his chosen officers were sunk in the Red Sea. The floods covered them. They went down into the depths like a stone. Your right hand, O Lord, glorious in power, your right hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy. In the greatness of your magistry you overthrow your adversaries. You send out your fury, it consumes them like stubble. At the blast of your nostrils the waters piled up. The floods stood up in a heap. The deep congealed in the heart of the sea. The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil, my desire shall have its fill of them, I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them. You blew with your wind, the sea covered them, they sank like lead in the mighty waters Who was like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who was like you, majestic in holiness, awesome and glorious deeds, doing wonders? You stretched out your right hand. The earth swallowed them You have led in your steadfast love the people whom you have redeemed. You have guided them by your strength to your holy abode. The people have heard and trembled. And it goes on and on. Beautifully, isn't it? Isn't that amazing? New song because God has acted decisively God has opened the way. God has saved his people. And it called forth a new song, the song that we call The song of Moses. And there's a little one that is also there in chapter fifteen, and it says in verse 21, and Miriam, that's Moses. Sister sang to them, and we have it called the Song of Miriam. It's much shorter. It's just this: Sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider, he is thrown into the sea. New song, you see, because of a new thing that God has done. And we have New Testament new songs, too. We sing them around here in one of our hymns, the Song of Mary. But here it is from Luke chapter 1. It's called in Latin Magnificat. My soul magnifies the Lord. This is after she just heard that she was going to have the child, the Christ. My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior, for He has looked on the humble estate of His servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed. For he who was mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. He is shown strength with his arm. Sounds like the psalm, the song of Moses, doesn't it? Strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. So the new song looks back at the promises and then says, wow, God is doing what he promised. That is the new song. And we've just read that again in Zechariah's prophetic song in Luke chapter 1. It's called in Latin again, the Benedictus. We just read it from the New Testament. Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. And then it goes on. Beautiful story of God's acting and singing of the praises of God in a new song. And then we have a bit later the song that we call the Song of Simeon. We sing it around here sometimes between the Old and New Testament readings called the Nook Demitis, and that says in Luke chapter 2, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him, and it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Messiah. And he came in the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him up in his arms. You got a picture of this. this took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, and then there's this song called the Nook Demet Now, Lord, you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation. You have prepared in the presence of all peoples a light for revelation to the Gentiles and for glory to your people, Israel. A new song, because God is doing a new thing. These songs came forth. And that's what the psalmist is talking about when he talks about God is doing a great thing. Now, we also have secular versions or national versions of Of the concept new song. And this might help us to underline it just a little bit. There is a new song which was called Our First National Anthem. Anthem in the United States. It was written by William Billings, a friend of Samuel Adams, who was, by the way, a brewer. Um not a very good one, I think. He failed at that, but he became much more uh successful as a statesman, became governor of Massachusetts And his other friend, Paul Revere. So this is the new song, the American new song, which I hope you'll think about when you hear the biblical new songs and compare them together. Here was the new song. Let tyrants shake their iron rods, and slavery clank her galling chains. We fear them not. We trust in God. New England's God forever reigns. Howe and Bergonnet and Clinton too, with Prescott and Cornwallis joined, Together plot our overthrow in one infernal league combined. When God inspired us for the fight, their ranks were broke, their lines were forced, their ships were scattered in our sight, were swiftly driven from our coast. The foe comes on with haughty stride. Our troops advance with martial noise. Listen to this. Boys. What grateful offering shall we bring? What shall we render to the Lord? Loud hallelujah, let us sing and praise his name on every core. See, the New Englanders, the Americans, were saying, God has done a great thing, so let's sing a new song. Let's make a new song. I'm sorry for uh Great Britain. But it was a new American song. So that's what a new song is. It's a song about God's doing something mighty and powerful and great And that's what is in verse 1. What is the new song about? Second part of verse 1. His right hand, that's the powerful one, at least for most of us. Most of us, and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. We saw that, by the way, recently in Isaiah 59, when we looked at the baby in the manger And it says there, God saw that there was no man, and he wondered that there was no one to intercede. Then his own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him. The arm of a little baby in the manger. So the right hand and the holy arm of God is what is being sung about here. We see that also in verse 2. The Lord made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. Maybe up to this time, the nations were talking about God and his people, Yahweh and His Israelites, and they were talking about them in not so glowing terms. The nations may have been pointing and laughing at God and his people, Israel, the remnant of the Jews. After all, they have lately been in Babylon for 70 years before being sent back to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem and a shabby version of the temple. Not very impressive, really. But the Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness. He has said Now you see, in the coming of this one, in the coming of my promises being fulfilled, now you see that God wasn't failing ever. And even though it looked like it for a while, God has sent his Savior, his salvation. And the nations now say, yeah, you were right after all. God was true, he kept his word. And they have to exclaim: the Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness, his rightness in the sight of the nations. That's something to be sung about. And then remembrance is the other thing. Verse 3. He has remembered his steadfast love and faithfulness to the house of Israel. Now it's not easy for us to think about God forgetting anything. But after a while, when God has made a promise, and then hundreds of years have gone by, and there have been 400 years of silence, it's easy to think maybe God forgot. Maybe God is just checked out and isn't remembering anymore. But no, the psalmist says he has remembered his Steadfast love, his covenant faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. We heard that in the song of Mary, when she said, He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, Abraham, and his offspring forever. And we see it in the Song of Zechariah to show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath he swore to our father Abraham. He's remembering his promises from long ago, long ago. And so we also see now who sings. Who sings? the new song. Well, all people sing the new song. And they sing the new song by all means Make a joyful noise, verse 4, to the To the Lord all the earth. This isn't just for Israel. You Israelites, you get this and sing this This new song, all the earth. Break forth into joyous song and sing praises, sing praises to the Lord with the lyre. With the lyre and the sound of the melody, with the trumpets and the sound of the horn, make a joyful noise before the King the Lord. Everybody and everything sings God's praise. And then notice this: even the chaotic waters. Sing God's praise. Verse 7: Let the sea roar, and all that fills it, the world and those who dwell in it. Let the rivers clap their hands, let the hills sing for joy together. Now this is a little different than what we would maybe expect here, because for the Israelites, seas and rivers, water in general was a scary thing, not something something to be thought of as uh as praising God. It was it was a mystic mystical and difficult and troublesome thing. You see, before God shaped the world, the water covered everything. It's described in Genesis 1. And it was chaotic. And then out of that chaos, God brought order. He brought forth a land and so forth. And then God destroyed the world with a flood in Noah's time. It was an uncreation, back to chaos. And then at the Red Sea, we saw the waters as another chaos event. Israel was trapped. They had come out of Egypt and they were backed up to the to the sea. The Pharaoh and his armies were coming from one direction and the sea was behind them. They had no place to go. But God made a way through the chaos. And that chaos came back and destroyed the Egyptians. That's the song of Moses. And then we also see that recently in our preaching in the book of Joshua. The Jordan was in flood stage. Deep waters, rushing waters, when Israel was to cross into the Canaan land. But God made a way. He stopped the flood for Israel to cross into Canaan, stopping the Jordan miles upstream. And allowing the downstream waters to flow away as soon as the priests who carried the ark touched the stream. And they went through on dry land. The sea, you see, is generally the sea and the rivers and the waters are seen as places of chaos, not places to be desired. But now In these verses, let the sea roar its praise to God and all that fills it, the world and all who dwell in it, but the rivers That are scary and dark and deep, let the rivers clap their hands. Now these praise Yahweh, the God of Israel, the Savior of all mankind, the restorer of creation. We also know that the whole creation is now called to praise God in joyful singing. And we know from Genesis and other places that the creation is cursed. The creation isn't making its praises to God as it should be. It's groaning, according to Romans 8. It's been groaning ever since what? Ever since we. Sinned. And God called down a curse upon creation. And its thorns and thistles and troubles, it doesn't bring forth its produce eagerly and willingly. The creation is cursed and groaning and made subject to futility because of our sin. But now. In this psalm, this song of praise, we see, as Isaac Watts puts it, no more let sins and sorrows grow, nor thorns and fest the ground. He comes to make his blessings flow far as the curse is found. And then it goes on to say in the refrain, and heaven and nature sing, and heaven and nature sing, and heaven and nature sing. And so we have this beautiful picture of even the chaotic waters praising our God in a new song because of what he has done And then we're seeing one more thing, verse 9, which doesn't seem to fit in a way. With all this joy. Verse nine says, Before the Lord, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness. And the peoples with equity. You think, wait a minute now. Joy, joy, joy, glorious work of God, amazing song of praise. Why? Because He will judge. The earth? Judge the world with righteousness? This sounds frightening. How can it be the cause of joy? Well, we understand now better than maybe they understood then in Romans chapter 3. How judgment can bring joy, how judgment and righteousness can come together. How can God be just and the judge and bring forth his justice against sin? And against evil and that bring joy at the very same time. How can those ever come together? Here's what the Apostle Paul says. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness. There it is. Because in his divine forbearance he had passed over the former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time. This is what I want you to not miss, so that he might be just. That's what a judge does, right? A judge is just So that he might be just and at the same time justifier of the one who has faith in him Jesus. God is just and he's also the justifier. He keeps his promise. He he acts according to his holy nature And yet we are saved. How can that be? It's through Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. That He is the subject of this Psalm. Which we call joy to the world. Isaac Watts got the message right from Psalm ninety eight. It is about, you see, the incarnation and birth of Jesus Christ. Which calls for a new song because in the birth of Jesus, in his coming into our human nature, a new era has begun God has come to save. The just God has come into our human nature in Jesus Christ to be both just. And by his death for us, by his going under the law, by his dying on the cross for our sins, he gives us his righteousness. And he is the justifier of all who have faith in him, who trust in him. That is how the joy and the justice can possibly come together. Joy is now the most basic experience of every believer. Even when things are hard, and they often are hard. Even when things are painful in this sin cursed world, which is groaning. G. K. Chesterton, in his book Orthodoxy, written in nineteen oh nine Says these important things. Listen. The mass of men have been forced to be gay about the little things, but sad about the big ones. Nevertheless, I offer my last dogma defiantly. It is not native to man to be so. Man is more himself. Man is more manlike when joy is the fundamental thing in him and grief the superficial. Melancholy should be an innocent interlude, a tender and fugitive frame of mind. Praise should be the permanent pulsation of the soul. Pessimism is at best an emotional half holiday. Joy is the uproarious labor by which all things live Then he says, yet according to the apparent estate of man as seen by the pagan or the agnostic, this primary need of human nature can never be fulfilled What he's saying is, pagans and agnostics can never really know joy. Joy ought to be expansive, but for the agnostic, it must be contracted It must cling to a small corner of the world. Grief, he says, ought to be small and rare, but for the agnostic, its desolation is spread through an unthinkable equation. Eternity. This is what I call being born upside down. The skeptic may truly be said to be topsy-turvy. His feet are dancing upwards in idle ecstasies while his brain is in the abyss. To the modern man, the heavens are actually below the earth. The explanation is simple. He is standing on his head, which is a very weak pedestal to stand on. But when he has found his feet again and he knows it, Christianity satisfies suddenly. And perfectly man's ancestral instinct for being the right way up satisfies it supremely in this That by its creed joy becomes something gigantic, and sadness something small. Later on, Chesterton says, joy, which was the small experience of the pagan, is the gigantic secret of the Christian Believers in Christ, you may know the joy of the world today. You may know the joy of the world tomorrow, and next week, and next month, and next year, until your earthly life ends, and then joy for all eternity, you may know it. Because in Christ's coming, joy has become ultimate. Joy has become endless. Joy spreads out and fills the whole world God has raised up his mighty arm to save you. God has remembered his covenant promises made to you A new song is appropriate and bursts forth even for Presbyterians. If anyone here today, or listening by radio, internet, does not know Christ You have only the fading and few and fleeting pleasures of this life. You're standing on your head, as Chesterton said. You have uh only the fading things which will soon be gone Turn to Christ. He took on our human nature and the sins of all who trust in him. He is the mighty arm of God which has come to save you. He remembers his eternal love, which he set on you if you are his. And you can be sure that you are his when you turn to him in trusting faith and are joined to him together with his baptized body, the church. Ask him, and he will give you boundless, ultimate joy that cannot be ruined by the troubles of this world. This world Which is passing away. Joy to the world. The Lord is come. Amen. Well Lord, we thank you that we have heard the new song of great salvation. You haven't forgotten your promise. You have remembered, and you have sent your mighty arm of power to deliver us in the coming of Jesus Christ in our human nature to die for us, to live for us, to intercede for us We thank you that the new era has begun and the new song is to be sung our whole life through. Amen.