Good evening, Saints of Jesus Christ. We're going to read three portions of Scripture tonight. So a little bit of an extended scripture reading than what we would typically do, but it serves as a necessary background reference as we move through our Psalm tonight. So we're going to start with reading Psalm 122. If you'll open up your Bibles and read with me. Psalm 122. Hear now God's word. Psalm 122, a song of ascent of David. I was glad when they said to me, Let us go to the house of the Lord. Our feet have been standing within your gates, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem, built as a city that is bound firmly together, to which the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord, as was decreed for Israel, to give thanks to the name of our Lord. There thrones for judgment were set, the thrones of the house of David. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. May they be secure who love you. Peace be within your walls, and security within your towers. For my brothers and companions' sake, I will say, peace be within you For the sake of the house of the Lord our God, I will seek your good. Our next scripture reading comes from 2 Samuel. Back up a couple of books to 2 Samuel chapter 6, where we'll read the first 15 verses. 2 Samuel chapter 6. Beginning in verse one. David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand. And David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Baal Judah to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts, who sits enthroned on the cherubim. And they carried the ark of God on a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, were driving the new cart with the Ark of God, and Ohio went before the ark. And David and all the house of Israel were celebrating before the Lord with songs and lyres and harps and tambourines and castinets and cymbals. And when they came to the threshing floor of Nakan, Uzzah put out his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen stumbled And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and God struck him down there because of his error, and he died there beside the ark of God. And David was angry because the Lord had broken out against Uzzah. And that place is called Perez Uzzah to this day. And David was afraid of the Lord that day. And he said, How can the ark of the Lord come to me? So David was not willing to take the ark of the Lord into the city of David. But David took it aside to the house of Obed Edom the Gittite, and the Ark of the Lord remained in the house of Ovid Edom the Gittite three months, and the Lord blessed Obid Edom and all his household. And it was told King David, the Lord has blessed the household of Obed-Edom and all that belongs to him because of the ark of God. So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Ovid Edom to the city of David with rejoicing. And when those who bore the ark of the Lord had gone six steps, he sacrificed an ox and a fattened animal. And David danced before the Lord with all his might. And David was wearing a linen Ephod, so Daphne and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting and with the sound of the horn. Now, we're going to turn to the back of your Bibles to Revelation 21. Revelation 21, we're going to read the whole chapter. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with men He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, As for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death. Then came one of the seven angels, who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues, and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the lamb And he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. Having the glory of God, its radiance like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal. It had a great high wall with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and on the gates the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed. And on the east, three gates. On the north, three gates. On the south, three gates. And on the west, three gates. And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. And the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city and its gates and walls. The city lies four square, its length the same as its width. And he measured the city with his rod, twelve thousand stadia. Its length and width and height are equal He also measured its wall, 144 cubits by human measurement, which is also an angel's measurement. The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold, like clear glass. The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. The first was Jasper, the second, sapphire, the third, agate, the fourth, emerald, the fifth, onyx. the sixth Carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth, barrel, the ninth, topaz, the tenth, chrysopraise, the eleventh, Jacenth, the twelfth, amethyst. And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass. And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the lamb. By its light will the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations, but nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor any one who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. This is the Word of God. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Psalm 122 is the third. Of a series of fourteen psalms called the Songs of Ascent. They extend from Psalm 120 to Psalm 134. Of these fourteen psalms, four of them are directly attributed to David as the author. Our Psalm tonight, 122, 124, 131, and 133. Psalm 127 is attributed to David's son Solomon. And the other nine have no identified author in its title. The songs of ascent are psalms of pilgrimage or procession. In chapter 4 of his book, Guides to the Reformed Tradition, Worship, Hughes Oliphant Old identifies that when pilgrims went up to Jerusalem, they sang as they went Psalms 121 and 122 were probably first written for pilgrims going off to the temple. Now this is clearly seen in the first four verses of our psalm tonight. I was glad when they said to me, Let us go to the house of the Lord. Our feet have been standing within your gates, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem, built as a city that is bound firmly together, to which the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord, as was decreed for Israel to give thanks to the name of our Lord. Now, as we just read in 2 Samuel, the Ark of the Covenant was accompanied by hymns of praise when David brought it into Jerusalem. Now, Dr. Old defines praise as the sense of awe and wonder which we have when we enter the presence of God. David writes in verse 1 that he was glad when they said to him, Let us go to the house of the Lord. The Hebrew word that is translated in English as glad. is sammiach, which stems from the root word samach. Now this Hebrew word, while accurately translated as glad, loses the depth of its meaning in translation into English We tend to associate the word glad as a positive emotion, essentially meaning not sad or unhappy. According to Strong's concordance, Samyak is more accurately translated as exceedingly glad, joyful, joyfulness, rejoicing. Now that translation is more in alignment with 2 Samuel 6, verse 14, where the scripture records that David danced before the Lord with all of his might David wasn't just glad, he was exceedingly joyful, and he was rejoicing as the presence of God was moving into Jerusalem, the city of David, for his name In his commentary, John Calvin writes, God had often told Moses that his sanctuary would one day have a certain and fixed place of abode. Yet from the time of Moses, for the space of more than a thousand years, the Ark of the Covenant had been carried about from place to place, as if it had been in a state of pilgrimage. At length it was revealed to David that Mount Zion was the spot where God would have his ark to be settled and his temple built Now, as David himself received this revelation with exceedingly great joy, so he affirms that he was glad to find the whole people with one consent agreeing thereto. This circumstance has not been duly considered. And the consequence is that interpreters have given the unhappy translation, I was glad, with those that said to me. David testifies that he felt in his heart a double joy on observing that the whole people concurred in yielding obedience to the oracle which declared Mount Zion to be the place which God had chosen for his solemn worship. Now, by this example, we are taught that our joy, in like manner, should be doubled when God by His Holy Spirit not only frames each of us in the obedience of his word. but also produces the same effect upon others, that we may be united together in the same faith. Christian, how do you approach coming to worship? Do you come to church out of a sense of duty or obligation? Is it drudgery for you? How's your heart? Are you excited? Or are you just here because this is what you do on Sunday? In his book, What Happens When We Worship, Jonathan Landry Cruz writes, An event in which we interact with a supernatural being must, by definition, be supernatural. Then why is it that we so often approach worship with a sense of boredom instead of astonishment? With yawns instead of awe, with resentment instead of reverence. Why is it that rather than seeing worship as a supernatural event We clump it in with the other mundane things that we have to get done during the week. Going to church gets the same check mark on the to-do list as going to the grocery store or doing homework. Something happens when we worship. Something happens to us. Something happens between us and the people we worship with. And most importantly, something happens between us and God. The God of the universe appears and meets with his people, and by his sovereign and gracious power, he changes them. It's astounding. It's unlike anything this world could ever offer. And yet, how easy it is to forget that something as spectacular as this is happening when we come to church David could have ascribed his entering into Jerusalem as an act of duty or obedience to God's law, as it was recorded in Deuteronomy 16. In verse 16, three times a year all your males shall appear before the Lord, your God, at the place that he will choose. At the feast of unleavened bread, at the feast of weeks, and at the feast of booths. But David didn't begrudgingly act through motions of obedience His heart was overflowing with exceedingly great joy, so much so that he was leaping and dancing before the ark as it was transported to the tent that he had pitched for it. And he wasn't the least bit shy or ashamed of doing so, even though his wife Michal despised him on account of his actions. David understood that standing in the very presence of the Almighty God in his city was a supernatural event And it moved him to extraordinary emotional and physical response of overwhelming joy David now moves immediately into this exclamation in verse 2, Our feet have been standing within your gates, O Jerusalem! Now note that standing within the city gates of Jerusalem is the reason for his joyful expression. It wasn't just being in a city or within its gates and the physical security from thieves and raiders that they would bring. Now that could have been achieved in any city of the time. But Jerusalem wasn't just any city. It was the dwelling place of the Ark of the Covenant and of the Lord. Later in Solomon's time, it would be the location of the temple on Mount Moriah. Being within the city meant being close to the ark, being close to the Lord. From the time of Moses, when the ark was made, it had been moving from place to place with the tribes as they moved through the wilderness. Calvin notes that whenever the Ark of the Covenant was conveyed from one place to another, God thereby stirred up the hearts of his servants to desire and pray that a certain subtle place might be appointed to it. Moreover, this fixing of its seat was not a matter of small moment as while it was frequently changing its abode, the faith of the people hung in suspense. So after God had chosen for it a permanent residence, he by this testified more unequivocally that he would be the everlasting and unchangeable protector of his people. It is therefore not surprising to find the faithful gratefully acknowledging that their feet, which had hitherto been wont to run from place to place, Should henceforth stand steadfast within the gates of Jerusalem Now verses 3 and 4 acknowledge God's decree from Exodus 23 in Deuteronomy 16, that the tribes of Israel to go up to Jerusalem. David records in verse 4 that the reason for going up to Jerusalem was to give thanks to the name of the Lord. This is why Psalm 122 in particular was sung on those journeys, as Dr. Old has pointed out to us. The use of Psalm 122 for these three feasts warrants a brief excursus into the application of how these three feasts related specifically to Jesus And now to you also, his redeemed believers. So the first giving of the law in Exodus chapter 23, verses 14 through 17, reads. Three times in the year you shall keep a feast to me. You shall keep the feast of unleavened bread. As I commanded you, you shall eat unleavened bread for seven days at the appointed time in the month of Abib. For in it you came out of Egypt. None shall appear before me empty handed. You shall keep the feast of harvest, of the first fruits of your labor, of what you sow in the field You shall keep the feast of ingathering at the end of the year, and when you gather in from the field of the fruit of your labor, three times in the year shall all your males appear before the Lord God So there's some interesting different names here for these three feasts, and I'm going to tie them together for you. The first one, the Feast of Unleavened Bread, is also known as the Feast of the Passover. The feast of the harvest is also known as the feast of weeks. And the feast of ingathering is also known as the feast of booths or tabernacles. Jesus sang Psalm 122 throughout his life on earth. Of the three, the feast of the Passover is the one that Christians today are probably the most familiar with It's worth noting that the Passover serves as bookends of the gospel narratives. Luke chapter 2, verses 41 through 51. is the account of Jesus being left behind in Jerusalem as the family began their return journey home. Note in verses 41-42, Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover, and when he was twelve years old, they went up according to custom. The last time that Jesus sang Psalm 122 on earth was on his way to Jerusalem to celebrate the feast of the Passover. His triumphal entry into the city that is bound firmly together, to which the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord. was celebrated with loud hosannas being proclaimed and laying palm branches in front of him as he entered, riding on a colt donkey. In this feast celebration, Jesus instituted the Lord's Supper that we celebrate in supernatural communion with him. This feast celebration ended in his arrest, trial, and crucifixion, the means unto your salvation. John's gospel records Jesus at the Feast of Booths in John chapter 7, verses 2 through 14. Now the Jews' feast of booths was at hand. So his brothers said to him, Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works you are doing. For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly If you do these things, show yourself to the world. For not even his brothers believed in him. Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always here. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I testify about it that its works are evil. You go up to the feast. I'm not going up to this feast, for my time is not yet fully come And after saying this he remained in Galilee. But after his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but in private The Jews were looking for him at the feast, saying, Where is he? And there was much muttering among the people, while some said, He is a good man. Others said, No, he's leading the people astray. Yet for fear of the Jews, no one spoke openly of him. About the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching In our Wednesday weekly Bible study through the Gospel of John, Pastor Ed discussed the deeper meaning of Jesus being in Jerusalem, teaching in the temple during this particular festival. Which includes a ceremony on the final days of the feast called the Illumination of the Temple. Pastor Ed provided the following description of the ceremony from Jewishroots. net. During the feast of booths, or tabernacles, there was a great ceremony called the illumination of the temple, which involved the ritual lighting of four golden oil-fed lamps in the court of the women These lamps were huge menorahs or candelabras, seventy-five feet high, lighted in the temple at night to remind the people of the pillar of fire that had guided Israel in their wilderness journey All night long, the light shone their brilliance. It is said, illuminating the entire city In celebration and anticipation, the holiest of Israel's men danced and sang psalms of joy and praise before the Lord. This festival was a reminder that God had promised to send a light. the light to a sin-darkened world. God promised to send the Messiah to renew Israel's glory, release them from bondage, and restore their joy. Now, imagine that you are in ancient Jerusalem during the Feast of Tabernacles. See you visualize in the theater of your mind seeing these massive menorahs giving a tremendous amount of light. This ceremony set the stage for Jesus when he said in John chapter 8, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. Now, the feast of the harvest or feast of weeks is also known as Pentecost, since it occurs 50 days or seven weeks after the feast of the Passover. When celebrating this festival, the Jews would recall God's revealing of the law at Mount Sinai. The celebration of this feast after Jesus' resurrection was monumental in importance to Christians. And Jesus' words to the apostles are recorded in Acts chapter 1. I'm going to read them to you now. Acts 1, verses 4 through 11. And while staying with them, he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, You heard from me. For John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. So when they had come together they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. While they were gazing into heaven, as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes and said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. From this passage, we learn that the apostles did not return home following the Passover as they normally would have. Instead, they remained in Jerusalem. Then the most amazing thing happened on the day of the feast of harvest. Jesus had told his apostles in Matthew chapter 9. The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. Acts chapter 1, verse 8 was about to be immediately fulfilled with the coming of the Holy Spirit recorded in Acts chapter 2. When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place, and suddenly there came from heaven a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting. And divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were bewildered, because each one was hearing them speak in his own language. And they were amazed and astonished, saying, Are not all these who are speaking Galileans? And how is it that we hear each of us in his own native language? Parthenians and Medes and Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia Phrygia, Pamphylia, Egypt, and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians We hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty works of God. Talk about worship being a supernatural event. Worship isn't better defined as supernatural than with the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit, revealing himself on the day of Pentecost. How astounding and spectacular indeed. Returning to Psalm 122 now. David then strongly tells you in verse 6 to pray. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Throughout David's life, Israel was almost continually at war with its neighbors. David was a mighty warrior. 1 Samuel 18 records of Saul's jealousy of David over his military victories. As they were coming home when David returned from striking down the Philistine. The women came out of all of the cities of Israel, singing and dancing to meet King Saul, with tambourines, with songs of joy, and with musical instruments, and the women sang to one another as they celebrated Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands. Indeed, first and second Samuel record one violent battle after another God proclaimed early in David's reign as king that David would not be allowed to build the temple in Jerusalem as a result. David recorded this fact when Solomon took his place as king in 1 Chronicles. Then King David rose to his feet and said, Hear me, my brothers and my people. I had it in my heart to build a house of rest for the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord and for the footstool of our God. And I made preparations for building. But God said to me, You may not build a house for my name, for you are a man of war and have shed blood. Those who have served in the military and been to war know what it means to have a powerful internal yearning for peace in spite of our warrior spirit But David is not telling you to pray for peace as just an absence of war. That word in Hebrew is shalom. Meaning to be safe, friendly, make amends, end, finish, to be at peace No, the word that David uses for peace in verse 6 is not shalom, it is shalom. Which is a derivative of shalom, but it's more nuanced. It means all is well, familiar, friend, rest. the peace of God. The best way to understand what David exhorts you to in prayer in Psalm 122, verse 6. is found in Philippians chapter 4, verses 4 through 7. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving Let your requests be known to God, and the peace of God, the shalom of God, which surpasses all understanding. Will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. It is this peace that David prays for his brothers and companions' sake. That peace be within Jerusalem's walls and towers. It is the peace that only comes from Jerusalem being the house of the Lord our God. It comes from his presence. David's prayer and your prayer will not be fully realized until the holy city Jerusalem comes down out of heaven from God. As we read in Revelation 21. Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. That, dear believer, is Shalom. Pray for the Shalom of Jerusalem. May they be secure who love you Amen. Come, Lord Jesus