Let's pray. Lord, we pray now that as we open your word, that you will show us things Things which we did not know, things which we did know but need to be reminded of That we might follow you and love you and worship you with all those who bow down before your great throne in Jesus' name So the text is not what was read. The text is Genesis 49, beginning at verse 1, but really it's 8 through 12. So beginning at Genesis 49. If you want to turn in the Bible, it might be helpful. Or the outline contains these verses as well. Genesis 49. Here we have at the very end of Genesis. The old man, the patriarch, Jacob, who is also called Israel, that's his covenant name, as we said before, he is finally near death. And he is going to bless his sons. When we say blessed, you know, you and I bless people with, oh, always good. We always say something wonderful about someone when we bless them, right? This is not that sort of blessing, although some of the things are very good. It is more of an oracle. It's a prophecy. It's telling the future. So this is the kind of blessing we have. Verse 1. Then Jacob called his sons and said, Gather yourselves together that I may tell you what shall happen to you in the days to come. Assemble and listen, O sons of Jacob, listen to Israel your father. So you can see it's that covenant thing, Israel your father. He's Jacob and he's also Israel your father. And then down to verse 28, at the end of it all, all these were the tribes, are the tribes of Israel. This is what their father said to them as he blessed them, blessing each one with a blessing suitable to him. Then he commanded them and said to them, I am to be gathered to my people. Bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite. in the cave that is in the field at Machpelah to the east of Manre in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite to possess as a burying place. There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife. There they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife, and there they buried Leah. The field and the cave that is in them were bought from the Hittites. When Jacob finished commanding his sons, he drew up his feet into the bed and breathed his last and was gathered to his people. Here at this point, that is not really a major point in the sermon Jacob, knowing that his ancestors are to inherit the land of Canaan, they're in Egypt now, but knowing that they're going to inherit the land of Canaan, Says, you've got to take my bones back to Canaan and bury them in this cave with all my ancestors because God has given us this land. And I want my bones to be home in Canaan. So he's blessing or making these oracles of the future. And he's also saying, take care of my bones. I don't want them here in Egypt. I want Now we go to the text. And uh before we get to the actual text, here's another thing to consider. Many of you have heard the story of Joseph, not Jacob, not Judah, Joseph. Joseph, right? In your Sunday school lessons, if you went to church earlier in your life. Bible story books at the dentist's office, the story of Joseph, right? I remember the story of Joseph with flannel graph. That was what we used to have in Sunday school, these things that would stick on this flannel board. You could move them around and that was the Sunday school I had, the story of Joseph. And maybe you didn't hear it that way, but maybe you heard it by the musical by Andrew Lloyd Weber called Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. In the 1970s. Or the movie by the same name starring Donnie Osmond as Joseph in the 1990s. The story of Joseph begins, listen, the story of Joseph begins in chapter 30 of Genesis. Where Joseph is the focus as the only son of Jacob's favorite wife, Rachel. We talked about this last week if you were here. He first appeared as a baby in Genesis 30, as I said, verses 22 through 24, where it says this, then God remembered Rachel, that's the favorite wife. And God listened to her and opened her womb. She conceived and bore a son and said, God has taken away my reproach. She hadn't had any kids all these years. And she called his name Joseph, saying, May the Lord add to me another son. One's not enough. Then, in chapter 37 of Genesis, So we're still in the story of Joseph. Chapter 37 tells the story of Joseph having grown up a bit, a teenager now, having these wonderful dreams. And Joseph's coat of many colors that his daddy Jacob gave him because he favored him so much, this beautiful coat. And also about his brothers being very jealous of the whole thing and plotting his death. That's what chapter 37 or 30, yeah, 37 tells us. And then they sold him as a slave. It wasn't enough just to kill him. They wanted to make some money off of him, too. They expected he would die as a slave. That was very, very likely. But it didn't happen in God's providence. So that's 37. So 30, the baby's born, and then 37 is the dreams and the coat and the selling him as a slave. And you think now what's going to happen is we're going to go on to thirty-eight and we're going to have more Joseph stuff. And later on we do get a lot more Joseph stuff, don't we? Because he ends up in Egypt, and he's in Pharaoh's court, and there's various dreams and various shenanigans that go on until he finally rises to the top of the Egyptian government. Very important man. But between verse chapter 36, 37, which tells the story of uh of Joseph's uh being sold, we get to this weird thing in chapter 38, which was read by Elder Spaulding. It's a very unexpected thing. In the middle of the story of Joseph, we get this thing about Judah when he visits a woman. disguised as a prostitute, who is his daughter-in-law, to whom he had pledged his son Sheila, and then reneged on the promise And she became pregnant and was ready to have, he was ready to have her killed. Kind of hypocritical, huh? And then she revealed that he had unwittingly made her pregnant. Which set him back on his heels a little bit. This story, in the middle of the story of Joseph, this 38, about Judah and Tamar and all these terrible things, doesn't seem to fit in the story of Joseph, does it? That's because, listen carefully, the story of Joseph is not mainly about Joseph. The story of Joseph is about how God kept the twelve tribes of Israel, particularly Judah, alive during a famine. It's not about Joseph. It's about Judah and the twelve tribes. So now let's go to the actual text and see some of that First, the unlikely preeminence of Judah. Here we have this blessing going on in chapter 49. Then Jacob called his sons and said, Gather yourselves together that I may tell you what shall happen to you in the days to come. Assemble and listen, O sons of Jacob, listen to your father Israel. This is a very momentous occasion. The old man's about to die. Greater than the reading of a will of some wealthy person is this oracle that's about to be given. It's about destiny, personal and tribal destiny. Can you imagine the depth of concern as these boys were all gathered to hear what dad was going to say? Concern and maybe hope. You see, people were much more connected to their past family and more thoughtful of their future generations than we are now. We're very individualistic here In our modern era, in the Western world. And I'll just stop to remind you that legacy is more important than money A lot more important than money. You can leave a lot of money, and it's not really a legacy. Spiritual legacy. Family legacy Is much more important. So the firstborn, Reuben, is the first one addressed here. And he would normally have the greatest blessing. The firstborn would get a double portion of blessing. preeminence would be given to the firstborn, absolutely. So we had always worked. Reuben was the son, in fact, he was the one brother who didn't want baby Joseph killed or our teenage brother Joseph killed, he said, let's not do that. Let's not have blood on our hands. So you'd think maybe he would get what should be due to him anyway In fact, he planned to go back and rescue him from that pit and then bring him back to Dad. But here's what said to Reuben: Reuben, you are my firstborn, my might, and the firstfruits of my strength. Preeminent in dignity. Oh, he's thinking, oh good, preeminent, right? Preeminent in dignity and preeminent in power. Oh good. Unstable as water, verse 4. You shall not have preeminence. Because you went up to your father's bed. Then you defiled it. He went up to my couch. We don't know what that's all about, but it's certainly. Something important here. Reuben's immorality with his father's concubine is what it's about. His concubine Bilha, the mother of his brothers Dan and Naphtali. It's recorded in Genesis 35, 22, what he did in his father's bed with his father's concubine. So he's not going to be preeminent. Go on to the next son. Verse 5. Next two sons, really. Simeon and Levi are brothers. Weapons of violence are their swords. Let my soul not come into their counsel. O my glory, be not joined to their company For in their anger they killed men, and in their willfulness they hamstrung oxen. They were murderers, and they were cruel to animals. Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce, and their wrath, for it is cruel. I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them in Israel. So not a good word for Simeon and Levi. Next now comes Judah. And Judah may have been thinking, well, after hearing what was said about the other three, uh, no chance for me. I'm not going to get a good word here Not after what I did to Tamar, as it's recorded in chapter 38. But then you get to verse 8. Judah, your brothers, shall praise you. Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies. Your father's sons shall bow down before you, preeminence, given to Judah. After all he's done, he wanted to sell his brother, make sure he was dead and sell him. He wanted to do all kinds of bad things, and he did bad things. He married a Canaanite woman. And then all the story of chapter 38, you've heard it. But here we have it. What has happened here? Judah has changed. somewhat from the time of selling his brother Joseph and his miserable life married to this Canaanite woman and raising evil sons that God killed, recorded in Genesis 44. And we see, we see in Genesis 44 and so forth now, there's a clue to what's really going on here. This is how you need to read Genesis. It's not about Joseph, as I said before. It's about the twelve tribes in Judah and their future. And so we see in Genesis 44 a clue to that whole thing so that we can get it straight. In verse 14 of Genesis 44, and this is the story more of Judah and Joseph and all again. When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, why does it put it that way? Why does it say, when Judah and his brothers, why is he named first? Because he's going to be preeminent. God has a plan and he's working that plan. When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, he was still there Verse 16, and Judah said, What shall I say to my Lord? This is when the plot of uh gets uncovered about sealing the cup and all that business. Judah is the spokesman in chapter 44. Verse 18. Then Judah went up to him, to Joseph, and said, Oh my Lord, please let your servant speak a word in my Lord's ear, and let not your anger burn against your servant. For you were like Pharaoh himself. Judah is the spokesman. And then we get down to verse 33 of that chapter. Now, therefore, please. Let your servant remain instead of the boy as a servant to my Lord. He's offering to substitute himself in the place of his baby brother Benjamin. Who got in trouble, falsely accused, but it's plot here. And he's so concerned about his baby brother and his father's welfare that he's willing. To put himself in the place of a slave, a servant, and even die for the guilt that was heaped upon his brother. Here's what we need to know, folks, when we consider Judah. God's grace highly favors sinners Highly favors sinners. Not the righteous, but sinners. The only ones who will ever know God's grace are those who are sinners. I was at the hospital after one of my workouts at the gym there, and there was a man standing out in front, and uh he spoke to me as I was walking by, he said, Hey, can you give me a ride? And I said, where are you going? He said, Oh, I just need to go up to the shopping center north of Leonardtown. I said, Yeah, I can do that. So um he later wanted to extend that up to uh the uh Wawa on Route 235, which we did. But while we're traveling along, he asked me uh who I am and what I do and I told him I'm a pastor and he said where's your church and I told him where it was and he said can anybody come I said, no, it's only for sinners. You have to be a sinner. Are you a sinner? He said, yeah. I said, you can come. God's grace highly favors sinners. Not the righteous. So we see that Judah, the sinner, is given this preeminence here. And we also see that Judah is going to be though the one who is praised. He is praised. Judah, your brother, shall praise you. He's preeminent, he's praised. Your brother shall praise you How is that going to happen in this terribly divided, dysfunctional family where they all hate each other and there's schemes and plots going on all around? Your brothers shall praise you. It'll happen to heals families that are fractured, you see. Healing in the immediate family. Yes, the envy and strife and hate and rivalry will be healed to some extent even in their own life. Now they're all living in Egypt. They're more together than ever before There also will be a great, great, great healing that is put into this prophecy by God. A healing which we see in the kingship of David. That's the only time that the nation of Israel, and with Solomon, I suppose, but David was the first king who brought together all the tribes into one unified nation under his hand. Kingship. David is Judah's son, you see. He is the king of the united Israel. And this is what was said to David. Again, another oracle looking forward. In 2 Samuel 7, when your days are fulfilled, David is old and about to die When your days are fulfilled, and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. And he shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Now there's there's mixed bits here. Some of it's immediate prophecy fulfilled, and some of it's future prophecy fulfilled Solomon, his son, is going to come from his own life, is going to build a temple. So that's immediate prophecy. I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. That's much more long term. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son when he commits iniquity. I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men. But my steadfast love will not depart from him as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you So some of this is future, some of this is immediate. Certainly Solomon's going to be punished and chastised by God for his failures in many ways. But here is a prophecy in that prophecy that has much more future implications. Verse 16, and your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. And your throne shall be established forever. All this can only be fulfilled around King David's greater son, Jesus. Who is that lion of the tribe of Judah? They're going to be united. There's going to be praise. All of the sons, all of the tribes of Israel will praise the lamb who died, the lion of the tribe of Judah, just as it says in Genesis 20, or Genesis 40 49. And now we get to the power of Judah. One more thing. The power of Judah, verse 9 of the prophecy. Judah is a lion's cub. From the prey, my son, you have gone up. He stooped down. He crouched as a lion and as a lioness who dares rouse him. What is this about? As I said to the kids, lions roar really loud. You can hear them for miles. I've never heard one, but I've heard about it. Maybe some of you have been to where a lion roared. I don't know. No. But if you want to get in trouble, bother a lion while he's eating his dinner. Yeah. And you will get in big trouble. And that's what's being said here. He is powerful. He's powerful. You dare not disturb him. He is a great and powerful lion. And then we see another picture of that power. Verse 10: The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet until tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples. Some of the virgins say, until Shiloh come, right? It's more of a transliteration of the of the word. Until Shiloh come. Until Shiloh come, as one commentator says means this, the leadership prophecy that took some six hundred and forty years to fulfill in part with the reign of David, first of Judah's dynasty of kings. The prophecy took some sixteen hundred years to completely fulfill in Jesus Because, here it is, Jesus is referred to as the Shiloh, the name meaning he whose right it is. And the title anciently understood to mean Messiah. The power of Judah, that lion that can't be disturbed or he will eat you, or that that ruler who was to be given all the kingdoms of Judah. Of the earth, all the scepters of the earth will be his. They will all come to him as tribute. And then finally, the prosperity of Judah. In the prophecy. Beautiful words. Hard to understand from our perspective, but here they are. Verse 11, binding his foal to the vine. Okay, what's that about? And his donkey's colt to the choice line, it's kind of a repetition. This is poetry. He washed his garments in wine and his vesture in the blood of grace. More poetry, doubling the thing. His eyes are darker than wine, and his teeth whiter than milk. So what is this about? It's a description of the prosperity of Judah. Things are so wonderful in Judah's reign. The vines are well established. They're not these little spinly, thin little vines that when you first start a vineyard, it's just these little tiny vines and they can easily pull it up. No, these are thick vines that big around They are well established. They've been growing and bearing for years, and they're bearing abundance of grapes. You can tie your donkey to one of these vines, and in fact there are so many of them that you can tie up your donkey just about anywhere. Because these thick vines, it's a picture of Judah's prosperity. His donkey, donkey's cult to the choice vine. He has washed his garments in wine. What is that about? There's so much wine, there's so many vines in this prosperous land. So much wine. You can use it for dye. You can dip your garments to stain them into a nice purple color. And his vesture in the blood of grapes doubling again Beautiful picture of prosperity. His eyes are darker than wine. That speaks to understanding, depth, insight. His teeth are whiter than milk. A picture of his prosperity, his strength, his beauty. So many vines, choice vines, the best grapes, the best wine. And what do we have when Jesus actually shows up? And it's recorded for us in John chapter 2 when he goes to a wedding. What happened? There were these six big empty water pots, each holding twenty to thirty gallons, and he said, when they ran out of w wine at the wedding, which was a terrible social embarrassment. He said, fill up all six of the pots. And then when they did, he said, take some and take it to the steward. And the steward said, This is the best wine ever. Jesus, the Messiah, you see, is the man of abundance and of wine and of prosperity. It's a beautiful, beautiful picture of the prosperity of Judah. We see beautiful pictures of that. We're going to sing a version of this psalm, Psalm 72. Psalm 72 tells of the prosperity of Judah, of Christ the King. Give to the King your justice, O God, and your righteousness to the royal son. May he judge your people with righteousness and the poor with justice. Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people, and the hills in righteousness. And he goes on to say many wonderful things. Verse 10 May the kings of Tarshish and the coastlands render him tribute. Until tribute comes to him. Remember that? May the kings of Sheba and Seba bring gifts. May all kings fall down before him and all nations serve him. That is his preeminence. Verse 15, long may he live, may gold of Sheba be given him, may prayer be made for him continually, and blessings invoked for him all the day. May there be, here's that prosperity again, may there be abundance of grain in the land. On the tops of the mountains, may it wave. May its fruit be like Lebanon, and may people blossom in the cities like the grass of the field. Finally, may his name endure forever. That's that prophecy from 2 Samuel. His fame continue as long as the sun. May people be blessed in him, and all nations call him blessed. And we get from that Isaac Watts' paraphrase, Jesus shall reign where'er the Son does his successive journeys run. His kingdoms stretch from shore to shore till moons shall wax and wane no more. Folks, when God chose a family to bring the Savior of the world into the world, He did not look around and say to himself, Now let me see if I can find a really fine family. There were none. None. God's grace highly favors sinners. God's gracious choice and his covenant plan of salvation does not depend upon the performance of those chosen. God's grace highly favors sinners Christ said he came not for the supposed righteous, but for sinners God chose Judah, not because he was so good, even though he was changed by God's grace. But because God wanted to make him the head of the tribe of Judah, the Judah who would bear David, and from Judah through David came Mary. The mother of Jesus and Joseph, the legal, not biological, father of Jesus. And Jesus is that lion, roaring lion. Also, the gentle lamb who gave his lifeblood, he is the lion of the tribe of Judah. Again, just hear those words from Revelation 5. And one of the elders said, Weep no more. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, there it is all together. has conquered so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals. And between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the elders I saw a lamb. Lion and lamb. Oh it had been slain with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sound unto all the world a powerful lamb And he went on and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne. And we read it before. It ends wonderfully. Worthy are you to take the scroll. and open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God, sinners from every tribe and language and people and nation. And you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God. We are priests. And they shall reign on earth. So I ask you in conclusion, have you bowed and submitted to the preeminence of the Lion of the tribe of Judah? Have you Have you bowed and submitted to his preeminence in your own life? Or are there other things that you have in preeminence in your life, other priorities above him? Are you one of those sinners chosen by grace, not because you were good, but because you were chosen, who bows down to Judah's son, Jesus? Secondly, are you joining with the family? See, he brought unity to the family. Are you joining with the family to praise the lion of the tribe of Judah? All those elders in Revelation 5 represent the 12 tribes and all the Gentiles too, who all bow down and join the family, the family of God, to praise the lion of the tribe of Judah. Are you one of those whose praise has turned from yourself and what you can do and what you've accomplished, or anything else, to join with the church that gathers to praise Jesus? Thirdly, do you believe in the kingdom and the power of the Lion of the tribe of Judah? Do you believe that he really is reigning and ruling from heaven? And that all his enemies will bow the knee and everyone will submit to him and say, Jesus is Lord. Do you believe that? And are you seeking the prosperity of the line of the tribe? Are you committing your time, your talent, your resources to the prosperity of his church and her mission, which continues even to this very hour? I urge you to do what it takes to make your answer to these questions, yes, I am I am submitting to his preeminence. I am joining with his family regularly on the Lord's Day to praise him. I am believing in his power. And I am seeking his prosperity. May that be your yes and amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this wonderful, ancient prophecy. That is amazing in its detail and its fulfillment. We pray that you'll help us Lord, evermore, to worship and serve you and to bow before the lion of the tribe of Judah, the lab who was slain for us. Amen.