Please turn in your Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter 2. We'll read from verse 11 through the end of the chapter. 1 Samuel 2, 11 through 36. Then Alcanah went home to Ramah, and the boy ministered to the Lord in the presence of Eli the priest. Now the sons of Eli were worthless men. They did not know the Lord. The custom of the priests with the people was that when any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant would come come, while the meat was boiling, with a three pronged fork in his hand, and he would thrust it into the pan or kettle or cauldron or pot. All that the fork brought up the priest would take for himself This is what they did at Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there. Moreover, before the fat was burned, the priest's servant would come and say to the man who was sacrificing Give meat for the priest to roast, for he will not accept boiled meat from you, but only raw. And if the man said to him, Let them burn the fat first, and then take as much as you wish He would say, No, you must give it now, and if not, I will take it by force. Thus the sin of the young men was very great in the sight of the Lord, for the men treated the offering of the Lord with contempt. Samuel was ministering before the Lord, a boy clothed with a linen ephod And his mother used to make for him a little robe and take it to him each year when she went up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. Then Eli would bless Al Cana and his wife and say, May the Lord give you children by this woman for the petition she asked of the Lord. So then they would return to their home. Indeed, the Lord visited Hannah, and she conceived and bore three sons and two daughters, and the young man Samuel grew in the presence of the Lord. Now Eli was very old, and he kept hearing all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay with the women who were serving at the entrance to the tent of meeting. And he said to them, Why do you do such things? For I hear of your evil dealings from all the people. No, my sons, it is no good report that I hear the people People of the Lord spreading abroad. If someone sins against a man, God will mediate for him. But if someone sins against the Lord, who can intercede for him? But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for it was the will of the Lord to put them to death. Now the young man, Samuel, continued to grow, both in stature and in favor with the Lord and also with man. And there came a man of God to Eli and said to him, Thus the Lord has said Did I indeed reveal myself to the house of your father when they were in Egypt, subject to the house of Pharaoh? Did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest? to go up to my altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me. I gave to the house of your father all my offerings by fire from the people of Israel Why then do you scorn my sacrifices and my offerings that I commanded, and honor your sons above me by fattening yourselves on the choicest parts of every offering of my people Israel. Therefore, the Lord the God of Israel declares, I promised that your house and the house of your father should go in and out before me forever. But now the Lord declares. Far be it from me, for those who honor me I will honor, and those who despise me shall be lightly esteemed Behold, the days are coming when I will cut off your strength and the strength of your father's house, so that there will not be an old man in your house. Then in distress you will look with envious eye on all the prosperity that shall be bestowed on Israel. And there shall not be an old man in your house forever. The only one of you whom I shall not cut off from my altar shall be spared to weep his eyes out, to grieve his heart, and all the descendants of your house shall die by the sword of men. And this that shall come upon And this that shall come upon your two sons, Hopni and Phineas, shall be the sign to you. Both of them shall die on the same day. And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, who shall do according to what is in my heart and in my mind, and I will build him a sure house, and he shall go in and out before my anointed forever And every one who is left in your house shall come to implore him for a piece of silver or a loaf of bread, and shall say, Please put me in one of the priest's places, that I might eat a morsel of bread. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Luke 3, 1 through 22, you find it on page 858 in the Pew version of the Bible. Luke 3. In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being Tetrarch of Galilee. And his brother Philip, Tetrarch of the region Aicherea and Trachonidus, and Lysanius, Tetrarch of Abilene, during the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas The word of God came to John, the son of Zechariah, in the wilderness, and he went into all the region around the Jordan, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, the voice of one crying in the wilderness: prepare the way of the Lord, make straight his paths Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall become straight, and the rough places shall become level ways. And all flesh shall see the salvation of God. He said therefore to the crowds who came out to be baptized by him, You brood of vipers. Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruits in keeping with your repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father. For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. And the crowds asked him, What then shall we do? And he answered them: Whoever has two tunics is to share with him who has none, and whoever has food is to do likewise. Tax collectors also came to be baptized and said to him, Teacher, what shall we do? And he said to them, Collect no more than you were authorized to do. Soldiers also asked him, And what shall we do? And he said to them, Do not extort money from anyone by threats or by false accusation, and be content with your wages. As the people were in expectation and all were questioning in their hearts concerning John whether he might be the Christ, John answered them all, saying, I baptize you with water, but he who is mightier than I is coming, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. His winnowing fork is in his hand, to clear his threshing floor, and to gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. So with many other exhortations he preached good news to the people. But Herod the Tetrarch, who had been reproved by him for Herodias, his brother's wife. And for all the evil things that Herod had done, added this to them all, he locked up John in prison. Now, when all the people were baptized, and when j Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened, and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove. And a voice came from heaven, You are my beloved Son. With you I am well pleased. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you have given us the faithful history of your people. You're working out of your covenant mercies and plans to your people in the old days and in the new and in the present days and going forward too. We pray now that as we hear your word and search it, that we might gain understanding of it, and therefore be able to frame our own lives all the better, for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I begin with a quote from one of my favorite uh interpreters and commentators. His name is Dale Ralph Davis. A spiritual resurgence looked out of the question for the American colonies in 1740, the year of the beginning of the Great Awakening. Samuel Blair of the Middle Colonies wrote that, quote, religion lay as it were dying and ready to expire its last breath of life in this part of the Visible church. End quote. But God, but God was quietly at work raising up faithful preachers. The leaders of the Great Awakening were Jonathan Edwards, George Whitfield, and Gilbert Tennet. The awakening emerged from powerful preaching that gave listeners a sense of their personal guilt and their need for salvation by Christ. In fact, many historians believe that Jonathan Edwards provided pre-revolutionary Americans with a political ideology that inspired a thrust toward American nationalism And colonial Calvinism was the basis for the American Great Awakening, and that in turn lay at the basis of the American Revolution. American colonial Calvinism brought forth the Great Awakening and the American Revolution. Things were also looking very bad for Israel in the time of the judges, as we read it in our text today. Opposition to God's law was coming from without, in the case of the Canaanites, all around the people of Israel, and also coming from within. In the case of the corrupt priests and leaders of Israel, we expect opposition from society at large. But what can we do when corruption is found inside the church, especially in her human leaders who are indifferent in faith and unholy in conduct. But God, but God is quietly at work And in obscure ways, and God will rescue his people, as we see in our text today, beginning with a little boy. Before we look at this, we need to look at the mess in Shiloh, which is all too obvious and noisy and visible. The famously evil situation was well publicized even in the days of the judges when everyone did what was right in his own eyes. Let's look at the text in these three ways. First, the corruption of worship that cries out for reformation, verses 12 through 21. Secondly, the perversion of the priests that cries out for a better priesthood, verses 22 through 25. And thirdly, the pronouncement of judgment that cries out for God's grace, verses 26 through 36. So first, the corruption of worship that cries out for reformation. Hothni and Phineas. If you're going to have kids, don't name your kids Hothni or Phineas. These guys are rotten to the core, down deep in their hearts, rotten. Verse 12 says, Now the sons of Eli were worthless men. Boy, that's a pretty bad epitaph, isn't it? And it says, they did not know the Lord. These are the priests of God. And they did not know the Lord. No doubt they were well trained in the service of the tabernacle. No doubt they knew the theology behind the sacrifices and ceremonies. But they did not know the Lord. They are to be contrasted here in the text with the little Samuel. whose mother dedicated him to the Lord, left him with Eli the priest as a little boy And she would sow him a new ephod every year and bring it. As he grew, he would still wear the ephod, the priestly garment, as he was being trained Samuel verse 18 was ministering before the Lord a boy clothed with a linen ephon. And his mother used to make for him a little robe and take it to him each year when she went up with her husband to offer yearly sacrifice. But back to Hofney and Phineas, they are worthless. They are indicative of the perilous condition of Israel Israel is rotten from within, rotten at the core, the center of Israel. The tabernacle, which is also the center of the universe in God's viewpoint. The tabernacle in Shiloh and the very center of everything that matters is rotten to the core. What's going on? Well, we see it here in the next verse is the greediness of the priests. Verse 13: The custom of the priests with the people was that when any man offered a sacrifice, the priest's servant would come. while the meat was boiling, with a three pronged fork in his hand, like a pitchfork, I suppose, and he would thrust it into the pan or kettle or cauldron or pot And all that the fort brought up the priest would take for himself. This is what they did at Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there. The priests were getting plenty of food and plenty of other stuff from the worshipers. Remember that they would get a tithe of all the Israelites produced as their living. They did not have a land allotment, these priests But they did have all that would be brought by the Israelite worshipers, a tenth of it. But that was not good enough for them. They sent their servant to fork meat which was being cooked and take any portion they wanted. So what? What's the big deal? Forking a little meat out of a pot? Remember, remember that the fat portion of any meat was considered the best back in those days. I like I think it would be like in our day going to a a steakhouse and choosing the best marble the beef that you can find. Favorful one, you know. Tender and juicy. And the fat would also, by the way, assist in the smoky ascension of the sacrifice up to the throne of God by feeding the holy fire. Below as it dripped down and burned. This was according to the law of Moses This fat portion was declared to belong to the Lord. And one of the places, there are many, but one of the places in Leviticus 3. 16 says And the priest shall burn them on the altar as food offering with a pleasing aroma. All fat is the Lord's. But Hotni and Phineas didn't care about that. They didn't care what God said to Moses. Like many of the clergy in liberal seminaries and churches, they despise God's word and prefer the trends of culture. And to them also God says, those who despise me, I will despise. But there is more Look at verses fifteen and sixteen. Moreover, it says, before the fat was burned The priest's servant would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, give me meat for the priest to roast, for he will not accept boiled meat from you, but only raw. They wanted rare meat. And if you and if the man said to him, let them burn the fat first, in other words, obey God. And then take as much as you wish. He would say, no. You must give it now. And if not, I will take it by force. No doubt the priest servant was acting on orders from Hafni and Phineas. This practice may have started with just a morsel of the fat portion Being held back from the Lord. But when the fire did not fall on the priests and destroy them, they got more and more brazen. Until we finally get to this blasphemous practice where they take what they want and don't care what God says. And notice the physical threats to the sincere and obedient worshiper who brings the sacrifice will kill you. We'll take it by force if you don't do what we say. When God's worship is corrupted, the whole nation suffers. The whole church suffers. Now I'm going to take you back in time from here, not from the place of our text, but from the place that we're at today, back to the 16th century, the Reformation. The 16th century Reformation, the worship of the church had become steeped in syncretism, with many pagan elements incorporated into the worship of God. The Lord's Supper, for instance, which is the central thing in Christian worship, the Lord's Supper was changed from a service where Christ gave himself to us with all his saving benefits by faith Into a service of sacrifice where Christ was thought to be re-sacrificed to supply more and more forgiveness for the living and the dead at each Mass. And in the time that we're talking about, before the 16th century Reformation, the Bible, the Word of God, was forbidden to the people. And music was only for the cloistered choirs. The people in the congregation were not permitted to sing at all. And the good news of the completed work of Jesus Christ received by faith was unknown to the vast majority of people in those days. In his little book called On the Necessity of Reforming the Church, John Calvin did not merely speak of getting the gospel of salvation right But of making sure that the worship was reformed to comply with the same word of God that gave us the gospel. In our times, many churches have taken to pleasing the attendees in worship Let's just do what makes us feel good. We'll make it up as we go. What do you want to do today in worship? I just want to go home feeling good, so let's just make it feel good. I just want to be comfortable in worship. Now, I know that we all like what we're accustomed to. That's just human nature. We all like songs that we know best and customs with which we are familiar. And the session cares about this too. But more important than the question of familiarity is the question about what fits the pattern of God's instructions for worship The content of responses and songs, and the tone of the service. It must be According to the Word of God. Now that brings some variation and latitude in various congregations. Ours is not the only way to do things. I'm not saying that. But is this an entertainment vert venue? It is not Or is this just a friendly gathering of like-minded folks who can shape what we do here to suit us the way we like it? Or is it a meeting with God around his written word and his visible word in the sacraments that will shape us to be the people he wants us to be? I'm going to say this one twice, and I will own it as a quote that I made up. Worship should fit, not fight, the scripture-based theology of the church. Worship should fit, not fight, the scripture-based theology of the church. And so this mattered in Israel. The whole nation was suffering under the regime of these wicked priests. The people were not taught the truth from these priests. They were not led to worship God in holiness. And so it was a it was a corruption of worship that cried out for reformation. Now we go on to the perversion of the priest that cries out for a better priesthood, verses 22 through 25. Now Eli was very old, and he kept hearing all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay with the women who were serving at the entrance to the tent of meeting. And he said to them, Why do you do such things? For I hear that your evil dealings from all these people. No, my sons, it is not a good report that I hear the people of the Lord spreading abroad. If someone sins against man, God will mediate for him. But if someone sins against the Lord, who can intercede for him? But they will not listen to the voice of their father, for it was the will of the Lord to put them to death. These priests, the text tells us, were sexually immoral. And as it was told far and wide, everybody knew it out there until it finally came back to the old man Eli. And he offered a mild rebuke. Not a good idea, guys. I don't think you should be doing that They had descended to the place where they were now doing what all the other nations did in their temples. All the other nations had cult prostitutes. And these guys were seducing the women at the door of the tabernacle The worship of sex was the bottom of the decline of human culture, according to Romans 1. 28, where Paul finally says And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. As go the priests, so goes the nation. The priests were supposed to be consecrated to Yahweh, not merely in office. or in priestly clothing, which I'm sure they wore very nicely, but in holy conduct. The priests were the intercessors between God and the people And if they had no access to God, the people suffered. The nation of Israel was called to be a light to the whole world in Genesis 26, verse 4. I will multiply your offspring as the stars of the heaven, and will give to your offspring all these lands. And in your offspring all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. That's what they were supposed to be, a blessing, but now they were a That brings us to the third point. The pronouncement of judgment cries out for God's grace. Verse 27. There came a man of God to Eli and said to him Thus says the Lord, Did I indeed reveal myself to the house of your father when they were in Egypt, subject to the house of Pharaoh? Did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? I gave to the house of your father all my offerings by fire from the people of Israel. Why then do you scorn my sacrifices and my offerings that I commanded for my dwelling and honor your sons above me by fattening yourselves on the choicest parts of every offering of my people Israel. It says, a man of God. We don't know his name. We don't know where he came from. Who is this man of God who came to rebuke old Eli? Mysterious man. He's a prophet of some sort. Could it be that he is a theophany, a pre-incarnate appearance of Christ? It is possible, but it is not clear. But notice the play on words about the fat portions. Why do you scorn my sacrifices and my offerings that I commanded for my dwelling and honor your sons above me? By fattening yourselves. See, there's the play on words, on the choicest parts of every offering of my people. The fat belonged to the Lord, but they were fattening themselves And so he pronounces judgment on the house of Eli in the verses that follow. Therefore the Lord the God of Israel declares, I promised that your house and the house of your father should go in and out before me forever. But now, declares the Lord, far be it from me, for those who honor me I will honor, and those who despise me shall be lightly esteemed Behold, the days are coming when I will cut off your strength and the strength of your father's house, so that there will not be an old man in your house. Then in distress you will look with envious eye on all the prosperity that shall be bestowed on Israel, and there shall not be an old man in your house forever. The only one whom I shall not cut off from my altar shall be spared to weep his eyes out, to grieve his heart. And all the descendants of your house shall die by the sword of men. And this that shall come upon your two sons, Hophni and Phineas. Shall be the sign to you, both of them shall die on the same day. But now, this judgment calls out for God's grace. And here's the good news. We see it if you look at verse 35. Look at verse 35. And I will raise up for myself. a faithful priest, who shall do according to what is in my heart and in my mind, and I will build him a sure house, and he shall go in and out before my anointing. Forever. A faithful priest was being raised up in the person of this little boy Samuel. God works in obscure ways God's anointed David will be king, and he will have an everlasting kingdom. And he will be anointed by who? Samuel, this little boy who would grow up. But an even greater priest must come in due time. An even greater priest. Hafni and Phineas wanted to serve themselves, but they are contrasted with Jesus. Jesus, who, as it says in Mark 10, 45, came not to be served, but to serve and give his life a ransom for many And look at Philippians 2, 6 through 8, where Jesus is described by Paul, though he was in the form of God, he did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped. but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Hothni and Phineas contradict God's word. But Jesus would quote God's word as a shield in the greatest temptation of his life in the 40 days in the wilderness. You see, my friends, when it seems the darkest, God is bringing light out of darkness. The Reformation slogan in Latin was post-tenebras lux, which means after darkness light. Post tenebras lux. And through a child, a boy who honors God, God was bringing light out of the darkness of Israel at that time. And as we know now, looking ahead, God would fully deliver by sending his own son, another little boy. In the human flesh, in our weakness, a baby sent as light into darkness. And so he does this for you and me. Romans 5, verses 6 through 8 says, when we were yet without strength. In due time. See, God has his timetable. In due time Paul says, in the fullness of time in Galatians, but in due time in Romans 5, 6 through 8, Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely a righteous man will one die. Yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die. But God commendeth his love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Maybe you are treading around in the darkness in some place in your life today. I'm not sure. Maybe there's some hidden thing, some darkness, some brokenness, some weakness of the soul. If you know it and own it, then you're ready for God to send the light. You're ready for God to send his strength. Just as Israel needed the light of God's grace, just as we needed the light of God's grace at the time of the Reformation. And just as we all need it and all need Jesus Christ, God's Son, our Savior, turn to Him. Turn to Jesus Christ. Whatever your need, turn to Him now. And you will have God's light in the midst of whatever darkness there is. Amen. Lord, we thank you that by your mercy you do not leave your people to suffer in darkness forever, but you do send the light of your grace. You chase out the corruption of our sinful nature, and you cause us to turn to you and beg for mercy and find in you our strength and our refuge. We ask you to bless us now with the grace to follow you through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.