Please turn in your Bibles to the book of Exodus, chapter 23, where we'll read verses 1 through 13. Exodus 23, verses 1 through 13. You shall not spread a false report. You shall not join hands with a wicked man to be a malicious witness You shall not fall in with the many who do evil, nor shall you bear witness in a lawsuit, siding with the many, so as to pervert justice, nor shall you be partial to a poor man in his lawsuit. If you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you shall bring it back to him. If you see the donkey of one who hates you lying down under its burden, you shall refrain from leaving him with it. You shall rescue it with him. You shall not pervert the justice due to your poor in the la in his lawsuit. Keep far from a false charge, and do not kill the innocent and righteous For I will not acquit the wicked, and you shall take no bribe, for a bribe blinds the clear-sighted and subverts the cause of those who are in the right You shall not oppress a sojourner. You know the heart of a sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt For six years you shall sow your land and gather in its yield, but the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow, that the poor of your people may eat, and what they leave the beasts of the field may eat. You shall do likewise with your vineyard and with your olive orchard. Six days you shall do your work, but on the seventh day you shall rest. that your ox and your donkey may have rest, and the son of your servant woman and the alien may be refreshed. Pay attention to all that I have said to you, and make no mention of the names of other gods, nor let it be heard on your lips. The word of the Lord. Thanks. Now we read from Acts chapter 17, verses 30 and 31, and then over to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 27, after that. Acts seventeen thirty through thirty one The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now He commands all people everywhere to repent. Because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed. And of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. And then Acts chapter 27. 11 through 23. Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus said, You have said so. But when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he gave no answer. Then Pilate said to him, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you? But he gave him no answer, not even to a single charge. So that the governor was greatly amazed. Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for the crowd any one prisoner whom they wanted. And they had then a notorious prisoner called Barabbas. So when they had gathered, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to release for you? Barabbas or Jesus, who is called Christ? For he knew that it was out of envy that they had delivered him up Besides, while he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent word to him, Have nothing to do with that righteous man, for I have suffered much because of him today in a dream. Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus. The governor again said to them, Which of the two do you want me to release for you? And they said, Barabbas. Pilate said to them, Then what shall I do with Jesus? Who is called Christ. They all said, Let him be crucified. And he said, Why? What evil has he done But they shouted all the more, let him be crucified. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, as we have heard these prescriptions for righteous judgment And we have heard your word that you will judge the world by the man whom you have appointed by raising him from the dead. And we see here how Jesus was judged. Help us to put these things together So that we might glorify you in our thinking, in our praising, in our doing in this world. Through Christ our Lord, we pray. Amen. Well, it's Palm Sunday, and on Palm Sunday, Jesus was headed to Jerusalem. Jesus was headed to court. Headed to judgment. How will he be treated? What does God's law say about courts and judgments? Well, we read it from Exodus 23. It commands that there be justice in testimony. Justice in testimony. Chapter 23, verse 1. You shall not spread a false report. You shall not join hands with a wicked man to be a malicious witness. That is a false witness in court. Justice in testimony is commanded. And then, secondly, mob injustice is forbidden. Verse 2: you shall not fall in with the many to do evil. What is that? Peer pressure. Everybody else is doing it. I want to be with those who prevail in this situation. Mob injustice is forbidden. You shall not bear witness in a lawsuit siding with the many. See the injustice there? You shall not be a witness in a lawsuit siding with the many so as to pervert justice. Well, I've seen that. In jurors, in judicial cases, who watch to see how others will vote, whether they will speak up or raise their hand before they register their own vote. It's forbidden. Shouldn't happen. What else is forbidden? Prejudice in favor of the poor. Is forbidden. Verse 3: Nor shall you be partial to a poor man in his lawsuit. Years ago, there was a book written by a fellow named Ron Sider called Rich Christians in an Age of Hunger. And it was an indictment of all those who have things. And it was a sating of all those who were poor. The basic premise and idea was that all the poor are favored by God because they are poor, and all the rich are disfavored by God because they are rich. And God is a socialist God and wants everybody to have the same amount. So they basically, Ron Sider, makes all the poor saints, Saint Poor syndrome. I would call it. And then it actually has a theology that was developed and especially imported to Central and South America called liberation. theology. It was saying that the whole gospel story is about God equalizing everybody. It's liberation theology. The poor are holy and favored, and that is a major premise of such social liberalism. Assuming that the poor deserve to win, even if they're in the wrong in court, because of their victim status. And there's another book that was written as a counterpoint to that one, called, the first one was called Rich Christians in an Age of Hunger by Ron Sider. The counterpoint was called Productive Christians in an age of guilt manipulators. By David Chilton. Much better book. Okay. What else is commanded here about courts and and about justice and righteousness? Verses four and five. The love of enemies, even if there is a court case involved, even if you have uh an something against someone, the love of enemies should override. particular matters of court cases. Here it is in verse four. If you meet your enemy's ox or donkey going astray, you shall bring it back to him. Instead of saying, I don't like him, I've got a lawsuit against him, I'm going to let his ox or donkey go. I don't care. Verse 5. If you see the donkey gone from one who hates you lying down under its burden, you shall refrain from leaving him with it. You shall rescue it with him. In other words, again, put it aside Stick to the matters at hand. Don't let everything bleed over into a thousand other areas. Love your enemies as contrasted with vindictive ways. And I talked about Saint Poor a moment ago, but there's also in verse 6 Saint Rich. Saint Rich. You shall not pervert the justice due to your poor in his lawsuit. In other words, favoring the rich because of a prejudice in favor of the rich. Somehow, if someone got rich, God must like them. Don't do that in court. Don't be prejudiced that way. And then verse seven This is probably directed to witnesses and judges. It says, keep far from a false charge. And do not kill the innocent and righteous, for I will not acquit the wicked. That means that a person should recuse themselves from conflicts. If they are involved in that conflict, keep far from a false charge. Be careful. Recuse yourself. Move back away. Don't let injustice prevail. Don't get sucked into the pressure and prejudice and malicious talk. And then another thing in verse 8, bribery is forbidden. And well, you certainly we certainly understand that very well. You shall take no bribe, for a bribe does what? It's actually a very graphic picture here. A bribe blinds the clear-sighted. You get money in your pocket, your opinion changes, right? It blinds the clear-sighted and subverts the cause of those who are in the right. And then non-resident discrimination is forbidden in verse 9. You shall not oppress the sojourner. You know the heart of a sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. Don't be against people just because they're different from you. Or they're aliens or sojourners. That's not just. It's evil. And then verses 10 and 11 are things that we wouldn't, well, some of them we would think of, but maybe others not. Verse 10, for six years you shall sow your land and gather in its field, but the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow. That, or so that the poor of your people may eat, and what they leave the beasts of the field may eat. You shall do likewise with your vineyard and with your olive orchard. What's this about? It's about The fact that you let the land rest. God says it needs a rest. And I think agriculturalists have proven that Constant tilling, constant activity, constant fertilizing actually doesn't uh produce what it should. It's unproductive In many ways. And instead, what you should do is let it rest, and the seeds that are already there, the vines, the olives, the things that are already there in the ground, will grow up naturally, uncultivated. And they will be provisions for the poor and for the animals. It's kind of a justice for the environment. A justice for the poor and the animals here that's that's commanded. Now we are afraid of that in our conservative Christian circles because We don't like this environmentalist movement that seems to worship the creation and wants to do away with humans because that will make the creation, well, somehow better. I was listening on Redeemer Broadcasting yesterday, and it was so wonderful to hear Dr. Cal Beisner. on a plain answer interview, and he is a part of an in uh a Christian environmental group called the Cornwall Alliance And it's talking about stewardship of creation, godly dominion, and care for the poor. I encourage you to go to Redeemer's site and look at the That APA. Listen to that. It's a plain answer program by Dr. Calvin Weisner. Interview with Dan Elmendorf. There is such a thing as Christian environmentalism, as a Christian view of the world and godly dominion and care for the poor. And it's unjust to ignore it and just view whatever comes to fore. And then in verse 12, just labor laws are commanded. Six days you shall do your work, but on the seventh day you shall rest, that your ox and your donkey may have rest, and the son of your servant woman and the alien may be refreshed. This is Sabbath justice, labor laws. People have to have rest because that's the way God made them in his image And then justice in relation to the worship of God, finally in verse 13, is commanded. Pay attention that To all that I have said to you, and make no mention of the names of other gods, nor let it be heard on your lips. This is justice in relation to God. So those are some principles of justice in general, and some particular principles of justice in court situations. Justice is sometimes perverted. Justice is often incomplete in setting things right Justice is rarely without error and prejudice. And when there is no justice, Lives are ruined. You see that here in these prescriptions. When there is no justice, reputations are destroyed. Lies are told about people. Creation is abused, and God is blasphemed. We ought to strive to obey these prescriptions of God In our own time and place and situation. God's law is good and it is right and it is fair. We ought to exercise ourselves as neighbors and citizens to do whatever is possible to see justice done. The prophet Amos spoke against the people of his day for their lack of justice in Amos 5 Therefore, because you trample on the poor and you exact taxes of grain from him, you have built houses of hewn stone, but you shall not dwell in them. You have planted pleasant vineyards, but you shall not drink their wine. God's going to judge. For I know how many are your transgressions. and how great are your sins. You afflict the righteous who take a bribe and turn aside the needy in the gate. Therefore, he who is prudent will keep silent in such a time, for it is an evil time. Then he says Seek good and not evil, that you may live. And so the Lord, the God of hosts, will be with you as you have said. Hate evil and love good. Establish justice in the gate. The gate here means the court. And then verse 24 of that chapter But let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. Justice, justice, righteousness. Do what is right, hate what is evil. The only truly ontologically righteous man who Whoever lived on earth is Jesus Christ. Last spring and summer we had attorney Brian Dugan come here and present. A Sunday School series about the trials of Jesus. And I found that material and some similar material at a place called Bible Study. org And there we have some discussion of the legal trial. How was Jesus treated when he went to trial? Was he treated according to these prescriptions in Exodus 23? Here's what it says. There was no legal basis for Jesus' arrest because no one had presented a formal charge of any crime. No legal basis. He was simply taken. Moreover, those who went with Judas to have Jesus arrested included the priests and the elders, his judges, among whom were the ones who bribed Judah. How just is that? Secondly, Jesus was subjected to a secret preliminary examination at night. It's recorded in John chapter 8. Jewish law permitted only daylight proceedings, but they did this at night. Number three, the indictment against Jesus was illegal because the judges themselves brought up the charge without any prior testimony by witnesses. The Jewish court, the Sanhedrin, by law was not allowed to originate charges, but they did. Number four, the court illegally proceeded to hold its trial of Jesus before sunrise, so no one would be available to testify on his behalf. Number five, the trial began on a day before an annual Sabbath, even though Jewish law did not permit the trial of a capital offense to begin on a Friday. Or the day before an annual Sabbath. Jesus was arrested and tried on the 14th of Hibib, the day before the first annual Sabbath of the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Number six, Jesus' trial was concluded in one day. Jewish law says if a sentence of death is to be pronounced in a criminal case, it cannot be concluded before the following day. Mishnah. And this was allowed to s allowed to happen Without any opportunity for witnesses to come forward. Let's get it over with. Let's make the judgment. Let's condemn him before anyone can come forward and testify in his behalf. In less than nine hours, Jesus was tried and found guilty and sentenced to death. Number 7. Two false witnesses charged Jesus with saying that he would destroy the temple with his hands. This is recorded in Mark 14. Yet he was condemned by the court on another false charge, that of blasphemy. Which is it? Which one of those is actually the charge? He was condemned also on his own testimony, Luke 22. But according to Jewish law, a person could not be condemned on his own testimony. Number eight, the merits of Jesus' defense were not considered, despite Deuteronomy 13. The high priest did not inquire and make search and ask diligently, as it says to do, to see whether Jesus' statement was blasphemous. The law in the Mishnah says judges shall weigh the manner in sincerity of their conscience. Instead, the court pronounced sentence instantly and unanimously. Number nine, those who would have voted against the condemnation were not at Jesus' trial. Someone like, for instance Joseph of Arimathea, who was a member of the court, was not there. Jesus' opponents had made sure that only those who hated him would be there. They joined hands in an evil cause. Number 10, the sentence was pronounced in a place forbidden by law. The trial took place where? At the home of the high priest. According to the law, a death sentence could be pronounced only in the court's appointed place. Number 11. Most of the judges were legally disqualified to try Jesus because some had bought their way into office, according to the historian Josephus. Also, since they were known enemies of Jesus, Jewish law required that they disqualify themselves so that he could be tried by an impartial jury of judges. And then we read that portion in Matthew twenty-seven. How they Said, crucify, crucify. We don't care if he's innocent. We want him to die, not Barabbas. How did they do that? Well, the court illegally switched the charges from blasphemy to treason before Pilate. And Jesus' opponents warned wanted him killed, but they did not want to do it themselves, so they switched the charge to get the Romans to do it. No evidence was presented, and Pilate, after a brief interview, saw that Jesus was not guilty, but fearing the crowd Peer pressure. Fearing the crowd, he allowed the crucifixion of an innocent man. Pilate did not even pronounce him guilty. He merely turned him over. To the soldiers. What a mockery. What a mockery of justice this trial was. All this illegality, in addition to his crucifixion, Jesus willingly suffered to pay the penalty of our sin Sins in his own body. Roman justice was perverted. Jewish justice was perverted But God's justice was completed. Jesus had said beforehand what would happen in Luke twelve, fifty. Thinking of his death, he said, I have a baptism to be baptized with. And how great is my distress until it is accomplished. And we hear his distress in Psalm 22, verse 1, which we will read on Good Friday. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me? and from the words of my complaint. Peter says, chapter 3 of verse 18 of 1 Peter, Christ has also suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God being put to death in the flesh, but made alive by the Spirit. And we read also in Acts Where the apostle is preaching about the judgment to come, Paul in Athens said That God has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has appointed, and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. So it comes to this. You and I were either judged in and with Jesus. When he died on the cross, under the curse of God's perfect justice against sin, we were either judged in and with Jesus then and there, or we will face The judgment by appearing in God's court on our own, by ourselves, without representation, without excuse, without any hope of acquittal. It's either we were judged in and with him then, or we will be judged later. If you were united to him by living obedient faith. If this is your case, Jesus Himself is not merely your judge, but he is also your advocate, your attorney. And 1 John chapter 2, we have an advocate with the Father. Jesus Christ the righteous, he is the propitiation for our sins. Jesus underwent a baptism of judgment of God's wrath so that we might be washed clean. Our baptisms in the Christian church show forth that judgment. When we baptize someone, we're not saying they're good, we're saying that they deserve judgment. But in Jesus Christ, the judgment has already taken place. Remember the These things, my friends, remember these things as you think of the death of Jesus. As you think of Him being on that cross and dying and saying, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? See him carrying the load of your sins and coming under the judgment of God in your stead, so that you might be freed and acquitted and pronounced Not guilty. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that you were willing to endure the disgrace. The shameful and painful death of the cross, the mockery of justice. From a human court to bear divine justice for all who put their trust in you We pray that if there be anyone here who has not yet personally come to trust in Christ, who has not yet personally said, Lord Jesus, Please forgive my sins. I want to know that I have been included in the judgment that fell upon you, and I receive it by faith. Please let them do that today, Lord. May no one leave without committing to Jesus Christ as the Savior who went under judgment Amen