The reading from the Old Testament this morning is from Genesis, the book of Genesis, chapter fifteen, where we will read verses one through six. Genesis 15, verses 1 through 6. After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision. Fear not, Abram. I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. But Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me? For I am continue childless. And the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will be my heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him. This man shall not be your heir. Your very own son shall be your heir. And he brought him outside and said, Look toward heaven and number the stars, if you are able to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. And now the reading of the New Testament text, actually, I'm going to shorten it because I'll be covering the verses, but I'll read the first twelve verses of Romans chapter 4. And we will consider the whole chapter. What then shall we say was gained by Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift, but as his due. And to the one who does not work, but believes in him, who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness. just as David also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin. Is this blessing then only for the circumcised or also for the uncircumcised? We say that faith was counted to Abraham as righteousness How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised. He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised So that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father of the circumcised, who are not merely circumcised, but who also walk in the footsteps of faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised. So farther reading of God's word. This is the word of the Lord, thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, as we consider this ongoing argument and discussion with an opponent by the Apostle Paul. We pray that you'll help us to understand it uh wisely, historically, spiritually. And be able to make application of the living and abiding Word of God to our own hearts and lives today. Through Christ we pray. Amen. As I said last week, justification by faith is the gold standard of the Christian faith. Everything else gets measured by this particular doctrine. That's what the reformers said, and I think that is very much what what Paul is also saying this is very important. He keeps hammering away about this very important doctrine. In chapter four, he gives proof of this doctrine. Historically speaking, he gives what I would call patriarchal proof. First, we have an illustration which is a proof that Abraham was declared righteous through faith. He is telling us that Abraham was not justified by possession of the law or by circumcision, that is the works of the law, but declared righteous through faith alone. And we find that in the first three verses, which we just read. But I'll read it again. What then shall we say was gained by Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness And that is from Psalm 32, where David confesses his sins and confesses that God counted him righteous. We'll get to that in a moment. So the question that is being discussed here in this debate that Paul is having with an imaginary person is: does the idea of justification through faith, apart from the works of the law, Make what God did in the Old Testament irrelevant. Is that what's going on here? And in answering that question, Paul looked at Abraham. Abraham, who was the most esteemed man among the Jewish people, was like the George Washington of the Jewish people. If anyone could be justified by works, it would be someone like Abraham. And they would have something to boast about. But Paul says Abraham doesn't have anything to boast about. In fact, in Ephesians chapter 2, where he's Proclaiming the very same doctrine of grace, he says, this is not of yourselves, this doing, this salvation is not of yourselves, lest anyone should boast. So there's no boasting. There's nothing to boast about. Such human boasting would be nothing before God because God knows the reality. You wouldn't get very far with your boast before an infinite God who knows all things. Then he says, for what does the Scripture say? He's going to use the Scripture to prove And he says the Old Testament does not say that Abraham was declared righteous because of his works. Instead, citing Genesis 15, verse 6, Abraham believed God and it was accredited, that's a very important word, or counted to him for righteousness. Paul is making it clear that Abraham's righteousness does not come from performing works, but from belief in God and the promises that God made. It was a righteousness obtained through faith. In contrast, the Jewish leaders, teachers of Paul's day believed that Abraham was justified by his works. By keeping the law. That's what they thought. Some ancient rabbis said this: We find that Abraham, our father, had performed the whole law before it was given. And Abraham was perfect in all his deeds with the Lord. That's what some rabbis said. The rabbis argued that Abraham kept the law perfectly before it was given keeping it by intuition or anti Participation. Really? The record shows, the biblical record shows that Abraham was a liar. He lied twice about the identity of his wife, Sarah, being his wife. He passed her off as his sister in order to protect his own skin to be kept from harm or danger. He exposed his wife to possibly being violated, and he did it twice He was not a perfect man and did not keep the law implicitly. I don't know where the rabbis got that idea. The Apostle Paul does not say that Abraham was righteous in all his doings, but that God counted, very important word, counted Abraham as righteous. The Greek word behind this translation, counted, was used in early secular documents, meaning to put down to one's account. So God put down to Abraham's account, God placed on deposit for him, credited to him, 100% righteousness. Kenneth Weist says that Abraham possessed righteousness in the same manner as a person would possess the sum of money placed into his account in the bank, credited. Remember that righteousness is also more than the absence of evil here. It is the positive Perfect gift of having done all that you should have ever done in the past. So it's not merely the absence of debt, but it is the gain of a huge credit. of 100% righteousness. So your justification means counting you as perfectly righteous After you are counted righteous, in this order, after you are counted righteous, then God begins the long process of making you truly righteous, which will be complete only at your resurrection. And then notice the st the sharp distinction he makes here in verses four through five. between grace and works. Verse 4. Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift, but as his due. And to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, that's someone with a debt, his faith is counted as righteousness. The idea of grace stands opposite to the principle of works. Grace has to do with receiving the freely given gift of God, undeserved gift of God. Works has to do with earning your merit before God. I remember years ago working for a farmer. And the day came for my pay, and he wrote a check and handed the check to me and said, Here you go, Ed, here's your pay. And I said, Thank you very much. He said, Don't thank me. Don't thank me. You earned what you got. He was right. It was not a gift. Do you government employees write little thank you notes to the government for your paycheck? Of course not It's not grace that caused the check to be written, but works. In theory, at least. Sorry about that. Again, Kenneth Weist explains the word translated grace here. He says it signifies in classical authors a favor done out of the spontaneous generosity of the heart without any expectation of return. Of course, this favor was done always and only to friends or relatives, never to an enemy. But when the word grace comes into the context of the New Testament teaching, it takes an infinite leap forward because God does this favor. For his enemies, for the ungodly. A system of works seeks to put God in debt Making God owe you his favor because of your good behavior. In works thinking, God owes salvation to you because of your good works. But what does the scripture say here? It says, but to the one who does not work, but believes, that's faith. In him who justifies the ungodly, those who demerit God's grace and favor. His faith is counted. There it is, that word again. That word which is talking about a gift. It's talking about a credit. His faith is counted as righteousness. Righteousness can never be accounted to the one who approaches God on the principle of works. Instead, it is given to the one who believes on him who justifies the ungodly. David Guzick says, by human logic we might expect God would only justify a godly man. But because of what Jesus did on the cross, God can justify the ungodly. It isn't as if God is pleased with our ungodliness, He is not. We are not justified because of our ungodliness, but in spite of our ungodliness. Isn't that good news? Leon Morris says, this does not suggest that justification is a fiction, whether legal or any other sort, but that it is a miracle. And it is indeed a miracle. This was not some special arrangement just for Abraham either. Because Paul says that this is for all who believe. Not just Abraham long ago, but for all who believe. And now he's going to move on to another illustration, an exposition of Psalm 32 briefly, to bring out this doctrine a little bit further. An exposition, David and the blessedness of justification through faith. Verses 6 and following. It says, just as David also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness apart from works. And then quoting David, Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin. Great David, the greatest king of the Old Testament, knew what it was like to be guilty, didn't he? He knew the seriousness of sin, and he knew how how good it is to be truly forgiven. He knew, as he calls it, the blessing of the one to whom God counts. There's that legal term again, there's that banking term again, to the one whom God counts righteousness apart from works. David knew that if he were judged on his works alone, the righteous God would condemn him. But by grace he knew the experience, and he testifies of the wonderful experience of being counted righteous, and said About himself, blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven. Can you say that? Blessed am I, because my lawless deeds are covered up, forgiven, cast as far away from me as the East is from the West. The scholar Linsky says: no sinner, try he ever so hard, can possibly carry his own sins away and come back cleansed from guilt. No amount of money, no science, no inventive skill, no armies of millions, nor any other earthly power can carry away from the sinner one little sin and its guilt Once it is committed, every sin and its guilt cling to the sinner as close as does his own shadow, cling to all eternity unless God carries it away. So David agrees with Abraham here regarding the idea of an imputed Righteousness, that's another important New Testament word, imputed righteousness. That is a righteousness that is given, not earned. I don't want to pick on our friends, the Roman Catholics, but I will say this the Roman Church opposes the idea of imputed righteousness. The word behind that is the Greek word la gizomai. The Roman Church opposes the idea of counting of Christ's righteousness to us. They rather change it to the word infused, infused righteousness, like the process of a teabag in hot water. It infuses the tea into the hot water gradually. But what this does is it blurs the distinction between a legal reckoning and personal improvement, which also comes through faith. And here the apostle uses the word ten times. He uses the word imputed, La Gizemai, ten times. So I don't know how the Romans change it to infused righteousness. By the way, if someone were going to give you a million dollars And they promise to do it. And you check your account and and you see that you got $10 today and tomorrow you check it again. You got 10 more the next day. And then maybe 20 the third day, and then 10 the fourth day, you call the bank and say, I was supposed to get a million dollars. What's going on here? Oh, we're infusing the money into your account. Not the same sort of thing, is it? One of our hymns says the hymn to God be the glory says The vilest offender who truly believes that moment from Jesus forgiveness receives, not infused over years and years. That moment, Lagizimai, imputed righteousness. But back to the Jewish issue. Because Paul is arguing with the Jew here. The Jews thought that law-keeping Or having the mark of circumcision was what would ensure their standing with God. And Paul answers this next in verses 9 through 12. Where he says, Abraham was counted righteous before he was circumcised. Therefore, he was not counted righteous because he was circumcised. He goes through that in verses 9, 10, 11, 12. In other words, Abraham was counted as righteous by God. In Genesis chapter 15, verse 6, very important text. And yet he did not receive the covenant of circumcision and the sign of circumcision until when? Genesis chapter 17. You think, well, that's just maybe a few minutes difference. No, it's 14 years difference He was justified fourteen years before he received the sign of circumcision. Goodzik says that for the Jewish people of Paul's day, the significance of circumcision was more than just social. It was the entry point of life lived under the law of Moses They did not allow a circumcised Gentile convert to Judaism to refer to Abraham as their father. They weren't allowed to say my father Abraham, our father, Abraham. if you were a Gentile convert. A Gentile convert had to call Abraham your father in the synagogue. Only natural-born Jews could call Abraham our father. And Paul here, if you notice this, throws that out. And he says, all of us. All who are justified by faith, apart from the works of the law, apart from circumcision, all get to call God our Father. He says that in verse twelve, and to him, and to make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised, but also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised. All those in verse 11 get to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised. It's all there. Everybody gets to call God our Father. So faith, not circumcision, is the vital link to Abraham. It's far more important to have Abraham's faith. And the righteousness that God imputes than to have Abraham's circumcision. By the way, Jesus bluntly stated to the Phariseeic Jews of his day that Abraham was not their father. In John chapter 8, verses 38 through 44, he says, I speak of what I have seen with my father, and you do not have, and you do what you have heard from your father, two fathers. They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. You were doing the works your father did. They said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God. Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me, for I came from God and am here. I came not of my own accord, but He sent me. You do not understand what I say. It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. And then he says, You, these people who are proud children of Abraham, he says, You are of your father, the devil. And he goes on. So it's not the father, having Abraham as your father, having God as your father, is not a matter of circumcision or works or anything like that. It's a matter of what? Faith in Christ imputed righteousness counted to you And then finally, in verses thirteen and following, God's promise to Abraham was based on the principle of faith, not law or works. Verse 13. For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be heir of the world did not come through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if it is the adherents of the law who are to be heirs, faith is null, and the promise is void. For the law brings wrath. But where there is no law, there is no transgression. What he's saying, boiling it down, is these great things did not come through obedience to the law, but through this given righteousness, this imputed righteousness by faith. He's not saying the law is defective here. The law is perfectly good at condemning us when we measure up to it and fail to measure up to it. The law brings wrath, he says, because of our sins. But he says also, this is kind of interesting, and I'm going to take a little side trip here for the children. Where there is no law, there is no transgression. How can he say that? This requires an explanation. Leon Morris says, transgression is the word for overstepping a line. And this is for breaking a clearly defined commandment. So if there's no line, there is no actual Transgression. Now, children. This is like a child who does what he knows is wrong and then pleads innocent because there was no explicit command not to do what he did. Well, Paul says it is still wrong, even though no command was given, even though no line was crossed. Listen to this. The essence of sin isn't breaking the written law There are people who have never heard of the Ten Commandments, so they're not transgressing one of the Ten Commandments. The essence of sin isn't in breaking the written law, but in breaking trust with God, in denying his loving, caring purpose in every command he gives. And everyone has the law of God written on their heart. So everyone does this, even though there is no explicit crossing of a particular line. Sin is everywhere. Before Adam acted out by sinning, he broke trust with God. For this reason, God's plan of redemption is centered on a relationship of trusting love, faith, instead of mere law-keeping When you center your relationship with God on mere law-keeping instead of on trusting love, you go against his whole plan. So don't just go, I checked the box today. I didn't curse, I didn't lust, I didn't this or didn't that. The real question is, did you break trust with God? And loving God. And now we come finally, and I'm not going to read all the verses, but in verses 16 through 25 to Paul's emphatic conclusion. that justification is by grace through faith alone. He believed God What was the content of Abraham's faith? What did he believe that brought him this gift of justification, this gift of being counted righteous? What did he believe? Well, he believed that he would have descendants beyond number. That's what is promised here, recounted here. And thereby the heir of the world. That's a big promise. But that's what it says Remember, this promise was made to an old man who the scripture says was as good as dead, and so was his wife, his old barren wife, who had never had any children. Way too old to have children, and he believed God that he would have descendants beyond number. Why? Because God said so. And he also believed that God would raise the dead. We get this from the narrative in Genesis 22, where Abraham was told to take his, when he finally got the miracle baby, his name is Isaac, when he finally got this miracle child Isaac, he was told to take him to a mountain three days journey. And offer him there as a sacrifice to God. And he obeyed God. Three days' journey, that's a long time to think about what he was told to do. And what he believed about it. And we are told in Hebrews chapter 11, verses 17 through 19, by faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac. And he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son, of whom it was said, Through Isaac shall your offspring be named. He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead. And then the writer of Hebrews says, from which figuratively speaking he did receive him back. So he believed that God is able to raise the dead. And the third piece of the faith of Abraham was that he believed that through the covenant promises made to him. God would fulfill the ancient promise to send the Messiah, the seed of the woman. We can see that in John chapter 8. 56 through 59, where Jesus speaking to the Jews again said, Your listen to this, your father Abraham Rejoice that he would see my day. Way back to Abraham and he says about Abraham. He rejoiced that he would see my day. And then Jesus says, he saw it. And he was glad. So Abraham had faith. He saw Jesus and was glad about Jesus. What did the Jews say, verse 57? The Jews said to him, You are not fifty years old, and you have seen Abraham? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. So they picked up stones to throw at him. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. See, these are the contents of his faith. That he would have descendants beyond number because God said so. That God could raise the dead, so he obeyed him even to take his son to Mount Moriah. And that God was able to fulfill his covenant promises, to bring forth the seed of the woman, the Messiah. And those are the promises of God. The justifying grace was accomplished in Abraham as he believed. I'm going to give a few quotes here and then move on. Guzick says, Abraham's example helps us to understand the nature of faith. The conception of Abraham's son Isaac was a miracle, but it was not an immaculate conception. Abraham's faith did not mean that he did nothing and just waited for God to create a child in Sarah's womb. Abraham and Sarah had marital relations and trusted God for a miraculous result. This shows us that faith does not mean doing nothing. But doing everything with trust and a reliance upon God. Spurgeon says, all true believers like Abraham obey. Obedience is faith in action. You are to walk in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham. His faith did not sit still. It took steps. And you must take these steps also by obeying God because you believe him. The faith that has no works with it is dead faith, and it will justify no one. And then another commentator says Sense corrects imagination. Reason corrects sense. But faith corrects both. It will not be, says sense. It cannot be, says reason. It both can and will be, says faith. For I have a promise from God for it. Your justification. Sitting here today, if a meteor lands on this building and we're all wiped out, your justification. Is there and complete by faith alone. Verses 23, 24, and 25. But the words It was counted to him, were not written for his sake alone, but for yours also. It will be counted to us who believe in Him who raised Him from the dead, Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. He was delivered up. The ancient Greek word translated delivered was used of casting people into prison or delivering them to justice. He was delivered. To judgment. This judicial act of God the Father delivering God the Son to the justice that required the payment of the penalty for your sin. Lensky says, Jesus' resurrection always includes his sacrificial death, but it brings out the all-sufficiency of his death. If death had held him, he would have failed. Since he was raised up from death, his sacrifice sufficed. God set his seal upon it by raising him up. Do you believe that Jesus is the Christ who was virgin conceived, the Son of God and the Son of Man in one person? That is Abraham's faith. He believed God's word that he would have these descendants. He believed in a miracle. And we believe in a miracle too, the virgin birth. Of Jesus Christ, the God man who came in human flesh to save us. Abraham believed that God would raise the dead. And do you believe that God substituted his only Son on the cross in your place for your sins? And do you believe that God raised him from the dead? And Abraham believed that through the covenant promises made to him, God would fulfill the ancient promises to send the Messiah, the seed of the woman. Do you believe that all of God's ancient promises and purposes will be fulfilled in Jesus? Even to the extent that, as it says here in this chapter, he will be heir of the whole world. Do you believe that? This is the same gospel that Abraham believed, except that, except, an important exception, except that now you have greater information. And you have greater witness. You can read about how God did it. You can hear it preached in gathered worship. You can taste and see what God has done as you eat and drink the Holy Supper of the Lord. It is for you who believe in Him who raised up Jesus our Lord. You can know your justification. You're being accounted righteous in this historical fact of his resurrection. He who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised. That's the last phrase here, and raised for our justification. There's a gospel song that was written some years ago that ends this way. It has a chorus that says this about The fact that he was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification, it says this. Because he lives, I can face tomorrow. Because he lives, all fear is gone. Because I know he holds the future. And life is worth the living because he lives. Amen. Lord, there is so much here, so much rich meat. In Paul's exposition of justification by faith, seen in the life of Abraham and seen in the life of David. And seen in the work, the finished work of Jesus Christ, which is testified by the fact that you raised him up from the dead. And we can have assurance through that Help us, Lord, not to demure, not to be weakened in our faith, but to believe that He is able to be heir of the whole world. And place our confidence in Him. Amen.