First Chronicles chapter 21, starting at verse 18. Now the angel of the Lord had commanded Gad to say to David, that David should go up and raise an altar to the Lord on the threshing floor of Ornon the Jebusite. So David went up at Gad's word, which he had spoken in the name of the Lord. Now Ornan was threshing wheat. He turned and saw the angel, and his four sons who were with him hid themselves. As David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David and went out from the threshing floor and paid homage to David with his face to the ground. And David said to Ornan, Give me the site of the threshing floor that I may build on it an altar to the Lord. Give it to me at its full price, that the plague may be averted from the people Then Ornan said to David, Take it, and let my lord, the king, do what seems good to him. See, I give the oxen for burnt offerings, and the threshing sledges for the wood. and the wheat for a grain offering. I give it all. But King David said to Orna, No, but I will buy it from you at the full price I will not take for the Lord what is yours, nor offer burnt offerings that cost me nothing. So David paid Ornan six hundred shekels of gold by weight for the sight. And David built there an altar to the Lord, and presented burnt offerings and peace offerings, and called on the Lord. And the Lord answered him with fire from heaven upon the altar of burnt offerings. Then the Lord commanded the angel, and he put his sword back into its sheath. At that time, when David saw that the Lord had answered him at the threshing floor of Orn and the Jebusite, he sacrificed there For the tabernacle of the Lord, which Moses had made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt offering were at that time at the high pla in the high place at Gibeon. But David could not go before it to inquire of God, for he was afraid of the sword of the angel of the Lord. Then David said, Here shall be the house of the Lord God, and here the altar of burnt offering for Israel David commanded to gather together the resident aliens who were in the land of Israel, and he set stone cutters to prepare dress stones for building the house of God. David also provided great quantities of iron for nails for the doors of the gates. and for clamps, as well as bronze in quantities beyond weighing, and cedar timbers without number. For the Sidonians and Tyrians brought great quantities of cedar to David For David said, Solomon my son is young and inexperienced, and the house that is to be built for the Lord must be exceedingly magnificent. Of fame and glory throughout all lands. I will therefore make preparation for it. So David provided materials in great quantity before his death. Then he called for Solomon his son and charged him to build a house for the Lord, the God of Israel. David said to Solomon, My son, I had it in my heart to build a house to the name of the Lord my God. But the word of the Lord came to me, saying, You have shed much blood and have waged great wars. You shall not build a house to my name, because you have shed so much blood before me on the earth Behold, a son shall be born to you who shall be a man of rest. I will give him rest from all his surrounding enemies, for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace I will give Give peace and quiet to Israel in his days. He shall build a house for my name, he shall be my son, and I will be his father, and I will establish his royal throne in Israel forever. John 4, 1 through 42. Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John. Although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples. He left Judea and departed again for Galilee And he had to pass through Samaria. So he came to a town of Samaria called Sikar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there. So Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. And a woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water, so that I may not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water. Jesus said to her, Go call your husband and come here. The woman answered him, I have no husband Jesus said to her, You are right in saying, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband. What you have said is true The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you were a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place people ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know, we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming and is now here when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. Just then the disciples came back. They marveled that he was talking with a woman. But no one said, What do you seek? Or why are you talking with her? So the woman left her water jar and went away into town. And said to the people, Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? They went out of the town and were coming to him. Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. So the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him something to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and accomplish his work. Do you not say there are yet four months, then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that the sower and reaper may rejoice together For here the saying holds true One sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them. And he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you have said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves and know that this is indeed The Savior of the world. The word of the Lord. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for having inspired your holy word. to be written down in Gospels and Epistles, as well as in the prophets and the Psalms and the writings of the Old Testament. We thank you That you, by your sovereignty and providence, have preserved the very words of God in Scripture, and that we have it before us today. And now we pray that your Spirit, who inspired these words in the first place, would illumine them, shine his light of of glory on them, so that we may see in them what we should do and how we should think and how we should live. For we ask it in Jesus' name, and for his sake, and for his glory, as we have purpose to live for his glory. We ask it. Amen. Well, this is the second sermon in the same section, although it's expanded a bit. But the way I'm going to take it today is that this is being presented for your edification, for my edification, but for our edification. Because the work that God has given to pastors is that it says in Ephesians 4, he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to do what? To equip, to equip the saints. You are the saints. We are saints in Christ. We are holy. We are set apart We are set apart to service in Christ. We are saints to equip the saints for the work of ministry. for the building up of the body of Christ. So that's what this is about today, an application of this story, this narrative, so that you may be better equipped to serve Christ in your own life. And that is to do evangelism. To do evangelism Now, evangelism could be defined this way. It is the bearing of the good news of God's kindness to forgive sinners in and through the work of Jesus Christ. I'll repeat that. It is the bearing of the good news of God's kindness to forgive sinners in and through the work of Jesus Christ. To whom should we bear this good news? Well, you might think of evangelism as something that happens when people go to billigram crusades Or when people go door to door and knock on the door and hand out literature and that sort of thing. But I'm going to have it thought differently today. It is when we tell the good news, when we bear the good news of God's kindness, first of all, to each other When we remind each other, we preach the gospel to each other. When we are perplexed or troubled in our own lives, we need someone to remind us. Of the good news that God forgives sinners through the work of Jesus Christ. We bear that good news to one another And in that context, we bear that good news to our children. So, fathers and mothers, you need to bear, you need to be an evangelist to your children. Even covenant children, yes. Because we all need to hear the good news all the time of God's kindness to forgive sinners in and through Christ. And we should bear this good news to other family members in our extended family, brothers and sisters, aunts and uncles and so forth, people with whom we have contacts through our families. We should be evangelists to them. And then we go to the place where we normally think of evangelism, and that is our acquaintances and our non-acquaintances, other people around us. Yes, we should bear the good news to them. where we can and how we can. And so let us consider that today as we consider this portion. First of all, before you can bear this good news Of God's kindness to forgive sinners, you must be convinced personally of the truth and the power of Christ. You must be convinced personally. At the end of this story, we see that the people that heard Jesus said, we have heard for ourselves and we know That this is indeed the Savior of the world. You need to have that conviction yourself that you know That Jesus is the Savior of the world. There's no other way of salvation. There's no other name under heaven given among men whereby we may be saved. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, and no one comes to the Father but by Him. If you don't have that kind of belief and conviction, you can't really bear the good news because you're not convinced of it yourself. So be convinced of it. Be convinced of it. And then if you are convinced of it, then this is your work. It's your work to each other. It's your work to children and grandchildren and other family members and acquaintances and even non-acquaintances around you. And how do you do this? First, I'm going to show you that you need to keep divine appointments. Expect divine appointments. What are they? They are encounters with people which are ordained by God, who is sovereign over everything. Encounters with people which are ordained by God as opportunities to present the good news concerning salvation in Jesus Christ. Now, where do I get that? I get it from verse 4 where it says, and he had to pass through Samaria. He had to pass. There's a purpose there. As I said last week, Jews would normally just go around, but Jesus had to pass through Samaria, and I think that the purpose here is evangelism. God had sent him, the Father had sent him, the Spirit was sending him through Samaria for the purpose of this divine appointment. And he came to the town of Sychar near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there, so Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. What are divine appointments like? How can I know when I'm in a divine appointment? Well, you can't always discern, but here's a case study. But it's an unlikely place. Maybe it's not a place that you expected to be at all. Something changed your course that day, and now you're in this place And you're before this person, and it's not what you expected, but there it is. An unlikely place. Samaria was an unlikely place for Jesus. Maybe it's in the midst of uncomfortable circumstances. Here was Jesus, the sixth hour, that's noon, blazing sun, heat. And it says in the text, Jesus, being fully human, was wearied from the journey. Wearied, hungry, thirsty. So that's the kind of circumstance where you can expect divine appointments. Uncomfortable circumstances, not just uncomfortable circumstances, mind you. But then when you expect it, you find it in ordinary conversation, not some kind of specialized speech, not some kind of specialized presentation, although I'm all in favor of evangelism explosion and other methods of sharing the gospel. I'm not opposed to memorizing a presentation at all But these are usually just ordinary conversation. Don't wait for a dove to land on your head. Don't wait for a vision to happen. Heat of the day, noon, you're waiting for a drink, and there's a conversation. That's what Jesus did. And I want to remind you that in Matthew 28, 19 and 20, Uh if you've been around church for a long time, you know that that's called the Great Commission. Matthew 28, 19 and 20. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, it says. But the word go is actually in a participial form, and it really means going. It could be translated this way or paraphrased, as you are going, make disciples of all nations. And then it goes on, baptizing them, teaching them, and so forth. So our divine appointments are as we are going. As we're going to work, as we're going to the pharmacy, as we're going to our relatives' house, as we're taking care of our children, as we're doing life, as we're going, make disciples bear the good news. In all kinds of circumstances. That's the first thing then. The second thing would be be gracious on purpose Be gracious on purpose. Every human being that you meet is made in the image of God. Every human being They may be far from God in attitude and lifestyle. This is due to sin. Sin twists and distorts the image of God in people until it is sometimes hardly recognizable. As I was thinking of how sin twists and distorts, I remember many years ago visiting a man in my congregation or associated with my congregation, my first congregation. His name was Jack. And he had been suffering from rheumatoid arthritis for many years. His hands and his limbs were twisted like pretzels Unable to walk, muscles atrophied. Jack had spent many days and nights in a reclining chair. His wife Dorothy was a member of our church. She was a nimble, active, caring, loving wife. And she was very attentive to Jack. When I saw him, I was shocked. I had never seen arthritis like this. It was hard for me to imagine him as a vibrant young farmer, as a vibrant husband and father. But it wasn't hard for Dorothy. She still saw him through the eyes of her youth and looked past his distorted body. She was gracious. She saw past the distortion to the original image of her young husband. We must do this with the people we meet I confess to you that I often fail to see God's image. And this doesn't mean we should be Pollyanna and think everybody is just fine the way they are. But believe, we should believe, that every human being bears God's image, even though twisted and distorted. And on that account alone, on the account of bearing God's image, that person has dignity. Dignity. They bear the image of God. And so we should revere them in a certain way. And we should be gracious toward them in a certain way. Jesus saw a Samaritan, you see. Samaritans were a despised race of settlers that had been put there by the king of Assyria 720 years earlier. The Jews believed that these people were pork eaters and unclean because of it. They were syncretizers in religion. having chosen Mount Gerizim as their sacred place, rejecting Jerusalem at the temple, which we read about from Chronicles. that God had designated Jerusalem and that place as the temple where he his name would be worshipped. But they had rejected that. So they were syncretizers and heretics. Jesus saw a Samaritan woman, and Samaritan women were rumored by the Jews to be continually menstrual from birth, therefore unclean. Now that's probably ridiculous, right? But that's the way they treated them, right? Jesus saw a woman who'd been married five times and was not married to the man she was living with at the present. We don't know how this came to be. She may have been divorced by former husbands or widowed, but her present state was not sanctioned by God's law. Jesus saw a woman made in the image of God. A woman who was part of the nations to which he had been sent as a blessing. And I quote it again, in your seed all the nations shall be blessed. So many reiterations of that promise. And show Jesus, Jesus condescended and spoke to her. That was a gracious thing. Are there people you wouldn't speak to? You just wouldn't even speak to them? Well, Jesus would. He did. And I want to throw this little quip in that I've heard many times in the past. I don't know where it came from, but and listen to it is this. People won't care what you know until they know that you care. So be gracious to the person who waits on you in the grocery store. Or at the restaurant, or the coffee shop. Take an interest in them. You might ask: how long have you worked here? How did you get this job? And you might compliment them on their work and say, you've done a really good job here today. Thank you for that. For serving me. Be gracious to them on purpose. That's just one illustration of this gracious attitude. I was remembering from years ago uh a church planter in Oak Park, Illinois. His name was David Williams. And I spent an afternoon with David Williams. It was surprising and I've never forgotten it. I was walking down the streets of Oak Park, a lovely western suburb of Chicago, near western suburb of Chicago, and as we walked down the street, David was greeting people. He was saying, hi, how are you? He's smiling at people and talking even if he didn't know them. And he did know some of them because they had gotten used to this David Williams that greets people all the time as they walked around, as he walked around. He greeted people in the restaurant and he knew some people by name. He was gracious to people on purpose, you see. A good example of how to be in our daily going as we go, make disciples. That's part of it. Be gracious on purpose. I've quoted this old hymn before, but I'll quote it again. Out in the highways and byways of life, many are weary and sad. Think of the people around you. Carry the sunshine where darkness is rife, making the sorrowing glad. And then the refrain says, Make me a blessing, make me a blessing. Out of my life may Jesus shine. Make me a blessing, O Savior, I pray. Make me a blessing to someone today. Be gracious on purpose. Secondly, or thirdly, I guess it is now, nurture a thirst. Nurture a thirst The woman in verse 9, the Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you and Jew ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? And then the parents says, for Jews have no healings with Samaritans. Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is that was saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? And she asked some more questions. But what I want to point to you here, that what he's doing is he's he's going from a lesser human need, he's appealing from a lesser human need to a greater human need. The appeal from thirst and rest from having to come and get this water all the time, day after day. Water is indispensable to life, you see. It meets a universal need, and it comes from above, so it's a really good illustration. It cleanses us, it heals us, and we never tire of water. So it was the perfect illustration, divine illustration, really. And we appeal from that lesser to the greater, the greater need that this woman has. has is joy in the place of broken life and sadness. This woman needs love in the place of failed relationships. This woman needs belonging in the place of being alone and an outsider, evidently. This woman needs forgiveness in the place of guilt and shame. And this woman needs security in an insecure world. That hymn that I quoted has another verse that says Tell the sweet story of Christ and His love. Tell Him His power to forgive. Give as 'twas given to you in your need. Love as the Master loved you. So what we should do, we should do, we should say to people something like this, if you only knew the joy of forgiveness. The peace of fellowship with God and the security that Jesus gives, you would ask him, and he would give. It would be more than enough. You can't even imagine that it would be more than enough. When we encounter people all around us, the things that they seek are never enough But Jesus promises everlasting satisfaction. That's what he's doing with this woman here. Satisfaction beyond our wildest dreams. In this life, people seek satisfaction, they seek joy, they seek security from things that cannot give it, can't do it I know that for me, my present joy and my present satisfaction is found in my family. My wife, my children, my grandchildren. That's where my but you know what? We know the story of Job. All those things can be wiped away. They are not secure. We need to find something that's even more secure than that. And that's what Jesus was doing. He was telling this woman about something greater, appealing from the lesser. known need to the greater deep need. And then fourthly, be willing to bear bad news as well as good news. This is a kind of spiritual aggression. The scandal of the stumbling block of the cross will never go away. Be willing to bear that bad news. It is bad news, you see. It is bad news that you and I and all the people we encounter are so bad that an innocent man had to die the death that we deserve. That's how bad it is. So far, Jesus has encountered Nicodemus and told him that he must be born again, that he needs a new life. That's bad news. And John has said, in summary, to the hearers and readers that they are condemned already if they do not believe, and that they are unwilling to come to the light because their deeds are evil. And he says in verse 36 of chapter 3: whoever believes in the Son has eternal life, and whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. That's bad news. We have to be willing to bear the bad news as well. When Jesus did that to this woman, when he said, Go call your husband and come here. And then at the end of that he said, And the one you have now is not your husband. Now that could have stirred up in her anger, outrage, or it could have also stirred up in her Repentance. But that depends upon the mighty Holy Spirit. If we tell people the truth about their condition, their spiritual condition, their guilt before God, they can get really mad and you know, hate us and call us haters. Or they can say, you know what, you're telling the truth. And the Holy Spirit can work in their hearts so that they say that is the truth about And I repent, I turn. What must I do to be saved? When you're doing this, some tips that I've learned and the scriptures would teach too: don't be offensive by putting yourself above others. That is the way we sometimes come across to people because we don't dress, you know, like some of the people do in our society. We we look pretty n well pretty upper middle class and pretty uh straight lace and so forth, right? Uh we don't look very strange, in our own eyes at least. We tend to be seen as putting ourselves above others. We're holier than thou, at least in their eyes. We know we're not We know that we're sinners. We know that we fail all the time. If we're honest with ourselves, we do. But they tend to think of us as, oh yeah, those those Christians, those church people. We have to break that down a bit and identify with sinners as the sinner instead of putting ourselves above sinners. And then when you do tell the gospel, when you do tell the truth about God and his salvation, don't offer this as your opinion. Well, let me tell you my opinion about religion. No, it's not an opinion. It's the truth. It's the truth from God. Therefore, it's just not an opinion. Please don't offer it as your opinion. You don't have any authority to offer an opinion. You can only tell what God says. And here's a pitfall that we all have, including me, do not let your natural pride, we all have pride. Do not let your natural pride, your desire to be liked, to be a people pleaser, do not let that keep you from humbly and gently telling the truth. Oh, I'm afraid if I spring up Jesus, they'll hate me or they won't like me or won't be invited to the next office party or whatever. No, don't let your natural pride and your natural desire to be acceptable keep you from telling the truth. Don't do it. And then I give you an example of that. Imagine a doctor. Imagine a doctor who has seen an X-ray A patient who happens to be a friend, right? So this doctor has seen the x-ray of her patient's lungs and has observed a tumor there. And they're sitting together in the consultation room, and the doctor sees the cancer clearly, but he doesn't want to spoil the patient's day. The doctor wants to keep a cheerful relationship going. Imagine her saying to the patient, well, we all have our problems, but you'll be okay. Have a nice What would that be? Is that kindness? It's kindness to yourself. Is it kindness? No, it's malpractice We know the reality. If we understand the gospel, if we believe the gospel, we know the reality. Sin is the transgression of the law of God. And our catechism says, what doth every sin deserve at the hands of God? Every sin, even the least being against the sovereignty, goodness, and holiness of God, and against his righteous law, deserveth his wrath and curse both in this life and in that which is to come, and cannot be expiated by the blood, except by the blood of Christ. It's not a matter of saying, We all have our problems, but you'll be okay That's not the truth. What did this woman do in response to this aggression on Jesus' part? What did she do? She tried to talk religion with Jesus She said, Sir, I perceive that you're a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship and so forth. She brings up a religious discussion. Other folks will try politics. Well, let's see, are you for Donald Trump or against him? Or do you think Bernie Sanders is a good guy or whatever? They'll bring it up. They'll try to change the subject to talk something else Or they'll talk philosophy. Well, do you believe this about philosophy or that? Or science. Do you think science proves the existence or disproves or whatever? Or the economy, or even the weather. Hey, we've been getting a lot of rain lately, haven't we? You know, change the subject so we don't have to talk about this bad news Stick to the subject, folks, if that happens. If someone around you, even one of your dear relatives, stick to the subject Politics, that's what they've tried on you, will say, you know, God is the true king and ruler of the world, and all must submit to him. How about you? Are you submitting to him? Philosophy. God is the source of all truth about man and the world. So that's my philosophy. What about you? Science. God is the creator of all knowledge, and we only learn by thinking God's thoughts after him. That's my view of science. What about you? Religion. All religions, all religions, other than the biblical Christian faith, all religions say do, do, do, do, do. And Jesus offers, done. Tear down these false shelters. And Jesus did that in the next few verses. He said, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know, we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews He tore down her religious shelter and pointed her to the revealed religion, the biblical religion. Salvation is of the Jews. And then don't give in to discouragement. Don't give in to discouragement. People will reject your message, but don't let it stop you. Don't reject them for rejecting your message. Don't take it personally. That's that pride thing again. I want to be thought well of by everybody, and I don't even want to bring it up. It's going to make them think bad of me. No, don't take it personally. Satan blinds the minds and hearts of many, but you should love them all the more. And don't be afraid of suffering. That's what Peter said to the Christians who were in Asia. He said, What credit is it if when you sin you are beaten for it and endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example so that you might follow in his steps. Be willing to suffer. For Christ, for the word of Christ, for the truth of the gospel. And then make it your food to keep these divine appointments. What do you do when you get hungry? Do you eat? Yes, you do. Jesus was encountering his disciples in their return from shopping The disciples were urging him in verse 31 saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. So the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him something to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. That's my priority. is to do the will of Him who sent me and accomplish His work. Make that your priority too. Just as much as food is a priority for you And what is the outcome of this encounter, this divine appointment? What is the outcome? Well, we read it in verses 28, and following the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people, Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? Wonderful. She believes and she tells others about Christ. And then in verse 39, many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. And they asked Jesus to stay, and he stayed two days, and then they believed more and more clearly and firmly that he is the Christ. And they said at the end, we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. That's the outcome of this divine appointment. I'm calling you, equipping you and calling you to keep these divine appointments, brothers and sisters. What will be the final product of your life if they write an obituary in the in the Enterprise or the County Times? I've read some obituaries in the air. They're pretty sad. So-and-so liked to party, liked to fish, liked to travel, was a good neighbor. Worked in this industry for many years and retired and so forth. Traveled here and there and did a lot. It's not a very good obituary, is it? I'd rather have an obituary, whether it's in the enterprise or not, that said he made friends for Jesus He told others about Jesus. He believed in Jesus. He trusted in Jesus. He made friends for Jesus. That's what I said about my dad at his memorial service. Or I'd like to be able to say, if I was a woman, that my obituary said, she nurtured children in the Lord. Or if I'm not a mother, but I have the care of other children, the teaching, the discipleship of other children, she nurtured or he nurtured children in the Lord. Was faithful to God in word and deed. That is what I would want written. Told many about Christ. That is what should be written. As I said before, some will respond positively, others may not respond positively at this time. That's when Jesus said, one sows, another reaps. You're coming to to reap what someone else sowed. He was thinking of the whole Old Testament scripture, the whole promises and prophecies. And now the disciples are reaping what others before, sent by God, have sown. Psalm one twenty six says this, he who goes out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come home with shouts of joy, bringing his sheaves with him. So in summary, expect divine appointments. As you're going, make disciples. Be gracious on purpose Make it clear to people that you're not proud of your own righteousness, but of Christ's righteousness, which is yours by faith and can be theirs by faith. Uncover and nurture a thirst for God's peace, for love and for forgiveness in them. They have a deep-seated need for these things, made in the image of God. Be willing to bear bad news as well as good news. And then don't give in to discouragement because the real work is done by God the Holy Spirit. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we praise you and thank you that you have called us to yourself. You used other people. You used Our mothers, our fathers, our colleagues, our friends, our acquaintances. You used people in our lives, and these were divine appointments. Help us to believe that it's not by accident that we have come to believe. And help us to be faithful, to bear the good news of Jesus Christ. To keep divine appointments, to expect them, and then to be faithful to the gospel. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.