Congregation, our scripture readings tonight are taken from the Old and New Testaments. First of all, Psalm 143. And then Romans 3, verses 21 through 26. Hear the word of God. A Psalm of David Hear my prayer, O Lord. Give ear to my pleas for mercy. In your faithfulness, answer me, in your righteousness. Enter not into judgment with your servant, for no one living is righteous before you. For the enemy has pursued my soul. He has crushed my life to the ground. He has made me sit in darkness like those long dead. Therefore, my spirit faints within me. My heart within me is appalled. I remember the days of old. I meditate on all that you have done. I ponder the work of your hands. I stretch out my hands to you. My soul thirsts for you like a parched land. Selah. Answer me quickly, O Lord. My spirit fails. Hide not your face from me, lest I be like those who go down to the pit. Let me hear in the morning of your steadfast love, for in you I trust. Make me know the way I should go, for to you I lift up my soul. Deliver me from my enemies, O Lord. I have fled to you for refuge. Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Let your good spirit lead me on level ground. For your name's sake, O Lord, preserve my life. In your righteousness, bring my soul out of trouble. For in your steadfast love you will cut off my enemies, and you will destroy all the adversaries of my soul. For I am your servant. And now Romans three, verses twenty-one to twenty-six. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Beloved Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Going through these Psalms over the course of the last couple of years, If we have learned anything at all, we have learned that David's experience of salvation was indeed parallel to ours. Tonight is no exception. Once more, we hear the one same gospel. Those sinners will be saved from eternal judgment, who by the power of God's Spirit Cry for mercy on the basis of His promise to forgive all who trust alone in Jesus Christ's atoning sacrifice for them. And who, by the same Spirit's enablement, demonstrate their faith by a lifelong repentance For their sins. I want you to observe in the first place from this psalm a dangerous condition. Verses 1 through 4. What is David's problem here? Just this. He is fearful of judgment by the Lord Yahweh, the sovereign and only God. He may be surrounded by political foes to the north, east, and south of his tiny kingdom. And threatened by rebellious members of his own family. And he was constantly. But those are not the enemies that he fears the most The chief burden of his inner heart, his very soul, is this. He stands guilty of personal and repetitive Sin. Sin is correctly described in our Westminster Shorter Catechism as quote, any want that is lack. Of conformity unto or violation of the law of God. That's sin. Yes, David's enemy is none other than the accusing law of God that has, as he puts it, crushed his life to the ground. The Apostle Paul would later make the same point when he wrote to the Romans 7:9 I was once alive, apart from the law. But when the commandment came, sin came alive and I died. David cannot escape the law of God, which he says has pursued my soul and made me sit in darkness like those long dead. In fact, David acknowledges to God that, truth be told, no one living is righteous before you. But David takes no comfort in the fact that he has plenty of company, in the number of human beings that share his plight. As sinners dead in the presence of God's holy commandments. He doesn't cry for mercy on the ground that the entire human race Faces an absolutely righteous God who will be counted upon to execute promised eternal judgment upon the unrighteous This is a personal matter with David, as he moans, My spirit faints within me. My heart within me is appalled. David's problem is that he is in the dock of divine justice He has no counselor to aid him, and he can contrive no argument by his own wits, by which he can hope to withstand the judgment of that court. Which can be nothing less than guilty as charged. Psalm 143 is the last Of the psalms that have been called penitential in the liturgical tradition of the church. Following Psalms six, thirty two, thirty eight, fifty one 102 and 130, making with 143 tonight's text, seven psalms in all, the penitential psalms But at first glance, it is somewhat hard to see why Psalm 143 belongs with those others. In all of which the writer confesses his sin and asks for mercy and forgiveness from God. In our Psalm tonight, and especially in these first four verses, we don't have David saying something like this. I am guilty, but I repent, and I have repented in the past for all my sins. He doesn't say that. Rather, he says, I am in a dangerous condition. Now I cannot take my unrighteousness lightly and for granted. David knows that even if God in his gracious mercy has pardoned him for his past sins, And justified him in his sight. God only knows how. But we today do know it was on the ground of the atoning sacrifice of Messiah Jesus. David still knows that he is anything but fully sanctified. God is his Savior, and he is God's unworthy but true servant. But his life on earth is continually tarred by violation of the holy commandments of God. So I can only conclude that David is repentant, but he doesn't see that as an act that he performed once and for all. He needs daily repentance for the entirety of his lifelong days. And you need to realize, congregation. That such was the understanding that Martin Luther had when he composed the very first of his ninety-five theses. Posted on the door of the Castle Church in Wittenberg, launching the Protestant Reformation. That thesis one reads as follows. Quote, When our Lord and Master Jesus Christ said, Repent He meant that the entire life of believers should be one of repentance. Yes, you too need lifelong repentance As sinners in a dangerous condition. Because none of you can do and do do even the best of what we do. Without sin. Luther once said wisely, think about this. And it will be seen as true if carefully mused. He said, I have learned that even my repentance needs to be repented of. At no point in your life This side of the final judgment and your admission into the presence of the Holy God, will you have been fully and completely sanctified? That awaits. The judgment and beyond. You must ever cry right up to your final breath Hear my prayer, O Lord, give ear to my pleas for mercy, for no one living is righteous before you. So that's David's dangerous condition. And it's ours too. But he has more to write. And in verses five through eight, David speaks of a gracious salvation. Yes, David's heart within him is appalled at the thought of his depravity and sin, and he knows that he faces God's righteous judgment. And he doesn't plead not guilty. He doesn't plead for mercy on the ground that he feels so sorry either. He repents even though he doesn't use the word. Repentance doesn't plead extenuating circumstances Repentance is naked and unvarnished confession of guilt. And that's what exactly David does. He repents. But then, lest we think that his repentance is still somehow, somewhere, somewhat, linked to something commendable that he has done. He rules that out in these eight words. I meditate on all that you have done David is a saved sinner because God alone has done something for him. That which God has done for him is but a continuation of what he has always done in his grace and mercy for his covenant people. David says, I remember the days of old. I ponder the work of your hands. What's he talking about there? You know, his covenant of salvation for a chosen people that he has been implementing ever since mankind's fall into sin and condemnation in the Garden of Eden, ever since then. I'm sure David could enumerate that God-honoring chronicle if we requested it. The birth of Seth, the flood of Noah, the call of Abraham, the mosaic deliverance The crossing of Jordan, to name but a few. But all of it What God has done for his people, not what they had done for him. That's why David cries out: I stretch out my hands to you. Not to give God anything, but only to receive with open hands what God alone would give to him. David's appeal for mercy, as he insisted upon in verse 1, is on the basis of God's faithfulness and righteousness. Not David's. Now, I don't know if David understood the promise of a Savior to come when he wrote this psalm. But I do know that what he wrote is exactly what the Apostle John wrote in the opening chapter of his first letter. If we confess our sins, God is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. That, my friends, is justification and sanctification. Faithful and just in 1 John 1 9. are the same as faithfulness and righteousness in Psalm 143. They're the same. Both of these passages of Holy Scripture teach you that you are saved righteously on the basis not of what you have done. But on the basis of the death of Jesus Christ, what God has done And of that David was sure, even if he did not know exactly how God would do it. But he does say My soul thirsts for you like a parched land. We sometimes hear certain modern American so-called evangelists. Publishing salvation as though it were taking God up on a great deal. He had presumably offered All you have to do is pray the sinner's prayer, which is usually worded for you. And ipso facto, you will be saved. But our David doesn't go for that. He rather says to God, My soul thirsts for you. He doesn't tell God what he, David, will give him, but wants more than anything else, God's love that he will give to David. He wants to arise every morning, he says, of his earthly life with the assurance of God's heavenly steadfast smile. That's not taking God up on a great offer. That's not giving God anything for something He wants. E with a small H, meaning David. It's receiving God Himself with a capital H. That's why he cries, Answer me quickly, O Lord. My spirit fails. Hide not your face from me, lest I be like those who go down to the pit. To put it another way, without you, I will die. I don't need only to escape hell. I need to live before your divine presence in glory. So I ask you tonight, Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you share with David this prayerful cry every morning of your life? Let me hear of your steadfast love, for in you I trust. That brings us to the third point of four in the sermon. And it comes from verses 8b through 10. Maybe we better read those again. Make me know the way I should go, for to you I lift up my soul. Deliver me from my enemies, O Lord. I have fled to you for refuge. Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Let your good spirit lead me on level ground. If this is anything, it is a plea for divine guidance. In these verses, David acknowledges that he needs more than forgiveness for his past sins. And thus the status of innocence in the face of coming judgment. He needs more than that. He is concerned with his life in the present and also in the future. He knows that, notwithstanding the gracious moving of the Spirit within his heart, enabling him to repent and trust God, that he also must be enabled To obey God. Putting things in New Testament, gospel-fulfilled terms, I can say only that David needs Sanctification as well as justification. You get it? The two not only belong together, justification and sanctification, they must be together. No one can have one without the other. There is no justification in the sight of God that does not produce Sanctification in the life of the believer. That's what James meant when he said Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. And David, before James, knew that too. He knew that he couldn't expect to receive deliverance from God's righteous judgment upon him without a changed life of him. That is surely not to say that God would pardon David on the ground of his faith and his works. Did you hear those capital letters A N D? It's not to say that, but it is to say That God would pardon David on the ground of his faith alone, in God's faithfulness That he would provide a righteousness for David that was not his own, but was that of the coming Messiah There and that is the ground of David's justification, the work of God for him. But once more, that is not the end of the story. David realizes that the work of God in saving him from eternal judgment is a work that saves him as well from lifelong bondage to sin and evil. That's why he cries, make me to know the way that I should go. For to you I lift up my soul. In other words, David wants to practice a lifelong repentance. He yearns for a morning by morning. Evidence of God's steadfast love. Not a once-stamped ticket to heaven alone. But with it, a day-by-day repentance and faith on the way of his earthly life as well. It's in the Bible, folks. It's in David's Psalm. And it's in James. Do you yearn for that, dear congregation, members here tonight? If you do, then you will say with David, make me to know the way I should go. You will be concerned with knowing and obeying the law of God. Otherwise, without that understanding and without that determination, You will sense no need to repent. Teach me to do your will, O Lord, will be your daily prayer. It was David's, and he let you tonight eavesdrop Eavesdrop on his own personal plea to the Lord his God, because the Holy Spirit, who inspired the writing of this song. Wants that cry to be found in your daily devotion to your Savior also. That's why it's in the Bible. And you face it squarely tonight. Let your good spirit lead me on level ground. Thank God for that prayer request. It ought to be on the little blue slips of paper every day. Fourthly, finally, and shortly, we notice a confidence brought forth in divine security. That's verses eleven and twelve. For your name's sake, O Lord, preserve my life. In your righteousness, bring my soul out of trouble. And in your steadfast love, you will cut off my enemies, and you will destroy all the adversaries of my soul. For I am your servant. In these concluding verses, David expresses his confidence in God supplying two important features of the salvation he graciously affords his servant. David needs two things, both of which are crucial to his heavenly and his eternal life. He needs to make it to glory, and he needs to get there. Both the end and the process. That's what the psalm is about, folks. Both of those for the Lord's namesake. That is, he needs to be assured that God will preserve his life And that he, David, will persevere in life He knows that only by God's righteousness will his soul ever be brought out of trouble, eternal trouble, the trouble that he has brought on by his own unspeakable sin. And he asked God to preserve him from that destiny. That's why our Reformed Fathers included as the final P Of their summary of Bible's doctrine of salvation, which we know as tulip. I won't go into what the T, the U, the L, and the I mean. That's for another sermon. Probably four other sermons. But I am going to talk about the P. The preservation of the saints. Preservation. True Christians, true believers in Jesus Christ, are preserved forever. The adversary of their souls, Satan himself, will have no power To snatch them out of their Savior's hands. Thank you, Jesus. Indeed. They will make it to glory. As Paul assured the church in Philippi. I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion. On the day of Jesus Christ, the preservation of the saints. You know what the next word's going to be, don't you? But, but you know, there is another P that could also as well be in view by this last letter of tulip This time, perseverance, perseverance of the saints Based tonight, as we see it, on Psalm 143, 11, where David prays, Bring my soul out of trouble. Not on the Day of Judgment, where he talked about the preservation of the saints. He's talking about perseverance. He's talking about his daily, daily troubles. He needs to be brought out of them. He needs to repent of his daily sins. That is, you see, he faces not only the coming judgment by God at the last day, but he also faces temptation. From earthly enemies, under the instigation of Satan, here and now in this is life, to stray from the way of the Lord. He needs to persevere in lifelong repentance and faith. He needs the perseverance of the saints And he is sure that God will enable him to do that and will destroy all the adversaries of his soul. All God's servants, and that includes you here tonight who trust in Jesus, need the same perseverance. As you cling to God's steadfast love and evidence growth in sanctification Showing your faith by your works. All for his sake and his glory. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we're quick to repent, but sometimes we fail to do it Sometimes we go from day to day and don't even realize how that we're still sinning, even though we are forgiven and covered by the blood of Jesus. Oh God, don't let that happen to us. Don't let Satan take advantage of us and cause us to fall into the sin of complacency. And forgetfulness that we need and we have both justification and sanctification from you and by you May it be so, O Lord, we ask it in Christ's name, Amen.