I'm going to read two passages now. One from the book of Daniel and then another from John. And the John chapter 5, 19 through 29 is the text. So here's the Daniel reading that I want to read for you. At that time shall Michael arise, the great prince who has charge of your people. And there shall be a time of trouble such as never has been since there was a nation till that time. But at that time your people shall be delivered. Every one whose name shall be found written in the book. And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. And those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky above. And those who turn many to righteousness like the stars forever and ever. But you, Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book until the time of the end. Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall increase. And that's a passage about resurrection from the Old Testament. And then listen, please, to John chapter 5, 19-29, the text for preaching today. As we continue in John. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing. And greater works than these will he show him, so that you may marvel. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father, who sent him. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes in him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but is passed from death to life Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming and now is here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God. And those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice. And come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for your word that it was written down by the prophets. In Hebrew, in Aramaic, and in Greek, that it has been preserved providentially, and that we have it before us today. Your very word. Now send your spirit that we may understand your word. Not twisting it or turning it aside from its meaning. And applying it rightly. For we pray in the name of our Savior Christ. Amen. Well, which Jesus do you believe in Recently I walked through a church building that had several copies of a portrait of Jesus knocking on the door. Evidently, in the portrait, Jesus is hoping that someone will let him in. That is at best the portrait of a patient Lord. And at worst, the portrait of an impotent wannabe Lord who can't do anything without your permission. Which Jesus do you believe in? Many people today believe in a Jesus who is a personal assistant and an advisor. Kind of like an astrologer who advises you based on your zodiac sign, or like your family doctor who who advises you that you need to reduce your cholesterol by eating less and getting more exercise. And you should stop smoking too. Which Jesus do you believe in? Many people still, even in our society, can tell you that Jesus died for us in some sense. And maybe if you asked him about Easter, some of them would be able to say that he's somehow alive, but they don't know exactly what that means. They're not very sure Which Jesus do you believe in? In a YouTube that I saw, there was a man on the street the day after Easter. A guy named Mark Dice was asking people questions about Easter. And he asked people, what year approximately did Jesus die? Nobody got it right. Many were off by more than a thousand years. Someone guessed maybe 1300 A. D. He asked if that person knew where Jesus died and the person guessed maybe Rome. Finally, he asked some more questions. He asked an opinion question. And listen carefully to this opinion question. He asked Do you think that if there were stricter gun laws back in the days of Jesus, that maybe Lee Harvey Oswald wouldn't have been able to shoot him? Most people didn't think so because uh they said people can always get guns, even if the law says you can't. Which Jesus do you believe in? There is gross ignorance, is there not about Jesus in our post-Christian society Our society used to be permeated with the Bible truth. Everyone knew what the Bible was and had some sense of what was in it. They knew that there was an Old Testament and a New Testament, and they had some sense of what was in the Bible. They knew some of the Bible stories. We had a society that knew something. But now we live in a post-Christian society. We used to be able to talk about that's the gospel truth, and people knew what that meant Because they knew that the gospel was true. But they most people don't even know what the gospel is. How many books of the gospel are there? Six, ten, four maybe? Who knows, right? What was once common currency is now unknown to most people. And even in many churches. Many churches, you see, don't have what we have, confessions and creeds and catechisms And many churches don't have preaching, expositional verse by verse, chapter by chapter, book by book preaching, and so they don't gather the knowledge of the truth. In fact, many churches have inspirational little vignettes, and then you're sent on your way with no clear idea of who Jesus is, even if he was mentioned in the inspirational vignette. Which Jesus do you believe in? Well, let's make sure that we get it right. The text before us today, Jesus is in a conversation with some Jewish leaders. And if you remember, back in verses 15 through 18, a few weeks ago we preached this. He healed a man, remember that, by the pool at Bethesda, not Bethesda, Maryland. And then he got into a scrap with some Jewish people because the man who had been healed, it says in verse 15, went away and told the Jews. That it was Jesus who had healed him. And this is why the Jews were persecuting Jesus because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. Then verse 17, but Jesus answered them, and here's what he said, my Father is working until now, and I am working. And then verse 18, John says, this is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even calling God his own personal own personal father and making himself equal with God. Now that's quite a faux pas. To make yourself equal with God and saying that God is your own personal father. And many politicians, if they had said something quite that out there, would Quickly be walking it back and modifying it. But now Jesus doesn't do that, does he? And that's where we come to the passage today. Instead of smoothing this offense over by explaining how he didn't really mean it No, Jesus doubles down, and that's where we have it. Jesus said to them, verse 2019 Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing, for whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. and truly, truly is literally in Aramaic. Amen, amen Which is like saying, I solemnly swear this, I solemnly swear this. That's what Jesus is doing. This is doubling down, isn't it? And then what is he saying? He's saying what God the Father does is what he does. And what he does is what God the Father does. That's pretty bold, isn't it? But he started it out with a truly, truly, I say to you. He's saying that there is absolute coordination between himself and the Father, the Father who is the unmentionable name Yahweh. Who is the eternal Almighty, whose name shouldn't even be uttered. And in Hebrew, instead of uttering the name, when they would see it in the Hebrew text, they would say Adonai, which means Lord. Instead of saying that name, Jesus is saying that what he does is what the Father does, and what the Father does is what he does. That is his kind of bold out there statement. Do you believe in this Jesus? Absolute coordination. And then he also says complete unity and shared divinity in the next few verses, verse 20 For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that he himself is doing, he can see what the Father's doing. And greater works than these, the work of healing the man by the pool, greater works than these will he show him, so that you may marvel, he said. For as the Father, and this is another statement, as the Father raises the dead, the Jews believe that. That's the Daniel part I read. Some are going to rise, right? As the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives, he says the Son does it now. The Son gives life to whom he will. He has the power of resurrection. Is this the belief the Jesus you believe in? As I said before, Orthodox Jews believed in the resurrection of the dead. The Sadducees didn't, but the Pharisees did. Because of Places like Daniel 12, which we just read in verse 2, and many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt And then he says, and the question is, who will be the judge of humans? And in Daniel, it is the son of man. Not in the passage I read, but in other places. It is the Son of Man who will be the judge. And Jesus is saying, that's me. I'm the Son of Man. I'm the Son of God. I am with God the Father. Everything He does, I do, and everything I do, He does. Is that the Jesus you believe in? And he says that a human, the son of man thing is a designation of a human person. A human will be the judge. The Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son, just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. And then in verse 24 here's another one. Truly, truly I say to you, whoever hears my word, Jesus is saying this about himself. Whoever hears Jesus' word and believes in him who sent me has eternal life and does not come into judgment but is passed from death to life. Wow. That's doubling down, isn't it? Who will raise the dead for this judgment? A God who is the only one who has self-existence in himself. Will raise the dead. Now, he said, the Father has life in himself, and the Son has life in himself. Now, just think for a moment of Exodus chapter 3. Remember back when Moses was being commissioned to go to Egypt and to tell the Pharaoh, let my people go? And Moses didn't want to do the job. And Moses is saying, oh, who am I going to say sent me? You know, when they say, what are you here for and who are you? Who sent you? And Moses is told to say, the God of your fathers has sent me to you. Well, God said to Moses, here's the answer, I am who I am And he said, say this to the people, I am has sent me to you. Now what does that mean? I am who I am bears the meaning of self-existence. An eternal existence. God doesn't depend on anyone or anything for life. God has life in himself. And that's exactly what Jesus is saying about himself. I have life in myself. If you or I don't get oxygen in a few minutes, what will happen to us? We'll die. We're dependent We're dependent on the oxygen supply in the atmosphere. We're dependent on our lungs to process it and oxygenate our blood and and s keep our body bodily functions going, aren't we? We are not able to keep ourselves alive. We do not have life in ourselves. But Jesus, who is a human, is also God, and he says, I have life in myself, you see. It's a big claim he's making And so again, he doubles down, triples down maybe now. Verse 25, Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, the dead, who can't raise themselves. And those who hear will live, for as the Father has life in himself, that's Yahweh, that's the I am, he has also granted the Son to have life in himself. See, there it is. This is who Jesus is. This is the Jesus we worship, the Jesus we serve, the Jesus we believe in. And so many don't know who Jesus is. They know the Word. They think of a guy with a beard. They don't know when he lived or when he died or where he died. But we have to know who this Jesus is, don't we? The one who has life in himself, the one who's going to be the judge, the one who will raise the dead. And then in verse 27. And he has given him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. What That's the one from Daniel, the son of man, is the human who has the power of God to judge and raise and all that. And then he says, verse 28, do not marvel at this. You shouldn't be surprised, he says. For an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice, his voice, Jesus' voice, and will come out, and those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment So we get it now. The Son is God who will execute judgment. What an awesome prospect. It's an awesome prospect because we have all done evil. The prophets in the Old Testament railed at Israel. First, they railed at the nations around Israel. Moab and the Hittites and other nations around Israel, but as they spiraled in closer and closer, they finally came down on Israel itself and on Judah itself. Even the most privileged people, even the ones who had the most knowledge, the prophet smiling said, You're it. You're guilty. And God's going to judge you. This is just like what happened with uh King David. You remember old King David? The the the the sweet shepherd boy was out in the field and Samuel the prophet came looking for the next king and he looked at all of Jesse's sons and no not that one, not that one, nope, none of these. Don't you have another son somewhere? And uh Jesse said, well, yeah, there's little David out in the field. Um go get him. He brings David in and And he discerns that this is the king. So he anoints this boy. And this is the boy who who slays the great giant Joli Goliath Not Goliath, Goliath, with a sling and five smooth stones. And when he gets the victory, God's people have the victory. Remember that? And this is the same David, who, when he gets to be a king, and gets comfortable, and he's in his palace, and it's springtime when the kings are supposed to go out and fight, but he's staying at home. And he's out one day on his roof and he sees this pretty woman taking a bath down below in her own courtyard. And he says, ah, bring her to me. And he finds out that uh, well, after being with her, she's pregnant. And then he finds out that uh she's married and that her husband is one of his soldiers, and he arranges to have him murdered. And uh then he takes this woman, Bathsheba, as his wife. This is the same David, isn't it? You know? And then what happens to him Nathan the prophets tells him a story. He says, there was a man who had a who had one little ew lamb. And he took care of it and he he fed it and he loved it and everyone in his family loved it. Just one little ew lamb, that's all he had. Then there's this other rich man, he had a whole flock over here of nice fat lambs And when this man, this rich man, had a guest coming, he took that man's ew lamb and slaughtered it and made it into a meal for his friend, instead of taking one of his own. And oh David gets so mad, but Nathan hearing, when he hears that story, so mad at that at that fictional that fictional rich man. And he said, that man ought to die. He has to restore everything. And then what does Nathan say? Thou art the man. You're that man. And he was convicted. Just like the prophets would would come and execute judgment and finally say, It's you, Judah. You're the one. You're guilty. Well, I'm saying that same thing is about us. It's an awesome thing that Jesus is the judge. He's going to raise the dead. He's going to judge everyone. And the standard is going to be those who have done Good to the resurrection of life and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. That's an awesome, awesome, scary thing We're very much like the people in the Old Testament. Very much like David, aren't we? Sometimes we're with the Lord and happy and good and sometimes not. Paul says the very same thing in verse chapter 2. He says, he will render to each one according to his works. To those who have been patient and well-doing and seeking for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life. Is that you? You've been all these things. But for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There will be retribution and distress for every human being who does evil. For the Jew first and also for the Greek. But honor and glory and peace for everyone who does good, for the Jew first and also for the Greek. For God shows no partiality. No, he's not showing any partiality. Then he says, For all who sin without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law, for it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers will be justified. Are you a doer? People like to think of themselves as good, and they can think of themselves as good if they do it in the context of thinking themselves as good compared to other people, relatively speaking. Compare yourself to people who do worse things. And many of the Jews were doing that. They had that same opinion. But Paul says that even the Jews, with all their advantages, will be judged first, and it will not be a pretty So Jesus was making astounding claims to the people, to the Pharisees, the most religious people, who had the scriptures and had the promises and had all the advantages. He was claiming to be God the Son, who has life in himself, who will raise the dead and judge everyone, and he had just proven it. by having this miracle of this man who had been lame for 38 years get up and walk and carry his mat home on the Sabbath. The Apostle Paul summarizes the situation of every human who has ever lived since Adam. Speaking to the Jews, he says in Romans 3:9 through 12: What then are the Jews any better at all? We could say this too. What then are the Presbyterians any better? Not at all, for we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin, for it is written, none is righteous. Not even how many? Not even one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. So let's go back to the verse twenty-nine. Jesus says, Those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. That's an awesome statement. He means that we're all going to be raised to judgment as evildoers. It's inescapable. You cannot compensate For this. In fact, if you try to compensate by doing some good things The good that you might think would be weighed against your evil is described as having about as much value in Isaiah 64, having about as much value as dirty toilet paper. Isaiah 64, 6, we have all become like one who is unclean. All our righteous deeds are like filthy rags. We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities Like the wind, take us away. Our Westminster Confession, chapter 16, says this: We cannot by our best works merit pardon of sin. Or eternal life at the hand of God. And it says at the end of that section, they cannot endure those works of ours, cannot endure the severity of God's judgment. So this sermon has turned dark, hasn't it? It's turned from which Jesus do you believe in to we're all condemned? It's turned dark. Now, wait a minute, Pastor. Isn't this the Gospel of John you're preaching from? The wonderful, uplifting, fantastic Gospel of John, which is about Jesus. The real Jesus, the life giver? Yes, it is. And remember John's basic message. John's basic message is spelled out in chapter 1. But to all who receive him, Who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And he says also in chapter 3, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so the Son of Man must be lifted up, that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life. Then that wonderful verse. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish. That's what we should do, is perish. Those who've done well shall be raised to eternal life, and those who've done evil shall be raised to judgment. We should all be what? Raised to judgment. But if you believe in him, The one who was raised up on a cross. The one who bore our sins, bore our guilt, bore the penalty for our failure to obey God's law. Then we will not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not, verse 17, for God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. But in order that the world might be saved through him. So he had to be lifted up on the tree, suspended between heaven and earth, so as to say, rejected by heaven and rejected by earth He had to be raised up that way on the cross to deliver you and me from what we deserved. What we deserve even now, today, this moment, sitting here. That's how we will endure the judgment. With a clean record. That's how we'll endure the judgment. When we are raised, we will have a clean record. God will look at the record, the books will be open, and there'll be a perfect record. For those who believe in Christ, those who trust in Christ. There won't be one single word against you, because Christ has given you his record. When you believe in him by faith. Isn't that wonderful good news? This is the Jesus we believe in. The Jesus who has all this power and all this authority. Who has life in himself, who's going to raise the dead, who's going to judge everyone, but he's also the Jesus who was suspended between heaven and earth. Bearing our sins, bearing our guilt, so that He can take our ugly, nasty, filthy, dirty record away, our rags And give us his perfect record. And it's now my record and your record by faith. If you believe in his name, his name's Savior, his name's Lord. And you trust in him, you will be, as our catechism says, when you are raised up, you will be openly acknowledged and acquitted. It's not that you're not guilty, but you'll be acquitted because your guilt will be taken away. It has been taken away. You'll be openly acknowledged. You'll be celebrated. It'll be a party for you. openly acknowledged and acquitted on the day of judgment, as our catechism says. And when he raises you up Believing in him, trusting in him, hoping in him, then he raises you up for life everlasting. Union, communion, joy, peace. A glorified human body, we really will have bodies, human bodies, but that body will be free from stain, free from frailty, free from weakness, and there will be no more death. Because the life we have then will be eternal. This is the Jesus of Scripture. Is this your Jesus? Amen. Lord, we thank you that we have these awesome truly truly's And we also have the one who truly died for us. And the wonderful message that by faith, by believing in Him He takes our guilt away and gives us his perfect record of righteousness. May every person here seated, every person listening, perhaps in a radio broadcast, believe into him, have their filth and foul and wicked record taken away, and have his wonderful record of perfect living, perfect righteousness given to them. Amen