Please turn to Isaiah twenty-five. Isaiah twenty-five, one through nine we'll read. O Lord, you are my God. I will exalt you. I will praise your name. For you have done wonderful things Plans formed of old, faithful and sure. For you have made the city a heap The fortified city a ruin. The foreigner's palace is a city no more. It will never be rebuilt. Therefore, strong peoples will glorify you. Cities of ruthless nations will fear you. For you have been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm and a shade from the heat For the breath of the ruthless is like a storm against a wall, like heat in a dry place. You subdue the noise of the foreigners, as heat by the shade of a cloud, so the song of the ruthless is put down. On this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food. a feast of well aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples. The veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces. And the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. It will be said on that day, behold, this is our God. We have waited for him, that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. The Old Testament reading and the psalm that we just sung and various things in that category. Talk about God in battle, God being victorious over enemies. And I think we're going to see again and again that our greatest enemy is Very close to us, in fact, within us. It is our old nature. And Paul's teaching today is about God's battle, God's working his defeat of the old enemy and our taking part in that battle. So let us hear God's word from Romans 8, 1 through 17. Romans 8. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, for the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus From the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin He condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you If anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the Spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry. Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. Provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray now that as we consider this very important part of your word, this rich, even dense part of your word, that we will listen carefully. And come forth from this immersion in your word better, stronger, more confident And more equipped to follow you. We pray this through Christ our Lord. Amen. Well the theme of this whole section Is life in the spirit contrasted with life in the flesh? Contrasted with life in the flesh. And you know, I don't usually have six-point sermons. But I'm gonna give you a clue here because I don't want you to, you know tune me out at any point. One and two are short. Four, five, and six are short. Three is not short. So when we're in three, don't give up. The third point has the most material and it is the most difficult and it is also very very important so there you have it a preview and ready let's go Life in the Spirit means, and this is wonderful, no condemnation. No condemnation. There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. This profound statement comes to those who are in Christ Jesus. Since God the Father does not condemn Jesus, but raised him up from death, neither will he condemn you, you see. You in Christ are not condemned. And you will not be condemned, and you cannot be condemned. Romans 8 begins with no condemnation, and guess how it ends? With no separation. And there's no defeat in between. Paul's therefore, therefore, therefore, is very important. It means that what he says comes from a logical argument. This is what he convincingly argues. Because you are in union with Jesus as your head, you cannot be condemned. One commentator says, God can't acquit the head and condemn the hand. God can't drown the foot as long as the head is out of water. And joined to him, the verdict over you is no condemnation. The verdict is not less condemnation. That's where many people think they are. They think that through Christianity their situation has been improved. We are really into improvements, aren't we? We're into better cars and better houses and better phones. And some people are into a better religion, an improvement through their life, through religion. But that's not what Paul is talking about. It has not merely been improved, the situation has been completely transformed and changed to this status. No condemnation. No condemnation. This is a glorious verdict from God's Supreme Court. You receive it though you are certainly deserving of condemnation. You receive it because Jesus bore the condemnation that you deserved. As he is condemned no more, neither are you. How many ways can I say this? No condemnation. The place of confidence, of peace, comes after that agonized conflict that we went through last week in Romans 7. Here, Paul looks to Jesus and finds himself and all believers standing in him. Consider the opposite. If you are not in Jesus Christ, there is condemnation for you. You know, we love John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him is not condemned. But has everlasting life. But verse 18, just after that, he says, whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe in him is already condemned. There is condemnation for a lot of people out there because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. Spurgeon said about this, it is no pleasant task to us to have to speak like this. But why should we ask for a pleasant task? What God hath witnessed in Scripture is the sum and substance of what the Lord's servants are to testify to. If you are not in Christ Jesus and are walking after the flesh, you have not escaped the condemnation. We have to be true to the people around us. It's nice to think that everybody is going to go to heaven, as most people like to say these days. But there is condemnation for those who are not in Christ Jesus. Well, that's the first point. We're through it. The second point is that the Spirit, life in the Spirit, means union with Christ. Union with Christ. For those who are in, see, that's the union word. In those who are in Christ Jesus. The phrase in Christ Jesus means that there is a mystical and spiritual union betwixt Christ and believers, one commentator says This is sometimes expressed by Christ being in them, and here it is expressed by their being in Christ. So it goes both ways. Christ is in believers by his spirit, and believers are in Christ by faith. While it is true that those who are in Christ should not and do not consistently walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit, this is not, and it's important to note this, it is not a condition for their status of no condemnation. You're not saved by your obedience. Your union with Christ is the reason for your salvation. For the reason for your standing in this no-condemnation. You cannot be condemned because he cannot be condemned You're in union with Him. Now, go on to number three. And we'll be here for a while. Get used to it. Life in the Spirit is incompatible with life in the flesh. Verses 2 through 13. We're going to take it bit by bit. Follow along with me. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. The law of sin and death was strong and seemingly absolute. Every sin you commit day by day and every cemetery you see proves the law of sin And its consequence, death. But he says the law of the spirit of the life in Christ is stronger still. And the law of the spirit set you free from the law of sin and death You are free from the law of sin and death. You as a Christian do not have to sin anymore because you're free from its dominion. He taught that clearly in Romans 6. And you are free from the law of death. Death cannot have any lasting power against the believer. Because the believer will say, as in 1 Corinthians 15, O death, where is your sting? Oh grave, where is your victory? It's been defeated by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Verse 3, for God has done what the law weakened by the flesh could not do by Sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, he condemns sin in the flesh. The law and the fallen human nature, which he calls here flesh, is simply not a winning combination. People try to conduct their lives according to rules and their own human nature. And it's not a winning combination. You may go to enough support groups and AA meetings and things like that to manage to get through, but you haven't won. You've just managed The law and the fallen human nature, flesh, can't win. The law can do many things. It can guide us, it can teach us right morals, it can tell us about God's character. But the law can't give energy to our fallen nature. It can give us a standard, but it can't give us the power to please God. Leon Morris says, this is really worth listening to, Moses' law has right, but not might. Sin's law has might, but not right. The law of the Spirit has both right and might. Let me say it again. Moses' law has right but not might. Sin's law has might but not right. The law of the Spirit has both right and might. You see, the law, perfect God's law, his word, is weak because it speaks to our weak flesh It comes to fleshly people and speaks to them as fleshly people. But the work of the Spirit transforms us through the crucifixion of the old nature. And it imparts a new resurrection nature to us, in us, by the Spirit. And that is a principle higher than our human flesh, our nature. Here's a commentator saying something about this. A vine does not produce grapes by an act of Parliament. What are grapes? They are the fruit of the vine's life. So the conduct which conforms to the standard of the kingdom is not produced by any demand, not even God's. But is the fruit of that divine nature which God gives as a result of what He has done in and by Christ. The law could not defeat sin. It could only detect sin. Jesus can defeat sin, and he did so through his death to sin and for sin on the cross. He fully identified with those of us caught in sin by coming in our human nature. And he died to sin in our human nature on the cross. Again, let me put it another way. In order to defeat sin, Jesus had to identify with those bound by it. And coming in the likeness of sinful flesh, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, Paul carefully chose these words, by the way. Likeness! of sinful flesh, not sinful flesh. He is not a sinner, but he came in the likeness of sinful flesh, our human nature Because he was sinless. He came in the likeness of sinful nature. But it is not some false sinful nature. That would be docetism. He came as the one who was really human, but not a sinner. The next phrase is important. He condemned sin in the flesh. Sin was condemned in the flesh as Jesus bore the condemnation that we deserve on the cross. Martin Luther very, very graphically says this about what happened on the cross. He says All the prophets did foresee in spirit that Christ should become the greatest transgressor, murderer, adulterer, thief, rebel, blasphemer, etc. That ever was or ever could be in all the world. For he being made a sacrifice for the sins of the world is not now an innocent person without sins, but a sinner. He became sin, as Paul says, but not as a sinner, but by imputation of our sins to himself. That's how he condemned sin. That's how he condemns sin, by burying our sin. Since you are in Christ, go back to the beginning, the condemnation that you deserve is already passed over you. And then he says it here in verse 4, describes it this way, in order that the righteous requirements of the law, you're required, by the way, to obey the whole law of God. In order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to spirit. Because Jesus fulfilled the righteous requirement of the law, and you are in him, you have fulfilled the law. The law is fulfilled in you with regard to obedience because Jesus' righteous obedience stands in place of yours. The law is fulfilled in you with regard to punishment Because any punishment demanded by the law was poured out upon Jesus. Be careful here. Paul does not say that we fulfill the righteous requirements of the law. That has been a teaching out there at times, and it's not good. But the law is fulfilled in us through Jesus Christ. Simply put, Jesus is your substitute from A to Z. Jesus was treated as a sinner, so you can be treated as righteous. Then he says this descriptive bit after that, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit Again, is that a condition for you to be saved? You need to walk according to the Spirit in order to be saved? That is not a condition, but it is a description and a prescription. Description. The people who enjoy this reality are those who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. Their life is marked by obedience to the Holy Spirit, not by obedience to the flesh. Does that mean they never sin? Of course not. It means it's not the way their life is characterized anymore. Prescription. God wants the Spirit to rule over your remaining sinful nature. That's what we talked about last week The remaining sin. When you allow the flesh to reign over the spirit, you find yourself bound again by sinful patterns, by bad habits. And by the desperation that marked Paul's life in Romans 7, where he threw up his hands and said, Who will deliver me? Walking in the Spirit means that the course, the direction, the progress of your life is directed more and more by the Holy Spirit. is continued and progressive motion in the same direction. The sinful nature is still there until death. But the obedient believer does not walk step by step by step by step, doesn't walk with its dictates. It is there, it is striving, it is warring, it is vexing, it is grieving. And it will be there till you are present with the Lord. When a Christian dies, a lot of times at the funeral people will say, oh, so-and-so, put their name in there, oh, so-and-so is now free from pain and suffering. That's true. But you might also say, oh, so-and-so is now finally free from his struggles against sin. She is at perfect peace with God and herself. That is also true and maybe more important, isn't it? Won't it be great to not struggle anymore? To not wake up and have sinful thoughts. To not get angry when you shouldn't, and in an unholy way, to not think lustful thoughts, to not envy and covet. Won't it be wonderful when we're free from that? Spurgeon says the sinful nature is there as an alien and detested force. And not there so as to have dominion. He does not walk after it, nor practically obey it. He does not accept it as his guide, nor allow it to drive him into rebellion. Isn't that good news? Now, verse 5. He goes on in his descriptions here. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds, think of your head here. On the things of this flesh. But those who live according to the spirit set their minds on the things of the spirit. Paul gives an easy way to determine whether you're walking in the spirit. Where's your mindset? Where's your mindset? Mind, you see, is the strategic battleground where the flesh and the spirit fight most often What do you think about? What preoccupies your mind? What is the first thing you think about in the morning? And I don't mean getting up and putting your slippers on or something. something. I mean, what is the first thing of substance you think about in the morning? And what is the last thing you think about in the evening? Does it have anything to do with pleasing God? Or is it something completely separate from all that? To whom do you listen for your direction in life? You see, worldly-minded people give worldly advice based on their worldly worldview. Is that enough world in there? Proverbs 1, verses 29 and 31 says, Because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord, I would have And would have none of my counsel and despise all my reproof, therefore they shall eat the fruit of their way, and have their fill of their own devices. Worldly, worldly, worldly, and you get filled with it. Then he says, verse 6, for to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life and peace. When your mind is set on things that belong to and flow from the sinful nature, you bring death into your life, a kind of death. But walking in the Spirit brings life and peace And let me tell you this, Jesus, one of our brothers, our great brother, he even had to be careful about listening to worldly advice, and you do too. Remember what Peter said when Jesus was saying, I'm going to go to the cross, I'm going to be crucified, delivered up to the Gentiles, and die? In Matthew 16, verses 22 and 23, Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall never happen to you. But he turned and said to Peter, Get behind me, Satan. You are a hindrance to me, for you are not setting your mind, there it is, on the things of God, but on the things of man. Success, renown, fame. And Jesus knew better. Paul says, for the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. It does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Years ago there was a popular teaching out there that went this way, that you can choose life as a carnal Christian if you want to. Yeah, you're going to heaven, but you can choose to be a carnal Christian. You can choose to listen to the flesh and obey the flesh and still go to heaven. That's what it was teaching. And then you can choose also to be a spiritual Christian, and that's much better. Highly recommended, of course, by that teaching. There was even a tract that promoted it. But verses 9 through 11 teach something very different. Listen. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact the spirit of God be in the Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. What it's saying, and you boil it down, the Holy Spirit is given to every believer. They're spiritual by definition. When they are included in Christ by faith, every Christian has within them a principle higher and more powerful than the flesh. And it's a wrong thing to divide Christians between the spirit-filled and the carnal as if that's a real choice. Many do miss out on living the Christian life in the fullness of the Spirit because they aren't constantly being filled with the Spirit, as Paul says in Ephesians 5. And they may only have a fleeting experience of what Jesus spoke about when he described the rivers of living water that flow from the heart of a spirit within us. Do you have the Holy Spirit ask these questions? Has the Spirit led you to repentance and faith in Jesus? Has he? Either by ordinary circumstances of birth and life in the church or by remarkable circumstances of a dramatic conversion. Either way. Has the Spirit led you to Jesus, the personal faith in Jesus? Has the Spirit put in you the desire to honor Jesus? Is He your highest thought? Is the Spirit leading you to be more like Jesus? To imitate his character? Is the Spirit at work in your daily life prompting you to do good? And forbidding evil that you're tempted by. Paul says in verse 11, If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. And then verse 12 is really the summary of this. So then, brothers, listen to it, we are debtors not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. The flesh again here is the sin nature. We're not in debt to it. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to deeds, put to death, I should say, the deeds of the flesh, you will live. Well, the gospel here that he's been preaching to us from the beginning Is the means not only by which we are saved, justified, not condemned, but it is the message and means by which we are sanctified too. We have to let this sink in deeply and shape our lives. That's point three. Let's go on to number four. Life in the Spirit means living as an adopted child. This is a beautiful topic Adopted child. That's important. That's an important New Testament concept. Verse 14, for all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba, Father. Living as an adopted child of God means an intimate, joyful relationship with God, not at all like the bondage and fear that comes from the law. A child of God can have a relationship with God so close that they may cry out, Abba, Father! It is easy for me to think of Jesus doing this. It's easy for me to think of Jesus relating with joy and confidence to the Father. Places like John 17 give us a beautiful picture of that. John 17, where Jesus is speaking to the Father, he lifts up his eyes to heaven. And says, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you, since you have given him authority over all flesh to give eternal life. to all those you have given him. And this is eternal life that they may know you, the only God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. And then he says, I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work you gave me to do And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory I had with you before the world began. Such intimacy And then he says in verse 24, I desire also that those you have given me may be with me where I am, to see my glory. Oh righteous father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know you. And he goes on. It's just beautiful, beautiful. Constant, beautiful communion with the Father. Intimate. You may think you're not qualified to speak to God with such intimacy. But remember. Union with Christ, united to Christ by the Spirit, and adopted. See, that's where we are now. Adopted as a son, which means heir. You have the privilege of speaking to the Father, just as Jesus does here. F. F. Bruce tells us about what it means to be adopted back in the Roman world. He says, the Roman world of the first century, an adopted son was a son deliberately chosen by his adoptive father to perpetuate his name and inherit his estate. See, some Roman citizens might become very wealthy and powerful and have a lot of stuff, but they had no child, no son. So they adopted one, and he gets everything They inherit his name and his estate, and he, that adopted son, is not in the least inferior in status to the son born in the ordinary course of nature. Under Roman adoption, the life and standing of the adopted child changed his situation completely. He might have been an orphan. But the adopted son would lose all of that connection and gain all the rights of the new family. The old life of the adopted son was completely wiped out, and if he had any debts, they were wiped out Nothing from his past counted against them anymore. That's what it means to be adopted. And you are adopted because of Jesus Christ. Number five, life in the Spirit provides the testimony of the Spirit. Verse 16, the Spirit Himself bears witness. That's important. Mark that. Bears witness with our spirit. You have a spirit too. God's spirit bears witness down deep inside you, and it says, you are the children of God. And if children then heirs, that's that adopted thing again, and fellow heirs with Christ. Now there are some people who wrongly think that they are Christians. They claim to be God's children apart from Christ. They somehow think that we're just all God's children, I guess. Some of those who are in sub-Christian groups that we can talk about claim to have some kind of inward knowledge of their being adopted by God, being a son of God. They claim maybe to have the burning in the bosom, whatever that means. Or experience some euphoric joy because they have been brainwashed or whipped themselves into a frenzy. We're certainly not guilty of that This confession of faith says hypocrites and other unregenerate men may vainly deceive themselves with false hopes, of carnal perceptions of being in the favor of God and the estate of salvation. Which hope of theirs shall perish? When will it perish? They'll certainly perish a moment after they die. There are also Christians whose heads are so foggy from spiritual attack. That they begin to believe the lie that they are not God's children. Nevertheless, all those who really are God's children have this witness of the Spirit within their hearts, testifying to their spirit that they are the children of God. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit. What is that? Let's put some more meat on that bone. There are two witnesses. The witness of the Spirit and your Spirit. Two witnesses that you are the children of God. You believed And now you've got this witness inside. You testify that you trust Christ, and the Spirit testifies that you trust Christ. What do you have here? Two witnesses. Jewish law stated that out of the mouth of two witnesses everything had to be established. Deuteronomy 17. There are two witnesses to your salvation. Your own witness of faith And the witness of the Spirit down deep, bearing witness with your spirit. One commentator says, being a child of God also means having an inheritance. That we are the children of God. In Luke 18, verse 18, the rich young ruler asked Jesus, What must I do to inherit? But the rich young ruler missed the point because inheritance is not a matter of doing it, it is a matter of being. That is being in the right family. He needed that witness of the Spirit Not doing something. Finally, number six, life in the Spirit obligates you, this is important too, obligates you to suffer With Christ by the Spirit. Not just suffer, but suffer by The Spirit. Verse 17B. He says, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with Him. Because you are in Christ, you are also called to share in his sufferings. That's taught in other places as well. God's children If you don't know this, you certainly will in time. God's children are not immune from trials and suffering. Even martyrdom. The church's early theology of martyrdom was not born in synods or councils, but in sunlit, blood-drenched Colosseums. In catacombs, dark and still as death. The word martyr means witness and is used throughout the New Testament. But in the Roman Empire it became increasingly hostile toward Christianity, the Roman Empire did. The distinctions between witnessing, like telling the gospel to someone, and suffering became blurred and finally non-existent. To to tell someone about Christ was to have a threat on your life. In the second century, the word martyr became a technical term for a person who had died for Christ, while confessor was the term for those who went to trial but didn't suffer the death penalty. Maybe just tortured or something. These Christians, when it came to suffering, were not wimps. They were not crybabies and snowflakes. They embraced suffering with Jesus. Dear friends, your share in present suffering is condition of your future glorification. That's what the text says As far as God is concerned, it's all part of the same package of your sonship. No matter how much your flesh may want to have the inheritance and the glory without suffering. It just doesn't work that way. I spoke to a young adult recently who was questioning the goodness of God Because God allows suffering. In my answer, I pointed out That the biblical reply to such a question must be grounded first in the brokenness of the world through man's sin. And then and only then move on to the gracious promise of God from the first day of our disobedience. The promise of a Savior who would come by birth through a woman, a human savior, for broken humans in a Sin cursed and broken world. God is the savior, you see, of a suffering world. And he saved it by entering into it, by taking on your human nature, by taking on the punishment of your sins, by adopting you as an heir. In giving you the final inheritance of a perfectly healed and painless and sorrowless and deathless world. That's where we're going. But while you wait for it, yes, you will still suffer. It may be much, it may be little. It may be systematic governments imposed suffering, or it may be socially imposed suffering. Or it may simply be the ordinary troubles of living in a broken world. But that should not lead us to doubt God. Or to hate God because we have the future before us in Christ. It will be worth it. It will be worth it. In summary, go back over the whole thing very quickly. You are not condemned, and you never can be. You are in union with Christ in that union cannot be broken. Your life in the Spirit is not compatible with life in the sinful nature. You are adopted as a child of God, therefore an heir. Your life in the Spirit provides the inward testimony of the Spirit, bearing witness with your Spirit. And your life in the Spirit obligates you to suffer with Christ. There it is. Amen. Lord, we thank you for the important teaching that we have here before us today. It is so vital for us. We are often Led astray, counseled by the world, the flesh, and the devil. We are often uh unwilling to suffer for righteousness' sake We complain, we demure, but you are good to us all We thank you for our Savior who won the battle. And in him we will win too. Amen.