As you can see in your bulletins, the title of today's sermon is Living in Scarcity or Plenty. Now, if we think of these terms scarcity and plenty, Immediately there's certain uh thoughts and emotions that come to mind. Scarcity, we immediately think it's not enough. It's not enough money. Sometimes it's not enough opportunity. Sometimes it's not enough help or support. Scarce. I don't have enough of a certain thing And we can start saying that I live in scarcity because of certain things. You know, sometimes I'm just unlucky. It's a roll of the dice, the world has not cooperated with me. Sometimes we can blame ourselves. I'm I lack skill. I don't have enough talent. I don't have enough education. And then still we can blame the choices that we've made. I've made some bad decisions in my life. And because of these bad decisions, I'm living in scarcity. And so With this mentality, suddenly as Christians, as followers of Jesus, we can start trying to put our faith somewhere in that mix and try to blend the two. And then it gets really, really confusing really, really fast. Because now that I'm living in scarcity and it's really difficult, and then suddenly we're trying to find some amalgamation with God's word, and it becomes something like, did I do something wrong? Is God punishing me? You know? Or I'm supposed to have faith. God has this great plan, but why? Why me? Why now? Why this way? And then when we think of the term plenty, it means the exact opposite, right? Plenty means I have more than enough. I have this abundance of resources or security or comfort. I have an abundance of this source that I desire, right? And again, we can immediately turn to ourselves. You know why I have plenty? Because I worked hard for it. It's my diligence. And I made the right decisions. I made the transfers. And, you know, maybe I got a little lucky down the road. And so this is where it becomes a lot easier to incorporate our faith. God is good. God is blessing me. God is pouring down his answers and grace and his mercy upon me. Right? And so the way that we think of these two terms, scarcity and plenty, is going to evoke these emotions that are very relative to the way that we think about these terms, right? When we think about scarcity, it's it can be anxiety inducing. It can bring about this stress, chaos, concern, and just general unhappiness. Because Honestly, how many of us enjoy scarcity? I I love being in scarcity all the time, right? And then at the same time When we think of the term plenty, it's going to evoke certain emotions as well. Joy. Contentment. You know Safety. And I'm just generally happy. And so what's happening with these two terms is in general, uh scarcity becomes a bad thing. It's something that should be avoided at all costs. And then plenty becomes a good thing. It's something that should be pursued. It's something that we should be pursuing. Right? Now, where does this line of thought come from? Our understanding of scarcity and plenty, and the way that we think about that, and the way that we feel about that, where does that actually come from? You see, the Bible's the only place that tells us that truth. And it starts at Genesis 1, at the creation You see, God creates this world, and then God creates images of himself, his own representatives, and he calls these representatives humans. And when God finishes that creation and he looks out on all of his creation, he says it's it's not just good, it's very good. It's very good And now, humans, they are supposed to rule over this world, to cultivate this world according to God's wisdom. You see, man was to always be in partnership with God. Man was always supposed to be living according to God's wisdom, according to God's own standard. Yet, you know. Doesn't last very long when you read it in the Bible, right? It lasts two chapters. Because by the time we get to Genesis 3, man chooses autonomy. Humans decide that they will seek out their own abundance, that they will seek out their own understanding of what is right and what is good. See, they seek to attain more abundance on their own, apart from God, and this quickly brings about chaos and destruction, disorder, and now man is living separated from God. As man is living separated from God, what is now happening? It's up to each individual to secure their own survival. Now they have to find their own enough. Well, because I gotta make it through tomorrow and next week and next month. And so I need enough resources to make it through today and tomorrow and this month. And now it's not up to God, but it's up to me This is what's happened. And so, and in trying to secure enough abundance for my own needs and for my own survival, What's happening is now what's in my best interest is not necessarily what's in your best interest. You see, I need to grow more resources so that I can survive. And to grow more resources, you know, I need a bigger plot of land to plant a bigger garden. And so, you know, your plot of land is kind of rubbing up against my plot of land, and my garden would sure look nice if it was It expanded from my plot all the way to your plot. So what's going to happen is now I need to figure out a way to trick you into giving your plot to me to exploit you in some sort of way. Because this is how I secure my own survival. This is how I find abundance of my own resources. And if I can't trick you, who knows? Maybe I'll take it by force. And hopefully by doing these things, I'll attain enough plenty, enough abundance for my own survival. Now, if that's the basis of where our understanding of scarcity and plenty come from, is that a good basis to live by? Ecclesiastes 7. 14 says, In the day of prosperity, be joyful, and in the day of adversity, consider. God has made the one as well as the other. Okay? So scarcity and plenty, God created both. So how do you reconcile that with the story of creation that I just shared with you guys? You see In order to reconcile this, we need to examine our own view and understanding of scarcity and plenty In today's passage, the Israelites are about to enter into the promised land. And after they've spent 40 years in the wilderness. Now, I wish I could show you guys a picture of the wilderness, but just imagine for yourselves, what are you picturing when you picture the wilderness? You know, I'm a pretty I pretty confident guy I think I could survive in the wild. Right When I was doing research and I saw pictures of the wilderness, no, I'm not going to make it, right? If you look at pictures of the wilderness, there is nothing There's nothing there. I'll figure something out. I'll find some shade. There is no shade. There's nothing that can possibly provide shade There's no water anywhere. There's no resources. It's not like they can just start planting crops, because the crops are just going to be withered by the sun. There's no water for the crops It's hopelessness. It's this extreme difficulty that they're going through. And they went through this for 40 years. Now, this is also where God teaches them some very, very important lessons. This was God's classroom, that extreme difficulty. And now Moses is reminding them of these lessons that they were taught for the past 40 years before they enter into the promised land. And chapter 8 in particular, he's talking about the lesson that they should have learned about scarcity and plenty. You see, through Moses, what God is saying is both can be equally spiritually dangerous. Both. Alright? So let's dive deeper into this. Verses 2 and 3. And you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness. that he might humble you, testing you to know what is in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. And he humbled you and let you hunger and fed you with manna which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Alright. So if we're talking about two, which one do you think he's talking about first? He's talking about the scarcity. And so this is their time in in the wilderness after the Exodus And in that extreme difficulty, in that wasteland, what did they experience? They experienced hunger Extreme hunger. To the point where they they thought they were gonna die. Guys, what are we gonna eat? There's nothing to plant, there's nothing to pick, there's nothing to kill. What are we gonna eat? And inside of this hunger, what does it say? That God provided them manna, manna. And you guys know this story, right? Because we're well versed. Christians, right? So it's this miraculous bread that fell from heaven that God provided. And you guys know this story, but he gave it to them daily. And they were supposed to collect enough for that day only. They couldn't collect more, right? If they did, it would rot. And so just imagine this, that the sustenance, the resources that you are relying on for your survival, you can only collect enough for that day. This is anxiety inducing. You can only collect enough for today, and then you have to hope and pray that this Life-sustaining God provides you with the same manna the next day. If he doesn't, you're dead. And you have to rely on him in that very way. So This view of, yes, I'm surviving in the wilderness. I'm surviving in the harsh reality. I'm surviving in extreme difficulty, but barely Barely, day by day. We use that term paycheck by paycheck, right? And so if you guys have ever lived paycheck to paycheck, you kinda understand what they're going through right now, right? There's no abundance to lean on. See, throughout the forty years that the Israelites were in the wilderness, time and time again, scarcity drove the Israelites to say things like Why did you bring us out of Egypt? So that we could die here? Wouldn't it have been better to stay in Egypt? Scarcity tempts us to doubt God's goodness. So are you just going to let me die, God? Are you just going to leave me to kind of deal with this on my own, as if God has abandoned us? See, scarcity whispers, God has forgotten you. Go fend for yourself. You gotta go get those resources on your own. And we go quickly back to that sinful nature. The Israelites' longing, their hunger, their thirst, it was very, very real, just like some of the scarcity that we encounter in our lives each and every day. But what actually happened was that scarcity was exposing their unbelief. That's what's actually happening. Think of a believer who loses their job. What do you think their response might be? There might be a few that say, has God abandoned me? And it's very similar to what the Israelites are going through for 40 years Scarcity can challenge our faith in God. If that's the scarcity part, I think we can all agree, okay, I agree with you, Pastor Emerson, let's avoid scarcity Let's all jump on the the plenty side. I agree with you, soul. Never going back to scarcity again. Well Let's look at verse 17 and 18. And it's actually, it starts at verse 11, but I didn't want to take up so much time reading all of it. I encourage you guys to go back and read the entire chapter. Read the book. Read the entire Bible. I encourage you to read the Bible. And then read Deuteronomy and then read chapter 18, all of it But we're looking at specifically verse 17 and 18, and now God is talking about their potential plenty. Beware lest you say in your heart, My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth. You shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth, that he may confirm his covenant that he swore to your fathers As it is this day. You see, now they're about to enter the promised land. And this is a land that has plenty, plenty of everything. And now Moses is warning them, or God through Moses is warning them that this plenty can also lead them away from God, just as much as scarcity can. Verses 11 through 16 describes how such a slide, how a fall away from God can happen. Verses 12 and 13 says, you see, it happens when you have plenty. When you have plenty, now you live in this like comfort. And you get, you know, like kind of accustomed to it, used to it. You break in that comfortable recliner and you just relax. And you start coasting. And what happens is that as you start coasting, is you forget about God. You forget about everything that God has done. You forget about his salvation. You forget about his grace. You forget about his unending mercy. You forget about his faithfulness. And so you look around at your plenty. The plenty that brings you comfort, and what you happen to do is you start claiming credit for what God has done. You see all this? It's because I'm a genius. You see all this? It's because I worked hard. You see this, son? You see these like rough knuckles and rough hands? It's because I worked all my life And that's how I made all this possible. I heard a couple giggles. Am I is this kind of preaching to you guys right now? You know It was God that made all of those things possible in the first place. Yet we have the audacity to claim credit for it I heard this when I was younger, and I think it was so pertinent for this very moment. Um, you think about a kite. And as a kite starts floating up in the air and it goes higher and higher and higher, and it's thinking, I'm sorry I'm soaring. Look how high above everyone else I am. And I want to go higher. But what's holding me down? What's tying me down from going higher? It's this string. And so I just want to break free from this string. Now, I heard from one of your elders that many of you are in the technology field. So basic physics, guys, what's making the kite fly? Yes, it's the wind that catches the kite, but the string is the thing that's providing the resistance that allows the wind to carry the kite up, is it not? If the string is cut, what's going to happen to the kite? This is going to get blown away by the wind and it's going to crash and burn. Well, not burn. It's going to crash. Do you guys kind of understand this illustration? Where God brings us up and builds us up. And then suddenly the very thing that built us up, we think is the one thing that's holding us down and we want to break free from it. And the moment that we break free from that, what's going to happen? We're going to crash. And burn, yeah, yeah, yeah. The Bible says burn, right? You know, there's a very difficult passage in Ezekiel chapter 16. Where God likens his people, the Israelites, uh, to this poor homeless girl that he finds on the streets. And he takes her home and he cleans her up and he adorns her with the finest clothing, makes her beautiful. And then the finest jewels really gives her this value and worth and builds her up and makes her into a queen. And after he does that, this girl takes everything that God has built her up as and uses it to prostitute herself to the other nations. The very thing that God gave her to make her beautiful, she uses to be unfaithful to God. That's a very difficult passage to look at. And then in actuality, he says you're like a reverse prostitute because you don't even receive something from them. You're giving them the goods that I gave you to build you up. You're like, you're not even worth a prostitute. You're worse than a prostitute. You see, plenty tempts us towards pride and forgetfulness. You see, according to our standard, plenty seems like a good thing. Plenty seems like something that should be chased after and achieved and attained. But biblically speaking, it's coming from the same sinful heart. Plenty whispers, you don't need God anymore. You can do this on your own. You can be the kite without the stream. So in a way, plenty is a greater temptation than scarcity. I mean, scarcity, it drives us to desperation. And many times in that desperation, it brings us to our knees so that we can look back to God. Plenty, it lulls us to sleep. And it makes us forget about God. We become numb and unaware of our spiritual slide away from God. So whether you're in desperation or you're in abundance, biblically what's happening, both expose our hearts. Both expose our hearts. And this is exactly what the biblical writers are trying to get to. It's the exact thing that Jesus was talking about. How much time do I have? Alright, I don't want to go too deep into this rabbit hole. Guys, Moses talks about how God's people, they have a hardened heart and they need a circumcised heart. Right? Jeremiah talks about how God is going to have to inscribe his word upon their hearts. Ezekiel talks about how we need a new heart. We need a heart transplant because there's just something so fundamentally wrong with our hearts So when Jesus comes and he's talking about sin with the Pharisees, he's saying, wait, you think because you didn't do the action that you're not sinning? He says, you know, even if you look at a woman lustfully, you've already committed that sin. And so what is What is Jesus trying to describe? It's not just the action of the sin, but it's our heart that's the root cause of our sins. Something's broken inside of our hearts. Right? Scarcity and plenty are nothing more than tools that expose our hardened, broken hearts One is not necessarily better than the other. It's not according to the standard that we're living by. Then what is God trying to teach us in scarcity and plenty? It's funny that in this lesson, Moses brings up the lesson of manna. So we're going to go back to that lesson of manna. In verse 3, he says that God let Israel hunger, and then he fed them with manna. Let them hunger, and then fed them with manna. And it says that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone but by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. What was God trying to teach them in this moment of scarcity and through this lesson of manna. You see, manna wasn't just food. That's not what God is trying to teach them. What he was teaching them was a daily dependence. That you cannot do it on your own. You must look to me each and every day. You couldn't hoard it, remember? You could only have enough for that day. You had to trust that God would give you a fresh supply each and every morning. But that wasn't just the end of the lesson, was it? You see, what was the dependence on? What or whom was the dependence on? You see, we're not supposed to be relying on our resources to find life. In order to find our life, life is found only in, what does it say? By every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Life is found in the Word of God. In the Word of God And so, let's skip over from, you know, what, the fifth book of the Bible into the New Testament. John chapter 1, what does it say? In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And just a couple verses down, it says, and in that word was life. And then a few verses down from there, what does it say? That this word it came and put on flesh So that this word could dwell among us. Who could this possibly be talking about? I was asking rhetorically, I'm hoping, and I'm hopeful that everyone in this room can answer The word of God, put on flesh, clothed in humanity, come to us. It's talking about Jesus. And so just a couple chapters later in John 6, when the disciples asked Jesus about this very same lesson about manna. What does Jesus say? Jesus says, oh yeah you remember that? Oh you remember that. You remember how God gave your forefathers this life-giving miracle bread from heaven? You see, you know what that's talking about, guys? It's talking about me. Jesus declares, I am the bread of life Whoever comes to me shall not hunger. Whoever believes in me shall never thirst. He was the eternal bread. Guys, do you see what's happening here? This lesson about manna, it wasn't just about, hey, you need $5, God's going to sprinkle $5 from heaven for you. He's not just talking about resources. Manna pointed forward to Jesus Christ, the true life-giving bread from heaven That's what this communion is about. The communion that we partake in here weekly, right? This church weekly. God bless you guys. You guys get to do it weekly We are to be completely dependent on Christ. How often? Daily. As if our life depends on it. Because it does. You see, and this dependence upon him is on his terms, not on our own What I mean by that is we're not to fear and run away from scarcity, and we're not supposed to be chasing plenty. But we are supposed to be content in Christ, who is sufficient in all circumstances. Can I get an amen? He is the lone thing that is sufficient. He is the only absolute. He is the only thing that we can depend on. This lesson of manna is just like when the disciples ask Jesus how to pray. Lord, teach us how to pray. And one of the many lessons that's found in that Lord's Prayer that we'll do together in a little bit. Jesus taught them, give us this day our daily bread. We are supposed to rely on him daily, not a weekly bread. Not we came to church on Sunday. The other six days belong to me. I'm going to live my life the way I want to live my life, and then I'll get my weekly bread. It's not a weekly bread. It's not a monthly bread. It's daily. And just as Israel gathered manna each morning, we must feed on Christ each and every day. Whether we're in need or in abundance, are calling us to live in humble daily obedience to Christ. You know, there's this passage in Ecclesiastes, and I don't want to get too deep into it, but basically he's saying, don't be lazy and don't get too overly ambitious, but he builds this picture in our minds of what we sh what our posture should be. And that posture becomes this. Just a hand open This is how we should be approaching the Lord, where he could take whatever he takes and give whatever he gives. That that should be our posture. That should be our attitude Did you guys catch the story that we read for the Old Testament reading? Do you guys understand why we we read that? Abraham was in that moment where his faith was being put to the test. He had his beloved son that he had desired all his life, and God was saying. Can you give them back today? Can you go back to your scarcity, your understanding of scarcity? Each season of scarcity and plenty are calls and opportunities for us to recalibrate ourselves. That's what it is. That's how it's God's tool. Scarcity points us to Christ's sufficiency. Therefore, if you guys find yourselves in a season of scarcity, trust his promise. What was his promise? Hebrews 13:5, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Do you believe that? He is sufficient when everything else is stripped away. Some of you might be going through seasons of plenty. Congratulations, I'm not here to condemn you, right? But the plenty is supposed to be pointing us to Christ's surpassing value and worth. That's what it should be doing. So if you're in a season of plenty, remember his warning. What does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? What is it that we're value? Christ is better than all our earthly treasures Let me try and summarize all of this for you. Neither scarcity is scarcity nor plenty is neutral. It's gonna either lead you towards God or away from God. It's always gonna do one or the other And both can tempt us away from God. Proverbs 30, verses 8 and 9 says, Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food that is needful for me, lest I be full and deny you, or poor and steal and profane the name of my God. You see that? He doesn't want either. That wasn't the point of his life. This entire passage of Deuteron Deuteronomy 8, it reminds us That the wilderness was not just the story for the Israelites. It's our story as well. Scarcity can shake our faith and shake our faith in God and tempt us to doubt our loving Father God. Plenty tempts us to forget about him entirely. But manna, manna, that lesson, it was fulfilled by Jesus Christ, and it teaches us a dependence in every season. whether scarcity or plenty. So let us look to Jesus, the true bread of life In him, whether we are in want or in wealth, we have everything that we need. Amen.