You'd open your Bibles to the Psalm 90, where we'll read the entire Psalm. Psalm 90, a prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all the generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, wherever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. You return man to dust, and say, Return, O children of man. For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night You sweep them away as with a flood. They are like a dream, like grass that is renewed in the morning. In the morning it flourishes and is renewed. In the evening it fades and withers For we are we are brought to an end by your anger. By your wrath we are dismayed. You have our set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. For all our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength, eighty Yet their span is but toil and trouble. They are soon gone, and we fly away. Who considers the power of your anger and your wrath according to the fear of you? So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long? Have pity on your servants Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen evil. Let your work be shown to your servant, and your glorious power to their children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the works of our hands upon us. Yes, establish the work of our hand. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. We are going to look at Psalm 90, primarily, well, almost entirely, verses 1 and 2. But let's pray that God will help us as we think about this portion of His Word now. Father, we thank you that you preserve our lives. Our lives are in your hands, no matter what circumstances come to us. We have only you as our refuge and strength. So we pray, Father, that as we think about this year right before us, We know that it's an artificial marker, and yet it's a significant marker in our minds that now things are stretching before us in a new way. And we pray that you would help us. To have a focus this year that's more in keeping with your word and with who you are and who we are in Christ. Please bless this time now Give me the wisdom, grace, strength, and joy in your word and in Christ. We pray in his name. Amen. Well, th this psalm is one of the great psalms that you could look at and you could spend a lot of time in this psalm. You could look at verse twelve, teach us the number of our days. That's a very appropriate thing for the beginning of the year We're going to look at verses one and two and uh hopefully see the foundation that that provides for us as we think about uh what's stretching out before us. Now um This is the time of year when all sorts of retrospectives are out there. Our newspaper this morning had the most significant events of 2016. You go online and they have a lot about uh uh the ten biggest ten biggest things. Um of course uh if you paid any attention this week, you know that uh Carrie Fisher died, but then immediately, almost 24 hours after that, her mother Debbie Reynolds died. And uh you're you're just struck with how things are changing. I grew up in a small town of Virginia And uh if I was to go back there, I would recognize virtually nothing. The house where I lived is still there, but uh my dad put up screens on the front porch they took a lot down. The school that I went to across the street was bulldozed and now is a plot. Uh the the creek where I played has now been covered over. They have culverts and paving and I can't go to uh Frank Mahoney's amical gas station anymore. He had a cooler and he had chipped ice in it with me high sodas. You can't find those anymore. Things are changing. In in our lives they are dramatically changing. We we look around us and we wonder how do we deal with the changes that are just seemingly sweeping over us. We don't know what 2007 We have a new president coming, an inauguration. We don't know what the economy is going to be like. We don't know what's going to happen in our personal lives We don't know whether we're gonna face crises in our lives that we had never anticipated. We don't know whether people that we love will die or whether we ourselves will die. We don't uh will face sickness in our lives or sickness among those that we care about. We don't know what what the economy is going to do. We don't know any of these things. And yet we see there in verses 1 and 2 the foundation that we need as we face all these things. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting. You're God. Change is definitely coming. It's certain. It can't be avoided. Change is part of what it means to live in this world world to be a human being. Uh I was coming out of uh the credit union yesterday, holding the door open for a lady, and she said, you know, at our age, and I'm thinking What? At our age? Because I'm saying, you've got to be at least ten years older than me. You know? That that change is creeping up on us. Oh. These things happen to us. And Moses, as as he lays this psalm out, was in the midst of the changes. You think about Moses' life Moses had been born of a slave woman. His mother and father were slaves in the land of Egypt, and he had risen to the position of being in Pharaoh's household Pharaoh had given him an education, and he forsook it all and went and identified with the people of God and had to flee. And here's this man who went from being in the pinnacle of power in Egypt to shepherding sheep on a hillside in the Sinai Peninsula. Here's a man who had been a prince and then was sought out as a murderer from the banquets he had in Pharaoh's palace. To asking for water from Jethro's daughters. He was there when the Red Sea was parted, and then he died outside He met God at the burning bush, and then God said, Pharaoh is not going to pursue you. I'm going to take you He saw the plagues come upon Egypt, and then the people of God in the wilderness perished under the plagues, too. Because of their disobedience. He saw what it meant to live in this world, to have the lifespan spread out before you and change come so quickly. But he says, God, you don't change. That's what we want to think about today. In this year of testing for us In this year that that holds out promises perhaps and perhaps fears for you, we want to think about verses one and two in light of the foundation we need to face all these Now you begin where Fa where Moses begins, there in verse 1. And within the space of this psalm, he uses three designations for God The first one in verse 1 is Adonai, Lord. Then he will say in verse 2, El, that is God, and then in verse 13, it will be Jehovah. The covenant name of God. So he begins with that name, Lord, Adonai, pointing to the fact that Moses knows that the thing that he must base his life upon is who God is. Who is the God that he's serving? The God that will pursue him and has pursued him and ultimately will rule all of his life. the Lord. When you have a Lord, you do his bidding. The Lord is the Lord over you. He's the one who tells you what to do. You're his servant. You're his master God is Lord to Moses. He is Moses' ruler, his king. And the question we all have to have in our lives is: who's our king? Who's ruling our lives? Who do we bow the knee to? Who do we serve? Who claims our ultimate allegiance? If you don't know the Lord that Moses is talking about, then this psalm is not going to comfort you. It's not going to be any source of peace for you because you'll be frightened, afraid, turning away from the God that's presented here in Scripture. But if he is your God, if he is your Lord, then you will find great comfort in the Psalm. Now Moses says he is my Adonai, he is my Lord. He is the dwelling place of his people. What does it mean to have a dwelling place, a permanent dwelling place, a permanent address? Now, in your lives, probably many of you have moved, and you've moved sometimes probably fairly frequently. When I first met Joni, I'd never been to Salisbury, Maryland. That's her hometown. Joni had grown up at her permanent address, even when she was in school in West Virginia or at the University of Maryland. That was her permanent address. She lived there. And I was an occasional visitor, yet over the years of our marriage until recently when the house was sold, I became so familiar with that house that it was sort of a home away from home for me. I cut the grass there, painted the house, uh did all kinds of things around the house for her mom. That was almost a dwelling place, almost a permanent habitation, yet that really wasn't my home. Moses, as he ranked these words, is in the midst of a wilderness generation. A generation has no permanent address. They are on a journey. They had left Egypt. And now as they pass through those 40 years of wandering, 40 years that they had brought upon themselves because of their disobedience, they're living in tents. They don't have vineyards that they can plant. They don't have olive groves they can harvest. All they are are pilgrims It's this oasis this week and that oasis next week. We're going to stay here for a few weeks or a few months, maybe even a year, but then we're going to move on. Always moving with Without any permanent address, except God. God is their permanent address. God is the one who will be their dwelling place Because God will always be God. He will never stop being God. If you were to look at Psalm 130, The great Psalm of David. You'd see there that reminder that God's presence is so inescapable that we can go as high or low as we want, as far east or west as we want. We can hide ourselves in the darkness, and we can't escape God, because God is the dwelling place of his people. Now, we're not pilgrims, we're not nomads in the sense that the people of God were in the Old Testament here in this 90th Psalm, but you and I are still nomads in this world, aren't we? It's not the physical addresses that we move. I've lived in lots of different places. Joni and I have lived in California and Nebraska and Vermont and now for Virginia. We have lots of different addresses in this world, but ultimately we have to see that our citizenship, as the apostle tells us, is in heaven from which which we await a Savior. The permanent address is no location here on earth for you if God is your dwelling place. Because they're all going to go. You're going to change addresses, and finally, there won't be any physical address for you at all. Because Your address will be the heavenly address of the presence of God if you are His. Because look what He says there in verse 1. You have been our dwelling place in all generations. You have to be part of the people of God. For God is not your permanent address. There are people in this world who have no permanent address, truly. They have no permanent address here, and the address that they'll have in eternity is away from the presence of the Lord. Lord, and from the glory of his might. Second Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 9 is a terrible picture of the address of those who have rejected the Lord's Jesus. Jesus Christ and live in disobedience to God, always away from the presence of the Lord. But for the people of God, that dwelling place that He talks about is something that stretches through the generations. God himself is the habitation of his people. He is the permanent address, the place where we can rest. And here Moses is thinking of the covenantal faithfulness of God. God had been the dwelling place for Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God had been the dwelling place for the people of God through all the generations, up until Moses' own time, for his father Abraham and his mother Jacob. They have found God to be this permanent dwelling place. And so it is for all those who are the covenant people of God. When God makes this covenant with his people, he takes them to himself to always be their God and to never leave them or forsake them. God chooses his people freely in his electing grace. And there's that wonderful passage in Deuteronomy chapter 7. God did not set his affection on you or choose you because you were more numerous than other peoples, for you were the fewest of all peoples, but it was because the Lord loved you and kept the oath he swore to your forefathers. that he brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the land of slavery, from the power of Pharaoh, king of Egypt For we don't make ourselves God's dwelling place. God makes himself for us our dwelling place. It begins with God Himself choosing, calling, making His people His own. That means real permanence. That means that it cannot change because it It's based on God Himself. Joni and I and our many years of traveling as we've moved back from one coast to the other, from the uh east coast to the west coast, and back again. Have found oftentimes that we leave behind many things. We can think through the years of things that we've left behind, and we've never been kicked out or evicted We've never had a house burned down around us, but some people have. Some people have lost everything. You know those terrible tragedies. where a family leaves and suddenly they find that their house is gone and everything they possessed, all their family photos, all the possessions, the things that have been passed down from generations are gone. They're wiped out And they have nothing left. But if they're Christians, God is their permanent address. God is their dwelling place. And God never kicks out his people. Things change. This year will bring changes to all of us. We don't know what those changes will be. But God will never kick out. His people. He is the permanent address, the dwelling place in all generations, because he's God. That second verse is a wonderful verse to think about. Look at verse 2. Before the mountains were brought forth wherever you had formed the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting your God. What does it mean to say that God is my permanent address? Who is this God that offers himself in this way He says, before there were mountains, before the earth had been formed. Now we used to live in Vermont. And in Vermont you could not imagine the state without mountains. It's called the Green Mountain State. It would not be what it is if it weren't for the mountains around them. God, however, precedes the mountains of Vermont Some of you may have rem remembered uh the time when the first Russian cosmonauts were in their spaceship or satellite uh circling the Earth. And maybe it was Yuri Gugorin, the first cosmonaut, who came back and said, There is no God. I've been around the world. I don't see God. I look in space, I don't see God What a foolish thing to say. To somehow think that he could see God, that he could look at the earth and look at space and see God. God says, before the mountains were brought forth, before you had formed the world. He was God. God is greater than his creation. God is above his creation. If an ant were to climb up a sequoia and sir survey all the world through the top of a sequoia, would he be greater than the squia? Of course not. He's just a tiny creature on a giant, giant tree. Well, in our world, we have no way of seeing everything that God is made because God is the foundation of it all. God is the presupposition. God is the sinner by which we see all things things. Look how he speaks here. Moses pictures God as as laboring to bring forth the world. Now he brings it forth by speaking his word to existence, you know, as Genesis 1 talks about. But it exists because God made it exist. It didn't exist apart from him. He's greater above everything that he's created. From everlasting to everlasting, he's God because he exists before what he creates is made. We have a hard time thinking of time before God, don't we? I read a lot of World War II history and I've read a lot about D-Day. I was in the 82nd Airborne, which jumped in on D-Day in the Normandy, and I I'm thrilled to read the the stories of those paratroopers. I can read the the stories of what it was like to jump into the darkness of those towns in Normandy. My my parents were married during the Great Great depression. They can they can they could have told me they're both gone now, but they could have told me something about what the depression was like and what they went through. And and we have pictures and photos and they take us back a certain way. But but how do you How do you think about a time before time? How do you think about a world in which there were no trees, no mountains, no stars? There were no lights. How do you think about a time like that? God is the precondition for all things. Before there was space to fill, God existed. Before there was life Light or darkness, there was God. Before there was a nanosecond of time, there was God. Moses says, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God, El. Thinking of God and His almighty power. How do you think of eternity? If you fly, and probably most of us have flown at some point You you reach that point where you're up above the clouds and and you can't see things because they're obscured by the clouds. And and after a while, hopefully the pilot it knows where you're going, but you're not sure. Are you flying east or west, north or south? Are you heading for California, heading for Washington, D. C. Are you Are you going south or north? What's going on? You you don't see things because you don't have that orientation. We could be passing over the ocean, we could be passing over mountains. We don't know. Everything's obscured by the clouds You don't have any reference point except the inside of that airplane. And and for us, we're living in the world already created. We we only understand things in terms of how we live here. The frame of reference for us is God. From everlasting to everlasting, you're God. We don't have any reference point for eternity except Except the eternal God. He is from everlasting to everlasting. Joni read this book, None Like Him, by a woman named Jen Wilkin. And when she talks about the eternity of God, she said, she actually starts the book this way, I think. She says, I know I'm not God because I have a birth certificate. I I can look and I can see the time when I was born, when I came into this world. God doesn't have a birth certificate. There wasn't anybody there to deliver God. God's always been God. God exists because He's God without boundaries. We can't understand what it means to be everlasting except thinking in terms of everything Of God. He's infinite. He is without limits. There's no limit to God's power. That's what we call omnipotence There's no limit to God's knowledge. That's what we call omniscience. There's no limit to God's presence. That's what we call omnipresence. There's no limit to God's existence. That's what we call eternity. From everlasting to everlasting, you're God. That's the foundation for our lives. That's the basis for our lives. This is our hope. God doesn't change. He's here. He's not going to go away. We make promises and we can't keep them, but the everlasting God has said things that he won't go back on. We fail, we have good intentions and we can't carry through them. We don't have the power, we don't have the knowledge, we we're not in control of events and we can't keep those promises But the God that Moses is talking about, because he's over everything, because all things are in his hand, is the one on whom we can build in a changing world a lot of God. Life without fear. We want to give up and say this is too hard for me. I just can't handle life. I can't handle the changes. But you belong, if you are a believer, to the everlasting God. God who won't change. Hebrews in chapter one says creation itself grows old and will be rolled up like a scroll. But God God will be there. On the day when Jesus Christ returns, there will be a day of resurrection and our bodies will change. But God is never changed. Matter of fact, he said to uh through the prophet Malachi, I the Lord do not change, so you, oh and oh descendants of Jacob, are not destroyed. We have the prophet Promises of God that will not change because God does not change. He's the eternal Lord, the dwelling place of his people in every generation. He is the one who saves his people, even though they are sinful because he is the one who has chosen them. In Isaiah 57, the prophet says this for this is what the high and holy one says, he who lives forever Whose name is holy. I live in a high and holy place, but also with him who is contrite and lowly in spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly, and to revive the heart of the contrite I will not accuse forever, nor will I always be angry, for then the spirit of man would grow faint before me, the breath of man that I have created. I was enraged by his sinful greed. I punished him and hid my face in anger. Yet he kept in his willful ways. I have seen his ways. But I will heal him. I will guide him and restore comfort to him Creating praise on the lips of the mourners in Israel. Peace, peace to those who are far and near, says the Lord, and I will heal them. But the wicked are like the tossing sea which cannot rest. Whose ways cast up mire and mud. There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked. The everlasting Lord that Isaiah is talking about has made himself a people for his own name's sake. He's taken us for his bride. This is a great thought, isn't it? If you belong to the Lord Jesus Christ, the bridegroom doesn't turn away. The bridegroom remembers his bride. The bridegroom's going to come for his bride. We just sang a hymn about that. The bridegroom loves his bride. Gave himself for her and will keep her. The Lord Jesus Christ is the Lord of this. The Lord Jesus Christ is the God of this psalm. The Lord Jesus Christ is the Jehovah of this Psalm. Lord Jesus Christ is the dwelling place of his people. When Jesus Christ was there when the world was created. He is the Word. The Word now made flesh. So we must be savingly joined to Him if we are to have peace In a year of change. If we're not savingly joined by repentance and faith to the Lord Jesus Christ, this year will be a terrifying year because the changes will come and they are inevitable in our lives and in the world. But if we are joined to the Savior, He, our bridegroom, will care for us. He will watch over us and keep us no matter what things may come into our lives. Moses is a pilgrim, as he writes the Psalm. He will die outside the promised land. We, unless Jesus returns, will die finally outside the promised land. promised land. But if we belong to Jesus, we'll be taken to the promised land. We'll be taken to be with him forever. The foundation that Moses sees that helps him deal with change with taking up the tent pegs and moving the tents again and again and again. Is that God is God. He is the dwelling place of his people. And he doesn't change. So we're not consumed. I love uh Richard Attenborough's movie, A Bridge Too Far Bridge. based on the book by Cornelius Ryan. It's talking about the uh attempt by the Allies to hop sc hop Scotch uh into the uh uh into the heartland of Germany in Second World War And uh it has this scene that is almost brings tears to my eyes as I watch it. The British uh paratroopers uh had the honor of the furthest bridge in and they they jumped in but it was a bridge too far and they were cut off from the rest of the allies and uh uh they were surrounded by German troops. And and Edinburgh has this scene where the British are about ready to surrender. They have uh taken as a headquarters, the house of the uh Dutch doctor. And uh the lawn of his uh house is is covered with uh litters as men uh have been wounded, uh some are dying. Um And uh there's this picture of the devastation of war. You've seen the town destroyed and the the soldiers are there dying about ready to be uh captured by the Germans and Somewhere, one of the British soldiers begins to sing, Abide with me, fast falls the even tide And in that hymn, there is this line: Change and decay in all around thy sea. O thou that changest not, abide Me. How are we going to face this year? Is our hope in the never-changing God Are we thinking that, wow, a new administration, all kinds of changes, great things coming? No. Are we looking to the God who is the dwelling place of his people, who will not change? We're not consumed. The Lord Jesus Christ has made himself our bridegroom. He loves his bride. He will watch over her. He will keep her. And everyone who believes in him can be comforted. pray. Our Father in heaven, we pray that you might prepare us for this year. Lord, it is so easy for us to be filled with anxiety as change But we pray that you in your grace and mercy would remind us that our hope lies in you. You're promises are sure. Our Savior's love is firm. We in our weakness and whatever things we will face, whatever disabilities, whatever strife Whatever uncertainties come to us, you are a dwelling place. Lord, I pray that everyone here might find the Lord Jesus Christ to be truly there. hope in this coming year and that we all might be comforted as things around us change and decay because you do not change. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.