Congregation, we turn tonight for our scripture reading to the second chapter of Ephesians verses eleven through twenty two. This is the word of God. Therefore, remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision, by what is called the circumcision. Which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ. alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise Having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one, and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility. by abolishing the law of commandments and ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Third, on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone. in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him, you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. This is the Word of God. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, it is well that we get our bearings once more as we progress through our consideration of this blessed letter to the Ephesian Church and to us from the Apostle Paul. He has so far, you'll remember, praised the Triune God for his electing, redeeming, and sealing love. He then proceeded to give thanks to God for his amazing power, so evident in the lives of those who have believed in the Lord Jesus Christ. Then comes the explanation. All this has been by grace alone, stemming from the sheer love of God, and not through any accomplishment on their part. Rather, by grace, through faith, a faith that shows itself in good works that glorify God. Now that's by way of summary where we've come. That brings us to this evening's text, Ephesians 2, 11 through 22. Actually, it's going to be the text for this night's sermon and the next time I'm in the pulpit. A passage that defies treatment in one sermon. Actually, we plan to split it in two. Tonight and the next time I'm here. Both sermons will Center upon one grand theme. Here it is: the wonderful accomplishment of God's grace in Christ. Jew and Gentile made one. And tonight we consider how lost Gentiles Have been brought to faith in Christ and united to lost Jews who have been similarly saved. And this abundantly rich text, actually verses 11 through 17 tonight, may itself be considered as a whole, but approached from two vantage points. First, we will look at what it is that this gracious salvation has affected. Namely, reconciliation of Jew and Gentile, uniting them in one new man, thus making peace. And then second, still tonight, we hope to focus on what it is that God has done for all these lost sinners, whether Jew or Gentile Namely, that he has found them when they were without hope, and brought them near not only to himself, but to each other. Through Christ's blood. So the next time we will take up part two when the sermon will be particularly entitled The Holy Spirit and the Church. And then we will, God willing, once more look at this passage, verses 11 through 22 as a whole, but then focus particularly on what it is Or should we say, who it is that accomplishes such a remarkable salvation? It's the powerful working, of course, of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit of the Father and of the Son. In his regenerating, equipping, uniting, and governing the church, attending to the last five verses. Of the second chapter. So that's what's ahead. But now for tonight, center your attention on what it is that God has done for lost sinners. Finding both lost Jews and lost Gentiles, and bringing them near himself and near each other in one new man. But of the two things that I want to split this sermon, the first is this. There's something to remember, says Paul. In fact, he begins with this wonderful connecting word, Ephesians 2, 11. Therefore. Pay attention to that word whenever you find it in your Bible. The word therefore Calls forth effort on your part to see what follows that word is there for If I can play on words a bit. In this case, Paul's going to describe the surprise unfolding of God's purposes in Christ. That is what is going to be seen there to be. That Jew and Gentile have been made one. Now, why is that so important? That is something to be singularly remembered, Paul says. And we ask, actually, how is that possible? After all, The Jews had been the people of God, constituting the only true church of the Lord on earth. You don't have any denominations in the Old Testament. You have the church, the Jewish people, and everybody else in the world The Jewish nation wasn't just one of many churches, it was a chosen nation, a peculiar people, separate and separated from all the rest. Thus, every human being who was not a Jew by birth or became one as a proselyte, he could become one. But you would be a member of one huge class if you weren't a Jew. You would remain a goim, the Hebrew word, for the pagan nations. The outsiders, the Gentiles. Now the amazing thing that the apostle says is that those Ephesians Who trusted in Christ were Gentiles, and they had been saved. Yes, saved. Eternally Found by God, forgiven, and seated in the heavenly realms in Christ, and destined for eternal blessedness, even though they were Gentiles. And that church in Ephesus will need to express perpetual gratitude to the God of grace who has done this amazing thing. But for them to do that, they will need to first, according to Paul, contrast their former lost condition with their having now been found. That's why he begins this entire passage, verses 11 to 22, with that arresting word, therefore. Therefore, remember what you were formerly. You Gentiles were uncircumcised. Why is that important? The word circumcised is a singularly important word, and it stands for a singularly important fact. Gentiles were uncircumcised, and that means that they were not in covenant with God. The people who were in covenant with God were circumcised, at least the male members of those people. Circumcision, as you well know, was done at God's behest in the case of every Jewish male child at age eight. Done by the hands of men to mark off that people as the visible, the visible church of God on earth. Outsiders could enter that church. But they had to become Jews. And if they were men or boys They had to be marked off as such by the rite of circumcision. Yes, the Old Testament didn't know about denominations There was only one true church on earth, and it consisted of the Jews, or at least of Jews. Now, not every Israelite was faithful to Yahweh as a covenant keeper, and such were to be cut off. There were no other churches for them to go to after they ceased to be Jews. Just the one. Still in awe. And Paul wants the Ephesians to remember this. God had a surprise, a big surprise, in store for the world. When he sent his son to earth, that Messiah was to be the world's savior. The Savior of people all over the world, yes, even of Gentiles, those outside the Old Testament covenant community Those outside the church. That was ever his purpose. And the former covenant, the document The Old Testament is replete with intimations of it, which we can't go into tonight, otherwise, you will never get to bed tonight Yes, not only was a promised Messiah coming, but a Messiah for all people on earth, not every last person, but for people everywhere. Around the globe. That's why we have said that the theme of this two-week sermon is the wonderful accomplishment of God's grace in Christ, Jew, Old Testament Church. And Gentiles found though they both were without hope and without God except for his covenant mercy. Bringing them near through Christ's blood, and uniting them in one, thus making peace. And so come those wonderful words, hear them again Remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh, called the uncircumcision, by what is called the circumcision which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ. Alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in this world But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. Isn't that a fantastic thing, my friends? For it describes us here in Maryland in 2023, also Thus, we need to find other Christians in this area, also as we would have been lost and without God in this world. And now have fellowship with them, for we are one with them, whatever their race, language, or cultural background. I will even say whatever denomination. The Orthodox Presbyterian Church is not the only pure church. Not what the letters stand for. We are together with all others and all other churches that stand for the Bible and the only gospel. Altogether, we with them were lost, for we are all of us children of Adam and subject to condemnation. But now in Christ we are brought near, near to God through the blood of Christ, and near to every other true believer in Jesus Christ with us, members of his blessed body. And the first instance of that was, as Paul indicates, when God brought Gentiles into his church. Now the second thing I want to have us look at tonight, and the last, is that we are lost, but now are found. Lost, but now found. Look particularly at verse 12c and that striking phrase, No Hope, as we further explore the height and depth of this rich text. The world you see is like an open book that God has written and written upon. Yes, it is, but some people think that they can read the world without knowing who wrote it. Worse than that, they tear out the title page on which the author's name is found and read him out of the book, and that's the way they read it, as though it had no author. Begin on page two, they insist. Never mind the divine author, if indeed there is one. But imagine reading any other book without carrying who wrote it. That's the way many people choose to study the world. And they come to the amazing conclusion that the world doesn't have any author at all, that it just happened. That there is no God in it and even more behind it. So they miss the point of the world completely. Now, if you wrote a book and if people read it that way What would you do? Well, you could complain, I suppose. Another thing you could do, however, would be to write another book that not only emphasize the point of the first one But to open the eyes of your readers in this second book to deliver them from their blindness, their lostness, and bring them back to their senses. That's where those Gentiles were in the Old Testament and in Ephesus before the gospel came to them. They were with no hope. And that's exactly what God did for them. He had given his people his world, but now they've read him out of it. And Paul describes them as knowing God, non-tas ton theon, knowing God, the precious Greek phrase. The Gentiles know God. Everybody does. They can't escape Him. But they worship Him not as God and have become vain in their imaginations. They don't read that first book and see him. He's everywhere there. So he gave them the gospel. He gave them his word, the holy scriptures. And the gospel does not begin with Matthew 1-1. It begins with Genesis 1-1. And that second book, the Bible, not only tells them what they missed in the first one, the world But it tells them that he has done something to restore them when they became lost, when they were without hope. Still it is. Judging by the state of affairs in this sorry world, it appears that most people yet can't find him, still today. even though he has given them those two books, the World and the Word. It seems as though, oh I'll say it, to them God himself is lost. And now in the space age, when the universe is becoming so big and we are becoming so small, that is indeed a problem. Our text this evening describes such people as having no hope. And without God in the world, yes, even in the space age. What could be more tragic than to be in the world, to be in the universe, to be in the solar system, to be on this earth? But to be without God. That's the picture of people today, as surely as it was for the Ephesians prior to their conversion to Christ. That being the case, my friends, this message tonight, this text tonight, comes at a time in human history when there is even less excuse for being without God than ever before. When men know more and more about both books, God's World, and yes, even God's Word. As to the first, on the one hand, science has opened up the world to us. Or perhaps I should say God has opened the windows of heaven so that we can see things about the world which previous generations never dreamed of seeing We are making new discoveries every day. I can remember when there wasn't television. That's just me. But we're making new discoveries every day, fantastic discoveries. We don't know what's coming next The frontiers of space and of medicine and of the internet are being pushed back Meanwhile, as far as the physical earth is concerned, we're uncovering new treasures in it, new material resources. To raise our standard of living and to add innumerable conveniences and comforts. We're learning more and more the secrets of our planet, of this world. As well, this is the day in which the Word of God, that second book, is being rediscovered, at least in terms of research and translation. Not so many people are learning to follow it and read it and believe it, but they know a lot about it. We have uncovered archaeological evidence to confirm the claims of the Bible The Bible is being retranslated into innumerable languages at an outstanding rate. It's the world's best read book. Not best read, but best found. It's everywhere in the world And when we've entered into Carmogia and other places as an Orthodox Presbyterian mission work, we have translated and printed the Bible or portions thereof for the first time. Still, spite of this, many fail to find God. And they're still lost. They're complaining that they have no real satisfying life. Just watch the news And find so many submitting to the temptation to end it by killing somebody else or by killing themselves. Our morals are degenerating, our homes are being destroyed I like that song, Grandpa. Tell me about the good old days, when families knelt down to pray and daddies never went away Is happening. But a frightful thing in first century Ephesus and in 24th century USA. People were not only lost But they're lost in the light, in the bright light of God's revelation of himself in the world and in his word. They've got all the facts right at hand. They have eyes to see, they have minds to think, but they see or think not. They're blind leaders of the blind They are without hope. They are lost. They know everything, or almost everything, but they know nothing. Because they do not know the basic fact in the universe, the supreme fact, God. He is lost to them. But you may ask, is that really true? Is there really no hope at all for people like that? Is that all that you can say to them? You're hopeless. Well, that's all you can say that will have effect until they learn to say it, until they confess their hopelessness, that they are indeed lost in the light. And the first thing that you need to say when you share the gospel is not the good news that Jesus has come to die for sinners. But that people like you, the person you're looking at, need a Savior, that you are lost. Now, you may say, what a way is that to begin to share the gospel. But it's where you have to start. What you can say to them is something like this. And these words were written to describe people who once were lost and then were found in our text tonight, found by the very same God whom they had lost. They could never have found God having read him out of his word and out of his world. But he could find them, and he did in Ephesus. And you here today, like the Ephesians, also Gentile believers in Jesus Christ, can find this true And you too were without God and lost. God has found you. And how did that happen? But now in Christ Jesus, writes Paul, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. God revealed himself to you as your Savior in the person of Jesus. And he enabled you to confess that. He took you to the cross of Jesus and opened your eyes to see the sacrifice that he made there to pay for sinners, one of which you are He took you to the open tomb and let you see how Christ there conquered death for sinners, of which you are one. He showed you how you could find him, and you can sing the hymn. I sought the Lord. And afterward I knew he moved my soul to seek him, seeking me It was not I that found, O Savior true, no. I was found of thee. We have a task congregation, Grace and Peace has a task, because there is a desperate need all around us here in St. Mary's County or Calvert County, wherever we live. Cry this out to them. Cry this out to them. There's only one way to organize your life and make sense out of it. You will have to organize it the way God has done, around a cross, the same cross to which God is reconciling the world unto himself. You will have to go there and throw yourself on his mercy, if they're still listening to you when he said that Confessing your sin and loss and putting your trust in God's Son as your Savior. And if they turn away from you, don't say you failed. God has not been pleased to open their eyes He will have to do it. But if they're still listening, you can say, then you can look upon your life, no matter how difficult it may be. And upon the whole world, no matter how disturbed you may be about the way things are going in our country and in our world, you can see God clearly You will be lost in the light no longer. You will find God because He has first found you Tell them. Tell them at your workplace. Tell them at your neighborhood. Tell them at your school. I don't know what's going to happen to you. You may be shuddered And you may be pushed away, forgotten, and disliked. But you will have done what Paul did for the Ephesians. He told them where they had been and where God had brought them. Tell them with the same urgency today that drove the Apostle Paul to the Ephesians Call upon them to make peace with God by trusting in the blood of Christ shed for sinners. And if they confess that, shed for them Pray God to open the eyes of your neighbors, to use you to confront them with their own lost condition. And let them behold the glory of God's saving grace at Calvary's Cross. Lost and found? Three words. Lost and found. Are there three other words? That so fully and clearly capture not only the message of our text tonight, but also the entirety of God's Word. The second book, written that our eyes may be open to find him. Amen. And our congregation with uplifted hearts hear the benediction which Paul pronounced upon the church at Ephesus. And now pronounces upon you, he's saying, This is so. Peace be to the brothers, and love with thee. From God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love Incorruptible. Amen