Read Psalm one nineteen, verses forty-one through fifty-six, starting at verse forty-one. Let your steadfast love come to me, O Lord, your salvation according to your promise. Then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me, for I trust in your word. And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for my hope is in your rules. I will keep your law continually forever and ever, and I shall walk in a wide place, for I have sought your precepts. I will also speak of your testimonies before kings, and shall not be put to shame. For I find my delight in your commandments, which I love. I will lift up my hands toward your commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes. Remember your word to your servant, in which you have made me Hope. This is my comfort in my affliction that your promise gives me life. The insolent utterly deride me, but I do not turn away from your law. When I think of your rules from of old, I take comfort, O Lord. Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked who forsake your law. Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourning. I remember your name in the night, O Lord, and keep your law. This blessing has fallen to me, that I have kept your precepts. This is the word of the Lord. John 15, 12 through 25. John 15, verse 12. This is my commandment. That you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends, if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing. But I have called you friends. For all that I have heard from my father I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. These things I command you, so that you will love one another If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: a servant is not greater than his master If they persecuted me, they will persecute you also. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me. If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin. Whoever hates me hates my Father also. If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin. But now they have seen and hated both me and my Father. But the word that is written in their law must be fulfilled. They hated me without a cause. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, as we approach this portion of your holy word, we pray that we'll understand it in keeping with the whole of Scripture And understand it as you intended, and then be able to apply it. Speak to us, Lord, as we hear your word today Amen. So we're here in the middle of these last chapters before Jesus goes to the cross, and we're hearing Jesus Instruction to his disciples. These kind of last things are important because the things that you say at the end are sometimes the most important things that you want someone to remember and keep in mind for a very long time. as their life goes forward. And Jesus is doing that here. These are last words of encouragement and preparation. It's good to be prepared to, to know what's ahead. That's the secret thing I just told the children to think about. So as we approach this, first of all, I want to remind you that you must understand and imitate God's love of you by loving others. That's what Jesus is saying. Saying, Understand and imitate God's love of you by loving others. First, we need to understand how great God's love is. It's a very familiar Bible verse. God so loved the world that he gave his son And what does that mean? He gave him in the incarnation the great coming down, the great stooping down by being born. of a virgin born in a broken world and suffering all the ravages of this broken world and being rejected and being scourged and spat upon and sent to the cross. Those are the gifts of God. God so loved that he gave in the incarnation and in the cross. He gave. And that is a great measure, is it not? And then he says finally that he lays down his life for his sheep. So it's personal. It's not just a general coming down and suffering, but it is a purposeful love that gives for his sheep. So if we are now to imitate God's love by loving others, and that's what Jesus says, this is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. In the same way, in the same quality, it's a great self-giving love. And then he says, greater love has no one than this. This is a general platitude, isn't it? This is the way we look at. If you want to love your friend, the greatest thing you could ever do in love is, if you had to, would be lay down your life for your friend. And Jesus did that. So it's in a measure of this greatness. And then he says, you're supposed to do the same thing for one another. It's an amazing command. He says in verse 14, you are my friends if you do what I command you. And then he gives a bit of help here with understanding that concept. He says, no longer do I call you servants. For the servant does not know what his master is doing. He's not taken into the counsel of his master. But I have called you friends. It's a greater thing. For all that I have heard from my father, I have made known to you. You see, here, friend is a higher quality of relationship. Or in our day, employee. The boss has the big plans from the boardroom as to where this project or this company is going. And you're just a peon. In a booth somewhere in a little cubicle doing your little bit. You're not told about what's going on at all. But Jesus says, you're the people that I'm sharing all my plans with I'm telling you everything that the Father told me. You're my friends. So you're not just servants or slaves or employees anymore. And now let's just think about that. As I told the children, there are two notable friends of God in the Old Testament. So we can catch them. First of all, in Isaiah 41, 8, it says, But you Israel, my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen The offspring of Abraham, my friend. Abraham is the friend of God, the very friend of God. And God took Abraham into his counsel when they approached the the villages of Sodom and Gomorrah. And when God was going to destroy them. He took him into his council. He said, I'm not going to let this happen without telling my friend what's going to happen so he can understand what I'm doing here, how I'm judging and punishing. This wickedness. And we see the same thing in Exodus later on, in Exodus 33, where it says, Thus the Lord used to speak to Moses face to face. That's not some distance. Face to face. When you're going to talk to your friend, you go right up to their face and you speak to them personally, face to face. As a man speaks to his friend, it says. Moses turned into the camp, and Joshua his assistant, the young man, would depart from the tent, but God would speak to Moses face to face. Because of God's friendship with Abraham and Moses, God gave them the scoop on his great purposes. What a friend does. And in John chapter 8, we can get another picture of this sharing, this Understanding that God gave to Abraham, his friend. John chapter 8, Jesus says in verse 56, he's talking to the Jews. He says, Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. What's that about? My day. He's saying that God revealed to Abraham that Jesus would come. He revealed to Abraham that his life would do what it did, that he would minister, that he would heal, that he would go to the cross, that he would redeem the world. God revealed that day Of Jesus to Abraham. Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. So Abraham had joy. So many thousands of years back. Abraham had joy because he knew the secret that God was going to send Jesus to redeem us. We see that also a little bit more historically back in Exodus. Moses was told exactly what God was doing. It says in Exodus chapter 6, verse 1. But the Lord said to Moses, Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh, for with a strong hand he will send them out, and with a strong hand he will drive them out of the He's saying, I'm going to do so many things to Pharaoh that he will push the people out. Instead of not just letting them go, he will send them out. Go, go, go fast, hurry, get out. So God took Moses into his counsel. Then, step by step as the plagues unfold, God keeps telling his friend Moses. Here's what I'm doing. I'm going to send this plague, then I'm going to send that plague, and then Pharaoh will harden his heart, and then this will happen, then I'll send another plague. He kept him in his council as his friend So first, do you understand the breadth and depth of God's love for you? And are you willing to love other people in the same quality of self-sacrifice? Because of God's self-sacrifice for you. That great love is described in Ephesians. But God being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, hear it? Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved. And in Romans For while we were still weak at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would even dare to die. But God Shows his love for us and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Paul is saying, here's the big picture of what God has done for us been doing and is doing. Understand his love for you and then love others in the same way, analogically. Have you ever seen one of those thousand-piece crossword, not crossword, but thousand-piece jigsaw puzzles? Yeah. I saw one at the Tyson's uh some time back. They had it out on a big table and And uh they told me I couldn't leave until I found one piece. I tried, but anyway, um there were lots of pieces. Well, history seems to be a puzzle. What's going on in the world is often seemed to be a puzzle. But God gives us the lid, the picture on the lid. You look at the picture on the lid, you look at the piece on the puzzle, and you see what color it is. It could fit there, there, there. You start to put it together, you see. Are you God's friend? Are you sharing his counsel about history, his kingdom, his big plans? It's all here in the Bible. God has shared it with his friends, you and me. Proverbs twenty-eight verse five says this. Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek the Lord understand all things. Isn't that great? All things. We get the the puzzle box picture. We get to see how it all fits together as it unfolds. By bit. The second point I want to raise with you today is God's love for you preceded your decision to love God and to obey God. This is grace. This is grace. Verses 16 and 17. You did not choose me, Jesus says. He's telling his disciples, you think you followed me, you think you came along, you think it was your decision? You did not choose me. And if they would remember when he called them, they would know that. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit and that your fruit should abide. So that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you, these things I command you so that you will love one another. So there's that love one another thing again God's love preceded your decision to love Him. And maybe we should love people even when they don't love us, you see. Maybe we should reach out graciously. We should in fact, not maybe, we should reach out graciously to love others in the same way that God loved us. He reached out before we could do anything. So your love for others must imitate God's love in quality. And when we think of that, we can't go and give our life and make an atonement for the sins of someone else. But we can lay down our life in terms of denying our rights and sacrifice our life, our time, our stuff in love for others. God's love of his loved ones should be your supreme purpose, since loving you was God's supreme purpose. And it literally cost him his life. Your love for others must imitate God's love in unprovoked motivation. Again, as I said before from Romans chapter 5, while we were still weak, while we were not choosing God, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. And he says again, for some scarcely will die for a righteous person, though for perhaps for a good person one would even dare to die. But God shows his love toward us that while we were still sinners Christ died for us. He chose us and died for us. So this is grace. It's an undeserved gift. In fact, it's not just undeserved, it's demerited. We deserve the opposite of what God gives us by grace. So let me just pause and ask you this friendship question. How can you be assured that you, you, are a friend of Jesus? How can you be assured of that Well, first by listening to his voice in the unfolding plans that he sets forth in Scripture Then you know you're a friend. You've been taken into counsel. You're not just a slave or a servant. You're a friend. And the other way is by imitating his love for you. In loving others. Do what He commands. Love one another. So that's the basic thrust of this first portion today. Love one another. Imitate God's love for you. Know yourself as a friend of God. Know yourself as an insider. You've got the scoop on it. And when you go out into the world and the world's saying this and the world's saying that and the world's pulling this way or the other way, remember that you're the friend of God and you know the big Picture. You've got the story right. Wonderful thing. And love other people. Pity them for their foolishness, for their lossless, for their lack of understanding of anything. Pity them, but love them. Secondly, this is the other part of the picture that Jesus wants his disciples to know before he goes, you should expect to be hated. Oh, that's bad news If you are a friend of Jesus, you should expect to be hated. Now, some of you perhaps go on Facebook or Twitter or whatever social media outlets there are. And maybe as a Christian you express your opinion, your view, your Christian worldview about abortion or gay marriage, or transgender bathrooms. or transgender locker rooms or whatever it is, you express your opinion, and before long there's some comments that come back And they're hateful and they're saying that you're a bigot, and they're saying that you're a homophobe, and they're saying all these things about you. It's the hate comes back. That happens, doesn't it? Yeah. But even if you don't do that, and I have kind of shied away from putting myself out there on Facebook. I don't want to play that game. I don't want to fight that fight all the time. But even if you don't, if you're an out-of-the-closet Christian, you will be hated by some people Now let's think about hate for a minute. It's not a very happy subject, but let's look at the anatomy of hate. Jesus says that this fallen-down world system When he talks about the world, he's not talking about planet Earth. Planet Earth is going to be redeemed by God. Planet Earth is not bad. It was not created evil. But it has fallen under the curse of sin and death, so it has become evil, not the soil, not the trees and all that, although they suffer. But the world's system, the world's way of thinking, the world's way of looking at everything is fallen down. It hates the truth and it imitates its source Back in the third chapter of John, Jesus says about the world, he says, for everyone who does wicked things Hates the light. And that was where he was saying the light is coming to the world. In the coming of Jesus, the light is coming. Someone's flipping the switch on. The light has come. But the world hates darkness. It hates the light, I should say, and does not come into the light lest his works should be exposed. See that darkness hates the light. There's that hate And Jesus said to the Jews who were in darkness, He said, You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. So the world system that hates the believer is empowered and instructed and steeped in the lies of the devil. So here's what Jesus says, verse 18. If the world hates you, know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, if you were part of that picture, that system, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you, a servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me. And then he says in verse twenty-two, and I'll explain this a little bit here in a minute, if I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin. But now they have no excuses for Whoever hates me hates my father also. If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not have been guilty of sin But now they have seen and hated both me and my father, but the word that is written in their law must be fulfilled. They hated me without a cause. Now remember, back in the Garden of Eden, this is where it starts Back in the Garden of Eden, the devil said to the woman, God is not the loving, sovereign creator of a perfect world. So he told the first lie. He's the father of lies. Verse chapter 3 of Genesis. He said to the woman, Did God actually say how snide, how snarky the serpent is? is lying. Did God actually say, you shall not eat of any tree in the garden? But the serpent said to the woman, you will not. Surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So what the devil is saying is He's telling a lie about the the nature of the world. This world is not what you think it is, what God told you it is. No. He's telling a lie about the truth. God isn't the author of truth. You can't trust. What he says, and he's telling a lie about good and evil. He's saying, oh, what he's defined as good and evil, that's not the way it is. And he's telling a lie about the character of God He's saying you can't trust him. Now, that's the way it starts. That's the way it started back in the garden. That's the way the world system still is stuck in it, too. And so the old lies are now today the new lies. And the new lies at the bottom, there's lots of sub-lies all around, but at the bottom, at the core, the new lies are the old lies. And the main one is the naturalistic assumption that is taught in most colleges and universities today. The naturalistic Assumption. Let me flesh that out for you. From 2 Peter chapter 3. Here's what it said. Knowing this, first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing. following their own sinful desires, and they will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. That's the naturalistic assumption. All things are continuing as they were since the beginning of creation. We can't trust this promise of a Messiah. We can't believe that Jesus is the real one and that he died and rose. We can't believe any of that. We all things are begin going on as they always have been. That's the naturalistic assumption And then Peter says, for they deliberately overlook this fact that the heavens existed long ago And the earth was formed out of water and through water by the word of God, and that by that means of these the world then existed was deluged with water and perished. What is he talking about? He's talking about the flood. He's saying they're forgetting the fact that God created the world and that God judged the world with flood. So Peter recalls these specific historical judgments because that is what he is discussing at the moment, but he also has in mind the creation of Adam and Eve and the temptation of Satan and the fall of man and the curse on the creation. Where Paul talks about it as groaning in the pains of childbirth. But we wrap all that up and put it together. The lie is told then and now, the lie is told that this Miserable, fallen-down world is natural. It's the way it's always been. That disease and death are natural That wars and hate and murder and lies and adultery and covetousness are normal And the morality expressed in the Ten Words, the Decalogue, the Ten Commandments, is considered outdated. impractical, oppressive, and lately regressive. And so the world, the world is saying, if God exists at all, God is not sovereign Jesus, whoever he might have been, is not divine. And there is no such thing as truth or falsehood, right and wrong, and there will be no judgment. Cesla Melos, Nobel Prize winner in literature, wrote The Discreet Charms of Nihilism, Nothingism. He says this in that book A true opium of the people is a belief in nothingness after death. The huge solace of thinking that our betrayals Our greed, our cowardice, murders are not going to be judged. And that's the world system. That's the way it thinks, that's the way it's propagating its lies. And if we contradict that world system, guess what? As Jesus did, we're going to be hating. We're going to be hated. So let me just characterize the world's system with the same image of the thousand-piece jigsaw puzzle. Okay? This is a thousand-piece jigsaw puzzle. But no box lid picture at all. Just dump it out on the table. The pieces here have been cut up at random by a giant shredder. To try to make sense out of that, is gonna be very Very, very hard. It's gonna be impossible, is it not? That's the world view that's taught by the world system, the fallen world system. And Jesus came when he did, and he spoke truth, you see. He turned on the light. He demonstrated his authority over falsehood. And distortions of the written law of God, he contradicted those who had twisted it and turned it to justify their own ways And this infuriated them. It infuriated those who had relativized truth and morality and were protecting their wicked lives under a religious cloak. Jesus exposed the lie. He infuriated the liars and provoked them to murder him. But Jesus, for his part, went willingly to the cross and paid for the sins of the world. Multitude of people from every people group and every historical period, the world, this is redemption. A great contrast, you see, to the chaotic cycle of misery and death of the naturalistic worldview. And Jesus is still challenging these laws. Wise. Through preachers in faithful pulpits, yes. Through Christian education of children, yes. Through missionaries who proclaim the light of the gospel in the midst of dark places, yes. But do know this, dear Christian, sitting here today, your Christ-like love for God and his people, and others whom God will call to become his friends, your love combined with your witness, this is the best strategy. Your love and your witness. You see, I could go around, for example, wearing big shiny buttons that denounce atheism and that denounce naturalistic assumptions and I could have a button with every category of immorality on it and wear those buttons to denounce immorality of every stripe. And it will definitely get me hated, will it not? Yeah. And if I were articulate enough, I could debate in public and show the inconsistency of non-Christian philosophy and the moral decadence And it will get me hated. And I'm thankful, by the way, for apologists and Christian philosophers who do this. And I pray for them, we should pray for them. I I pray for one in particular who's as a friend of mine on Facebook, Robert A. J. Gano He's a great biblical scholar, and he debates liberals that claim to be Christians who are not, who are distorting the Word of God and teaching naturalism, basically. We should pray for people like Robbie Zacharias, who you hear on the radio Yes. But I can't do that, and you probably can't either. So our witness has to be more practical. Your love expressed in self-sacrifice. Your verbally expressed view of reality when you have the opportunity. When you have the opportunity to say, in effect, this world belongs to God, a sovereign, loving, redeemer. Creator. This world belongs to God. These things will get God glory. And these will also get you in trouble at times. And you may be hated. But it's only Okay. It's okay. It really is. Because that's the way of the cross. And God will use you because you are his friend, his confidant. As you share the secret of his glory, his grace, his mercy, as you share that secret. Love one another, friends, and bear witness to your loving rejoice. Amen. Lord, we thank you for these important last teachings of Jesus, that we are to love one another in the same measure and quality that you Have loved us, and that we are to tell the truth in the face of lies. And it will get us hated, but it's okay. Help us to be wise When we have opportunity. Help us not to pick fights. Help us not to be ridiculous in our being out there. But help us to be faithful. In Jesus name, Amen