Dear congregations of the Lord, you know that we have been going through and these Sunday morning services for the past year These set readings and in us ever since Pentecost back in May we have been looking at uh life together in the Holy Spirit. Christian living. I'm going to look at another aspect of that this morning. Walking wisely and making most of the use of the time. that our Lord Jesus has allotted for us here. So this aspect you can find away in the big category of Christian living and put it in its little subfolder walking wisely and the main thing that I want to stress to you all this morning and I will be going quick. Um the main thing I want to stress to you this morning is the words that the apostle says there in Ephesians 5 16. Making the best use of the time. Making the best use of the time. Some of you may uh know these words from an older translation like redeeming the time Um it gets to the same idea, buying the time, buying the opportunity is uh what the phrase means. It's uh it was for people who are the market term. Uh People are buyers and traders, right? Doing everything you can to your advantage, right, in buying and selling, making uh the most out of it, getting the the most out of your time, making a bit of every opportunity right for profits or whatever else. Making the best use of time, making the most of every opportunity is the idea that the Apostle Paul is putting before us this morning. And I'd like to say it it it is reasoning is something like this. It deals with this making this idea of walking wisely to make the most use of our time. is something like taking precautions to be most effective. Taking precautions to be most effective That man that we just heard about in Jesus' parable, the man invited to the wedding, but not found to be in a wedding garment, did not make the best use of his time. We don't know what he did, but we don't know what he did, but we know what he didn't do. He didn't spend his time putting on Christ. And when the day came, the judgment came, he was found to be unclothed, because he had not Christ on him. Should be a sober warning to us all. Called people are Christian people, in a sense. They've been baptized. They've made a public profession of faith. They might even come and take communion. They sit next to you in the pews, but they don't really have Christ on them. And they made not the good use of their time. Those are Jesus' words. Jesus' warning. This is very sober teaching, but yet also wonderful as Christians, be deemed by the blood of Christ. Walk wisely, make the most. We do this all the time. One of the things I've been learning as a parent, one precaution I've been taking, and I know there are others because I've learned this from the others here. Uh instructing your before you sit out the door and you're going to the store, whatever, instructing your children first. Here's how you behave Here's what you're going to see, here's what you're going to run into, here's what you're to do, here's what you're not. That saves a lot of time when you get there Taking these precautions, save time. My family's traveling this morning is not with me, but my wife said I was talking to her about this week, making the most use of time, she says I won't talk about the obvious one about your sermon and making the most use of your time in preaching. But yeah, writing your sermon out ahead of time, thinking it through to get rid of fat, to be most effective in the preaching of it. Uh if you're short on time, you're on a time crunch. You know, go into a store you're familiar with, right? How many of you have been to a new grocery store? You just walk laps trying to find everything to get what you like and you don't know what's at Not an effective use of your time, not a wise thing to do, and you're on a time trunk. So we're talking about taking precaution to be most effective in our Christian lives. So we do this every day, but let's remind ourselves that we are also to do it for the Lord. Our wise living Our making the most of our time is not first and foremost for ourselves, but for the Lord Jesus to whom we belong. These words from Peter, real quick. 1 Peter 1 18. Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. Your time should be precious to you because you have been purchased by Jesus. If God spent the blood of his son to ransom you, He does not want you walking idly and vainly in his service. Your life to him costs too much, and part of your life is your time and how you use it. Peter will say a little bit later in the letter, chapter 4, beginning of verse 3, for the time that is past. Suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do. Living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry With respect to this, they are surprised when you not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they will a lot malign you, but they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead We too as well, beloved, will give an account to our Lord Jesus Christ. And I hope it's a wonderful day you're looking forward to, because I hope you're living for Him now and you will not be ashamed of that day, but say, Lord Jesus, Here's what I've done for you. I've told you about it every day. I've searched your word for it. I've prayed about it. It should be no surprise to you what that accounting will be if you're truly living before Him now and not deceiving yourself and putting it off As if you are not responsible to him. As if he has not paid a great price for your life. So Paul tells us, or Peter reminds us, redeemed or bought with the price And Paul is telling us that we need to make the best use of the time. And we're going to look at this morning why Paul tells us two reasons why we're to make the best use of our time, and then he tells us one way how to do it So two reasons why and one way to do it. Let's start with those whys. Turn back in Ephesians 5. You see that third word in the sentence there in verse 15. Look carefully then That word then points you back and lets you know that this exhortation flows out of what Paul had been previously talking to us about, and that is that in Christ we are now children of light. We've been called out of darkness. We are children of light. And we are set here to expose darkness. Not to join in with it, but to expose it. That means positively to affirm the truth in word and deed Positively to live righteous and upright lives, exposing darkness, the Apostle Paul says. That's the first reason why we're to make the best use of our time in the walk. Why is it because of who we are as God's children? Light in the world. And you know, we do live in dark times, as Paul affirms, the days are bad. It is going to require wisdom in how you walk To be light exposing darkness in the world as God's children. It is going to take wisdom Secondly, because we are here, it's so important. We need to be effective in our evangelism, effective in our Christian living. Effective in where God's put us for Him. Because we shouldn't just assume people aren't going to believe. We should assume by God's grace people are going to believe. And never, ever underestimate the power of truth. Every time, parents, you speak truth to your children, brothers and sisters, you speak truth to your brothers and sisters, even to your parents. Brothers and sisters of the Lord, every time you speak truth. Don't underestimate the power of that truth and the worth that it has to cast out darkness and to transform lives by God's grace. We need to be wise and most effective in our living for the Lord Jesus. The second reason the Apostle Paul gives us there in verse 16 is because of the days we live in. So one, who we are, children of light, set to expose darkness in this world. Two, the days are evil, the times that we live in. Um I did a concordant search on this word, Poneros, evil, kind of to flesh out what Paul might be saying here, because if you also look through your Bible, the word days Refers to time, but it often has a modifier to it, like the days of Noah, the days given to a woman to bring forth a child, that those days in which the abomination of desolation will be set up. But there's no other modifier here, just the days. Although saying those days behind us, those days in front of us, those days tomorrow, he's just saying the days, the very general description But Paul also, I think that's because what Paul says in Galatians 1 4, you have been redeemed by Christ from this present evil world. That's the baseline, right? The only reason there's not evil in it, God's grace through you and your light. But the baseline of this world is its turn from God The assumption that we can make is that there will be evil in it. And you and I are set to counteract it. We can't just give up the times and say it's hopeless, even when the winds are turning. No, we don't do that. The winds turned on Jesus, and he kept going back into Jerusalem. Back into Jerusalem until they crucified him. And we saw how glorious that was. He was raised from the dead. Forevermore. So whatever the days may be, and I think that's part of the term dark days there, Paul might be saying the weather's turning. Um We've had the s the fall equinoxes behind us last month. We're heading towards the December winter solstice. That means the days are getting shorter. There's less daylight for us to live in. We need to be more effective in our daylight living. Something like that may be what Paul's saying here in the days are evil. The weather may be turning on it. Let us be effective in how we live. We might not have tomorrow to do that opportunity for good that we can do today. And I think we understand Paul's point here. If you're going out for a walk in the dark, please be wise and wear reflective clothing. I get really upset at people who you just come on like that. Like, do you not care for your life? Walking the side of the road and dog things don't even see him last minute. Please walk wisely Put perfective clothing on, right? That's what Paul's talking about. You live in dark days, Christian. Another term in context here, Paul will talk about the evil day later in chapter six when we get to next week That's the day we do combat with the devil and demonic forces behind all this darkness. So when Paul says evil days, I think he means something like they're dark and devilish. The devil is active. There is devilry amongst us. What can be behind the sexual revolution but devilry? What can be behind what we're seeing in our day? But devilry, that is going to require extreme wisdom. Because he is crafty and he appears as light. Oh man. He might infiltrate Christian groups as a as an angel of light and make you think we're still Christian, and he's just inculcating his devilish lies about God and man. That's going to require extreme wisdom So if anything, this may just be a wake-up call to us that, yeah, we might have Disneyland on this world and Netflix, but we're not in paradise. At the same time, it's still God's world and it's good Still beautiful. There's still many wonderful blessings in life. Just don't fall in the trap to think that it's all done and over yet, and we don't need to walk wisely together as Christians. So that's why you are children of light. You have a redeemed purpose in this world. You serve the risen Lord Christ. You need to be most effective in that God-glorifying, man-saving role given to you and bearing Jesus' name and walking in the truth before your children, your spouses, your brothers and sisters, the world. And secondly The days are evil. It's going to require wisdom and for us to walk carefully, taking precautions To be effective in this world. So how do we do this? Often the Bible sets us this impossible task, right? Jesus calls us to follow him, to take up the cross. It seems impossible. And Jesus would affirm, right? Nothing is possible with man, but everything is a everything is possible with God. So how do we do this? Well this Paul talks about Here, when he says, this is how you make the best use of your time, Paul says, look carefully then how you walk. Not as unwise, but as wise. Look carefully. This is how you walk, making the best use of your time. You look carefully. I spent a lot of time humping around with my pack on my back in the Marine Corps And learn some things about taking care. So when I'm planning a route, we're not going down and up and down and up and over, but we're going to try to get high and stay high. We're going to take care how we walk Figure away you're out. It's not going to be the most effective use of your time because you still got to get there and operate and then get out. So again, we we understand this. We're already doing this. It's just reminding us of Doing this for the Lord. Paul says, here that you make the best use of your time. And this word carefully, by the way, just I think the coloring of this word helps. It means exact, precise. How many of you have gone into your colleagues work cubicle or your siblings room and it's just lined out perfectly. Everything is put in its place. Its ducks are in the line. It's it's put up and neat. Nothing's missing That doesn't just happen, does it? That takes a lot of care. Paul's saying, beloved, your Christian living It's not some haphazard thing you give a few minutes to, maybe a five-minute devotional to in the morning, and then you just go about your day. No. Serious effort lifelong study that begins with baptism and doesn't stop with parents training children And family worship and going on, and you give yourself to the reading and studying and meditating of God's word. This is not a haphazard thing. It takes care, discipline, and diligence. to walk wisely to make the best use of time. I also remind you to that God gives it. James 1, right, if you are lacking, Feeling overwhelmed by your circumstances? Are a Christian, want to walk in the Lord, feel befuddled by what you're facing in work and church and home. Cry out to God. I'll just read these promises to you because Far different of a father than you and I are at times. Hear what James says. If any of you laughs wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach. God is not going to say, You stupid child of mine, why didn't you know it? He's going to say, I'm so glad you came to me and got my wisdom. So never think twice about turning to God for wisdom. He will not reproach you. Ask him for it. Now Paul walks out this wise walk in the rest of these verses in 17 down to 21, sort of telling us, walking wisely. Looks not like this and walking wisely looks like this. Let's briefly look at that. The first one I'm gonna call the foolish fumble Right, you know what fumbling is, right? You just clumsily walk along. Paul says, do not be foolish, right? Let our walk in life not be a foolish stumble. The fool in the Bible is someone who says God doesn't exist. Someone who does not have God front and center in their life, and therefore since he's not front and center in their life, he doesn't also think God cares for him That is foolish living when you live like God is not there and God does not care. And as Christians, we cannot live that way. Paul says, here's the route we're supposed to take. I'm going to call this the sunlit stride. You know what a stride is? It's a very decisive, determined step. You don't waste any effort. You know where you're going and you're getting there and you're striding to it. That should be the Christian walk. Why why why Pastor Young do you call it a sunlit stride? Here's one of my favorite verses from Proverbs chapter 4. By the way, a Proverbs, 31 chapters, generally 30 days in a month, you could consider maybe reading it for six months or a year, a chapter every day. Proverbs will help you. Be wise. Proverbs 4, verse 18. But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn, which shines brighter and brighter. Until the full day. What's he saying there, brother? Paul says you need to know what the will of the Lord is, right? The Lord's will is our standard of righteousness. What does he require for us? Let me just side comment real quick God does care who you marry, when you retire, what your work is, where you live at. But you're not going to find that in the Bible You pray about that and you read his providence and you just ask him specifically, Lord, I want to retire on this day. This is my plan. Bring it to pass. If it happens, it was his will. If not, well you'll find out when you retire. Lord, I want to marry this person. Here's why I want to marry this person. She's got this, this, and this qualities. If it happens, great. God's will. Not on his will. That's how you deal with those things. But beloved, don't be going through your whole life going, what's God's will for my life, and forget these two very helpful things. What stations has He put you in, and what God-given relations has He given to you? Because he has made clear his responsibilities to you as a member in his church, as a member in America, as a member in your household, as a member at your workplace. As a husband and wife, as a mother and father, as a child, as a sibling, he's made those responsibilities of those relationships to us crystal clear. And we can find that will and we can walk in it. Let me get back to and why do we call this the sunlit stride? So many of us, maybe you'll think of the dark days we lived in. How are we going to navigate what's going to happen in America if it keeps going on this path? But I tell you how we're not going to deal with it, walking in sinful disobedience. See, Rappaul, but God is saying that the path of righteousness, of walking in the God-given obedience you know to do right now. That that righteous path gets brighter and brighter. When the sun just dawns, you don't see as far. But by the time noon happens, you can see much farther. It's distilled the mist, the shadows, and everything. Holy, righteous, living with God is how you get brighter and brighter and see farther and farther as Christians to be able to foresee what's coming. And to take precautions and be most effective. But it starts with basic obedience to God and His will and walking in it So we need to be on the sunlit stride, is if you are walking decisively with the Lord Jesus Christ. Obeying his will, you will have more light to make more decisions, to see more clearly, and to discern more effectively God's will for your life. Second walk, Paul says we can't go on an unwise walk. I'm going to call it the drunken or the destructive dawdle. Doddling, if you ever seen someone dawdle, they're just moving aimlessly and without any intention and just dawdling along Paul's going to talk about a lot in this speech how how we talk, right? The drunken Donald, right, slurred, senseless, sentimental kind of speech. Not good for anything. Unaffective in its communication, doesn't make any sense, and it's purely sentimental. Just your emotion. A thing decisive, determined about it. Paul says, do not be drunk with wine Proverbs 23-31 makes it very clear, doesn't he not even look at it? Because drunken living is The standard of foolish living. Paul says it's excess, it's debond, it's dissipation. I love that word dissipation. It comes from a Latin word that just means to come apart. Your life will just come apart. You'll come apart. All the restraints, all the purposes, whatever will just come apart under the intoxicating influence of alcohol. Paul says you can be under a different kind of intoxication. You can be filled with the Holy Spirit. And that's the last and final way. Paul talks about wise walking. I'm going to call this the godly gate. That our walk, our gate, our godly gate is to be filled with the Holy Spirit as believers. Just A helpful comment on that real quick. That doesn't mean jumping off the walls, happy cloppy all the time. You can be filled with the Spirit and be broken in heart. sorrowful lamenting with dust and ashes on your head, but filled with the Spirit. That's why I say it's it's godly gay. It's Someone asked me this week, I was counseling someone, right, what's a Christian life look like? Am I maturing into what should I be doing? And I said two words to him. Here's what it looks like. Settled obedience. God gives you emotions to get you going where you need to go, but you can't ride on those. You need to get settled in obedience. And sometimes I know we take a few steps, we fall down, well, we get back up, we keep going. Maybe we take a few steps, we get knocked back, well, we get back up, we keep going. Settled obedience. That is the Christian life filled with God's Spirit. Notice what Paul says about being filled with the Spirit and wise living. It's not a solo thing. You look at these verses addressing one another. This is in the context of corporate worship. This is communal living in which this takes place, if you are not active and a part of a body of Christ in the community of believers And in it, you are not going to be filled with the Spirit. There's nobody living at home, only participating online, or just not coming to the body of Christ. It's going to be filled with God's Spirit. It is a corporate thing. We pray for ourselves, but we pray for each other, and it happens in this communal living. And look what Paul focuses on Here, it it gives us two areas. It talks about spiritual speech and submission in the Spirit. Like, if you are someone filled with the Spirit, you are going to be full of spiritual speech. You're going to be addressing one another in psalms. hymns and spiritual songs. This is also going to be a way that as you sing these, they're going to be teaching you Jesus, teaching you God, admonishing you, encouraging you, comforting you, building you up. helping you in your Christian life through this kind of speech. I have never been to a worship service and went, that was a waste of time. Have you? I know we might have been to worship service or agree with and necessarily like, but even then there's generally something that we can go away thanking God for. You'll never go away, go, that was a poor use of my time. Gathering with the saints and worship of God. Spiritual speaking to each other, but spiritual speaking to the Lord as we praise our Savior Jesus daily together as families Weekly together as a church, praising Jesus for who he is and what he's done, making melody to him in our hearts. That can just be singing, and that can also be with musical accompaniment and the full gamut of it all, praising our Savior Jesus. How many of you have ever gone? I love Psalm 45 Praising our king and our marriage to him. Psalm 145 is great too. But how many of you have gone away praising Jesus like that was a waste of my time? If you do, we might need to think through our hearts. Lastly, it's also speaking to God the Father. We've got to give thanks for everything at all times to God the Father who's bestowed everything on us through Jesus. This letter begins with a blessing. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's called a baracha, which is just a Hebrew word for blessing. But it's been happening ever since Abraham's servant went and found a wife for his son Isaac, Rebekah, and said, Blessed be the Lord God, who sent his angel and showed a steadfast love to my master Abraham and provided a wife. They still practice it today. Those places you read in scripture and it begins with Blessed be the Lord God, that is a Jewish way of giving thanks. So here's a few examples I found where if you put clothes on for the first time Blessed be the Lord God who clothes the naked. You eat delicious fruit. Blessed be the Lord God who gives sweetness to fruit. If you see his mighty display and thunder and lightning, blessed be the Lord God who fills his creation with his power and might. You can thank God for as you can immediately apply that. I want you guys to go home and whatever, you know, good thing you sit down to eat, whatever. Think of God's name. Think of what he's providing for you. Of course, it's gonna mean you know God and know his Bible and give him thanks. That will not be a waste of your time because again, foolish living beloved is living like God is not there and that he doesn't care And you need to be reminded that God is there and He does care. And that's how we're to walk as Christians. Lastly, it looks like submission in the Spirit. I I have you ever been in a traffic jam or certain places where traffic I think oftentimes right traffic can flow when there's a bit of give and take, right? One car goes, another car goes, one car goes, another car goes We need to be reminded that there's not one person here on earth who has been given such a station in life and the church with all authority that he's not to submit to anybody. Now Paul is going to talk about after this, and that verse twenty-one leads into the rest of it. He's going to talk about three ways in which hierarchy is still there women submitting to their husbands, wives submitting their husbands, children submitting to parents Slaves submitting their masters, that's still there, but there is still mutual submission to remind us that life is not just about you. But we're to have give and take to each other so we can be most effective in our body and living together. Give me an example. I was driving home this week from Tuesday night, Christian Ed night, and I had my two children with me. And we have you guys know that song Tractor Tractor? Tractor Tractor Shootin' to the moon. Shootin' to the moon. Well they wanted to listen to it. So we did. And then they want to listen to more. And so we listened to another artist we like, Colin Buchanan, and one of his songs came on. And William just lost it. I'm like, wait, what are you losing it for? You love Colin McCann. Well it founds out he loves this song so much because he dances to it at home. And so the thought of not dancing to him was distressing it Now it could have been like, be quiet, I'm down, we'll listen to it, and I like it. Total waste of time. Next, we found one and we drove home happy. Submit to me, right? I'm dead. Total ineffective use of my time to do that. He loves this song. He loves dancing to it. So so what? We'll listen to it another time. Submitting to each other in the spirit. Let me close then. Christian community Christian communal living, right? I want to say it this way, is the precaution for effective living as lights for the Lord. Stay in there. That's why Paul talks about keeping that God-given unity in the Spirit, in the bond of peace, through loving each other Because it's only through unity together that we reach maturity as a body. In maturity we reach stability. See your Lord's day amongst many things as the top precaution for careful, wise, effective living as lights for the Lord in the places He's called you to You have only one life to live, beloved. Live it effectively for the Lord. Take pains to live wisely.