Hear the word of God from the Psalter, Psalm sixty-six To the choir master, a song. A song. Shout for joy to God, all the earth. Sing the glory of his name Give to him glorious praise. Say to God, How awesome are your deeds! So great is your power that your enemies come cringing to you. All the earth worships you and sings praises to you. They sing praises to your name. Selah. Come and see what God has done. He is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man. He turned the sea into dry land. They passed through the river on foot. Joice in him who rules by his might forever, whose eyes keep watch on the nations. Let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah. Bless our God, O peoples. Let the sound of his praise be heard, who has kept our soul among the living, and has not left our feet slip. For you, O God, have tested us. You have tried us as silver is tried. You brought us into the net You laid a crushing burden on our backs. You let men ride over our heads. We went through fire and through water. Yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance. I will come into your house with burnt offerings. I will pay my perform my vows to you, that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams. I will make an offering of bulls and goats. Selah. Come and hear, all you who fear God, and I will tell you what he has done for my soul. I cried to him with my mouth, and high praise was on my tongue. If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not have listened. But truly God has listened He has attended to the voice of my prayer. Blessed be God, because he has not rejected my prayer or removed his steadfast love from me. And now from the New Testament, 1 Peter 4, 7 through 19. Passage that I'm not going to going to be referring to specifically in the sermon, but I want to keep you have you keep it in your back pocket, as it were, as you meditate upon the psalm tonight and a secret application to you. The end of all things is at hand. Therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayer. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles of God. Whoever serves as one who serves by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you As though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ You might notice that something is missing in the introduction to this psalm. Yes, it is to the choirmaster. It is a song, and it is a psalm, but it is not attributed in any way to David. Well then, just who did write it? We don't know for sure, but many commentators suggest that its contents fit very well with the historical situation described in Isaiah 36. There we have described the remarkable events surrounding the reign of Hezekiah. And the deliverance which Judah received by God's grace from the kingdom-threatening attack of the Assyrians under Sennacher. You remember the extraordinary detailed account, don't you, from Sunday school? Of how Yahweh answered Hezekiah's prayer on behalf of God's people Let me read for you Isaiah 37, 33 to 37. Listen carefully to this extraordinary mind-boggling account. Therefore, thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, he shall not come into this city or shoot an arrow there, or come before it with a shield, or cast up a siege mound against against it. By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come into this city. declares the Lord, for I will defend this city to save it for my own sake and for the sake of my servant David And the angel of the Lord went out and struck down a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the camp of the Assyrians. And when people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies. Then Sennacherib, king of Assyria, departed and returned home and lived at Nineveh. Thus it is supposed that Hezekiah himself, in light of that gracious salvation of Judah And knowing that the surrounding nations, especially Babylon and Egypt, which had already been conquered, was moved to express praise to Yahweh. In these words of Psalm 66. After all, here was tiny Judah, a mere island. In the grand Assyrian Empire, delivered safely by the Lord's angel. Tragedies of a personal, national, and even worldwide nature continue to threaten the welfare. safety and lives of countless millions of the inhabitants of this sin-cursed world throughout history. We grieve over the recent unexpected deaths of a number of loved ones, both within our circles and beyond. Our sorry nation has witnessed countless mass murders seemingly every week lately, and just recently, 50 innocent people. Together with scores of wounded were massacred in New Zealand by one deranged killer. Still, God is yet providential ruler of the universe. And his own people may confidently look to him for deliverance by his gracious hand from every evil that may come their way, apart from His sovereign will. You here tonight may have that assurance. And it comes to you particularly In the inspired and comforting words of this Psalm 66, you can truly make God's praise glorious Along with King Hezekiah, as together you exalt his name and exult with joy before his face tonight here in Sunday evening worship. And this coming week, in grateful, obedient living for him. The point of the psalm is put forth in this sentence, Congregation. Christians are called by virtue of their union with Jesus Christ to make God's praise glorious, both corporally. And individually, trusting his providential ordering of all things, while still aware of their responsibility to render heartfelt obedience To his revealed will. Let's expose that scene in these headings first. of three. God is worthy to be praised by everyone. And I mean everyone All people have an inborn, innate awareness of God's sublime existence and of his creative and providential power and glory. Such is inescapable. Now, atheists throughout human history have tried to deny it. But their protestations have come to naught because they cannot deny the fact. That God's deeds are unavoidable and awesome. Faced by the truth that God simply is And that he has created the universe by the word of his power, including the entire race of people, in his own image. And thus finds its purpose of existence in giving to him glorious praise. Yes As the psalmist puts it, all the earth shouts for joy to God, sings the glory of his name. Now I know it can be thought to mean that there are Christians all over the earth that give praise to his name, but that's not exactly what it says, is it? All the earth shouts for joy to God, sings the glory of his name, and gives to him glorious praise. Now you wonder Pastor, what are you going to do with that? Are you saying that all people are saved? No, I'm not. But listen, our Westminster shorter catechism answers that most fundamental question, what is the chief end of man? We could say, what is the chief end of people? With these time-honored words, man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. That's everybody, folks. And it's true whether or not they do it. If they don't glorify him through their singing, Then they glorify him for their for his just condemnation of them for their sin. And that's why Hezekiah calls upon all the earth to do it. All people simply do. A startling example of that truth was evident to the inhabitants of Judea under Hezekiah's rule when they woke up that morning one day to gaze only with mind-boggling apprehension At the sight spread out before their eyes, the dead bodies of 185,000 Assyrian soldiers. What happened was that Sennacherib, the heathen ruler, had sent a letter to Hezekiah in which he ridiculed puny Judah. And its deity, Yahweh, saying that he couldn't protect Judah against his might Hezekiah spread the letter before the Lord, praying for help. Yahweh said, as we might put it, I'll take care of things. And especially my reputation. So don't worry. And we know what happened next. God sent just one angel. The angel of the Lord, was that the pre-incarnate Son of God to obliterate the entirety of the Assyrian army arrayed against his people? And as news of that event spread throughout the whole fertile crescent, and perhaps even further across the inhabited earthly globe in time. All the earth had to say to God, whether they liked to do it or not. How awesome are your deeds. So great is your power that your enemies come cringing to you. you. No wonder then that Hezekiah in this psalm exclaims, All the earth worships you and sings praises to you. They sing praises to your name. Selah. What's more, think about that. They have to. One way or the other, all mankind must submit to the undeniable sovereignty. Of the true and living God. All the earth must praise Him, either voluntarily or involuntarily. Either way, he is praised. Now, you believers Need to stand up unapologetically for the truth of God's sovereignty. For His will is done on earth as it is in heaven And not the slightest denial of that unstoppable sovereign power will succeed in taking it away. My beloved congregation, believers in Jesus, let me tell you Your neighbors who don't profess the Christian faith, this sorry nation That is constantly beleaguered with steady denials of the righteousness of God's commandments. Need I remind you of that? And indeed, the greater bulk of Earth's human population that bows to dead idols All of them are nevertheless bound to confess in their heart of hearts that the true and living God is worthy to be praised They simply can't escape it because they have been made in his image. They are, every last one of them, living creatures, distinguished from the entire animal kingdom by this, as the Genesis account makes crystal. clear that when God created the first man, Adam, God breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living creature. Every human being thereafter is a living creature inhabited by a spirit that cannot die. The body dies, but the spirit lives on for weal or for woe That's why I say, and I believe this song says it. God is worthy to be praised He ought to be so praised, he is so praised, and he will be forever so praised by the entire race of human beings. Beings. Both heaven and hell are within the scope of the sovereign will of the God whose name is Yahweh. I am. Yes. Christians, by God's grace, sing the glory of his name But the Bible says also that the devils believe and tremble. Thus, it is no stretch to understand that all the earth, every last person, worships God one way or the other. Either willingly or unwillingly. They can no more escape the knowledge of his power and glory than they can jump out of their scheme. This truth cannot be declared with greater clarity than it is in Romans 1, 19 and 20. Listen, for what can be known about God is plain to them. He's talking about people. Because God has shown it to them, for his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived. Ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse. So, believer, whatever opposition and persecution might come your way from evildoers on the account of your worship of God, be sure of this. Even those evildoers, made as they are in God's image, whether they like it or not, have an innate knowledge. of their creator's glory and power. That was the first point then. God is worthy to be praised by everyone. But now secondly, and you know that verses 5 through 12 tell us that God is worthy to be praised by his church If the nations do not willingly sing the glory of God's name and give to him glorious praise because of their fall in sin, then let God's church Take up the refrain and supply the missing adoration that ought to have been brought to him by the entire human race. And to that end, the Lord has provided the means by which that could happen. He had to do it. He had to do it, because no human could, by merely trying hard, accomplish such But the shorter catechism informs us, on the basis of solid biblical evidence, that God, having out of his mere good pleasure From all eternity, elected some to everlasting life, did enter into a covenant of grace to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery, and to bring them into an estate of salvation by a redeemer. Now, Hezekiah did not know the name of that Redeemer or how that Redeemer would accomplish that deliverance. But he had clearly in his memory, didn't he, grounded upon the inspired sacred writings of the scripture. Scriptures, Moses, the prophets, as well as before his own eyes, in what had happened To those 185,000 Assyrian soldiers, sufficient evidence that Yahweh both could and would bring about his gracious and merciful plan. Of redemption for the people of his own good pleasure. So Hezekiah turns from reflecting upon the failed duty. of all earthly people to praise God in verses one through four to reflecting upon the calling of the covenant people of God, his chosen nation of Judah, to fulfill its responsibility to give Yahweh praise. Praise, which he is worthy to receive. This he does in verses five through twelve. There he rehearses how God's covenant love has saved the Israelites time and again Even when the greater portion of that visible church, yes, ten of its tribes, were removed because of their apostasy. By God's preserving his seed in Judah. Indeed, come and see what the Lord has done Remember your church history, O Judah, even as you have seen it repeated in your own day, of tragedy threatened at the hand of Sennacherib. And we could add in the light of the New Testament revelation that Judah will not perish until the Jew. Jesus Christ would appear on the earthly scene to destroy the serpent's head, as was promised way back in the Garden of Eden. Then all the tights and shadows will find their fulfillment, including those rehearsed in our psalm tonight. That's why I call upon you, Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, in your time and place. To make God's praise glorious by fulfilling faithfully your vow of public worship And singing, and by ever trusting humbly, God's deliverance of his people from every trouble that otherwise would separate them You from his love and grace. And if he could handle the potential tragedy of 185,000 murderous Assyrians. He can take care of you who trust in Jesus as your Savior. Join Hezekiah and come into God's house. Week by week. But this time come not with those Old Testament symbols. This time Come with firm conviction of and confident trust in Jesus' sacrifice on the cross for you. And listen, never try, tire Of hearing the gospel, friends. It will be, I trust, the focus of every sermon preached from this pulpit. And never tire of receiving that remembrance of what Jesus had to undergo to deliver you from your sins. The breaking of his body and the shedding of his blood. Never tire. And when you, as the new Judah The Church of Jesus Christ, believe and sing of that gospel as well as partake of communion, you make God's praise glorious corporately. You do so because, did you realize this? You're not an assemblage of individual persons who happen to gather in a certain building every Sunday You are fully united as a body, with Christ as your head, the gospel is your common hope. The Savior is your common Lord. The Lord's Supper is your common expression of what unites you. you. Do you realize that when you come to church, it's not a club meeting that you attend. It's one more opportunity for you, God's people, to make his praise glorious Now before we leave the second point, and by the way the third point is rather short, but before we leave the second point, There is one more detail in this section of the psalm that must not be missed. I refer to the somewhat startling command found in verse 5. Bless our God, O peoples. Let the sound of his praise be heard. When I first read those words, I assumed that Hezekiah was talking about the responsibility of Judah to bless and praise God. But upon further reflection, are you with me and are you thinking ahead? I realized that the word is peoples, not people. Not the singular people of God, the nation of Judah, the church, but the peoples. The peoples of the earth, the enemies he's been talking about, who have to come cringing to God. Yes, the nations that he's been talking about, upon whom God's eyes keep watch. That's them, the peoples. Plural. And what's he saying? Just The peoples of this earth had jolly well better pay attention to what the God, whom they don't confess or care a hoot for is actually doing. Blessing a portion of mankind with his covenant love and deliverance. The world needs to hear and pay attention to the song of praise lifted up to God the Lord by his elected church. And perhaps, no, not perhaps, for sure, God will use that testimony made public by his people. to bring peoples to bless our God. And our pastor was thinking about that earlier in the service when he talked about visitors coming to our worship services. Yes, the very existence of the Christian church and especially its worship of God proves to be an ongoing missionary task here. So, congregation, don't pray only for the missionaries that we send out to the peoples of this earth. Pray also that God will bring needy and lost sinners into our worship services as we make God's praise glorious, and they witness it. Grace and peace, Orthodox Presbyterian Church, will you please be a missionary church right here in this building? And open your arms to the lost around you who need to bless our God. So that's the second point. And the third one is this. It's in verses 13 through 20. God is worthy to be praised not only by the whole earth, not only by the church, but also by every individual Christian. You will notice that in these verses the psalmist speaks in the first person singular, giving his own personal testimony. Most importantly, he affirms the graciousness with which God has dealt with him, Hezekiah. I will tell what he has done for my soul It's not at all that which Hezekiah has done for God, but that which God has done for Hezekiah. That's the whole point of his mentioning of burnt offerings of fattened animals, the smoke of the sacrifice of rams, and the offering of bulls and goats. Hezekiah realized that he needed a sacrifice to take his place and receive the judgment of death. That he deserved because of his sins. And what God has done was to accept that substitution and render Hezekiah's forgiven. And guiltless. Once more, that's the purpose of another sea law after verse 15. Think of it Out of sheer mercy and grace, Hezekiah confesses, Yahweh was willing to accept this poor sinner as righteous in his sight. And that not because of anything that he, Hezekiah, had done. It's all because of what the Lord did for him. There's the gospel, dear congregation. The gospel of Psalm 66. For all those sacrificed animals Point to the one Lamb of God, even Jesus Christ, who would, by the offering of Himself in death upon the cross, provide the complete and sufficient sacrifice for all the sins of all of God's redeemed people throughout all of human history. So today, believer in Jesus, testify, won't you, with Hezekiah, of what God's saving grace through Jesus has done for you Don't neglect to tell it appropriately to both believers and unbelievers. That's how you make God's grace and praise. Glorious. But there's one more thing in this psalm about your personal responsibility, and it's found In verse 18, and we can't end without mentioning it. Hezekiah realized that he needed to attend to his thoughts as well as his actions. Words. Saying, if I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not have listened. And you need to do that as well. So please don't neglect frequent heart cleansing. Pour out to God daily your need for sanctification, especially sanctification of your inmost heart. No one but God knows what's going on there. But he promises to listen to and attend to your repentant prayer. You needn't doubt that he will render you that gracious forgiveness through Jesus which you so desperately need. As sum as this, believer, don't neglect private prayer. Guard your heart by pouring it out to God. God will be glorified. Make no mistake about it. As for you, you must humble yourself and trust that He will not reject your prayer. Or ever remove his steadfast love from you because of what Jesus did for you. Amen.