The sermon title is Man Pleasing and God's Gospel. And the scripture reading for the New Testament reading today is Galatians 1, 10 through twenty-four, Galatians 1, 10 through 24, which is also the text of this sermon. Galatians 1, beginning at verse 10. For am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. For I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel. For I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God violently and tried to destroy it? And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age, among my people. So extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers But when he who had set me apart before I was born, and who called me by his grace, was pleased to reveal his son to me In order that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with any one, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me. But I went away into Arabia and returned again to Damascus. Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas and remained with him fifteen days But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the brother of the Lord. And what I am writing to you before God, I do not lie. Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia, and I was still unknown in person to the churches of Judea that are in Christ. They only were hearing it said, He who used to persecute us is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy. And they glorified God because of me. In verse 10 of this passage, the Apostle Paul addresses the question of his motivation. Who is he trying to please? And he says very plainly in answer to that question, for am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. What's he talking about here? Well, as social beings, we all want the approval of others, especially those closest to us and those we admire. As children, we are nurtured by the approval of parents and grandparents and siblings. As youth, we begin to need the approval of peers. We crave it and will do some pretty foolish things at times in order to be a part of the crowd. As adults, even, we still seek the approval of co-workers and spouse and peers. Our status in life is often measured by such things And sometimes too much by such things. Paul was a man like you and I. He was not exempt from these struggles. He wanted approval too. I'm sure he appreciated it. He may have even lost his parents because he could not have their approval as a follower of Christ. If he was married, he may have lost his wife because of his following Christ, not having her approval anymore. We don't know that, but it's possible. But that was not what drove him to write this harsh letter, wanting people's approval. You don't write a harsh letter to someone if you want their applause. So he says, Am I trying to get the approval of man? If I wanted man's approval and not God's, I would not be a servant of Christ. So he's very keen. on the question of his motivation. Then in verses 11 through 17, he comes right out in front with the question that in philosophy is called epistemology. In Greek, the word pistos means belief or faith. So epistemology is the study of how we come to know or believe or have faith that something is true. Paul flatly states in verse 11 that his epistemology of the gospel, how he came to know the gospel, is not from man. He says in verse 11, the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel. For I did not receive it from any man. Nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. This is an amazing claim. What is your epistemology? For most of us, the way we come to know something at first is through our parents or other trusted teachers. We have to rely on the veracity of others and hope that they had solid grounds for what they believed. And as we have opportunity later, we can investigate truth claims and either accept what we were taught or revise it, or even maybe reject it. Here, Paul is going to make the point in no uncertain terms that he did not receive the message of the gospel that he is defending here. He did not receive the message of the gospel from human tradition, but from a direct personal revelation of Jesus Christ. That is Paul's epistemology. Not human sources, but directly from God. Hardly anybody else can ever say this, what he just said. In fact, the traditions that he had been taught were in some ways opposite of the gospel he was now preaching. Think of it. Paul was taught all of the laws and traditions and ceremonies and everything from Israel. That was his tradition. And now he's teaching A gospel that says that many of these things are done away, are fulfilled, are completed, and are not to be observed any longer. That's the issue that's going on here. This fact is important to Paul's argument for the very reason that the people that we now call Judaizers that were causing all this trouble in Galatio, they were appealing to tradition as the basis for their insistence. That the followers of Jesus, and here it is, that the followers of Jesus must add to faith in Jesus as the Messiah, add and keep the ceremonial law in order to be saved. particularly the law of circumcision. Paul knows very well about tradition. He says about his experience with tradition. In verse 13, he says, For you have heard of my former life in Judaism. How I persecuted the Church of God violently and tried to destroy it. And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people. So extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers. He knows about tradition. And he knew that for pious Jews like himself who had observed all the Jewish festivals and made pilgrimages to Jerusalem and made sacrifices and trusted God's promises, he knew it was hard for such Jews who had accepted Jesus now To suddenly stop all those practices. It was hard for them not to want to impose those practices and ceremonies on Jewish, no, on Gentile converts. on Gentile converts. The Jew in Galatia or anywhere that would be Considering this question, the Jew might argue, Hey Paul, do you mean to tell me that after following all these laws and traditions After being involved in ceremonies given to God, to Moses by God, and even to Abraham, now these are no longer required? It just cannot be. And the Jew could point to the words of the Lord to Abraham, for instance, in Genesis 17, verses 10 through 13, where he says, To Abraham, this is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and your offspring after you, every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old, you shall circumcised every male throughout your generations, whether born in your house or bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring Both he who was born in your house and he who was bought with your money shall surely be circumcised. So shall my covenant be in your flesh, an everlasting covenant. The Jew might say to Paul, Did you hear that, Paul? An everlasting covenant. Paul would go on to teach the nearby Colossians that all Christians are circumcised. In fact, That through baptism they participate in the circumcision done to Christ as a babe and figuratively done to Christ on the cross when he was cut off. Those words are important. He was cut off. Circumcision is cutting off. Colossians 2, verse 11 through 12. Paul said to the Colossians, In him you were circumcised, with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ Having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God who raised him from the dead. So here in this letter, Paul answers: Do you want to talk about tradition? God-given tradition? He says, I was very zealous for the traditions of my fathers. I know something about tradition But Paul had received a revelation from Jesus Christ. Jesus had revealed to Paul that Jesus had filled up and completed all of the ceremonial aspects of the law given to Moses. Jesus had shown Paul in that revelation that the completed atonement through Jesus' death was now received by faith alone. Jewish ceremonial practices must no longer be required Acts chapter twenty verse sixteen says, For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus so that he might not have to spend time in Asia, for he was hastening to be at Jerusalem, if possible, on the day of Pentecost. So Paul could observe Jewish holidays. He wasn't opposed to it. It just must not be required. Paul did not have to observe Pentecost in order to be right with God. He wanted to go to Jerusalem, but he didn't have to. Paul would happily observe Jewish feasts or not. Paul would circumcise Timothy But not Barnabas. The practice was optional and done purely on the basis of what was pragmatic. The point Paul was laboring to make is that it was not a requirement in order to be justified. And Paul's authority for saying that was grounded in a direct revelation of Jesus Christ. This was Paul's epistemology. And now he takes pains to free it from any hint of being mere human contrivance or opinion. Listen again to what he says. Verse 15, but when he who had set me apart before I was born, and called me by his grace, was pleased to reveal his son to me, in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles. I did not, he's making this point, I did not immediately consult with anyone Nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me. But I went away into Arabia and returned again to Damascus. He didn't get it from men. He didn't need somebody else's authority behind the gospel message that he got directly from Jesus Now, Paul did eventually go to Jerusalem and have fellowship with the other apostles and compare notes with the original apostles. And guess what? There was 100% agreement. He was preaching the very same gospel that they were preaching. But here he is stressing his source of revelation. As he did in verse 1 of this whole letter, where he says, Paul, an apostle, not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead Yeah, Paul, like all of us, would like to please others. It would have been very easy. for him to please his Jewish associates among the Pharisees and just stay a Pharisee and keep persecuting the church It would have been very pleasant to his parents, who were very proud of his zeal and academic accomplishments in Judaism. But after he became a Christ follower, They could not be pleased with him any longer. His old colleagues could not be pleased with him any longer. He was persona non-grata to them now. An absolute outlaw, Paul didn't please people. R. C. Sprohl once did a survey of philosophy students in a university class. He asked them. How many believed in macroevolution? That is the idea that complex forms of life developed from a single cell which came into existence by chance. He asked them that question, then he stood at the blackboard ready to write. One very bright student stated that The similarity in all forms of life demonstrated a single source, and that was something for him. So Dr. Sprohl wrote it down, but then he noted that the observation, however good it was, was just an inference, not a proof. Other students admitted that the basis of their belief in macroevolution was on the authority of their teachers from high school and on into college. Dr. Sprohl explained that his question was not who you learned it from, but what was the factual basis of such belief? Still, R. C. Sproull wrote down that on the blackboard that people learned it from their superiors, their teachers. The point is this, the students, and after that no one had anything else to say. There was nothing else. There was this one student who said There's a similarity of all kinds and that's an inference. And then the others just said we learned it from our high school teachers, right? The students had accepted the theory, these brilliant students In a philosophy class that accepted the theory on the basis of tradition alone, what others told them. That's the highest authority they had. That is not a valid epistemology. That is autobiography. Going back to Paul for a moment, Paul had the opportunity to please the Judaizers, those who were saying that believers in Jesus should keep the ceremonial laws. And if he would just go along with adding the requirement of circumcision for men, he could please them and get along fine with them. But he could not. He could not Why not? Because he cared more about Christ's approval. And he cared more about the spiritual life of the Galatian believers. Than to cave in just to please people. So he picked up his pen and wrote this scathing letter That starts out by saying, I am appalled at you people, that you have so quickly deserted the one who called you. You have abandoned the gospel. I can't believe it. He had to do that because the gospel was unchangeable. Because the gospel was from God, from Christ Himself, who knocked him off of his horse. on the road to Damascus to persecute the Christians there. His gospel was from Christ who took him apart into Arabia for an extended period of time. Three years, I think it was. To teach him the meaning of the cross and the resurrection and show him the present reign of Jesus. And how the benefits of Christ are received by individuals. And he tells us what that is. He says in verse 18 through 24, he says, Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas and remained with him fifteen days, but I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord's brother. In what I am saying, I write to you before God, I do not lie. Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia. And I was still unknown in person to the churches of Judea that are in Christ. They were only hearing, it said, He who used to persecute us is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy. And they glorified God because of me. In this portion that I just read, Paul is making it clear that he and the other apostles in Jerusalem had the same gospel. They had gotten the gospel message about the completed work of Christ received by faith alone. From Jesus Himself, as they walked with Him and learned from Him, and as He showed them after His resurrection the meaning of it all. And then later, Paul says that he got the same message in a direct revelation from Christ. So, as Paul was facing the opposition of these Judaizers, he was willing, if he had to, to stand alone against them. This is how sure he was of the gospel. If it had to be, it would be Paul against the world. Sometimes we are called to be alone against the world. Here's an illustration of that some time ago. You may have heard of William Wilberforce. Or maybe you saw the movie Amazing Grace, which was released in 2006. That movie told the story of this evangelical British politician. William Wilberforce, who spearheaded the difficult movement to abolish the slave trade, a movement which would eventually free the slaves in North America. In an important letter that was written to him by the very famous Methodist leader John Wesley, This letter was written to Wilberforce when he was particularly discouraged on the 24th of February, 1791. Here's what Wesley wrote to the discouraged Wilberforce, who was facing all kinds of opposition. He says, Quote, unless the divine power has raised you up. I see not how you can go through your glorious enterprise in opposing that excrable villainy, that horrible wickedness. Which is the scandal of religion, of England and of human nature. Unless God has raised you up for this very thing, you will be worn out by the opposition of men and devils. But if God is with you, who can be against you? Are all of them stronger than God? And then he says, Oh, be not weary of well-doing. Go on in the name of God and the power of his might till even American slavery, the vilest that the sun ever saw, shall vanish away before. And Wilberforce supported the campaign for the complete abolition of slavery on and on, year after year. and continued his involvement after 1826 when he finally resigned from Parliament because of his failing health. And that campaign led to the Slavery Abolition Act of 1833, which abolished slavery in most of the British Empire. Wilberforce died just three days after hearing that the passage of the Act through Parliament was now assured. He was buried in Westminster Abbey. Let me tell you, my friends, Paul's cause was far greater. As great as it was, Paul's cause was far greater than that of Wilberforce. The slavery of obedience to a law that had been fulfilled and kept by God in Christ Must not be allowed to supplant the freedom of God's grace through faith alone, in Christ alone, who alone fulfilled the law. I have said this before, but it bears repeating. All of the world's major religions are based on a religion of works. They are all an impossible ladder to climb up to heaven. Think of it. Imagine it, if you will. if I were to get a 25-foot extension ladder and push it up rung by one rung up into the air in the middle of my front yard. And if I could get it to balance just right, and then I were to start climbing it. How far do you think I would get toward my goal of heaven? Not very far. Not even 25 feet. All the world religions are foolish ways to try to earn favor with the deity, whoever that might be. And even some forms of so-called Christianity have as their core a religion of faith in Christ, plus do do do. Or faith in Christ plus don't, don't, don't. Paul was preaching not do or don't, but done. Christ done it for us. And it is received by faith alone. No other message is gospel. No other message frees you from relying on yourself. Whatever good things you may do, exemplary things, even things commanded like Like keeping the Sabbath, the Lord's Day observance. Like giving the tithe. Any of those things Are not contributions or supplements to fill up something lacking in the work of Christ? And so you need to say, like the hymn writer Augustus Toplity did in his famous hymn, Rock of Ages, nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling, Naked come to thee for dress, helpless look to thee for grace. Foul I to thy fountain fly. Wash me, Savior, or I die. Are you believing this gospel today? Or are you relying on Christ plus some form of obedience? It is so tempting to think that you can add something that will be your contribution. Don't do it. Believe the gospel. Accept no additions or substitutions. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for the emphatic nature of Paul's letter writing here. And his epistemology, how sure he was of the gospel that he had received by revelation, and that it was through the work of Christ. By faith alone, we pray that you'll help us to guard that gospel in our hearts and preach it in our lives, tell it to our children.