Please turn to the Gospel of Mark, chapter two, and we'll read Starting at 27, and we'll read to chapter 3 verse 6. So the gospel according to Mark chapter 2, and we'll read from verse 27 through chapter 3 verse 6. Hear the word of the Lord. And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man. Not man for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath Again he entered the synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand. And they watched Jesus to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him. And he said unto the man with the withered hand, Come here. And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life, or to kill? But they were silent. And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man, Stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his hand was restored The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against him how to destroy him. The word of the Lord. We do have much to be thankful for, for God's words. Let's give him thanks and ask for his blessing as he helped us to understand it and hear it this morning. Let us pray. Our gracious Father in heaven, we know that our ears remain shut and our eyes closed to your truth. Until by your great power you open them and reveal to us your Son, that we might see in Him the glory of God. And believe on him to the saving of our souls. We have gathered here this morning because you have given us such grace. That you have led us and that you know us and we know you. And we ask, Father in heaven, again that you would feed us by your word. For we call no man on earth our teacher, for we have one, and he is in heaven seated at your right hand. And we thank you for the anointing that we have in the Holy Spirit To teach us these truths. Help us to hear them and to believe them, to rejoice in them and grow in them That we might bring forth a great and glorious fruit to your name. In Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Congregation of the Lord, I will just be looking at half a verse this morning. They gave me a hard time in my old church saying you'll never get to the Bible preaching like that. No, I won't. We preached through our standards in the evenings as you can get through the Bible through them. But there is a lot to deal with. That the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. Let me ask you a question, beloved of the Lord. Are you tired? In the little time that I have been here, I've seen busy mothers and fathers. Tired by the endless needs of their children. Many of you have been there, older parents. I've seen people tired by going here and there for endless doctors' visits. I've seen men worn out by doing the work of the church. And I've seen people tired of COVID. And I'm sure that I have not seen all of your tiredness. Right? You, all of you, need rest. You need rest every night, but more than that, you need to rest one whole day every week. God designed us that way to work six days and rest the seventh, as He did. We saw that truth last week where Jesus says to the Pharisees, and we've heard it again just now in verse 27, the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. But you remember, Jesus wasn't reminding them of something they knew. And I'm not reminding you of something you know, that God gave man a Sabbath day to rest. Jesus was reminding them of something that they had forgotten, and something you may have forgotten. And that something is God's benevolence, his kindness, and his goodness A day of religious rest, that is what the Sabbath day is, is God's benevolence to you. And I will utterly fail this morning in the preaching if I do not make it clear to you. God's benevolence and giving you rest. However, we will only begin to look at this rest this week The complete goodness of God in this passage will take us two weeks to consider. Now you know, brethren, that God neither slumbers nor sleeps. Nor does he grow weary. But you who are made in his image do And in his goodness to refresh you, God has given you one whole day of rest. To be spent in close fellowship with him, your God. But this rest From your earthly labors is the least of the rest that I wish to speak to you about today. For many of you, because of your many needs, your aging bodies, or your current circumstances, this day doesn't hold much earthly rest for you Nonetheless, there is much rest for your spirits in Christ, who is the Lord of the Sabbath And that is what you need to see from our text this morning. So look again with me now at in verse 28. So the Son of Man is Lord, even of the Sabbath. Let us start with that first word. So. Often it's these little words in our Bibles that mean so much. It wasn't until Friday night, after a nice dinner out with my folks who are visiting and the rest of my family, while sitting on my couch reading a book, because the grandparents were playing with the kids. But I was shown just how much this little word means. I'm not shown in a vision, but been praying all week and it finally the pieces come together and you go, aha! That's how this statement fits in. That's what Jesus is saying there. In the context of this passage, this word Means in conclusion. This whole Greek word translated here as so. It means in conclusion. In fact, it means an emphatic conclusion. What could Jesus be emphatically concluding here? He has just spoken To these burdeners of men. Now that's not a word I made that word up, burdeners. These burdeners of men, the Pharisees and the scribes. Who burden the people with the commandments of men, even on such a day as the Sabbath day, a day made by God to lighten the load of men. He has just spoken to them of God's great goodness. The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. Now that's pretty conclusive of God's goodness that he would make a Sabbath day for man But not conclusive enough of his goodness. For there is more of God's goodness that these Pharisees are overlooking. Which Jesus does not want to exclude. And it is contained in these four words: the Son of Man. Do you see it? If God's goodness is seen in making for man a Sabbath day What can it mean when God incarnates Himself to become a man? The phrase the Son of Man means simply a man. It means a human being. But on Jesus' lips it means infinitely more. Jesus is the Son of Man because he is the Son of God. He has been demonstrating to all. His ministry on earth has been going on for over a year now. We've seen him in the gospel commanding demons, and they obey him. Teaching men God's word, not saying, Thus saith the Lord, saying, I say to you. Only God is the Lord of our conscience. Only God gets to say, I say to you. Of course, those he's put in subordinate authority are speaking for God, so you submit yourself to them. Feelnesses can't abide in the human body when he touches it and raises them up. He's going to show soon in the gospel his authority is even over nature. The winds and the seas obey him. Here's this man showing this godlike authority. And he is seen by all, he is experienced by all as a man. In the New Testament, only Jesus uses this title, Son of Man. And only Jesus calls himself by it. Because only Jesus knows that he is no mere man. For a mere man to call himself the son of man is a truism. I'm a man, no duh. You're a human being, exactly. But for God, the Son of God, to call himself the Son of Man is the mystery of godliness. God manifest in the flesh. As Paul puts it in 1 Timothy 3. 16 Or as John says it in chapter 1, verse 14 of his gospel, and the word became flesh and tabernacled among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. That's the conclusion that Jesus wants these men Even these Pharisees to make. And that's what they are not seeing. And that's why they're fasting and their hypocritical religiosity. They know nothing of the joy of God incarnate in Jesus Christ. Do you? God in the flesh walking amongst men. How does God walk amongst men now? And the Holy Spirit, and not just walking beside us, but in us. But not just the Pharisees. Jesus wants all men everywhere who hear the preaching of the gospel to make this same conclusion. Have you made this conclusion? Do you believe that Jesus Christ is God incarnate? That the Christ is both God and man, two natures, the divine and human, united in one person, the Son of God. Who is the second person of the Trinity? For you'll miss out, like these Pharisees. On all of God's saving goodness, if you don't. Now to see the fullness of God's goodness in the incarnation, Stated here in these four words, the Son of Man, you must also see how the gospel ends. Now that's no new thing to us. Look at, consider Mark chapter 8 verse 31. And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things. And be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. The passion, that is, the sufferings and death of the Son of Man is the fullest expression of God's goodness to mankind. And by it, God has given eternal rest to all who believe in this gospel. God, after six days, said, It is finished and rested. God on the cross said, It is finished and died. Do you know why he died? He died because you need rest. You need rest from your warfare with God and your sinful flesh So he slayed the enmity of your carnal mind by his body on the cross, reconciling you to God? Warfare, I can tell you, is tiring. And you will not beat God. If you are not in Christ, come to Christ, believe that He is God in the flesh, and be baptized into His name And him is the rest of reconciliation. I read this week in the paper of the reunion, and I'm not sure how long ago that took place. Between hopefully this isn't too uh uh profane between Axl Rose and Slash of the rock band Guns and Roses Swas mentioned in that article that he didn't know how much of a burden he was carrying around for two decades while he was living unreconciled to his friend. Now magnify that by infinity for the weight of fear and anxiety that we sinners carry around until we are reconciled to God by the cross. of Christ. And if you are in Christ, remember to be sure that as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Romans twelve, eighteen. Christ also died because you need rest from your trying to get everyone to like you. We spend a lot of time trying to be accepted by everyone, our friends and family, classmates and colleagues, our brothers and sisters in Christ. And it is tiring. If you are not in Christ, come to Him and put on Christ and receive the grace of adoption. In this grace, God accepts you as his beloved child, making you accepted in his own beloved Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. And if you are in Christ, remember that you are God's child. And rest in that. Rejoicing that he accepts you, no matter how others may receive you. And finally, Christ died because you need rest from your enemy, the devil, and his demons. In the house of bondage. Satan would be very happy for you to work seven days a week, works of necessity accepting, as we looked at last week. Satan wants you to get ahead in this world. He'd love for you to be a slave to your work or your hobbies while deceiving you that it'll be worth it all in the end. From this sin of serving mammon or wealth and all other sins, Christ came to redeem you. And as your Redeemer, he came to be your new Lord The very goodness of God, God in the flesh, died and rose and revived to be your Lord. If you are not in Christ, come to Christ and ask for the gift of the Holy Spirit. To be given to you upon the merit of Christ's blood shed on the cross. This Spirit will bring you into perfect liberty For where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty, freedom from sin. And if you are in Christ, remember that ye have been called to liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. Galatians five thirteen. Here then is the rest that Christ came to give us in Himself Rest from our sinful warfare with God. Rest from seeking the world's acceptance, and rest from our enemies. And yet, the Christian life is full of unrest. Daily, we are called to put on the armor of God and wage war against the world. The flesh and the devil. Daily, we are called to perform the duties of our vocation, that is, to eat our bread by the sweat of our brow. Except for the seventh day. But only if necessary. You have a necessary job. The Christian life is wearisome. It is no wonder then that John, the Apostle John, heard this blessing given in the revelation of Jesus Christ, the book of Revelation. Blessed are the dead, which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, saf the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors and their works to follow them. Chapter 14, verse 13. You've probably heard that recited at a funeral. So that there is rest for saints when they die. But is there rest for any of them now? And yes, I have mentioned already the saints rest here in this life in these three ways: reconciliation, adoption. And redemption. And next week I'll add a fourth when we consider the second half of our verse: that Jesus is the Lord of the Sabbath, and the rest to be found on the Sabbath day. But it is enough for today to see the rest for believers that Christ came to labor for in the work of redemption. And into which rest you'll fully enter when he returns, if by faith you continue in your profession until the end. Brethren, let me leave you thinking about the great goodness of God toward you. God shows you his goodness by giving you a weekly Sabbath. God shows you his goodness by becoming what you are: a man. That he might die for you. And the Son of God did this to redeem you and to give you a share in what is His. The divine nature. I know in some of church history that's been taken to mean we actually become God. No. That's just Peter's language. Share in a nature free from sin. He came to give you a share in what is his, the divine nature, in your union with Christ. Where you both approach to God and you also approach likeness to God, there is your eternal rest. Remember what Saint Augustine discovered. Our hearts are restless until they find their rest in thee. O God. Find rest in God through Jesus Christ. Rest in God's goodness today. Rest in remembering your good God. And may God give us the grace To remain in Christ until the day of our redemption and entrance into the heavenly rest. Amen. Let us pray Our Father in heaven. We know that it is how Satan first deceived our parents, Eve. That you are not a good God and want good things for us as your creatures. That you're a mean and little God and wanted to deny us. Life, Godlike status that we've made in your image. Forgive us that we are slow to believe and trust in your goodness and to find our rest in you. We thank you for sending the Lord Jesus Christ, whom it is our privilege today to remember that He came and labored very much for us, that we might have The rest of our reconciliation to you, that we might have the rest of our being adopted as your children, that we might have the rest. From being delivered from the bondage of sin and of Satan, and to know the liberty there is in serving you. We bless you, Lord Jesus, and praise you that you have entered into your rest. And we live in hope too of living into that rest. And we thank you for giving us this day in which to remember you. And your goodness, and to find our rest in you. Help us all this day to find that rest And O Lord, grant that rest to your people, who because of works of necessity and mercy will labor this day. May they find rest in their Redeemer. And be refreshed as we shall soon be, as we sit again at your table and feed on Christ crucified. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.