Please turn your Bibles to 1 Timothy 3, and we'll read verses 14 through 16 together. 1 Timothy 3, verses 14 through 16. Hear the word of the Lord. I hope to come to you soon, but I am writing these things to you so that if I delay You may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth. Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness. He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit Seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory And turn with me to the Gospel of Mark, beginning verse 1. We'll read, we'll continue verse 11. Mark chapter 3, beginning verse 1. Hear the word of the Lord. Again, he entered the synagogue, and the man was there with a withered hand. And they watched Jesus to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man with the withered hen, come here. And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill? But they were silent. And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man, Stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his hand was restored. The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against him, how to destroy them. Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a great crowd followed, from Galilee and Judea and Jerusalem and Edumeah, and from beyond the Jordan, and from around Tyre and Sidon When the great crowd heard all that he was doing, they came to him, and he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd, lest they crush him. For he had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed around him to touch him, and whenever the unclean spirit saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, You are the Son of God And he strictly ordered them not to make him known. The word of the Lord. Let's pray together and ask the Lord's blessing. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we have given you thanks, and we do give you thanks for your word. It is a light to our feet. A light to our path before us. It is the word of life which you have engrafted into us and has brought us to life by. It is a living word. We bless you and thank you for it. And now we seek again your blessing upon the preaching of it and the hearing of it, knowing that nothing can be done apart from your spirit Help, O Lord, this morning. Help the preaching and help the hearing that we might bring forth fruit to the glory of your name. In Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. We've been looking for a number of weeks here in the Gospel on the Sabbath, and we'll conclude here. It was um To say the least, a hot topic, right, with Jesus and the Pharisees on what the nature of the Sabbath was and righteousness and all these things We read from Isaiah chapter 42 this morning in the Old Testament because Matthew tells us in his gospel that what we see this morning was a fulfillment of that. I always think it's wonderful to read the prophecies in the Old Testament and then to see what was in God's mind when he wrote those words. when we see them fulfilled before us. Well what was in God's mind when Isaiah spoke those words? The Holy Spirit spoke those words Was this the encounter of Jesus? Of course, this encounter being just but one example of his whole ministry against his foes, but his God-given task To bring forth judgment or justice or righteousness in the earth and to establish it. So this encounter this morning is a demonstration of how God's servant, the Lord Jesus Christ, how he would bring forth justice in the earth. We're going to see what it would look like in God's mind to send a righteous earth. How is God going to establish justice in this earth? Now, justice right is a very another hot word today. It probably has been in every age. Men establishing their justice and telling other men what the right thing to do is, right? The left tells the right What's justice? The right tells the left. Conservatives tell liberals. Liberals tell conservatives. One nation tells another nation. And on and on. Everybody's concerned, right, about what is justice Because if you're in the just, you're in the right. Right? You're like as they say today, you're on the right side of history. If you're just, you won't be condemned. The world likes to tell the church what is just as well. Does the church have an answer? Does the church have anything to say about what is just? Yes, it does. It has everything to say about what is just, what is God's will. And it was a task given to Jesus Christ to establish that justice in this earth. And that's what we see him doing in the gospel And that is the task left to his church as we continue in his name and his power to teach the righteousness of God to the nations and call them to repentance and faith in Jesus Christ. Now I don't have three points. I have about six points of application, and we'll get to those. But this text here breaks down into sort of three sections. The first section of the first few verses where we see a trap sort of presents itself. Here's an opportunity for these Pharisees. to come up with a theological conviction in which they can accuse Jesus of a sin, breaking the Sabbath, and hopefully get him capital punishment and off the scene. And then we see in verses 3 and 5, the righteous teacher that we read about in Isaiah, how he responds righteously to the situation. How a righteous teacher responds righteously And then finally, in the last verse there in verse 6, we see the wicked plot against the righteous. Not an uncommon thing. The wicked and their plotting Against the righteous. So let's begin and look at our passage there in verse 1. We read again. Now you don't do something again unless you've done it before. We just have another example. We know that Jesus spent his Sabbath days in the synagogue teaching God's law to them. Teaching God's will to the people and proclaiming to them God's kingdom. That is, what God promised in the Old Testament is here. Believe it, as well as repent Change your life. Change your allegiance. That was Jesus' message in the synagogues. Well, this day there happened to be a man there with a withered hand. And this whole sermon or this whole event in Jesus' life centers around this man with a withered hand. A withered hand, of course, is a dried up hand. Everybody's seen a grape and a raisin, right? What's the difference between a grape and a raisin? It's sat out in the sun or the process they do it and it's dried and it's shribbled and it's hard. This man, Luke tells us it was right hand Probably his good hand. If he was a laborer, he's probably drawing unemployment. Probably not able to provide for his family very well, his cost of living, his quality of life. As all of our injuries, right, are hindered by our our health and these effects. So here's a here's a suffering son of Abraham, to put it that way Here's a suffering son of Abraham, a fellow Israelite by blood with these other Israelites. That's what we're talking about. But a suffering son of Abraham is here on the Sabbath day to worship God. That's what's going on. That's what we should be doing, right? That's what we should be doing on the Sabbath day. But we read in verse 2 that's not what the Pharisees are doing. When Jesus comes in, they begin to watch him. This is that kind of watching, if you have, of the older sibling, watching the younger sibling. Waiting for them to get close to that bookcase they're not supposed to get close to and pull that book off. Waiting for that to do that thing they know they're not supposed to do so they can go accuse them. That's what's going on here. Soon as Jesus comes in, they're watching him They want to know, they don't know. Now, this is going on in their hearts, right? Jesus knows it's going on because he's God, but all this is playing out in their hearts. He could although I it's not as if it's a big secret, have you ever felt yourself being watched? Put in that sort of position. Are you going to do the right thing? What are you going to do? That's what Jesus is feeling here. What's he going to do? They wanted to see whether he would heal this man on the Sabbath that they would accuse him, of course, according to their interpretation of God's law, remind you the Pharisees. Thought keeping God's law might be fairly easy to do. But to ensure that they never broke it, they put a bunch of other laws around it. And to ensure that they never broke God's command to rest. Because that's the most important thing on the Sabbath, right? Don't rest. If not, well, then we shouldn't be healing. So according to their interpretation, it would be sinful for Jesus to heal. These Pharisees have not come here to learn from Jesus, but their hearts are set on accusing Jesus. Now, it's what Jesus does, is what brings to light what Isaiah means about this prophecy of bringing forth justice. Because remember, right? This is all happening not by word of mouth. Jesus could have just taught, right, and never healed, or could he? Let me put it to you that way. Could Jesus have just not healed that man and preached his sermons and gone on? They knew they, right? That's an easy way to get out of that trap, isn't it? Couldn't he avoided that whole trap and accusations by just not doing the right thing? By not healing this man? Who would have known different? He could heal, he could not heal. What an easy way to just avoid this whole situation, but preach and go on. That's not what our Lord does, because he knows that's the wrong thing. What does Jesus do? Well, he is a righteous teacher. He responds righteously, as we see in verses 3 and 5. He tells the man to come here. To put it in a simple way for us to understand, this is light versus darkness going on here, right? Jesus calls that man who is light to the very center of the church. Arise, come to the midst, is how the text reads. Come here, basically, is a good translation. Jesus is probably at the center teaching and expounding God's word. So he tells the man to get up and come before everybody Brings him right out into the light, that the darkness that's in their heart might be exposed. He says, Come here. That's what he says to this man. And he says to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm? To save life or to kill? Now Jesus' point is thus He's going to bring this man right before them, the suffering son of Abraham, with a shriveled hand that we can all see. Now, I don't think this is quite to the level of Sarah McLaughlin's, if you is it the Be with the Angels when they play when the uh pet rescue comes on and to adopt pets and they really sort of get your heart so you rescue I don't think it's to that level, but he is driving out an emotional response. Here's a suffering son of Abraham. Let's bring him up front. And let me present it to your consciences. You tell me what I should do. You tell me, Pharisees, what's lawful. To do good, which in this case means to heal this man. Or to do harm. In that case means not to heal this man. Yeah, what what would God want us to do here? Or let me uh let me take it to the extreme for you here. Because what he's trying to do is expose their hypocrisies to let me take it to the extreme. Should I save a man's life on this day? Or would God's will be because that rest is so absolute, I should refrain from saving his life and therefore kill him and not give him the assistance he needs. That's the question he presents to them. And the point he's making is this. They're teaching people that, well, there's we'll get to that why they're teaching it. They're teaching because they think there's a righteousness that's what's in their grasp. Here's something they think that they can do. We can rest, and we can show how righteous we are in resting by how well we rest And yet it comes in conflict with what real righteousness is, and with who God is and God's law. We've already seen in an earlier sermon on this text that the Sabbath day was made for man. God never intended the principle of rest to be so absolute that a suffering son of Abraham could not receive help on this day. Now the rabbis, they admitted this to some extent already because we have their Targums in existence. We know they debated just what extent you could be healed or do healings But also, they said in case of an emergency in life, it would be lawful to break the Sabbath. So they've already in principle admitted what Jesus is trying to get them to admit is by your own admission There is an author the authority that established the Sabbath day in the first place, which is God, on that same authority who says it is lawful to do good, then the Sabbath rest is to be set aside. And of course, Jesus, as the Lord of the Sabbath, is claiming this authority for himself. He is exposing to them their hypocrisy And they kept silent, right? Because what are they going to say? Yes, we should do good. Well, then Jesus' point is proof, and they have no accusation, and they can't get rid of them. Or what are they going to say? No. God has sanctioned one day in seven in which it's lawful to kill, in which it's lawful to do harm. You see how absurd their position is? To not do this man right is by their righteousness to sanction, therefore, saying that God then has sanctioned a day on which you can do harm to somebody. God has sanctioned a day on which you can kill somebody. And of course they can't say that because they know that's not true because God never sanctioned such a day for that. And so they kept silent. And we know why they kept silent. Verse 5 tells us why they kept silent. But I don't want to miss the point here what Jesus is talking about when he teaches to us God's word. He's teaching to us that principle of doing good, of showing love, can't be set aside because of religious observances. God has not given us religious observances like a Sabbath day of rest or some of these Old Testament observances we saw, but therefore we can sit on our haunches And not do the good and help we can show. Because Jesus' point is, by not doing the good, you are default doing harm. Calvin says here, there is little difference between manslaughter and the conduct of him who does not concern himself about relieving a person in distress. There's little difference between manslaughter and not helping a person in distress. Well, Jesus goes on in verse 5, and he heals the man because Jesus is also, not only does he teach us righteousness and God's law, He does righteousness, and he does the right thing, and he heals this man. But why did they keep silent? Look at verse 5. And Jesus looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart. I find um Paul's comment on hardness of heart in Ephesians 4 verse 18. I'll read it to you very insightful here to explain what's going on. Paul is talking about the Gentiles and the way of their life that the church is no longer to walk in They are darkened in their understanding. They are alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart. You see what Paul's saying? They have a hard heart, a calloused heart. Because their heart is a calloused heart, there's a lot of ignorance in them. Why? Because they won't be taught by God. Here's Jesus teaching them. What is the right thing to do? Here is God teaching them the right thing to do. Who are hard-hearted people? People that are ignorant because they will, or their hard-heartedness Leads to their ignorance because they will not be taught the right thing to do. And therefore, what does Paul say is the result of this ignorance and not knowing God, they're alienated from God's life Estranged, you might say, to use it in that term, since God refers to us often as his bride, his church. Their feelings, their affections, their actions are at odds, which we see right here. Here is God in the flesh teaching righteousness and doing righteousness. And here supposedly his people, look how alienated they are from God's life, that they did nothing to help this man, even on the Sabbath day And then Jesus heals them there in verse 5, and the third part we see there is verse 6. That the wicked plot against the righteous. The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Rhodians against him how to destroy him. It's an interesting contrast here, isn't it, between what's in their heart, what they're plotting to do, kill a man on the Sabbath. And what Jesus is saying is lawful in God's eyes to do on the Sabbath, to save life, and to do good? The Pharisees attempt here to come up with a theological accusation. A point of breaking God's law is It's blown to pieces by Jesus. They keep silent. They have no accusation to bring. So what do they do? Well, they immediately go out and they hold counsel with their own enemies. The Pharisees are nationalist, Zionist. But see, Israel, keep it pure. And the Herodians are in support of, of course, Herod Antipos, the ruler, who is held up by Rome. And so they go out and they seek counsel with their own enemies, so they might plot and destroy Jesus. So what do we see here? I said I had several observations and points of application for us. Well the first thing we see here is Which of these men, Jesus or these Pharisees, deserved to die on the cross The people who will plot in secrecy, murder, deserve to go free The people who will do the right thing, even when it costs their life, deserve to die on a cross? No The first thing for us all to be reminded of and see this morning, as I've already told you, the faith that this text is calling us to is what Isaiah says: Here is God's suffering servant. To see again in Jesus Christ exactly what his sufferings were for our salvation. And to know and to be reminded That Jesus died for us, but he also died for those times when we don't do the good that we should. Those times in our own lives. Or because people are watching us. Because it might cost us maybe a friend, maybe a bad name, maybe worse, a salary cut. A beating on our bodies, all those times when instead of like Jesus and saying, Come into the light and reprove darkness We sort of join in fellowship with it and let it take place. That the Lord died even for those sins. See also here, too, this should be comforting and encouraging to believers. If this is how Jesus treated his enemies, what about his friends? What about those who put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, call him Lord, and serve him as this is the way in which he treats his own enemies. But a gentleness and a patience. Yassi is angry. I sort of skipped over that He is angry with their hard-heartedness. He's angry. Why? He's a suffering son of Abraham And they can't even give the answer that a kindergarten catechism class could answer. Yeah, heal him. Help him. Absolutely. That's what God, who is goodness himself, wants us to do. To do good to people. No wonder he's been grieved. Is that perfect balance of anger at their sin, anger at the misery that their sin perpetuates in people's lives, and at the same time grieved by it? I think I most feel this keenly or when I think about I guess when I became a Christian a number of years ago and You realize how people just when you become a Christian, right, you really love life. And and people that, you know, you think of the abortion movement down pro-choice and pro-life. And all we want is to champion life and to see life flourish and we're hated as haters of mankind, right? Haven't Christians always been painted As haters of mankind. Why can't you just leave those women and their bodies alone and let them have what they want and suppress uh whatever the way it's thrown, right? I think I get a sense here where you're angered at it, and yet you're grieved at the darkness and the hardness of their hearts. This is always where I've seen it out, and what you see here with Jesus. He wants life. He wants suffering and misery to end. He came to bring that about. And yet he is painted as an unrighteous man and presented by the Pharisees. as a Sabbath breaker who deserves God's condemnation. That's our Lord. Third thing to say here Do you have a righteousness in your reach? That's what these Pharisees were saying. They were saying, yeah, Sabbath rest, we got this. This is an easy thing for me to achieve. And yet they find, as they're trying to achieve this righteousness, how far short of God's righteousness they fall. Because they have to set aside the rest of his law that says, do good on the Sabbath day and help people. Right? Again, we're reminded by a text like this. Those times we were tempted to not do the right thing, that God's law, where does it lead us to? To Jesus Christ. To get a righteousness within our grasp. Because if we think that we can keep law, God's law, and do what's right without Jesus Christ, and I'm not just talking about the imputed righteousness which we receive by faith. Which gives us our justification. I'm talking about the day-to-day personal righteousness to do the right thing. Where does that come from? Do we live thinking God's law, that's something I've got mastered? And I'm pretty good. You know, I occasionally have a slip-up here and then But overall, what God asks of me, yeah, I'm there. And I hope that this is a story to remind us we're a long ways from it and daily need the help of Christ to do the right thing. This episode will is also serves for us here, which we'll later see in Mark's Gospel, which becomes a prominent theme, you know, of Jesus' teaching. Jesus is illustrating for us here by his own example in life what it means to carry your cross. What it means to carry your cross isn't to put up with an annoying friend. Well, I suppose if it keeps you meaning don't sin against them. Putting up with carrying your cross means just that. Dying to do the right thing. Why do you think he asks us to picture a whole life that way? As brothers and sisters, if when you wake up in the morning and you say, Today I'm going to die on this cross, Then you're not going to cling to this world. If the day is the day you die, then you're not going to cling to your treasures here. And you're not going to keep your mouth shut because you only have one more day to tell of Jesus Christ. That's how he wants us to live. I pick my cross up today. Today will be the day I die for following Christ and doing the right thing in my home my classroom, in the community, wherever God's called me to serve. Today I die on this cross for him. So I won't keep my mouth shut. I won't pretend to a righteousness that then keeps me from doing the right things. This episode also in the Gospel anticipates the Sermon on the Mount. Mark doesn't include that in his Gospel, but Luke goes there next, and Matthew goes there next, too. And this is where I take some of my application then because we know how does Jesus begin that Sermon on the Mount? It's almost as if he realized by these Pharisees, some people think he came to destroy the law. Some people might think from his teaching that he's setting the Sabbath aside, and of course he has to begin that sermon on the law by saying, Don't think I came to destroy the law. Right, but to fulfill it. But what is else does he call his disciples? Ye are the light of the world. The gift of righteousness that the suffering servant here that we see Jesus Christ has purchased for us is ours by faith, but he calls us With this new life and the Spirit, we get by faith in Him to follow Him and to be light. So I have to exhort you this morning, brothers and sisters. To be light, and here's a perfect illustration of what it means. Let me read to you from Ephesians 5. Well, Paul begins with saying, you are light in the Lord. What does that mean? You need to walk as children in the light. And then he says in verse 11, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. If Jesus would have kept his mouth shut, not healed that man, and let that uh what is supposed to say here, unfruitful works of darkness continue on, he would have been as much having fellowship with it. What does Paul say then? But rather reprove them. And that's what he does to the Pharisees. He reproves them. He brings this man to the front and sinner. And says, you tell me what is right. And shows how wicked their actions are. If we are not bringing to the light our sins, Confessing them to one another, to God, within our families and church, workplaces The synagogue isn't necessarily the church in that day. What I mean by that is this: that was the center of political life To preach in a synagogue is like going to the to the community today and preaching. Of course we preach in the church, but that was public life. That's why Jesus went there. He didn't have a private message for some Pharisees or some private synagogue. We already talked about in Mark's gospel or in that time. There were private synagogues and public synagogues. He made it very clear when he went to the cross, I taught you all publicly. If we are not reproving the public and letting them get by with whatever righteousness they think they have, then who's ever going to come to Christ? Must be light in the Lord and reprove darkness wherever you see it, because brothers and sisters, if you don't, you're having fellowship with darkness. Think on that. Fellowship with darkness. Because the world's watching you to accuse you wrongfully. Again, nothing makes me feel my need for Christ more than when I try to actually walk in his steps. You cannot do this on your own. You can't be light unless you've called upon him and calling upon him. And finally, we must imitate our Lord's example of righteous anger and grief at hard hearts. Let me read through you from 2 Timothy 2, 24-26 again. You can see where did the apostles learn the righteous life from and how to act? Right here in the Gospels. Paul writes, and the servant of the Lord must not strive. But be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves. If God perhaps will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will. What do you see Jesus here doing? Is Jesus striving with these men? Raising his voice and shouting in angry? Isn't that what our the forums look like? I I don't have social media, but everybody talks about how easy it is to get on there and strive. Do you find there are examples of being gentle to all men? Apt to teach in patience and meekness, gentleness, instructing those that oppose you, because that is how justice is brought forth. According to God's way, through the path of suffering is it established in the earth. Not through getting up and shouting louder than the other opponent. But by patiently teaching the truth, and perhaps God will grant that person repentance to acknowledge that truth And to walk in it, and to be recovered out of the snare of the devil. This is what our Lord did. This was his mission to come. Luke begins acts by telling us I wrote the first book to tell you what Jesus began to do and teach. And here's the count of what Jesus continued to do and teach through his church. Through you. Through you, who are filled by his Spirit, who serve Him at home, your workplace, your community. We must be walking in the light together. Let me close with these words and the light of the world gave darkness its hour. To bring in everlasting resurrection light. Let us walk in that light and keep no fellowship with darkness. Amen. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for our Lord Jesus Christ and your suffering servant. Who was so gentle and patient and is teaching righteousness and establishing it here on earth, who never grew wary until that work was done on the cross. When he has brought in an everlasting righteousness. O Lord, forgive us for all those times when we do not do the good that we should do. That under the watching eyes of our friends, our family, of our communities, of this world, fearing their accusations, We keep fellowship with darkness and do not reprove it