Turn with me in your Bibles to the Gospel according to Mark chapter 3. Mark chapter 3. We're going to read verses 7 through verse 19. Mark chapter 3, beginning at verse 7. Hear the word of the Lord. Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea. And a great crowd followed, from Galilee and Judea, and Jerusalem, and Edumeah, and from beyond the Jordan, and from around Tyre and Sidon When the great crowd heard all that he was doing, they came to him, and he told his disciples to have a boat ready for him because of the crowd. Lest they crush him, for he had healed many, so that all who had diseases pressed around him do touch him. And whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they fell down before him. and cried out, You are the Son of God. And he strictly ordered them not to make him known. And he went up on the mountain and called to him those whom he desired, and they came to him, and he appointed twelve, whom he also named apostles. So that they might be with him and he might send them out to preach and have authority to cast out demons. He appointed the twelve, Simon, to whom he gave the name Peter. James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James, to whom he gave the name Buanergase, that is, sons of thunder. Andrew and Philip and Bartholomew and Matthew and Thomas and James the son of Alpheus and Thaddeus and Simon the Canon or Canana, and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him. The word of the Lord. Let's go to the Lord together and ask his blessing. Let us pray. Our God and Heavenly Father, we thank you that yet again we have your word opened up before us. Out of your goodness and graciousness to us in giving this deposit of our salvation in Jesus Christ. The revelation of your everlasting love for us, your people. Give us now that illumination of mind and heart To understand what your words are saying and to receive it, that it might find a place in us, to obey it. Help, Lord, your servant, to proclaim faithfully what is here, and help all to hear. The glory of your name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You know what I see from here? I see a chosen race. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession here before me. But how is that God spoke those words long ago to the Israelites gathered at Mount Sinai. Are you all Israelites? Well, Peter thinks so. We just heard him quote these very words to the church in his first letter, which we just read. And Paul thinks so too. Here's what he says, taken from his letter in Galatians. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything But only faith working through love. For neither circumcision counts for anything nor uncircumcision, but a new creation. And for all who walk by this rule, peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God. The Israel of God here that Paul is speaking about knows no landed borders But it is spiritual. It has made up believers from every tribe and tongue and nation on this planet. But then how have we gotten here? How have we gotten to this point? Of an Israel that is made up from every tribe and tongue and nation, a global Israel by faith in Jesus Christ That is the question that we will seek to answer this morning from our text. How have we gotten from From there long ago in our Bibles. They're here this morning. How have we gotten here? Let us go to our Bibles and we'll start there with Mark Chapter 3 verses 7 through 12. Now the main thing to see here, I'm not going to spend a lot of time on these verses. But the main thing to see here is that Jesus takes the time to indoctrinate his disciples before his death. Now this is going to continue on up until his death. But what he's doing here is he's taking the time to indoctrinate, to teach his disciples about his kingdom and the nature of it and the principles of it Before his death, before his atonement, before his sacrifice. We read there in verse 7: Jesus withdrew. Why is he withdrawing? Well, we saw last week, people want to kill him. And the religious leaders of Israel have rejected him. But Jesus is withdrawing because it's not yet his time to die. He is not to die in Galilee, but he is to die in Jerusalem. He is not withdrawing because he is afraid of the fight. But he doesn't march to men's wills, but to his heavenly fathers. So he is withdrawing from this conflict that he might have time with his disciples. To teach them before he goes to Jerusalem and offer up his life a sacrifice. But you see, second thing I want you to see here before we go on, there in verse 12. And he strictly ordered them not to make him known that being the demons. These evil spirits who are telling everybody, right? Preaching in one sense the good news. He's the Son of God. Jesus Christ is the Son of God. But why is he telling them to be quiet? And to be honest, it's a little hard to say exactly because Jesus doesn't tell us, but you can infer from the context, I think a couple things. One, they're giving the wrong focus. If you remember Satan's temptation of Jesus in the wilderness, If you're the Son of God, do this. If you're the Son of God, do this. And what was Jesus' response in every one? It's not man must live by every word of God Man must worship only God. They would focus on his power and who he is as Son of God, and Jesus wants to focus on Son of Man. And how he's going to bring in his kingdom through offering his life on the cross a humble way, a sufferer's way, and not a way of power. So they're distracting in their focus of him in their preaching of him as the Son of God. But secondly, probably, because not all publicity is good publicity. There's such thing as bad publicity. We breathe in the air that Jesus is the Son of God. That is as natural as up and down is to us, and praise the Lord that it is. It wasn't 2,000 years ago. This was not a normal people had a difficult time wrapping their head around. You would have had a difficult time because Jesus would have sat amongst us. And he just wouldn't look like anybody here. Except you had been doing really crazy things. And saying really crazy stuff. And we'd all been going, Who is this man? The last thing to help his cause in is everybody knows those are demons and they're bad, but what do they know about him? So I think that's why Jesus tells them to be Quiet. He'll take his father's testimony, even through the works that he's doing, and recorded in holy scripture, which he's telling him, I'm fulfilling. Listen to Moses and the prophets. Don't listen to demons. Well, what links these verses then in seven through twelve, because we're going to go now to Mark 13 and spend uh all of our time here this morning and the rest of it. But what links these verses with what follows is that in these verses, which we just looked at briefly, in what follows, Jesus is planning for the future. And he is planning for the future, laying it here now before us, again, the future which involves even us today. But Jesus is planning for the future. First, as we just looked at briefly, by avoiding conflict, in order to teach his disciples about the nature of his kingdom. So he's avoiding conflict To stay on earth and patiently teach his disciples who need to learn this stuff. But secondly, which we're about to see, by laying the foundation for a new Israel as well as its growth. Of course, of which we as believers are part of today. So he's laying the future, as I said, by withdrawing from this conflict to teach his disciples to indoctrinate them in this kingdom. Because again, as we go through the Gospels, And you've probably heard preaching in the gosp before. People had a hard time understanding the kingdom of God he's telling them about. Because a lot of people were telling me about the kingdom of God they were really hoping in. And he had to be patient in teaching them what God's word says about the kingdom. May that also be a lesson to us, to have patience with each other, young believers, etc. , patient to learn these spiritual lessons. But secondly, He is going on now, which we're going to go look at, and he's laying this foundation for a new Israel and its growth. So let's look at Mark verses 13 through 19. There's two things we're going to look at here. The first one is this that Jesus makes a new Israel in faith and love because old Israel has neither. Right. Jesus makes a new Israel in faith and love because old Israel has neither of them. And what do I mean by that? Let's jump back a week and go back to what we heard last week in the Gospel there, with Jesus' encounter on the Sabbath. What stands out to us really going back to the beginning of chapter 2 in Mark to chapter 3, verse 6? These Israelites, particularly in their religious leaders, they have no faith. They won't listen to Moses Now we don't we if you go to John's gospel in chapter five, it says they won't listen to the testimony of Scripture, they won't believe anything God's saying to them, whether he wrote it in the prophets. Or whether God in the flesh is speaking it to them, they will not receive his testimony. They have no faith that this is Christ the Son of God. This is the one foretold in all of their writings whom they're looking for. And secondly, what was very evident last week, anyhow, no love. Tell me, did God give his law to kill man or to give him life? No, he didn't give him, God does not give us his law as a covenant of life by which to keep. But you read every one of those precepts. It's commanded. Thou shalt not kill. God gave his law to his people as the perfect rule of life. If you just followed us perfectly, you would live a perfect, beautiful life. And the Pharisees couldn't even answer the most basic question of God's intent in giving his law. Is it lawful to do good or to harm, to save life or to kill? They have no love. So old Israel has no faith. Has no love. So what is Jesus going to do? Give up on Israel? No. Here's where you begin to see in earnest what we read in Peter's epistle. What comes from Psalm 118. Here the mystery of God and that set-aside cornerstone. Jesus is going to lay that down and he's going to build up new Israel. Look with me at verse 13. Verse 13, and he went up on the mountain. Now, mountains in Israel, in the history of Israel, as you know, have significance, right? That is where God meets with his people. And that is where they meet with them. And that is where they have been formed right there at Sinai as God's people. Made in a covenant by blood with him, like we are today, as you come to faith in Christ. But not in an earthly mountain, but in the heavenly mountain Jerusalem. That's where we've gathered. And not by a covenant made with blood of animals. But of the Son of God. So by Jesus going up on a mountain, this is significant. This is recalling us to Israel's history. And he called to him, we read, those whom he desired. Jesus picks these twelve men whom he desired. And I think the best way just to understand what that means is, in some sense, he is begetting them in their new role. Does the child will to be made? Or do the parents beget the children? Jesus is begetting them. He is giving them life in this new role as apostles. It is by his will. And nobody else's. It wasn't a popular vote, we want these ones to be the apostles, but Jesus picked them out. But he picked how many? Twelve. What is that reminiscent of? How many children did Israel have? Did Jacob have? He had twelve sons, did he not? Jesus picks by happenstance twelve apostles? Or what do we see here in the gospel? But Jesus laying the foundation of New Israel. These men Here's how you get here. We sitting here today believing in Jesus Christ, who do you trace your lineage back to? Here is your ancestry. Every one of us who believes in Jesus Christ today can go right back to this mountain. Because you believe because these men preach the gospel. John 17. I don't pray just for these men, my twelve, but for all those who will believe by their word. Here is our spiritual fathers. Each of us belongs to one of these tribes. I don't know who. Maybe you come from Peter's line. Maybe you come from Andrew's line, Philip's Athales. I don't know Might be fun in heaven to see. Trace back from whom we believed and how it went, but right here is the origin. There's no faith in Israel. God has to make it, and he's making it right here. And all of us can trace our spiritual heritage back to this moment in time. This is exciting! This is what it means to be Israel and the people of God to have an identity. When you pick your Bible up, do you hold it in your hand as the heritage of God to you and of his people? Or is it just a book? Or does it tell you who you are? And where you've come from? Because that's what we're looking at here. Now, let me name these men for you real quick, because there's four lists given in the New Testament and some of their names get interchange. So let me name them for you here. Peter, of course, we all know who Peter is or Simon. He's given that surname or that title, which then becomes the name he's most known by. Peter or Rock James and John, sons as ebony, they're brothers. Jesus calls them Boonerjays or Boonergays, that is sons of thunder. And I looked. There's no consensus on what this means exactly. Some take it to mean they are powerful preachers. Isaiah 51, verse 1 will talk about speaking in this manner. So some take it because they were great preachers. Some take it because they had a fiery temperament. And that we do know. These are ambitious brothers. Their mother too. Jesus, we want to sit at your right and left hand in your kingdom. That's no small ambition. To sit at Jesus' right and left hand as it is as a mayhem, as a person. How many of you have ambition? That's ambitious. We also know they're a little hot-headed too. The Samaritans didn't warmly receive Jesus. They said, should we call down fire upon these people? Jesus says, you don't know why I've come. Slow down. I'm here to save. We got to see who these men are and our fathers are, right? They're men of imperfection They're men of different traits and characteristics, and so are we, and it is the glory of God and Christ to unite us. Andrew is Peter's brother. Philip is also a Galilean. Bartholomew. Bartholomew is Nefthaniel, who Jesus finds up there sitting under the sycamore tree It says I saw you before I called you, said you are my king and God. And he confesses Christ immediately That's Nathaniel Matthew. We know who Matthew is. He's Levi. He's the tax collector that Jesus has called and converted. Thomas is Didymus. His name means either Thomas or Didymus, depending on what language is Aramaic or Greek, is twin. James, the son of Alpheus is also James, the son of Klopos, who was, let's see, his father, James's father was a, his wife was a relation of Mary's, so he is a brother of Jesus Christ. Thaddeus is um Lebaius or Jude. If you read the epistle of Jude, uh that's who Thaddeus is, also one of Jesus' And then Simon the Zealot. We read it, my translation, this or both the SV, but I guess they wanted to translate it one way versus the other. Canaanite, there isn't the land of Canaanite, but a Greek word meaning zealot. So it's just depending on what language you translate. But Simon the Zealot, and the Zealot is referring to an ultra-right-wing conservative political party in Israel who opposed all heathenism. And in fact, you remember Phineas, who stabbed the, uh ran the man through with a spear because he was committing fornication before God's people? summarary judgments, right? Judge and executioner right then on the spot. They claim that, right, these zealots. And would enact that in Israel. These were so I'm just kind of giving you a picture of the men that Jesus called We'll come back to that in a moment. And then finally the last one is Judas Iscariot. And Iscariot means son of Chirioth. And Kyriot is a town in Judah. Here's the man. Of course we know Judas's fate. As the one who betrayed Jesus. Here's his twelve apostles, our spiritual fathers, whom he just called. I want to spend a moment just looking at their diversity. And they're diverse from where they come from. All of them come from Galilee and different parts, except for Judah. He comes from Judah. He's the only Judean here. But they're also diverse, as we see in their temperaments. Some of them are angered, some of them are hot-tempered. Peter's very bold and forward, makes great errors of judgment. Jesus, you're not going to die on the cross. And rashly sets aside God's word or errors of practice going up into Antioch and walking contrary to the gospel and not keeping fellowship with the Gentile believers there. Yeah. Such is his temperament. We don't know the temperament of all of them, but we can see diversity and the temperament um the Thaniel Was a true Isaiah from the beginning. He had a right picture on the kind of Messiah and kingdom. He wasn't caught up in a political picture, but had a right idea. That's why Jesus says it Israelite did deed. He could see this man knew something, the others didn't. about the nature of God's kingdom already. They're different in their calling. Fishermen, tax collectors. We don't have a lot of descriptions of what these other men did. Different in their political opinions Simon was an ultra-right. Levi must have been somewhere centric or to the left because he's working for the crown. He's working for big government. I'm just using that illustration, making no comment on it. on right or left, but just pointing to you, Jesus picks men that aren't the same, but very different men. This church is not made up of the same kinds of people, is it? Very different temperaments, different political leadings, different places of birth, different occupations. And yet Jesus Christ can hold us all together and unite us as this new Israel. Here in this life to serve God. So let us remember that. That when we're together, especially together, let us always remember what we have in common Before we remember what we don't have in common. But let's remember what unites us: the call, the effectual call of Jesus Christ. And to follow him. That's the first thing, then, that Jesus makes a new Israel in faith and love because old Israel has neither. That's the significance of this event in picking these 12 men. But I said there's another thing here. Here's the second thing. Jesus also goes on to plan for this new Israel's growth through apostolic preaching, right? He plans for the growth. How do we get from 13 men, Jesus and one God man and 12 apostles to here in a global church? It is through this apostolic preaching. Now I want to make this comment right up front that these 12 men, these apostles, they have no successors in the church today. There's no such thing as apostolic succession in the sense that they're still being apostles with a capital A, a title. The work that they do is carried on in that sense. We can talk about apostles, people being sent to preach the gospel But as far as twelve apostles who laid the foundation of the church along with the prophets and witnessed Christ to us as eyewitnesses, they don't exist anymore. Paul makes that clear in his own writings in 2 Corinthians 12. 12 when he talks about Corinth was taken over with people wanting to follow superapostles. But he says, the marks of a true apostle were performed before you, right? These miracles and healings and wonders. They weren't doing those things. Those things aren't continued today. Because it was the mark of an apostle, an eyewitness, someone who's seen Jesus Christ risen to validate their message. God worked mightily in these ways. with them. So these men don't have successors. But this is why I wanted to start there, to make it clear, they don't have successors. But that doesn't mean there's nothing then here for us. But what follows does hold true as a pattern for all of Christ's disciples. So that Christ still grows. Let me make clear what I mean by grows. Not just numerically, quantitatively But quantitatively he gathers and perfects his church Through apostolic preaching, just preaching not done by apostles, big A. So this is still how Christ Is begetting Israel. You might say, think of the promise to Abraham was right, a seed more numerous than the stars. Here is how Christ begets that spiritual seed. Here's how Christ grows his church in number and quality through apostolic preaching. Look with me at verse 14. And he appointed the twelve. Here's the way in which church growth happens, right? If you want to go to a place in the Bible and say, how does God grow his church? Here's one of many other, or many, but here's one. Here's how God grows his church. We read there that he appointed these twelve. The first reason why he appointed them was that they might be with him. But step number one for these apostles' ministry was to be with Jesus. Why does he want them with him? He needs them. Life is getting difficult for Jesus And he's a man, and it's not good for a man to be alone. He needs friends, he needs people to help carry the burden and wait. It wasn't a good thing that they abandoned him It wasn't a good thing that they slept on duty and didn't watch and pray for him. Jesus needs these fellowship from these men, but they also need him. Because really, Paul makes it clear in his letter to Philippians. Anybody can preach Christ. You could have horrible motives. You can preach Christ one in Christ's mission not to go forward or to harm apostles in prison. An unbeliever can get up and proclaim to you what is written here. An unregenerate person can pick up this Bible and preach Christ, but not like a regenerate man. Not like somebody who's been with the Lord and who knows Him, and whose heart is being changed like his, who can say as Peter says Why will people want to drink the gracious milk word of Christ? Because they've tasted that he's good. I defy somebody to tell me that a regenerate person doesn't think Jesus Christ is good and wants to spend time Time with him. What a privilege then, or what an invitation that Jesus gives to these men. Now they have been with him. At least seven of these apostles had been with him for a while now. So they'd spend time with him. But here again, as I'm pointing out, the significance of this event is the foundation of New Israel after he has been rejected by old. And what this is teaching us then is that we believers preach a Christ we know. We don't tell our children, parents, right, believing parents, about a Christ we don't know. We don't tell our colleagues and neighbors, classmates, about a Christ we don't know. Our great privilege is to preach a Christ that we know. How do we know Christ today? He's not here physically with us, right? By his word and his spirit. Right here in this Bible teaches you Christ. The presence of his Holy Spirit. Everybody who believes this gospel of Jesus Christ is indwelt by that spirit. And has the presence of Christ in them. Preaching is a way we come and spend time with Christ. That's a corporate way we do it. Some private ways we do it or individual ways or smaller group ways is what kind of Christian literature are you reading today? What books are you reading? Are you reading good books that really teach you about Christ? Really teach about who he is, what he's done, what he's doing. Are you reading books about Christ? That's a wonderful way to get to know because God gave gifts to his church to teach people about Christ. Use them to know Christ. Sometimes, right, you've all probably found it can be a hard slog to pick up the Bible and to study it. It takes a whole life to do it, and then you are just starting. But read good Christian literature as a way to come and know Christ. If you want, I can reference them. Go ask an elder. Ask Reverend Tyson. Ask somebody who seems to be aglow with Christ. What are you reading? Because I want to read that. That's the first step: being with Christ. But why are we with Christ? Why are these twelve men with him? Right? So we're clear. It's different. They're with Christ in a different way. They walked next to God on the earth. I find myself just smiling, thinking of that. That's how joyful the gospel is. Someone told me if you're not preaching a message that's too good to be true, you're not preaching the gospel God, they walked next to God on the earth. I'm sure later they were a bit disappointed and they realized they didn't know that too much of the time. But they were with him. And today we're with God, not because God's walking next to us, but because God is in us. His Spirit is in us. And as Christians, we must spend time with Him. I'm sure you've been spending time. Keep spending time. Because it's spending time with Christ and knowing him, and I mean knowing him, that's going to want to make you then do the next thing. Go tell people about him Because that's what he's sending them out to do. That's really where the name apostle comes from. The verb here for the Greek text he might send them is apostello. Sounds like our noun apostolos, right? Because an apostle is somebody who is sent, an emissary, an envoy, who has a message. So you can see how there are twelve apostles, one's designated here by Christ to preach him as eyewitnesses, who've seen the resurrected Lord, but anybody sent to preach. So here was where we can talk about a distinction between ordained preachers of Christ. I've been sent to St. Mary's County. I grew up in Winchedale, Kansas. I didn't hear about this place till a year ago this time? Did I know about this place? Yeah, I think I'd visit by now. Just over a year ago. So we can talk about people being ordained and sent to preach Christ But everybody in this room who is a born-again believer has been sent to this earth to preach Christ. Because your hell your home is there, or wherever heaven's at. We always think of it up, but you're in this earth, in your job, in your home. I mean, this is applicable for the youngest child here To the oldest person here, to working people that work out of the home versus people working in the home. You're here in this spot and place and time to know Christ and to tell other people of Christ. What a glorious life that God has given to his church. To know Christ and God in Christ. And just tell other people about Christ. See, you know what? When Jesus sends these men out and they come back, Luke records it for us. They come back and say, Jesus, here's what we taught. They had apparently been listening to Jesus and learned the lessons and went out and taught them. And they probably got better at it. You'll get better at preaching Christ. You'll get better at talking to people, but you won't ever get better if you never do it. You know what the easiest way to do is just ask somebody. Have you ever heard of Jesus' name? Do you know What the word Christ? I mean just ask somebody that question if you want to start it. Again, there's I know evangelism and sharing Christ. There's no one method for it, it's the point. Just be yourself a believer who knows Christ and spends time with Christ. And when you're out, whether through your life or through your voice, you're gonna make Christ know. And if you want to really make and start that conversation, just ask people, do you know the name of Jesus? Do you know who he is? Do you know what he's done? And just tell people what you know about Jesus. Job's done. You don't have to worry about not knowing everything and be able to defend the faith. There's a difference between apologetics and witnessing. You're all called to witness. You're not all called to debate at the highest levels and defend the faith and tear down every stronghold. Those are special gifts and callings But your job's complete if you just tell people the Jesus you love and know. That's it. And the third thing. That he sends them out to do, or you might say what is done through the preaching. He gives them authority. Now here's uh definitely where we We have to we diverge from the apostles here. This authority does not carry on. But it's important us to see what this authority was given for, because that does carry on. Now they were given authority, we read here, to cast out demons. Some other manuscripts will say is also to heal diseases. And again, that that power in these ways of casting demons out and healing diseases It's validating as well as elucidating the preaching of Christ in his kingdom. Because the preaching of Christ in his kingdom is the message that Satan's time is done. The kingdom of God is coming. Eternal life and health is here. And here's the evidence. Demons are going away. Sick people are being healed. Even dead people are being raised to life. The message of the kingdom of God is the message of everlasting life, entered by faith in Christ and the new birth. So that authority was given to these men to validate that message. But we don't need it today anymore because you know what one of the greatest evidences is That the kingdom of God is here. Your changed life. Because who did that? Who raised you from the dead The Church of Jesus Christ as its existence is a message enough that the kingdom of God is here. Yes, it is. But how does that look for us today? Jesus came, John 3. 8, to destroy the works of the devil. That's all these powers and miracles are doing. He's putting forth his hand. To destroy Satan's work. He came, like Paul tells the church in Ephesians 6, to war against not flesh and blood, but spiritual powers. You going out and preaching Christ is an assault on Satan. an attack against spiritual powers in the lives of your family and friends and neighbors and community. By preaching, Christ is spiritual warfare. It's the sword of the Spirit. The message of the gospel is the sword of the Spirit, by which we slay, and his works are undone. All of us, redeemed people, have been brought out of it because that gospel word has cut Satan's bond over us, has freed us and liberated us. Brethren, we have gotten here to this even very moment in more worship service. We have gotten here as God's chosen people. By faith in this apostolic preaching, recorded for us here in the New Testament, promised in the Old Testament The apostles have taught us how to read our Bibles, to look back and see what God promised has fulfilled here. Through the preaching of that message, that's how we've got here. That is how God's church has grown in number. That is how God's church has grown in quality. We must continue to preach Christ to each other. Continue to preach all of who Christ is to one another. We probably need to hear more of his role as our high priest. Your goal in life, let me just challenge you as your pastor. And I'll pray and think of ways to help you. Before you die, when you get to heaven, so you can say, I know everything of you, Jesus. I know everything about you. Because I read it right here. I know everything about you. Someone who spent time with Christ and learning Christ. Whether he was ordained or not, preached Christ to you and destroyed the devil's work in your life. Give thanks to God and go do the same. May God give us all the grace to be with Christ, to preach Christ, and to overcome in Christ. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for sending your Son Jesus Christ to be The new Israel, and to be that stone rejected of men, but elect and precious in your sight. Lord, we bless you for this moment in history Millennia Goal, where you founded and laid the foundation for our spiritual heritage in these 12 men, calling these 12 very different men. Because you loved them and wanted to give them a new birth in life as your chosen people. Lord, we thank you for calling them to be with you, sending them out to preach you, giving that authority to crush Satan's kingdom. Lord, forgive us. Where we fall short and taking the time we ought to be with you, or taking the opportunities we got to Tell others about you, to engage ourselves in that spiritual warfare, because we confess, O Lord, it is hard and the flesh is weak. But we know, O Lord, that the Spirit is willing. And may you blow into us again afresh, O Lord, that Spirit, make us willing to take up that fight. To go to our Bibles, to go to good books on the Bible, and learn everything there is that you have written about Jesus Christ, to know it, believe it and to tell others about it, that you might grow your church, gathering and perfecting your saints here in Southern Maryland Or wherever else you might send people here. And O Lord, those who are seeking now and discerning a call to ordain ministry to be sent by you to preach your gospel. So help them in this time to discern that calling. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.