Please turn with me in your Bibles. We'll read from Paul's letter to the Hebrews in chapter 4. And we'll read together. The first 11 verses from Hebrews chapter 4, as you're turning there, I'll just make a brief comment on this The chief thing to see in this passage is that in every age, God has held out a promise of rest to his people. to be entered in by them in their faithful obedience. And that includes in this age, under the gospel As Paul tells us there in verse 9, that there's still a Sabbath rest to be observed by the church today. Because Christ, who finished his work, has entered into that eternal rest in verse 10. And therefore, in verse 11, we are all to strive to enter in by laboring faithfully in our Christian life here and enter into that eternal rest when we pass into glory. So hear the word of the Lord from Hebrews chapter 4, beginning verse 1. Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands, Let us fear, lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. For good news came to us, just as to them But the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united by faith with those who listened For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, as I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Although his works were finished from the foundation of the world, for he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way, and God rested on the seventh day from all his works. And again, in this passage, he said, they shall not enter my rest. Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly received the good news failed to enter because of disobedience Again he appoints a certain day today, saying through David so long afterward, and the words already quoted Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. For if Joshua had given them rest God would not have spoken of another day later on. So then there remains a Sabbath rest. For the people of God. For whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest So that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. And you turn to the Gospel of Mark and our text this morning, It'll just be one passage from there in chapter 2, verse 28, and Mark's Gospel, chapter 2, verse 28, where we read So, the Son of Man is Lord, even of the Sabbath. The word of the Lord Let us seek the Lord in prayer for his blessing and his help in preaching and in hearing today. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, We confess before you that your word finds no place in our heart until it is prepared there by your grace. And we thank you for preparing our hearts as we have heard the message of Jesus Christ. And him come in the flesh to die for our sins, and upon that sacrifice to give us eternal life in his name Thank you for the faith to all those here who profess that faith in Jesus Christ. Oh Lord, now help us again to hear and to go on. Understanding what it means as your redeemed people to serve you in this world and to receive every word from your mouth. Help your servant, O Lord, to speak faithfully and full of grace, and to speak truth and love. And cause this people to hear your word, to receive it with meekness, to be engrafted in their hearts, and to bear fruit to Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Oh man. I'll remind everybody, since we've been looking at this text now for a number of weeks, there's lots of things we've seen regard the Sabbath day from here. Uh it became a right a heated point between Jesus and the Pharisees. So let me remind you of the context in chapter two and verse twenty-eight. It goes back and began there at chapter twenty-three Jesus is defending his disciples. And so he's defending himself because disciples follow their master. So Jesus is defending here his disciples. Against the Pharisees charge of Sabbath-breaking, right? They accused them of doing what is unlawful by plucking these heads of grain. The bigger picture, though, in this dispute is the differing concepts of who God is between Jesus and the Pharisee. They hardly know a God of grace, a God who desires mercy and not sacrifice. And they're very thrown off by Jesus' interactions with sinners. uh with tax collectors, is non-fasting and on and on, and because there's a they they have a different idea of who God is And this different concept is leading to their conflict about Israel's religious life Namely, what is God's will, right? What is God's way? That's what's a dispute between Jesus and the Pharisees. What is the will of God? In the way of God. Should we be fasting three times a week? Should we be completely separating ourselves from sinners and tax collectors? Should we be plucking heads of grain on the Sabbath? On and on. Differing dispute Of what God's will is for his people, coming out of different concepts of who God is. The specific points here in dispute, as you can see from the text, and as I've been saying, is how to keep the Sabbath day. The Pharisees thought that they knew how, but Jesus disagreed with them. And so the question that we must, that you must ask yourself is: do I know how to keep the Sabbath? In a way agreeable to my Lord Jesus? That's the question put to all of our hearts this morning Do I know how to keep a Sabbath day agreeable to my Lord Jesus And that will be the focus of today's sermon is on answering that question. Keeping a Sabbath day in a manner agreeable. To your Lord Jesus. You see four things here in this passage in verse 28. You can look at it again. So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. You see four things here. The first thing you see is that there is a Sabbath, right? He is even Lord of the Sabbath. So the first thing you see that there is a Sabbath. The second thing you see is that there is a Lord of the Sabbath. The third thing that you see is that this Lord of the Sabbath is the Son of Man. There is a Sabbath. There is a Lord of this Sabbath. The Lord is the Son of Man, and the fourth thing you see there coming from that little particle, so Is that this assertion by Jesus that the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath? This is him concluding his argument. This assertion is Jesus wrapping up his defense of His disciples against the Pharisees' charge. So there is a Sabbath. There is a Lord of this Sabbath There is this Lord is the Son of Man, and this statement is meant to end all disputes about what is lawful to do on the Sabbath Does everybody see that? Is that clear from you from the text? I am not pulling this out of the air. There is a Sabbath. There is a Lord of the Sabbath. It is the Son of Man. And he means by this statement to end every dispute about what is lawful to do on this day. That is what we're going to look at now, these four things individually. So these are the four heads you might say that we're going to look at. Let's start with the first one. The first thing that you see in this passage, right, is that there is a Sabbath. Now, in the context of this dispute between Jesus and the Pharisees, that can only mean one thing. That is referring to the Sabbath given, not really given um re-given at sin. I'll make myself clear. But the Sabbath that you find in the Decalogue. So in the context when Jesus talks about Lord of the Sabbath, I can only refer to the Sabbath Found in the Decalogue of which we just heard read this morning in our worship service. The Sabbath, let me remind you though, was not made at Sinai The Sabbath was not created with the nation of Israel when God redeemed them and brought them to Himself to worship Him at the mountain. But the Sabbath is something that God created and ordained at creation. Here are Genesis 2 verses 2 through 3. And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in Crete. The Sabbath was not created at Sinai, but restored. As God's people lived under sin and bondage. I don't know what an Egyptian calendar looked like. It didn't look like God's. And it didn't have a Sabbath like God's of working sixth and resting seventh. God restored that to his people as a sign that you are not in bondage to your work. Nor are you a servant of mammon, of wealth, but you worship the true and living God. It's part of the significance of this day to remind us Sabbath is a protest against the servitude of work, the bondage of work, and being enslaved to it. Also reminding us that we are called to worship not Mammon, but God. So God restores this Sabbath that Sinai doesn't create it. God annexed that truth in Genesis 2 to the Sabbath commandment in Exodus 20, verse 11. I won't read it again, but he basically verbated him. Takes that passage of scripture and puts it there, for in six days, God is giving what he did in creation as the grounds for his people's keeping the Sabbath? And what all this means for us then, we can't excuse the Sabbath away as something Jewish. It's ceremonial. It belonged to the Levitical priesthood. Christ who's come after the order of Melchizedek and brought in the new priesthood, which requires a new change of law, therefore we don't have earthly sacrifices Every day and every week. We can't excuse it as something away tied to the priesthood, but something tied to God's creation, his moral law binding on all people. So the Sabbath cannot be argued away on grounds that it's Jewish and not Christian. Its placement in the Decalogue, as I just said, confirms its moral nature. None of the other commandments there found are ceremonial to be set aside now that Christ has come. The light of nature as well teaches us, and what is the light of nature? The light of nature is what light we have. Every man has given to him by God because of the knowledge that God is revealing to him from creation in his conscience. In the things that He has made, so that no man without excuse, though we have darkened that and disobeyed it. But the light of nature itself teaches us that God is to be worshipped at set times. Who here's taken a class on ancient Greek or Roman life and mythology? Why did our pagan forefathers have holy days? Every religion realizes the deity must be worshipped somehow and sometime in some special way, apart from our regular going in life. That vestige of light, of natural light, shows itself through and our pagan forefathers perverted worship of God. And yet it's seen there. But it is the light of scripture. It is special revelation. Given there at Genesis Regiven or restored or reminded at Sinai that the true and living God that everybody's called to worship is to worship Him one whole day and seven. That is God's requirement for his people. One whole day and seven to be worshipped. Therefore, the Sabbath is morally binding upon all peoples, and even justified peoples, that is, Christians. Who profess faith in Christ, don't get to, that's anti-nomina, don't get to excuse the law and say we therefore aren't obligated to observing a Sabbath anymore because we're justified. No, we have a Lord of the Sabbath. And that means then that not to keep the Sabbath is sin. Just as much as to not honor your mother and father is sin. To commit adultery is sin. To tell a lie is sin. It is sinful Not to keep the Sabbath day holy. And like any sin, it will incur God's judgment No, are we certainly justified by our faith in Christ? Freed from the condemnation of the law, never to come in the sufferings of our for our sins and punishments of hell? Yes? And amen. But you have a Heavenly Father who will not be pleased with you if you continue in a life of sin. as a justified saint. If you want help in that, read uh, I think it's our 11th chapter in our confession of faith dealing with the doctrine of justification. That we incur our Heavenly Father's displeasure when we continue in a life of sin, even as those who have faith in Christ. And the only way to come out, meaning what that means in the boiled down in language, is not going to make your life pleasant. Just as much as your earthly father doesn't make your life pleasant, when you do everything against his will to harm him, his household, his other children, yourself, on and on. God is not going to let his children stay in sin. The seriousness of breaking the Sabbath in God's eyes can be seen by the capital punishment which he required for its breaking in the Old Testament. You should let that sink in for a moment. This was a serious thing in God's eyes, to break his Sabbath. There was at least one man in the Old Testament who suffered death for breaking it, stoned by the people at God's command, because he did not keep a Sabbath day In fact, it was still punishable so in Jesus' day. That's why the Pharisees are trying to bring a charge against him of breaking the Sabbath. Because here's then a lawful way to get rid of this man. Now, we do not live under the theocracy of the old covenant. The church does not have the power of the sword. And as far as I know, our nation does not have any laws against Sabbath breaking Therefore, the church cannot report you to the civil authorities. Does that mean that you will get away with Sabbath breaking? No, because God sees. And that Psalm fifty warns us about thinking that God is one like ourselves and therefore will wink at our sin, he says, but now I rebuke you and lay the charge before you Pastor Kathy left here a book on, maybe some of you have read it, on taking church membership here, Confessing Christ by Calvin Knox Cummings. I was rereading through it myself and has a section on the Ten Commandments like every Christian catechism and primer of the Christian faith and the whole history of Christendom has had. And he said that there's probably no other sin more broken by Christians today than the fourth commandment. He also says this about it. Keep faithfully this one commandment, and the growth of your spiritual maturity and usefulness in Christ's service is assured. Failure to keep this commandment will mean stunted spiritual growth. I don't know where many of you are out personally in your religious lives, your spiritual lives, whether you feel starved, dead, hardly bringing any fruit. It may be you need to examine your conduct on this day. It could be for other reasons, but here we're looking at the Sabbath day, and I think this man knows what he's talking about. Because as God says in his word, the Sabbath is to remind us that He is the one who sanctifies us. He gives us a whole day to spend with him that he might change us to be like him. And if that's not a day kept by us, I can clearly then understand why our spiritual lives are going to stagger and falter. Paul also says in Galatians 6: Do not be deceived God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the spirit will from the spirit reap eternal life. Brethren, is there forgiveness from God for breaking this commandment, like there is for every other one of his his? Yes. There is. But there is also here great spiritual fruit to be had in our lives by observing this day That brings me to our second point. As we observe this day to the Lord, there's a person that we're observing it to: God. A person whom we're keeping it holy to, the Lord. That brings me to the second point, right? That there is a Lord in the Sabbath day. So there is a Sabbath day Continues in the Church of Christ. I'll give you another reason in a moment when we get further on, but it continues on because it's morally binding upon us to be observed by us. And there's a Lord of this day. That's the second thing that you see in our passage. There is a Sabbath day, and there is a Lord. Now, right, what's a Lord? We live in a democracy. We don't know anything of kings and lords. What is a lord? That's generally a something negative to us to think in terms of having a lord. A Lord is a person with authority who gets to decide what is right. It's as simple as that. A Lord is a person with authority. And he decides what is right. Take for example creation. God is Lord of all the earth. Therefore, he gets to decide what is right. And what does that mean for everybody on the earth? We must acknowledge that as right. And do it. That's what it means to be Lord. So, unless we wish to make ourselves Lord of this day, Jesus says there is a Lord. Unless we wish to make ourselves the Lord of it, then we must discern that Lord's will to know how to keep it holy. So that leads us to the question then. What is our Lord's will? What is the Lord's will for you? What is the Lord's will for his redeemed people? and keeping a Sabbath day. Now we're going to have to come back to that question, because really to fully answer it, We've got to first identify who the Lord is, right? There's the Lord. He surely has a will. But we need to know who that Lord is before we can get at what his will is. And that takes us to the third point. You see in this text clearly that the Lord of the Sabbath is the Son of Man. Now I mentioned last week, son of man is an Aramaic phrase that means a human being It just means a man. You're a son of man. You're a man. Born of man. A human being. That's what the tit that's what the Aramaic phrase means. But Jesus is not saying here that a man is Lord of the Sabbath. No, God is Lord of the Sabbath. God created the Sabbath day, therefore, he's the Lord of it. Therefore, to follow right his argument, the Son of Man then must be God. Now we know that as the great mystery of the gospel. That's something with our eyes opened that we confess, we make that confession of faith that Jesus Christ is Son of God. Fully divine. He calls himself son of man because he's more than man. He's son of God. He's driving home to the people this truth that God has become man to redeem us. The Son of Man, though, is taken by our Lord from Daniel chapter seven, verse thirteen. Which says, I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the ancient of days, and was presented before him And to him was given dominion and glory in the kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. That son of man you see there, riding on the clowns, is a divine figure. It's teaching us, right, in that way in which things were hidden in the Old Testament, which we see clearly now in the New. That this one, like a son of man, is a divine being, for God is the one who rides on the clouds. Teaches us there, though, that this is a vindicated son of man. Who is the King of the universe, right? At Jesus' crucifixion, or at his trial, or his crucifixion, he told the tribunal that they would see the Son of Man come into his power. They had no idea that they were fulfilling Scripture, that this Son of Man, that God would be crucified, raised, vindicated, and enter into his Power. But that's what Jesus is getting. That's the identity who the Son of Man is. Now, knowing that the Son of Man is God come in the flesh helps us to know how to keep the Sabbath day holy. And why is that? For since the God man is Lord of the Sabbath, we can go to God's word for how to keep it holy. Do you understand why it's important to see who the Lord is? The Lord's not a man. It's not man's will which governs this day, but it is God's will. God has come in the flesh. Therefore, we can go to God's word And find God's will for how to keep this day. And that's why I had us read from Isaiah 58, verse 13 and 14. In Isaiah 58, 13 and 14, God is speaking to his people and telling them how they should keep this day, that they should turn back your foot from the Sabbath. That is, they're trampling it under their feet. They're not keeping it as a holy day and something honorable. And so he tells them to keep it holy. Stop doing your business in it and honor it. So, if we're going to understand the Lord's will for the Sabbath day, we're going to look briefly here at Isaiah 58, 13, and 14. And the first thing that we see is that it is not a day for your business. Or for your pleasures. God has given you six days. You know, when you read the commentators on the Ten Commandments, that's one of the things they all point out. God just takes one day. He gives you six. He gives you six whole days. Now, none of us are free from God on those other days. It's not as if we don't have a Lord we serve on those days. But he gives you six days for your work, six days for your leisure, six days to do your business, six days to do your pleasure, and he requires one. The first thing is to keep this day holy and to do the Lord's will in it is to keep your business out of it It is not a free day to do whatever you like in it. It is God's holy day. What that means, right? Holy versus common is an Old Testament distinction. It's holy. It's not common. We think about other six days of your week. Those are your common days. Much of them are alike, but this is to be a different day. That means the common affairs of life are to be replaced with the holy worship and the restful remembrance of God. That's the activities that is to replace the other activities of your life on the other six days. Now we saw in this context already that some of those activities must come in We have human needs. We must put food in our bellies. Some people have jobs. The world must keep going around. Criminals must still be prosecuted. The streets must be defended. We have our hospitals, a certain, so some of that finds it in, and where it finds it in, God desires mercy and not sacrifice, but where it is unnecessary. It is not to find its way into this day. The second thing you see there is it says in verse end of verse 13. Or talking idly. Idly means without any purpose to your speech. Talking. For no reason. Just talking Your speech on this day above others is to be full of purpose, because your focus on this day above others is to be holy on the Lord. When you speak to others, they should be purposeful words of grace on this day. To keep this day holy means to keep idle speech. out of it. Now, I know you're probably thinking, this sounds impossible. It may be that some of you are thinking, this feels like wearing a straight jacket. Who can bear this? Reminds you of first John five. Are the apostles speaking to God's people, who have been born again by God's Spirit? His commandments, he's speaking to the children of God, God's children. His commandments are not burdensome What does he mean? In the flesh, who can keep any commandment? It is impossible. But are we in the flesh? Are we still in the flesh? For God has sent His Son, Romans 8. 4, to condemn sin in the flesh. By becoming in the likeness of sinful flesh to offer himself a sacrifice for sin, that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in those who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit Your strength as a Christian is not in yourself, but in the Lord. If this feels impossible for you, stop leaning on yourself. But ask the Lord's help. We've all asked the Lord's help in the other nine commandments, haven't we? Have you ever asked the Lord's help on this commandment? Have you ever honestly brought before the Lord? Your Heavenly Father, your conduct on this day, and asked Him to examine your heart and help you, like you asked Him to help you not to lie and steal and backbite and slander. All that to keep this day holy. There's just as much grace for keeping this day holy as there is for keeping our whole lives holy every day. Jesus Christ lives ministering in heaven to give us grace in time of need. Final thing we see about keeping And following the Lord's will in this day, we must keep our business out of it. Must not fill it with idle speech. But we must call it a delightful day An honorable day. If you honor it, not going your ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly, then you shall take delight in the Lord. Where to say to this day, rather than being a burdensome day, is a delightful day. Rather than being the day I look least forward to, it is the most honorable day in my whole week. That's what that means. It means not Friday, not Saturday, or at one time in my life, 30-cent wing night on Tuesdays is the best and honorable highlight of my week. But the Lord means the Sabbath day. To be the honorable day, the crown jewel of our week. And why is it the best day? It's simply the best day, because this is the day that Christ rose from the dead. It's the reason why, as I've been studying the Lord's Day these last few weeks, why I've opened every service with a psalm about the resurrection. Because I realize I need to put that front and center of our worship on this day. To remember as we gather here, it's because Christ has risen that we have even anything to remotely be happy about. And to rejoice in. The burden, I'd be honest, brothers and sisters, I'm finding and wanting to get across to you And how to do it is how to just show the goodness of this day. Here's a day in which God promises to give more of Himself to you than any other day. Have you ever asked yourself why Christian church keeps the Sabbath on the first day of the week and not the seventh? Do you know why we keep the Sabbath on this day of the week and not the Sabbath like the Jews? It has everything to do with this text. Because the Son of Man is Lord. Of the Sabbath. He gets divine right to choose on what day it's going to be. And mean he finished his work of redemption. He made the first day of the week. The new Sabbath for the Christian Church. That's why you see in Acts twenty. That's why you see in First Corinthians sixteen The church met on the first day of the week to take communion, where not only on the Lord's day is his resurrection remembered, but his death is remembered, and the benefits which come to us from it. The church gathered to take communion on this day, gathered to hear preaching on this day, gathered to give alms on this day, to care for their poor. Out of the mercy of Christ that they have received. John in Revelation 1:10 calls this the Lord's Day. This means for us, very simply, as I've come to see in studying this. If Jesus isn't God, isn't the Messiah, and isn't raised, then we should just keep the old Jewish Sabbath, right? And wait in their vain hope for the Messiah to come. But we keep this day because it forms part of our confession that Jesus is God. Jesus is raised from the dead. And therefore so shall we. And he gives us as a day to have a festive day with him. To drive home the final point on how to keep this day, if I could give you some sort of advice without getting into cosmistry of what is exactly necessary say what is exactly merciful. Should we all look the same and sit on our couches and twiddle our thumbs and be bored? I'm sorry, that's just the caricature of this day. It's to remind you that's nothing what this day is about. It's a day given to you by God, given to you by your Lord, that you might rest in Him. That you might draw near to him, that you might come have a meal with him, that you might have a whole day when then you can do it to be with him. That is what this day is all about. So the thing you then ought to ask yourself when you're deciding on what to do in this day, is what I'm doing consonant with the truth that it's a festive day? A day with celebrating the Lord's resurrection and eating a milton, right? Just like on Christmas Day or other holidays, right? There's activities they don't bring into it. Because it doesn't fit that kind of day. That's the whole purpose. That should be the guiding thing in your mind is this is a festive holy day. Is what I'm bringing into it keeping with that truth? Am I bringing in things that change what this day is? This is as a Christian, this is as the people of God, under the gospel. This is our holy day. This is our festive day. This is the day that we are to be joyful in the Lord. It's interesting to me as I was reading about in the Catholic Church's Catechism. They don't even fast on this day during Lent. They understand the festive nature of this day. Jesus just said earlier in the gospel, my people can't fast when they're with me. You can't fast on this day when you meet with the Lord. They should be full of joy of meeting with the Lord. Your prayer when you wake up in the morning should be, Oh Lord, meet with us. Be with us on this day. And let us have it with you. Let me go on to the final point, because there is more worship to be done today. The final thing that you see in this passage is that Jesus is wrapping up his defense with this assertion, right? So Jesus is saying in conclusion. Nobody can say what is lawful on this day but I. That's his assertion. That's the grounds on which he finally defends his disciples I'm the Lord of this day, and nobody gets to decide what is lawful but I. There is still a Sabbath day left for Christians to observe By the divine right of Jesus Christ, who is the Lord of the Sabbath. That means for us that we must cease, you must cease from doing your business on this day You must call this day a delight. You must honor it. You must rest in remembering the Lord who did the work you could never do. And creating yourself. Rest in the one who created you this day. How much rest comes to our souls because we try to be gods To remember, we're not God. And we have a God who loves us. And He's our Redeemer, who did that other work that we could never do. He redeemed us. Here you have a God who's done for us what we could never do, created us, and redeemed us. Make this day festive, that you might make it holy. And to help you to do so, the session has called for two worship services to be held on this day. Make use of them for your good. And may the God of grace so work in all of our hearts to keep this day holy. Amen. Let us pray. O Lord, our Heavenly Father, we thank you for creating us men in your image. calling us to work six days and to find rest on the seventh from our labors, rest in remembrance of you. We thank you for your promise to be with us and to meet with us in this day. Heavenly Father, we confess before you in the ways that we have not kept this day holy, have forgotten it, and have not honored it or called it a delight. Have spoken idly in it, have broaden our own business. Please wash us free from these sins and forgive us. And by your spirit of grace, help us as a people to keep this day holy in remembrance of you, our Maker And in you, our Redeemer. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.