Please turn with me in your Bible to the letter of 1 John. We'll read from 1 John 5, verses 13 through 17. 1 John chapter 5, beginning at verse 13. Hear the word of the Lord. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God. That you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have toward Him. That if we ask anything, according to His will, He hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him. If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask And God will give him life to those who commit sins that do not lead to death There is sin that leads to death. I do not say that one should pray for that. All wrongdoing is sin. But there is sin that does not lead to death. And turn with me to the Gospel of Mark. Chapter 3, and we'll start at verse 20 and read through the end of the chapter. And as you're turning there, I'll just Speak to you for a moment about what we read in the prophet Isaiah. He is recounting the Lord's mercies to his people and Coming and saving them for his great name's sake, bearing patiently and graciously with them. But we are aware of the history of God's people, but in his gracious presence And his saving deeds and power, yet they rebelled. And they made an enemy of God. And that is where we've come to in the gospel this morning. That God in Jesus Christ, the saving God, has been amongst this people for a year or more, and they have made an enemy out of him. So Mark chapter 3, beginning at verse 20. We'll read to the end of the chapter. Hear the word of the Lord. Then he went home, and the crowd gathered again, so that they could not even eat. And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him, for they were saying, he is out of his mind. And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, He is possessed by Beelzebul and by the Prince of demons. He cast out the demons. And he called them to him and said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. And if Satan has not risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end. But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man. Then indeed he may plunder his house. Truly I say to you, all sins Will be forgiven the children of man in whatever blasphemies they utter. But whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty. Of an eternal sin. For they were saying, He has an unclean spirit. And his mother and his brothers came, and standing outside they sent to him and called him, and the crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, Your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. And he answered them, Who are my mother and my brothers? And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, Hear are my mother and my brothers. For whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother, the word of the Lord. Let's seek the Lord together and ask his blessing. Let us pray. Lord, we do give you thanks for your word and to have it opened up again before us. And for your promise to speak to us through it. Give us then, O Lord, those ears to hear, to receive what is in the Word, and to have it applied to our hearts. Help your servant to proclaim faithfully what you have written down, and cause your people to hear it, to understand it, to be built up by it. And to bring forth that glorious fruit in their lives to the praise of your name. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen. Beloved in the Lord. Let me remind you real quick what we saw last week, and that was Jesus reconstituting Israel. by appointing the twelve apostles, because old Israel has shown themselves to be a people without faith and without love. But there again, as we saw, that didn't mean that God's plans were frustrated, right? Because there's that amazing verse in Psalm 118, that rejected cornerstone That would become the temple of God and the people of God. So that's what we saw last week in the Gospel. And what we see this morning is, well, something we still see today, right? Opposition to the gospel. Opposition to the kingdom of God that has come amongst us. First by the presence of the Messiah personally on earth, now by the Spirit of the Messiah, whom He has sent down upon this church. And is in this world. Opposition to the gospel. Mark, in these two stories, as you can see, he begins talking about Jesus' family. Interlude talks about his dealing with these scribes in their opposition and picks back up with his family. Why does he weave these stories together Mark weaves these stories together to show us two faithless responses to Jesus. Two faithless responses to Jesus. Now they're different as far as their source. They're both owing without faith, but one of them is more or less owing to ignorance. And the other one, excuse you, it's a culpable ignorance. But the other opposition on the other end of the spectrum we see is done out of malice. And hatred for the gospel and for Jesus. And what Mark is teaching us then, and here is the theme of this morning's message, is the necessity Of faith in Christ as the one sent by God, and the inevitable opposition to the gospel by a lack of it. Let me say it again. The necessity of a personal faith in Christ. As the one sent by God, and the inevitable opposition to the gospel by a lack of it. And that's what we're going to see this morning in the gospel This opposition that comes to Jesus because there is no faith. So we'll start with verses 20 and 21. We'll skip then down to verses 31 through 35. Mark sweeped them together, but this morning we'll separate them and look at them individually. So we'll look first at the opposition that comes to Jesus from his family. Right? What they're saying, as we see there in verse 21, is he is out of his mind. So what we see in verses 20 through 21, 31 through 35 is this. Jesus challenging his family to join his new family by reconsidering their relationship to him. So Jesus in these verses, which we're going to look at, Is challenging his family to join his new family by reconsidering their relationship to him. And why is he doing this? Because it's a matter of salvation. And because they are opposing his work, they are hindering the gospel. So he speaks to them about their lack of faith. But one thing we'll see here is he does it in two different ways. We'll get opposition to the gospel, but it doesn't always call forth the same response Because not all opposition is necessarily driven by malice and hatred, but can just be by ignorance. We all know these are hard things to take in. Again, I'll remind us, we grieve the air. Of the God man Jesus Christ. Well, brothers and sisters, if we were living in that day and you watched Jesus grow up from birth, and he was your cousin and he went to your family get-togethers. And then all of a sudden one day he is casting out every demon in Galilee, he is making sicknesses go away by the word of his mouth, he is gathering multitudes of people around him like he's some great man and following You'd start scratching your head going, who did I have birthday cake with? And that's what's happening here in this first example, this opposition. So we read there that he went home. He went back to Capernaum. He was on a mountain. They go back to Capernaum. Crowds began to gather, so they could not even eat. That doesn't mean that Jesus never ate food. What that means is He was so busy with the work of the kingdom that he didn't take time for regular meals. People were coming and going, and as the servant of God, he gave to them But that was upsetting their family. They wanted some family time with them, or they just thought he's out of his mind. The irregularity of the call of the gospel and the ministry is driving them mad to see He's not living a normal Galilean life. Why can't he just have a nine to five? Why can't he just sit down and have this meal? Why is he going to go out and heal these people, teach these people, be with these people And so they think he's out of his mind. And so they they divide, they're going to go to him and skeze him, and basically what they're going to do is they want to bring him home, lock him away, and try to talk sense into it. You've got to knock this off. Look how many people you're upsetting. Or look at the kind of people you're upsetting. You're not upsetting the little people, you're upsetting the big people, the powerful people. It's obvious at this point there's opposition to Jesus, and the scribes and Pharisees have it out for him. Again, they're seeing him right with earthly eyes, you might say, not understanding his divine mission. So that's verses 21 and 22. We get down to verse 31 then. His mother and brother arrive. Notice that they're standing outside, and they call to him. And the crowd gets word of this and says, your mother and brother are outside seeking you. And Jesus asks them that penetrating question, who? are my mothers and my brothers. And then he looks at the people around him and says, here are my mothers and my My brothers, and everybody who does the will of God is my family, mothers and brothers and sisters. Now why does he in a society right is Jesus teaching us family is not important? Not at all. But he's teaching us that our natural relations to him. By God's grace, right, many of you are born in the church. By a mere accident, no planning on your part, you grow up and know of Jesus. You hear of Jesus, you learn of Jesus. But it's not enough to just grow up in the household of faith without a faith of your own. What this passage is teaching us is the necessity of the new birth. We're dealing here with the adoption of sons of God by faith in Jesus Christ. He's challenging his family to commit themselves to him with the knowledge of who he is, not of who he is as he's been brought up with the last thirty years. But of who he's claiming to be as the one sent by God, as the Messiah, and to commit themselves to him personally. That's what Jesus means by asking a question: Who is my family? Who are my brothers and my sisters? Is all that I have merely this family? And why should this family Come and drag me away from my work. You see the opposition that arises by lack of faith? Jesus is saying, but what about this family? What about my obligations to these whom God sent me to call and to make my family by preaching and revealing to them I'm the Messiah Calling them to faith in me, teaching them God's ways and God's wills as his beloved children, who one day I will soon go to the cross. And die for? What about my obligations to them? And you're going to come and pull me away from them and hinder the work of God's kingdom? Because you think I'm crazy? So is there opposition done out of malice? No. But the point is, if you don't see who Jesus Christ is Understand his mission and why he's on earth. Likewise, if you don't understand why the church is here today in continuing that mission, Not to have a mere earthly existence and a mere natural life lived here. You'll be challenged then by the call of the gospel and the obligations that we have to Christ first in our lives. Christ Church, first in our lives, and service to Him. So there's a number of things this is teaching us. I've already mentioned one. This is teaching us personal faith and commitment to Jesus is needed. Not a mere accidental relationship by birth. There must be a new birth Now we make room, rightly so, in reformed churches, and it doesn't have to just be reformed churches, for age-appropriate faith Just because you haven't come forward and made a profession of faith, just because you haven't been examined by the session of the church, doesn't mean you don't have a saving faith. It means you haven't been examined and made a public profession of that faith to come to the table. But we should be teaching our children right from day one. Who is Jesus? Telling them who Jesus is and calling them to put their trust in Him, commit themselves personally to Him. Because the risk is, and this is one of the applications I wish to make, we must all beware of silencing or squelching the Holy Spirit That's what they're doing. They are hindering and silencing and trying to stop the work of the Spirit going on here by pulling but at this point, right, Jesus is the only one with the Spirit. That's important in the gospel. He's the only one with the Spirit. It's not until He's glorified that He pours out the Spirit and we have the Spirit At this point, he's the only one through whom the Spirit's working, and they would squelch that work because they don't have faith, because his life is irregular. So if we grow up in the church at some point We're going to be looking around and going, why does this person seem to be so zealous for the work of the kingdom? So zealous to serve Christ in his life? And I can just want to have a regular old time. And I can't understand the commitment and obligations that it is to be a Christian. And you s hinder and squelch the work of the Spirit. Because I want to do more study on this, but the Spirit is irregular. He does not work how we expect him to work. He's not going to just conform to our ways and do what we want him to do and appear. And we have to be committed to Christ and ready to follow the Holy Spirit. This is also teaching us the necessity of putting and keeping the kingdom of God first in our lives. Notice here, though, this glorious truth. There's no coming to Christ. There's no personal allegiance to Christ that at the same time doesn't bring you into the family of Christ. We might put in our our way today, right? There's no idea of believing in Jesus, professing faith, and not having church membership, belonging to a body of Christ. Jesus puts both of them together. Who is my family? These people right here, gathered at my feet, sitting under my grace, listening to my word, doing what I'm teaching them to do. And why is that so important? We we don't yet, I don't know if America ever did, to some extent. But it's it's it's more evident in Muslim cultures, Hindu cultures, things like that. It is very costly to come to Jesus. And many times you do have to leave your family to do it. So if there's not a family to welcome them, how sad. And likewise, I've heard maybe Rosara Butterfield talk about this. If God is going to pour out his grace and mercy again today, He's going to do it in people that are steeped in so much sin and have no concept of what a family is So much sexual sin, so much confusion, no idea what a mother and a father is, no idea what a husband and a wife is in their roles. Where are they going to learn that at? Where are they going to be accepted at Because their family and those sinful communities, they have to leave it. You have to leave the community of sin. Well, Satan, he likes to pretend that he's nice, and he likes to give you comfort there and think you have friends. There must be a family ready to receive everybody who believes in Jesus Christ. Christ. That's one of my and this is just a reminder, and I'm not saying we don't know that. I'm not saying we don't practice that at all, but a reminder here what it means to have faith in Christ and the implications of that, to belong to God's family. But we must treat one another as family, right? As God's family. That's who we are as the Church of Jesus Christ. How wonderful when that does overlap with blood. That is a great thing to praise and give thanks to God when our children grow up and believe. And the third thing then would say to you about this is to remind you that Who you are, right? By your faith in Christ, you are a member of God's family. Reminds you that, let me then remind you of some of the things it says about that in Scripture. How you're loved by God The Father who gave his son for you, you are cared for him by his chastisement. You are a God who he has um you have his ears You can cast all your cares upon him. He is a God who's promised to be your comforting God and encouraging God, as well as by faith in Christ you have access to him. And what's the point that again? This is a challenging word from Jesus to these people. It's a challenging word to his family. It's a challenging word to sit there, but it comes with great encouragement. But no matter what you do have to give up to follow Jesus in this life, you're one of God's children if you do. And that comes with every blessing that there is. There's really no greater blessing in the Bible than to be one of God's children. You're an heir of all the promises. You're justified, you're sanctified, you're redeemed, you're all those things. Encourage and remind you who you are as Christians, as God's children. That's the first, this is the first faithless response, then He's mad. That's the first kind of opposition that comes to it. A squelching of the spirit. A pulling Jesus, you might say, away from his work. So you can go, hey, you need to calm down your zeal, your work. Get back in line with what is normal. All these things are going to happen. They will inevitably happen without a personal commitment to Christ. So that also means, as I said, We must continue to encourage our children to believe personally in the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, let's look at the second opposition. That starts in verse 22. The second opposition, what they're saying is that Jesus is bad. Family says he's mad, and the Pharisees say, or the Sadducees say, he's bad. Now, we saw how Jesus responds to the first kinds of opposition. Ask them a question, cause them to think about their relationship to him. We consider who he is, we consider his mission and why he's come, and by that calling them to personal faith. Well here, how does Jesus deal with this opposition Well, we see there, he begins to speak to them parables in verse 23. He called to them and said to them, in parables. Here what Jesus is doing in these verses is he's indicating to his enemies the danger that they are in and warning all those around. And even, as we'll see next week, by beginning to speak to them in parables, already pronouncing judgment upon them. And the rebellion against him. So Jesus is indicating to his enemies, these scribes, the danger that they're in, and warns everybody around. He's indicating the gravity of this sin. And warning those around it again, because it's a matter of salvation. If you oppose Jesus to this level, you will put yourself out of the realm of forgiveness and out of redemption. That's the significance of this. So let's look here at these verses 22 through verse 30. The scribes, who are they? Trained theologians, ordained men coming down from Jerusalem. We're in Galilee, they're coming down in Jerusalem. Why are they coming down to Jerusalem? Matthew helpfully gives us a helpful thing here. Jesus just healed a demon-possessed man who was mute and deaf, and the people are going, Is this the son of David? Meaning, is this the Messiah? They're coming to squelch. The public's opinion that Jesus could be the Messiah. They don't want the people to confess and believe that Jesus is the Messiah. So what do they do? They concoct this absurd statement. He is possessed by Beel Zebul and by the Prince of Demons. He cast out demons. What that boils down to is they're teaching the people, Jesus is nothing more than a magician, and he is seducing you. And there were laws in the Sanhedrin. Of course, you had to prove it and see to the state. This is another way. They can prove he's a magician and seducing the people, guess what they can do? Kill him. And get rid of him. So these scribes come down from Jerusalem to tell the people in Galilee, he's a magician. He's seducing you. I haven't read it, but I was looking at commentaries this week. The Talmud, which is Jewish writings, still exist today and people read them. But the Talmud, even several centuries after this incident, still taught Jesus was a magician who seduced the people. What you're reading here in the gospel was perpetuated for centuries amongst the Jewish people still who didn't want to believe in Jesus. They would rather believe he is a magician seducing the people. And it's a pretty nasty statement they're making of Jesus. Biel Zebul. Beelzebul means well, Bill Zebul is a pun. A malicious pun by Jewish satirist on the name Beelzebub. Because Beelzebub was one of the gods of Ekron of the Philistines, 2 Kings chapter 1. It means a fly god. Well, they changed that last little syllable to Bilzab from Bub to Bilzebul to mean the dung God, saying Jesus is nothing more than a man possessed by the most unclean spirit there could be. Saying that we read our one of the ESV translates it by the Prince of Demons. Another way is in the Prince of Demons ideal is in a union relationship in league with Satan. Jesus is doing this work. So they pick a nasty cultural malicious pun and apply it to Jesus. I didn't think of a good illustration for that, but it you might say it's something today like, because we know how much filth is attached to the name of calling somebody Hitler or something like that. And everything that's associated with that kind of name and filth and disgust and vulgar and whatnot, and the rye emotions, they're ascribing that to Jesus, right? Because what's their whole intent? They want to turn the people away from him, but not only that, they themselves don't want to believe that Jesus Christ has come from God. What you're seeing here today is the extent to which some people will go to deny the gospel. Because of the extent that some people will go to deny the gospel of Jesus Christ and God's saving grace. Well, Jesus calls them and then says to them in parables. The first part of his response to them is The absurdity of their statement. How can Satan cast out Satan? These weren't ignorant men. That's a thing too. It's another highlight of the sin here. Because we're not ignorant now. Many of them are priests. They're scribes by profession, they're priests by their occupation by birth, and often many of them are also by by their religious sect or Pharisees. You could be one of them, you could be all three in one You'd be a priest by birth, a Pharisee by the sect you're a part of, and a scribe by your profession. They were probably all three of them. These were not ignorant men of the law of God, of the word of God. They knew Satan as the adversary against man They knew the first gospel message in Genesis 3. 15. Now they are willing to go against their own convictions. And state that here's what's happening. Satan is self-destructing his own kingdom. Satan's just letting go of his power. Of course, we've seen in the gospel. It's not what Satan does. Satan's the greatest madman that will do we read today of madmen, right? Who won't let go of power and are power hungry. There's no greater madman than Satan. He told the Son of God to worship him. He's not going to let go of his kingdom. And here these scribes come down and say, he's doing just that. The power and hold that He's gotten over these men, possessing and holding on them so he can work all kinds of sinful works through them in spite of God and fill the world with hatred, he's undoing that. That's what they would tell the people. And Jesus points out the absurdity of their statement. Teaching them through parables, reminds you, what is a parable? Parable is an uh An analogy taken from everyday life to illustrate teaching? It's like, consider a kingdom that's divided against itself. It can't stand. Consider a house divided against itself. An internacene internal strife tears it down and is done. And he's saying, so basically, you scribes, how you're explaining what's happening before you is that Satan is bringing to an end his own kingdom That's what you're going to say before these mighty works. This is the work of an unclean spirit. I want you to see clearly the position that they're willing to take against Jesus and their opposition. But verse 27, Jesus here for the first time in the gospel gives us the truth of what this means. No one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strongman. Then indeed he may plunder his house. Imagine this, right? What's Jesus saying? There's somebody here stronger than Satan who's plundering his house. Now who do you think that is as they're talking to? They're talking to God in the flesh, face to face. Because Satan, right? Jesus teaches us the truth of it. Satan does have Satan is spoken of as the God of this world. He has no right over it God hasn't given him this world as if it's his by right. The people that he's possessed aren't his by right. He's a strongman, he's a thief who stole them and filled his house with them. And the gospel is that God has come back to restore us to our rightful place, His house, to be vessels of honor. They would tell men, so they can't be saved, that Jesus isn't the Savior. And that God isn't in him saving man, and would give them no hope and leave them under Satan's power. So Jesus is teaching them, indeed, as we saw in Psalm 63. Jesus has been in his public ministry now for almost two years. Full of mercies and loving kindness for this people, like God, patiently dealing with them, redeeming their sons and daughters and men out of bondage of Satan, delivering them from that. And they are here making an enemy out of God. That's the position they have brought themselves in in their opposition. And clear manifestation. If you go back to Mark 2. 12, when Jesus healed the man, the paralytic man, we read that all the people were amazed and glorified God. Everybody knew that the mighty works that Jesus was doing was God's work. Which means that he was sent by God. Which means if he was sent by God, you need to listen to him. And that's the last thing they want to do. And so to oppose God's gospel, speaking to them as God speaks to every one of us here today, as God speaks to everybody whom His gospel comes to As God has demonstrated the power of that gospel in raising his son from the dead. Here you see the opposition they make to say that is not the work of God. That is the work of Satan. I've never met anybody who's said that. I hope never to meet somebody though violently opposed to God and hatred of his gospel. To own the work of Christ as the work of the devil. That's the sin of blasphemy against the Holy Spirit So as soon as Jesus teaches them, he begins to apply it. He says, All sins will be given of the children of man and whatever blasphemes they utter. And I don't want to move. I don't want to miss that point. To then jump to blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. Because he's showing them how God, how great God's grace is. Because think about it, right? Why aren't these men wanting to. . They've already blasphemed against Jesus, or at least they've already spoken wrongly when they said he blasphemes, giving forgiveness, right? Now they haven't blasphemed the Holy Spirit yet, but they falsely accused a man, that's sin. In pride and arrogance, they don't want to listen to God, that's sin. Jesus knows all their sinful ways of putting the traditions of man first. They don't even know to to love and do good on the Sabbath. That's sin. What's he saying? All that will be forgiven then. You could have been forgiven. All of that. But you've crossed the line And there's no place of repentance left for you. You've put yourself out of forgiveness by obstinately refusing the clear truth. It can't get clearer. When you see God cast a demon out, but it's the power of God. Not when you see it once, you see it hundreds of thousands of times. When you see people come home whole, when you see people raised from the dead, and if you are willing to say against that clear light, against your own convictions, again, these men did not really believe Satan was destroying his own kingdom They're not that ignorant. They know him as the adversary of God, but they are willing in their refusal to believe in Jesus Christ to call light darkness Let me read to you just a few quotes, because I know people get worried about have I committed this sin and what is it? And just so we're clear. So here's a few quotes from some very prominent Christian men. One of them says, here's what the sin against the Holy Spirit is, or blasphemy, a stubborn resistance to Jesus, which eventually expresses itself in treating him as the ultimate evil in our lives. A stubborn resistance to Jesus, which eventually expresses itself in treating him as the ultimate evil in our lives. Here's another one. The persistent equation of Christ's power with the demonic by those who refuse to believe in him. And finally, here's one a little bit fuller. It's the obstinate rejection of the truth and willful apostasy from God in opposition to one's own convictions. And with malignant hatred of the gospel, the expression of which is blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. But we're talking here about men with malice in their heart. Against their own convictions, saying that the work of Christ is nothing but the devil's work. Because Jesus is making clear to us, let's not miss this, that the gospel aims at the destruction of evil. Christ came to destroy the works of the devil, and if you are to make Jesus an agent of evil, that is to blaspheme the Holy Spirit, by whom he is manifesting and doing this power and destroying Satan's kingdom. Let me assure you though that if you have concern about Christ's forgiveness, you're wondering, did I commit this? If you are in any way at all concerned. About the forgiveness of your sins and that coming through Jesus Christ as the one God has given to forgive sins on earth. That is evidence that you believe Christ is sent from God and therefore you cannot have committed this sin, right? It's people who will not admit. That Jesus Christ was sent by God, is the Messiah, therefore they must submit to him and believe him. It's people that refuse the gospel. But also let me say this in a word of warning. Because the person today who's concerned about offending the Lord may be the person tomorrow who grows hard in his heart and doesn't To stay close to Christ. Staying close to Christ is the only remedy against not committing this sin. And keeping our consciences tender against sin. And finally, I think, well, I'll make two more, but one of them is this should all really teach us to loathe and hate sin. I hope as we look at this gospel this morning and we see to the extent to which people will defy God to his face, refuse his saving grace. Although he's shown time and time and time again his willingness to forgive them, the fullness of his pardon, preaching his gospel to them, sending his son For the message of salvation, I hope it makes us hate and loathe what sin is. But also we can make an application to it from the letter of John that we read. Clearly this was a sin that was known in the Apostolic Church, a sin unto death. They referred to it there in John's Gospel as apostasy. Paul writing in Hebrews refers to it also as apostasy. That's what these men are doing. They're apostasying from God to his face. In John's church, right, we read of the people who went out from that community. They went out against the clear testimony of the truth that Jesus is both God and both man, and they refused to believe that. And so they went out, not going, We're not the church, but going, You're no longer the church. Same thing these Sadducees are saying. We're the people of God. We have the truth. And yet God is clearly in his church. It's clear who Jesus Christ is, and they're opposing that and apostatize that. That's the sin unto death that John's talking about. He's saying, I don't say you pray for. But think about the encouraging word he's saying though to believers. If you see a fellow believer Sinning or in sin. You catch wind that somebody here is in sin, and he's not denying Christ, denying the gospel. Pray for them. And God will give them life. Of course, He doesn't grant us forgiveness of sins apart from repentance. Jesus isn't teaching here that we're all forgiven, and therefore God just condones our sin But he's promising, you have a promise that for believers, those who believe in Jesus Christ, who get stuck in sin and sin, pray for them, and God will grant them life Because there's not, if you deny Jesus Christ, willfully neglect him or reject him, you put yourself out of the realm of salvation because there's no forgiveness apart from Christ. If you deny who he is, how can you be saved? But if you believe in Jesus Christ, trust in Jesus Christ, even if you do fall in sin Brothers and sisters, and again, this is teaching us the importance. It's clear in James, it's clear in the apostles, it's a part of the vital church life to commit, to confess sins to each other. Pride, spouses, pastors, elders, Christian brothers and sisters, do not harbor sin in your heart But believe God's word of promise to grant life to all believers that do sin. Well, Mark has shown us in the gospel that there is one right response to Jesus: Wife. He's not mad. He's not bad, though some say there's one right response to Jesus. Faith that he has been sent by God, is the Messiah. And a personal allegiance to him. And Mark has shown us then that this personal allegiance to him leads to a loving, spiritual service of God in Christ, because it's not the hearers of the word. But the doers of the word who are Christ's family. So be sure that that is your faith, and may God give us his grace to keep us in it. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for sending to us Jesus Christ to destroy the works of the devil. We thank you for his patient, continual call in our lives. Calling us to believe in Him, to put our faith and our trust in Him. And for everybody here who has done that, Lord, thank you for your grace. Encourage them that you love them and they belong to Christ's family. Strengthen them Help us, O Lord, to hate sin, to loathe it, to not harbor it, to confess it, and give us your grace by your Holy Spirit to continue with irregular lines of loving Jesus Christ, of not quenching the Holy Spirit, but of serving But of serving you by him, of serving Christ by Him, in Jesus' name we pray, Amen