Turn in your Bibles to Mark's Gospel, second chapter. We'll continue our study of Mark's Gospel. We'll read chapter 2, verse 23, through verse 6 and chapter 3. I will tell you ahead of time. I will not make it that far this week. In fact, I'm only going to get through verse 27, but we'll go ahead and and read uh through Mark 3, verse 6 Before we do that, let me just comment quickly to you on our reading from the Old Testament. We read that story because Jesus references it today in the Gospel. And I'm not going to comment more on it besides the use that our Lord makes of it. But just so we're clear on what's going on there, David is fleeing from Saul. He can't go up to Anatoth because the can't be guaranteed security there where the prophets are at, so he goes to Nob where the temple of God is and the high priest and seek God's will to inquire, have the high priest inquire for him. High priest is a little dismayed because David is the king's son. And as you know, politicians don't go anywhere by themselves, do they? The president doesn't show up somewhere by himself. David doesn't just show up somewhere by himself. And the priest, that's why he's wondering what is happening. And David assures him, I'm on a top secret mission. Of course he's not on a top secret mission, but I saw I swing for his life. I'm on a top secret mission and my men are at a rendezvous point. I'm gonna meet with them later. It's all taken care of. Give me provision. And the only stipulation he puts on is Well, have they kept themselves from women, right? And David assures him, yes, because God told him in Deuteronomy there was purity laws when they were out on expedition conducting their warfare, and David says, I always follow those. How much more today if I'm on a top secret expedition are my men holy? And so the priest gives them the bread, David takes the bread. And he gives it to his men. And also, as you read there, that bread was changed. That's the bread of the presence, the presence being an Hebrew face, God's face. Twelve loaves of bread were to be put before the Lord every Sabbath day. Baked fresh on the Sabbath and switched out. So also this story more than likely took place on the Sabbath day, which is important for um this morning's lesson as Jesus gives us teaching on the Sabbath day. Okay, so that is the story from 1 Samuel. Let us give our ears to God's word in the Gospel of Mark, beginning at verse 23 One Sabbath he was going through the grain fields, and as they made their way, his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. And the Pharisees were saying to him, Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath? And he said to them, Have you never read what David did? When he was in need and was hungry, he and those who were with him. How he entered the house of God In the time of Abiyathar the high priest, and ate the bread of the presence, which is not lawful for any but the priest to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. Again, he entered the synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand. And they watched Jesus to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man with the withered hen, Come here And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill? But they were silent And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man, stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his hand was restored. The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with Herodians against him How to destroy him. The word of the Lord. Let's seek the Lord's blessing this morning. Our Father in heaven, we bless you for the Lord Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, whom you sent to give us your pure word. and to rescue it out of the clutches of hard-hearted men. We thank you for your gospel And ask now that you would help both in the preaching of it and in the hearing of it, that you might cause it to bear fruit in our lives. That we might more and more be made new in Christ into your wonderful image. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Brethren. And I'll just comment real quick on the word brethren. As you notice, it's a word I have settled on referring to all of you because well society today wants to use inclusive language, right? Let's use the Bible's inclusive language. Did you know brethren includes men and women, boys and girls, all in one word? Because God took the woman out of the man, and from man and woman come everybody else. So brethren refers to everybody here this morning. Brethren in the Lord. The most important thing for you and I is to know the Lord, is to know God. And that is what today's lesson is all about. So, with that, come with me and let us look at our text. Look with me at verse 23. On the Sabbath he was going through the grain fields, and as they made their way, his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. Here you see Jesus with his disciples. He's going from one village to the next on the Sabbath day He was going, says the text. Why was he going? He was going to preach the gospel, as he often did on the Sabbath. To get from one village to the next, one synagogue to the next, he had to go. And on this occasion, he had to go. through the grain fields. And as he did, his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. Here, then, is the context for the ensuing dispute between Jesus and the Pharisees. Jesus' disciples plucking heads of grain while they follow him from one village to the next on the Sabbath day to bring a people sitting in darkness. The knowledge of God's salvation. That is the context. So look now with me at verse 24 to see what the Pharisees make of all this. And the Pharisees were saying to him, Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath? You can imagine the scene. Certain Pharisees come up to Jesus, they begin pointing at his disciples and raise their accusatory question. Why? Or for what reason are they doing or are they breaking the Sabbath? That's the dispute. The Pharisees judge that Jesus' disciples are breaking the Sabbath by tucking heads of grain. That's the dispute. The Pharisees judge that Jesus' disciples are breaking the Sabbath by plucking heads of grape. The dispute is not over whether there would anymore be a Sabbath. Jesus says, no word here about no longer keeping the Sabbath, observing it and keeping it holy. But the dispute is over what is lawful to do on it or not. Next week, when I get to verse 28, Lord's willing, I'll give a fuller proof for the continuance of the Christian Sabbath. in our gospel age. So next week when we get to verse 28, I'll give a fuller proof. But notice the dispute is not, there's no more Sabbath. The dispute is over what can we do on the Sabbath? That's a dispute. Now the dispute hangs upon the phrase on the Sabbath For God allowed the Israelites to pluck heads of grain from their neighbor's field. He says in Deuteronomy 23, 25, If you go into your neighbor's standing grain, you may pluck the ears with your hand. But you shall not put a sickle to your neighbor's standing grain. So their action, the disciples' action here is in accord with God's will. They are keeping God's will, plucking heads of grain. Well, what's the problem then? To put it simply, the Pharisees regarded plucking heads of grain as work. For the law of God given through Moses also says in Exodus 34, 21. Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest. In plowing time and in harvest you shall rest. Now, is plucking heads of grain really harvesting? No. But the Pharisees, or I should say, the traditions of the fathers passed down from them, that they kept alive, the oral tradition, right? You have the written tradition, which is just the law of Moses. And then you have the oral tradition, which is what their fathers added on top of the written law of God. The oral tradition thought that it came close enough to harvesting to warrant being made unlawful on the Sabbath day. And as I said before, The Pharisees put a hedge of man-made laws, these traditions, around God's law to keep from ever breaking God's law. That's how they thought they would not come close to breaking God's law. We'll just hedge it in with our oath And now you see that coming into conflict with Jesus. God's law and the traditions of men coming here in conflict. So that's the scene. The disciples of Jesus plucking heads of grain on the Sabbath, and that's the charge against Jesus. Why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath? So then. How is Jesus going to respond to this? How would you respond to such a charge? I tell you thus, that our Lord's response here has caused me this week to love our God even more. And to love him even more. And I hope that I can do justice to this passage and that it would cause the same to happen to you. That you would love the God that you meet here this morning. So how is Jesus going to respond? Well, like usual, Jesus responds not how you would expect him to. We have to expect them to say something like this. Well, plucking heads of grain isn't harvesting despite your traditions, and therefore what they're doing is lawful. And that would just get rid of it, right? That would just dismiss it. Your traditions, I don't care what they say, what they're doing isn't harvesting, it's lawful. But he doesn't do that. May doesn't he do that. And I'll tell you why I think he doesn't do that. Because in order to do Kashri right, I'll tell you what that word means in a minute. In order to do Kajastri right, you must have the right principle. Cosuistry is the solution of special problems of conscience, right? Should I or should I not do this? Have you ever had that question come up in your life? Okay, I know what God's law says. How does it apply here? That's what cosmistry is: the solution of special problems of conscience by application of general principles or theories. Cosmistry gets a bad rap because people will use it to dis to dismiss clear statements, but we all do it. We all have to take the law, the word of God, and apply it to our lives, determine Is it lawful what I'm doing? How do I solve this? Can I do this? Can I not do this? Okay, that's Jesus knows that to do that right, you have to have the right principle. And he knows that he and they are not operating on the same principle. Therefore, he crafts his response to direct them to the right principle. If he can get them there, then maybe they'll come to the right solution. And I find this all rather exciting. And we should all learn here from our Lord's example the importance of having right principles for our actions And also, as you'll see in a moment, to get our principles from God's Word. That's where Jesus goes to teach these men. God's Word. So then Jesus responds to the Pharisees' accusatory question in such a way as to highlight the principle overlooked by them. And to do this, he gives a twofold response. First, he gives this lesson from Scripture, followed by the overlooked Sabbath principle, which his lesson supports. So let us go on then together here and study his response. Look at me at verses 25 and 26. And he said to them, Have you never read what David did when he was in need and was hungry? He and those who were with him? Now we entered the house of God in the time of Abiathor, the high priest, and ate the bread of the presence. Which is not lawful for any but the priest to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him. What are we to make of the first part of Jesus' response here? Since God is forgiving, let us sin first and ask forgiveness later? Since God is forgiving, let us just break His commandments first, and then later we'll ask forgiveness? No Our Lord is presenting David here to us as a model. That is why he says, Have you never read what David did? Plus, nowhere in the Bible is it modeled for us to sin first and ask forgiveness later. That is sinful. But then how can David set aside God's law? Not just David, but Ahimelech. What is the answer? Do you know the answer? How are they able to do this? One word. God. The character of God. Who God is explains David's action. Let me say that one more time. The character of God explains David's action. That is why Jesus starts with a lesson from the Bible To bring into this dispute the character of God. And I want you to hear me on this point. I want you to hear this. The dispute isn't merely over interpreting the law, but the lawgiver. The dispute is not merely over interpreting the law, but the law giver. The sole reason why the Pharisees are getting hung up about these disciples of Jesus plucking heads of grain on the Sabbath day is that they do not know God like David did. If they did, they would not have condemned the guiltless. Those are Jesus' words on this occasion from Matthew's gospel. His full statement is this: if you had known what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless. Matthew 12, verse 6 seven. They did not know God like David did. David knew about God what God said about himself to the prophet Hosea, I desire mercy and not sacrifice. Hosea 6. 6. This knowledge of God is why David ate the bread and gave also to his companions. It is this truth about God that supports the principle that Jesus is going to give us in verse 27. And the Pharisees, he knows, needs to see this. Or if they don't, they'll go on condemning the guiltless. And you need to see this. And I needed to see this. That Hosea six six is telling us this That God Himself prefers human welfare, mercy That's the word hasad. Loving kindness, steadfast love, mercy, a kind regard for a person's happiness, right? Happiness isn't totally bad. Happiness is bad when it's disordered and it's put above the glory of God. But God has a vested interest in your happiness. Jesus begins his preaching in Matthew 5 with the Beatitudes. That word means happy are those who do these things. God Himself prefers human welfare, mercy, even to required observances, sacrifice. I'm going to say it one more time because I think We're not used to thinking of God like that. God Himself prefers human welfare Even to required observances. David knew that the divine lawgiver is a merciful God. He knew that in his need it would have been wrong to withhold bread from himself and his men simply because the only bread around was for priests. Neither he nor Ahimelech thought twice the death. How wonderful it is to know God and who he is. Especially in your times of need. And may we all pray earnestly for ourselves and for one another that we would know God and more. For surely it will help us not to condemn the guiltless. For look at how men who do not know God impose their laws. Without mercy. Why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath? No wonder Jesus says to them in Matthew 23:4, they tie up heavy burdens. Hard to bear and lay them on people's shoulders. And aren't we glad that he says to us In Matthew 11, 29 and 30, come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. And by the way Matthew puts these well-known words of Jesus right before this story in his gospel. Those are the last words in chapter 11. This story is the first story in chapter 12. And I think that's significant. The Pharisees put their commandments of men upon the people and enforced them without mercy. And that is not what God does to us. But I need to be clear: some laws of God never find an occasion when they might be left unobserved. For example, adultery, bearing false witness. Never is it justifiable to break these. But others, like the Sabbath, ought to be when there is need to. What Jesus is teaching here is what we've come to call works of necessity. Works of necessity done on the Sabbath day That is, on the Sabbath, the day of your religious rest, it may be broken by these works of necessity You may break your religious rest on this day if there is a need to do it. For example, think of Christians in the first century. We know that many of them were slaves. Slaves to Roman masters, hardly could have been expected of them to refuse to work and thus endanger their livelihood because the Sabbath day. But if they ever did obtain their freedom or their master convert to Christianity, then the Sabbath ought to have been observed by them. But you can imagine the situation Their livelihood put in jeopardy because of this Sabbath, and the Lord says, I desire mercy and not sacrifice. But what about today? Some occupations are necessary, around the clock. For example, public safety, health care Certain civil services like electrical, who wants their electric who who relies on electricity for their heat? What happens in snowstorms? Exactly. These are necessary. We wouldn't want criminals to know that every seventh day is an unholy holiday, if you will, that law enforcement will be at rest and not on patrol. And all these are cases of necessity, and there are others besides. People need food like David. Some may not be able to get any other job. Maybe for a season, maybe ever, but doesn't require work on the Sabbath. And what should we do about that? Well, we should intercede for such people. We should ask God to refresh them in their Savior even while they're at work on the Sabbath. We should ask God to provide other work for them if possible. And we should even thank God for their works of necessity. Because many of them, as we'll see when we get to next week's sermon, are works of mercy. and kindness done for us. I think it's wonderful to know my house probably is going to be broken into, because law enforcements are still patrolling. Well I've gathered in the public assembly. What a kindness they're doing. God is merciful. He understands their need and he understands your need. David was blameless. Ahimelech was blameless. His disciples were blameless. And you'll be blameless. If it truly is necessary for you to work on the Sabbath day We could all think of a new convert. You could imagine a prominent businessman converted to Christianity. What's he going to do? What's the first word the church is going to tell him? You need to quit your job. I've got debt. Um I put my kids through a nice private school 'cause I thought that was the best way to success in life and they have a bunch of friends and I just gotta pull them out now. Maybe his kids are homeschooled. Now I gotta send their mom off to work. Did you say I can't work on this day? Is that the message we have? Or do you have a message that God is merciful and He understands your need? A cogistry! We all face these situations, but we have the light for these difficult decisions. We have the character of God revealed to us right here in His Word. And what's more, we have Jesus' principle based upon this character in verse 27. But before we get there, I want to make a couple more applications. What are we to make, right, of this glorious truth? That God Himself prefers human welfare even to required observance. We already saw how this truth allows for works of necessity to be done on the Sabbath. But is there more to make of this truth? I tell you what I've made of it. It has made me rethink how I conduct my private and even family devotions, my religious observances I now see that I shouldn't press on if it means my family's suffering. That God isn't pleased with one more prayer, one more passage understood, if it means less of dad. Less of daddy. My family needs me. And each of your families need you. Our communities need us. How startling That we can become less like God even when we're seeking God. And that is because no Pharisee has ever been successful in seeking God. For Pharisees don't know that God desires mercy and not sacrifice. But don't misunderstand me. Don't clear your daily planner of all religious observances and let alone the Sabbath day. Just leave it unobserved. It's a humane need arises. What a wonderful God that we serve. Though I think we are slow to believe it, that He is really for us. He really is good and looks out for the best of his creatures This truth also applies to you young mothers, schedules full of diaper changes, doctor's appointments, laundry, and on and on. Are works of mercy that God expects you to do over your daily devotions if they should conflict. The same for you dads, if needs arise at work, that can't be avoided. Also for you adults taking care of aged family members. God expects you to show this mercy over required observances, such as your daily devotions, if they should ever conflict. He knows you need to sleep and to eat, plus to do the many other things, necessary things, on your schedule. And none of you should carry around a guilty conscience because your private or family devotions go unobserved when they conflict with human needs. Now it may be that you're doing too much, or you need to be better prioritized, but that's another matter. Lives full of so many needs. That require our seeing to them should make all of us long more for the Sabbath day and to keep it holy more diligently. If your week is so full and you can't keep those private study times, how wonderful God gives you one day every seventh to keep it. A whole day of reading your Bible and commentaries and Christian fellowship Make use of the Sabbath day and don't carry a guilty conscience when you're filling the needs that you have to do during your week. Today is the day that God has appointed for religious rest and worship. Spend this day and every Sabbath day in drawing near to Him. Secondly, what about our welfare when we gather on the Lord's Day for worship? Should we give thought to the necessity of child care? Should take preference over observance Take an extreme example, right? Jesus often uses extreme examples to make his point. In order that no parent ever misses observing a worship service on the Lord's Day, let's just leave our kids at home and attend it. Because that's what God would want, right? Religious observance at all cost. I hope that you've all seen by now that that is not at all what God wants. He wants mercy. Children require being cared for even during worship services. So, why not then share the load of this basic human need? By all of us volunteering to help with the church's nursery. Is a nursery the only solution to this need? No, but it is the one that the session supports to help our young families to worship. Service is a need in the church. You need to serve. We all need to search our hearts before God when opportunities to serve come up in the church. But let us go on then finally here to the second part of Jesus' response. Look at verse 27. And he said to them, the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. Here you have Jesus' use. That is how he uses this story, this teaching contained in the story of David et Nob. David knew that God desires mercy and not sacrifice David knew that in his need God prefers human welfare even to required observances, and from that truth Jesus proves to the Pharisees. That the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. What day was man made? The sixth day, right? One day was the Sabbath day. The seventh day, right? God made the Sabbath, the seventh day for man whom he made first on the sixth day. Did God even have to work six days and rest on the Sabbath? Now I'm not big into speculating on what God could have done or done it. That's what he did. But I think it's clear, you know, God we all know we don't God doesn't need rest, right? He doesn't get tired out like man, Psalm 1201 declare to us. It seems to me that God did this for our benefit. Patterned our lives after his. He made in six days and rested on seven to give you his divine pattern. He gave us the command to remember the Sabbath day and to keep it holy as a law to rule our lives by and as a boon to bless us. He gives us every seventh day rest for our bodies and rest for our souls As we spend the day worshiping Him. And I will have more to say about this next week when we look at how our Lord sanctions the works of mercy done on the Sabbath day. But let me leave you all with this. The question that each of you must put to your own conscience is this: Is this a need or a convenience? That is, is it necessary that I forego my religious rest today, or merely convenient? That is the question you must ask yourselves before God when faced with a situation that conflicts with observing The Sabbath day, a 24-hour period of religious rest to the Lord of this day, the Lord Jesus Christ. If you need help answering this question, pray and come speak to the session. And may God give you the grace always to honor the Lord of the Sabbath on his day. The Lord's day. Amen. pray. Almighty God, we are awed and humbled again, once more before you And the glorious truth of your divine being, that you are a God who desires mercy and not sacrifice. We thank you for the gospel of your Son, Jesus Christ, who we know died for this very truth, was accused of being a Sabbath breaker. Because they did not know God. We bless you, Lord Jesus, for undergoing your sufferings for us That in your kingdom we might know what a true Sabbath is, have it given to us as you restored to us all things, as your redeemed people, and give to us in your mercy this day Forgive us in the ways that we have transgressed it, filling it with our own desires and works and occupations, forgetting that you have given us six whole days for that. But this seventh day, you have blessed it and made it holy and commanded us to keep it holy. So help us, we ask, by your Holy Spirit To keep this day holy and enjoy a day of rest with you, our God and Redeemer. In Jesus Christ's name we pray.