Please turn to Isaiah chapter twenty-five, and read the first nine verses. Isaiah twenty-five. Starting in verse one. O Lord, you are my God. I will exalt you. I will praise your name. For you have done wonderful things, plans formed of old, faithful and sure. For you have made the city a heap, the fortified city a ruin The foreigner's palace is a city no more. It will never be rebuilt. Therefore, strong peoples will glorify you. Cities of ruthless nations will fear you. For you have been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a shelter from the storm and a shade from the heat. For the breath of the ruthless is like a storm against a wall, like heat in a dry place. You subdue the noise of the foreigners as heat by the shade of a cloud So the song of the ruthless is put down. On this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of Of rich food, a feast of well aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people He will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. It will be said on that day, Behold, this is our God. We have waited for him, that he might save us This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. This is the Word of God. And with that in view, I'd like you to turn your Bibles, please, to Luke chapter 8, and beginning at verse 4. Hear the word of the Lord. And when a great crowd was gathering and people from town after town came to him, he said in the parable, a sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell along the path and was trampled underfoot, and the birds of the air devoured it, and some fell on the rock, and as it grew up it withered away. Because it had no moisture. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up with it and choked it And some fell into good soil and grew and yielded a hundredfold. And as he said these things, he called out, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. And when the disciples asked him what this parable meant, he said, To you it has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of God, but for others they are in parable, so that seeing they may not see and hearing they may not understand. Now the parable is this. The seed is the word of God. The ones along the path are those who have heard, and then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved. And the ones in the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it with joy, but these have no root. They believe for a while, and in time of testing fall away. And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way, they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature. As for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and bear fruit with patience. No one, after lighting a lamp, covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand. so that those who enter may see the light, for nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and come to light. Take care then how you hear. For to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he thinks that he has will be taken away. And then his mother and his brothers came to him. But they could not reach him because of the crowd, and he was told, Your mother and your brothers are standing outside desiring to see you. But he answered them, My mother and my brothers. Are those who hear the word of God and do it, the word of the Lord? Thanks be to God. Our Father in heaven, our greatest need, so that we hear and hear aright and hear to our own salvation. As the work of the Holy Spirit, the one who circumcises heart and ears. And so our Lord, knowing that He is our greatest need And knowing that you have ordained that by the means of grace we be transformed, we ask for the Spirit's work as your word is ministered, as it is heard, as it is preached. As we fellowship today, but our Lord make us different under the ministry of your word for Jesus' sake. Amen. Satan called a worldwide convention. In his opening address to his demonic followers, he said, We can't keep the Christians from going to church. We can't keep them from reading their Bibles and knowing the truth. We can't even keep them from forming an intimate relationship with Jesus Christ. If they keep in fellowship with Jesus, we are very limited in what we can do. So, let them go to church, let them have their conservative lifestyles, but steal their time so they can't focus on the presence of Jesus Christ in their lives This is what I want you to do, demons. Distract them from looking to their Savior and maintaining that vital connection throughout their day. How shall we do this? shouted his demons. Keep them busy in the non-essentials of life and invent innumerable schemes to occupy their minds. Answered. Tempt them to spend spend spend and borrow borrow borrow. to go to work for long hours and the husbands to work six to seven days a week, ten to twelve hours a day, so they can afford their lifestyles. Keep them from spending time with their children, as their family fragments soon their home will offer no escape from the pressures of work. Overstimulate their minds so that they cannot hear that still small voice Entice them to play the radio or CD player whenever they drive, to keep the TV, VCR, CDs and their PCs and their handheld devices going constantly in their homes. This will jam their minds and to keep them from meditating on his love letter, the Bible. Fill the coffee table with magazines and newspapers. Pound their minds with the news twenty-four hours a day. Invade their driving moments with billboards, flood their mailboxes with junk mail, sweepstakes, mail order catalogs, and every kind of newsletter and promotion offering free products, services. And false hopes. Even in their recreation, let them be excessive. Have them return from their recreation exhausted, disquieted, and unprepared for the coming week. Keep them from church and Sunday school by causing arguments and discouragements within the family on that day. Distract them in church by anxieties. and the pressures of life. Don't let them go out in nature to reflect on God's wonders. Send them to amusement parks, sporting events, concerts, and movies instead. And when they meet for encouraging fellowship, involve them in gossip and small talk so that they leave with troubled consciences and unsettled emotion. Let them be involved in ministries, but crowd their lives. With so many good causes, they have no time to seek power from Christ. Soon they will be working in their own strength, sacrificing their health and family for the good of the cause Well, it was quite a convention in the end, and the demons went eagerly to their assignments, causing Christians everywhere to get busy, busy, busy, and to rush here and there, and to always be distracted by by pictures and sounds and handheld devices and anything else that could replace God and his word Is the devil then successful? It is scheme. You be the judge. Consider this definition of busy, being under Satan's yoke. I've entitled the conference Media Wars: A Battle for the Heart and the Mind. And I want to impress upon all of you in here That the greatest battle that we face with the world today is the battle with distraction. Distraction that, if you give into it, will destroy you. The book that I mentioned in the first section of the conference yesterday by Neil Postman, which was written over 30 years ago is pregnant in its title, Amusing Ourselves to Death. And it is this text that teaches exactly that. And if we give in to those things that will amuse us to death, there will not only be personal consequences, there will not just be temporal consequences. In the social realm, in the financial realm, in the educational realm, in the political realm, there will be eternal consequences as well. Well that article that I began with is not hyperbole. It is part of the devil's work using the world to distract you to your own death. Now here's what I want to do this morning using the parable of the sower. Number one, I want to fly over this fascinating field. fly over the the field about which our Lord is doing a building work and we'll make that very quick. And then second, I want to focus on the thorn-filled field. And and the words that are given in the storm-filled field. And then I want to talk with you about keeping the soil of your own heart In such a way all the time that you are not first distracted by the world, but attracted by the word, and the word made flesh. You'll notice that the Lord here uses in the parable of the sower the picture of a field. And it's very interesting that in the Old Testament, in the prophets, and particular, our Lord speaks of the work that he is doing as planting a vineyard. And that's chosen in this way for this reason. When our first parents were cast out of the garden of Eden. They lost this garden that God had provided for them. But in God's work of redemption over the centuries, over the millennia. The Lord is the one who is the great sower, sowing the seeds of his word. But as you learn tonight, using people like And our Lord Jesus takes up that analogy when he says, I'm the vine, I am the great vine of the vineyard, and you are the branches. And any branch in me that does not bear fruit, I will cut off. And we'll come back to that a little bit later. God ordains that fruit not only as a part of his predestinating plan, but also for the benefit of the world. and for the benefit of you. It's very interesting that in this text our Lord uses two words for good when he comes to the heart. And they are words that describe benefit to you and benefit to others. And that's the fruit that Jesus is. speaking of and he says in that context you'll get a joy that isn't temporary like this text speaks of but a joy that is all filled up. It's very interesting. Language that's used. Anyway, we fly over the field, and this is a picture of the work that the Lord is doing, using people like us and the New Covenant to do it, but in order to grow a field. Now let's look in the second place at the thornfilled field. We ought to probably, I guess, consider first the ones that are before and get a little picture of what's there. The sower sows his seed. And it falls along the path. It's trampled underfoot, and the birds of the air devour it. And our Lord, describing that field, says in verse 11, the seed is the word of God. The ones along the path are those who have heard. Notice the emphasis on hearing. They have heard. Then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts. Are you aware that there is a very, very active devil whose devouring work, devouring you, begins by devouring the Word of God. On the Lord's Day, we are fed the Word of God. We're given the meaning of grace. And the first thing you think about when you get out of here is your favorite football team or baseball team. That's the devil's work. To try to take away the Word of God. Or you use your Lord's Day that is particularly a day set apart so you might focus on those things of eternity and the Word of God and get a reality check. But you will use that time for things exactly the opposite. That's the devil's work. Whatever it takes to devour the word That's the devil's works. You have the devil here. And then in the second place you have the word that is, as you read on verse six. the seed that is falls on a rock. And as it grows up it withers away very quickly because it had no moisture. And our Lord interprets that in verse thirteen as the ones on the rock are those who when they hear the word of God receive it with joy, but they have no root. They fall away for a while and in time of testing they fall away. It's very interesting. There's a joy. There's an excitement. You see people and they get excited. about the word of God and about Jesus Christ. And they want to follow him. But they don't realize there's a cross in it. And when the meaning of the cross comes to them briefly personally and they're a little bit like pliable in Pilgrim's Progress and they want to get out of their slew of despond and go back to the city of destruction. So you have Interestingly, here you have not the devil so much as our own flesh. I am not being catered to in my flesh That immediate joy I had at first goes away and you go back. And so you have the devil and the flesh. But now note Note this thorn-filled field, realizing that each one of these is a word given by God the Holy Spirit. Verse 7, some fell among thorns. I'm tempted to say weeds here. Because we usually don't deal with a whole lot of thorns unless you're working out in forest area like you have in the back of the church. Most of us in our gardens deal with weeds. There's a reason why thorns is you when you think of thorns What do you think of? And the thorns grew up with it and choked it. And our Lord's interpretation in verse 14 as for what fell among the thorns. They are those who hear, but as they go on their way, they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit. Does not mature. Doesn't say they don't bear fruit, but the fruit doesn't grow to be what it ought to be. We're not saying these people are necessarily unsaved people, but they lose so much of their joy Because their fruit does not mature. I'm fascinated by these terms. Look at them. The cares of life. How am I going to pay my bills? How am I going to prepare for retirement? What kind of medicine should I be taking for my particular health condition or my particular health condition? What insurance plan should I have? How many of the deductibles? What of it can I afford? Cares of this life. And it's not just the cares of this life, it's riches. It's it's the stuff. It's the cars. It's the vacations. It's the homes. It's the things that just give us great delight. stuff, the riches, and the pleasures of this life, the sports, the athletics, the vacations, the cruises. None of those things incidentally is We are meant to plan for things. The mind of a man plans his way, that's not bad in itself. And then even stuff in itself is not wrong. We need to know how to abound, but there are the need. There is the need for the houses and for the cars and so on for our travel. And even pleasures. You need brakes so that you can go back to your work refreshed. But isn't it interesting? These three categories, cares of this life, riches, and pleasures, describe all of those things. that media bankrolls and media leverages and media plays upon To win your heart. You watch the television ads, and they are very effective at appealing to you about the cares of this life. They are also extremely effective in dealing with you about the riches that you can have. And they will show you in beautiful pictures of the world all the things that you can enjoy in your pleasures. And none of these things Is wrong, but notice what it does. Media with its pictures, and we walk by sight more than faith as we learned yesterday, that begins to win your heart. And you know that because that's what you begin to swim in, cares of this life, riches, pleasures. And pretty soon that's your whole environment Notice how the word distraction came up so many times in the introductory little reading, and even here, Maggie Jackson's book Distracted, the Erosion of Attention and the Coming Dark Age. is in my opinion one of the the most powerful expositions of how things I mean she's not even a Christian incident of how we are distracted to our own destruction. She writes, we can tap into, and this was several years ago, so you've got to you've got to kind of put this on steroids now to see the seriousness of the situation now. We can tap into 50 million websites, a lot more now. 1. 8 million books in print, almost more than double that right now. 75 million blogs. probably about eight times as many as that right now, and other snowstorms of information. But we increasingly seek knowledge in Google searches. And Yahoo headlines that we gulp on the run while juggling other tasks. We can contact millions of people across the globe, yet we increasingly connect with even our most intimate friends and family via instant messaging. virtual visits and fleeting messages that are rescheduled a half dozen times, then punctuated when they do occur by pings and beeps. and multitasking. Amid the glittering promise of our new technologies and the wondrous potential of our scientific gains, we are nurturing a culture of social diffusion intellectual fragmentation, sensory detachment. In this new world, something is amiss. And that something is attention, the seduction. Notice the language of appealing to our heart. The seduction of alternative virtual universes, the addictive allure of multitasking people and things, are near religious allegiance to a constant state of motion. These are markers of a land of distraction in which our old conceptions of space, time, and place have been shattered This is why we are less and less able to see, hear, and comprehend what's really relevant and permanent. Why so many of us feel that we can barely keep our heads above water and our days are marked by perpetual loose ends. What's more, the waning of our powers of attention is occurring at such a rate and in so many areas of life that the erosion is reaching critical mass. We are on the verge of losing our capacity as a society for deep sustained focus. In short, we are slipping toward a new dark Dark age. And brothers and sisters, the gospel is not a dark age. The gospel is light. There is a light that lightens all people who come into the world, and that light is meant to shine in the darkness. And you've got to keep reminding yourself of it. As I said yesterday, we're just in the early stages of of this Copernican revolution in technology. And it's easy in that tsunami to just get swallowed up by it. And think that darkness will triumph. It won't. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness doesn't overcome it. But there's a battle to fight. Now that brings us in the third place to our very close look at the soil. in which the word of God is meant to come. Our Lord speaks in verse 8. Notice it's about the receiving medium, okay And some of that seed, the Word of God, fell into good soil and grew See the fruit and yielded a hundredfold. As he said these things he called out, he who has ears to hear, let him hear. Notice again the context. Listen, really, really listening. And our Lord opens that up in verse 15 and says, as for that in the good soil, they are those who hearing the word Hold it fast. In literally, the Greek uses two different words for good. It would literally read, in a good and good heart, but the ESV, so that we don't get bored and wonder what it says, says, in an honest and good heart. And bear fruit with patience. Let's look at that soil a little bit. The key to it is a good and good heart. that holds fast the Word of God. And you know, brothers and sisters, there's hearing and there's hearing. You say to your child, you need to clean your room. I want your room cleaned, I'm going to give you an hour to do it. And the child hears you. An hour later, there's nothing done to clean the room And what do you say? Did you hear me? I said to you an hour ago, clean your room. See this hearing, it went inside the oral canal here. But it didn't affect the brain, it didn't affect the will, and it didn't affect the emotions. Now God has a way to deal with the mind and the will and the emotions through a very padded portion of our backsides. But hopefully they don't need that. The idea is you hear it, you say I want to do it. Okay, so that's what that's what it means here when it speaks about hearing. It speaks about those who hear the word ho and they do that holding it that in a A good and good heart and bear fruit with patience. Let's break down the soil a little bit. The heart. Brothers and sisters, the reformed faith is not always the best. It should be What's the reformed faith? Five points of Calvinism total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistible grace, perseverance of the saints, and all the books that we have. We can read within this great rich stream of the faith that is taught in the scriptures, the Reformed faith. And I'm sorry that for many Reformed people, the Reformed faith It could be a head trip. A heart trip is what the Christian faith is. And probably this is the reason why Reformed people are somewhat backward about dealing with this. Only God can give you a new heart. That comes by new birth, and you didn't give yourself new birth, and Nicodemus was the quintessential Arminian. When he said, well, how can a person go back to his mother's womb and be born again? He missed the whole point. It's not about what you do, it's about what God does. And so we tend to be a little bit backward about dealing with the fact that you need a new heart. Don't be backward about it. You have a new heart? How do you get one? Well, you need a donor. You need somebody who's going to give you his heart. And that's what Jesus does in the gospel. Jesus gives you, as it were, his own heart, his own being, his own life, because heart just doesn't refer to that organ with four chambers in it. This in this part of your chest. But it refers to your whole new life. Only Jesus can give you that, and he does it by sovereign grace. Here's your responsibility. You need to come to Christ. Now. And it's a marriage. Faith is marriage. When you take Christ to be your Lord and your Savior, everything that He is and has becomes you. yours. We're even made partakers of the divine nature. We're not divine, but we're made partakers of the divine nature as he gives us as the quintessential gift, the Holy Spirit. He gives us his name. We're Christians. He gives us his inheritance, which is eternity. He gives us the house that he's building for us. Point. He gives us his righteousness. He gives us his sonship. We're children in him. heart. He gives you that heart that is good and good. Now why those two words? Well the first word for good Is used to speak of those things that are beneficial to you. And that, brothers and sisters, is not a wrong way to think We're to love our neighbors as ourselves. And there is a legitimate self-love, although most of us probably go overboard with it. Good that is good for you When Jesus gives the parable about that ends up with the story about the Father who gives good things to his children. It's that same word that's used there. You come you come to your father and if you ask for bread, he's not going to give you a stone if you ask for fish. And it's your fish here in the Chesapeake area is Outstanding, especially that rockfish. You ask for fish, he won't give you a stone. See, you're asking for good things. And that's part, that's the first word here A good heart means a heart that does good things for itself. The best thing you can do for yourself is to follow the Lord Jesus faithfully. You young people that are here. I wish I'd learned this in my earlier years with a more formal acquaintance with Christianity. You pursue your own greatest real pleasures in life. when you follow Christ. See the media the media will will seduce you with false joys, counterfeits of joy. Joy. Jesus is in the business of giving counterfeits. I mean he's the real thing. And and so good i is what is good for yourself. And above all else, it's this kind of Stuff, worshiping God, the reality check, learning the word of God, mortifying sin, and so on. But the other word for good is interesting It's a word used to describe the good that we do to others. Let your good works show before others. That they may see those good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Interesting term. It's a heart that is in a supreme way doing good to itself. But is also out of that heart, always doing good to others. Isn't that interesting? That's Christ's heart. Who, for the joy that was set before him, Endured the cross despising the shame. As painful as that was, it was a good thing for our Lord's joy. But every single thing he did in his obedience, his sufferings, and death and resurrection, that's for you. That's a good hope. And it's very interesting that our self-centered media-oriented culture works against that at every single point. Offering you things not wrong in themselves, but if you live for them, they become your idols, and idolaters don't enter the kingdom of heaven. Counterfeits of what is really good for you. I can get into heaven without an iPhone 10, but I can't get into heaven apart iPhone from Christ. And as was commented upon yesterday, it's one of the reasons why I was quite taken by the question. The self-centeredness. That comes from our media-oriented culture in a nation that is very much focused on the individual, the epitome of that. The selfie. Is it wrong to take a picture of yourself? It's not. But if you live for yourself, that is wrong. That's an idol. And if there's anything that could be worse, It's this. You rob yourself and you rob others of the joy that you are meant to have in giving yourself for the good of others people. Media is never ever ever ever really about you doing good to others. There may be little spasms of When you have advertisements for the Red Cross, when there are floods and earthquakes and hurricanes, by and large, media is about getting you to Satisfy yourself. Good heart. Just the opposite. But now notice what's connected with this with this good heart. It is a good and good heart That hearing the word holds it fast. Holds it fast as a precious possession. But here's the other reason it says, hold it fast. If you are in a storm, you are in a tsunami, you hold fast what you have. Because the winds and the waters will rip it away from you. And that's why that term is used. Hold fast the Word of God, because it's precious. And you hold fast the Word of God. The word of God, because the winds and the waves of the distracting work of the world are trying to rip it away from you. Listen to the language I rejoice, says the psalmist, that your word is one who finds great spoil. That the way you re respond to the word of God? I love your commandments more than gold, above fine gold. Do you really? Your testimonies are the joy of my heart. Are they? Is it? The way that comes, that kind of love and adoration for the Word of God is by way of media Now, the Word of God is a media. It's the word that you read. But you need a medium that will enable you to say The word is all of this and more to me. And that medium is Jesus Christ, a person. See all all of the things Of the word written and spoken are the things that put before you like a hologram, beauty, and the wonder excellencies of the word made flesh. See media again will counterfeit that. Media will use its pictures, it will use its images, it will use its speaking, it will use its celebrities, cause you to be satisfied in something or someone other than the word made flesh Jesus Christ. And the internal organs and the skin and the face of the word made flesh And when you have that that passion for Christ, He is my groom. I love to tell people that's the one place it's legitimate for a man to marry a man w when you when even a man takes Jesus as his Lord and his Savior. as his great groom. And when you know that that word is, as that opening little monologue said, it's the great love letter always telling you about Jesus. You will, and you've got to battle to do it, you've got to hold it fast. You'll keep Jesus, you'll keep Jesus, you'll keep Jesus, and you'll remind yourself he's a whole lot better than the iPhone. Phone ten and the Lexus and the nearest and latest cruise. See that that that's what's in view here. Fast. And he doesn't end at that point. He says, as he speaks in here, they not only hold it fast in a good and good heart, but they bear fruit. With patience, fruit of the Spirit. What is it? Love. It's giving yourself for the good of the others And media, again, is about you primarily, almost exclusively, doing good for yourself. Fruit of the Spirit, joy. Course that's what Jesus speaks about. I would that you would bear much fruit, that your joy might be made full, the joy not only of what good you do to yourself, but the good that you do to others. Modern media mitigates that against that at almost every point. It substitutes for eternal joy, temporary happiness in something new. Peace Peace is a beautiful thing. It's a contentment with what God has given us, and it's that wonderful sense that I can rest in God because I'm at peace. with him. Media today is designed at every point I know because I've worked in it. It's designed to make you discontent. Marketing, they say, is the science of Of working in people and persuading people to buy things they never knew that they needed. And it's exactly the opposite of peace. I've got to have this, I've got to have that, I've got to update this, I've got to update Patience. One of the things that's happened with the quickness, the rapidity of media is we think very rapidly, things, especially in New York. You know, in New York if you want something and it wasn't done a minute ago, then it was too slow Okay. And increasingly in this merry-goround of our world, faster and faster and faster and faster and faster and faster, you knew gotta get the new phone or computer because it's fast. And works against the patience we're meant to have under a sovereign God who sometimes is, oh hello, you need to slow down. Kindness Kindness. Media works exactly the opposite of kindness, which is concrete ways in which you do good to others, because media will impress upon you all the concrete things you need to do to be kind to yourself. Faithfulness. At every single point, my emotions, my will, my mind will be under the Lordship of Christ as He is made known in His Word. And I've got to hold that fast. Why? Because the media is exactly the opposite of faithfulness. It's faithfulness to the idol of self, not faithfulness to Christ the Lord. Gentleness. People have noticed increasingly harshness in media. I think we see it particularly in recent months, where there's an abrasive character about so much of media, a dividing sense of so much that is communicated to us. You know the reason for that? Hatred plays. Hatred gets listeners. The sad thing is hatred also gets followers. Gentleness. And self control, the bookend of the fruit of the spirit, begins with love. Media does anything but makes you be self control controlled. Proof of it? Have your cell phone at the meal with your family. One time you get to really just talk Talk with dad, with mom, with the children about the world situation, those great catechetical times as we learn to bring every thought captive. to the obedience of Christ and the word is esteemed among us and the conversation is rich and full and then you get the ping that you have a text. And you see how your self-control is sorely tested. See the battle that we're in. But in order to bear good fruit, and that's the text. to bear fruit. You've got to resist the distract distractions. And it is a battle. It's a battle with your own heart because it goes back to the heart. You not only need a new heart, but you've got to take care of your heart. Pastor Kathy can talk with you. There's a tremendous lesson for you. Lessons for the spiritual heart, from the physical heart. And you know what you've got to do? You've got to exercise. You've got to get up off the couch Watch and move around. Do something. Is that your Christian faith? You do good for your spiritual heart when you exercise. it when you do good for others and serve others and commit yourself to a project of service for others. We need to emphasize this a lot more. In our circles. Yes, we're justified by faith alone, but never by a faith that is alone, but is always accompanied by every gift and grace. And one of the best ways You can resist the distractions of a self-centered culture is to commit yourself in love that does good from a good heart, does good to others, to some service project You don't have to go to Puerto Rico to do it. It would be great if you could though, or Florida. But right here in this community, in Maryland, to serve others. Isn't it interesting what that does? Number one, it takes up time that you would otherwise be wasting before media. It lets you realize the situation of the real world that you are in, and it is not pleasant. And it causes you to expend your efforts to give love to others, and that will help quench the desire to always be pleasing yourself. Bearing fruit, bearing fruit, taking care of your heart with exercise and good diet. I know I do a program called Health Wise. And every week, in one way or the other, it's the diet that we need to have to, in one way or the other, keep our physical hearts in good shape. Stay away from the junk food. If you're gonna have it, at least get it at Chick-fil-A, because they close on the Lord's Day, and that's great. But the fried stuff is still junk food, folks. And it's even worse at McDonald's and Burger King and the other places. But you see how diligent we are We stay away from the junk food that will clog up the arteries of our hearts because we don't want to have a heart attack. and die. How careful are you about the junk food that clogs the arteries of your spiritual Heart. And if you're in wonderment about what that is, if you have a television or you watch a lot of things on your handheld device, you watch TV programs and movies on your phone. My beloved brother or sister, when you're in the midst of that, ask yourself the question, what kind of food is this for The Bible does use rather ruthless language about mortification of sin, plucking eyes out, cutting off right hands, cutting off feet. mean that you turn off more than as you ought to pornography. Just the stuff that is junk. I was telling the people yesterday I had Um we don't I'm not saying it's wrong if you have one. I don't like television. I am the consummate enjoyer of radio and all things radio, which can also give you a lot of junk today. But I don't like television for a lot of reasons. And when we had shifted our phone company after But a gentleman came by, we had it for the phone, we had it for the computer, but we didn't have a TV. I don't want. the TV. And a gentleman came by one Saturday, a very pleasant fellow, very pleasant. And he said, You know, Mr. Shishko, I noticed that you've got the phone lines, a couple of them, whatever it was, computer thing, but you don't have the the television, you don't you don't know what you're missing in the service. And he talked about the basic plan, you know, it's kinda like an economy car, mid size car, Cadillac. And he that's the three plans. And I said, No, I'm really not interested. Yeah, but but with this you can get this. Finally, at one point he said, Mr. Shishau, you don't understand. For just this amount of money per month, you can get all of these channels. And immediately I'm tempted to say, you know, will you also give me more hours? in the day so I can watch some of the stuff even but I didn't say that. I said no. I I I said this is New York folks. I said you know you don't understand. You're the one that doesn't understand. I don't like to eat out of a garbage can He closed his clipboard, he looked at me, and he said, you know, you're right. Most of the stuff is junk. Not all of it, but a lot of it. How are you changing your diet so it's good for your heart? Spiritual heart. That's what this is about. And then finally, that little word bearing fruit with patience. It's the language of a soul Soldier in battle. Long suffering is patience with things or with people. Patience here is patience with really hard things that don't. seem to end. That's war. Those are the battles on the difficult battlefields of life. Life. And I challenge you that the biggest battle you and I have today, not the first ones we deal with with the devil or even with our own flesh, but certainly with the world Is this mediated world that gives you all of these thorns? Why thorns? Thorns are a reminder that we live in a fallen world. Our Lord gave thorns In the garden after the fall. Things not wrong in themselves, but with thorns That will choke out the word by which we are saved and by which we bear fruit. Folks, are you going to engage in the war? Patience. Is it easy? No, no war is easy, folks. Do you always make the right decisions? No, read about war. There's a lot of wrong decisions that are made. made. Are there casualties? Yes, there's casualties in the war, which means for yourself personally, you are going to stumble, you are going to fall, you are going to have weakness. You're going to do things by trial and error. We all do. We're facing a tsunami of media and a very sophisticated establishment that has its bent to make you its subjects And your battle for your heart and your mind in the media wars is the battle that says, no, I I have got a groom. He is the altogether loved Only one fairest among ten thousands. He's got a kingdom. He's promised me the greatest joys. Nothing in the world can take them away, regardless of how how he tried to appeal to me about the new cars that are coming out for twenty eighteen. Battle, battle, battle, battle, battle. It's a battle to keep my first love. Incidentally, and I'm not I want to be very careful how I say this. But in physical marriage, you want to be turned on by your spouse. You turn off the electronics. electronic devices. You want to be turned on to Christ. You take some time that you turn off those distracting things. You read His Word, you give yourself to worship, you give yourself to fellowship, which is a means of grace. You learn about Christ from other people. You serve others, and particularly when you're served Serving Christians, it is serving Christ, fill your life with those things, that is still the place for the handheld device. But you let that expression of your love to Christ show. And that and that alone has the power to drive And you and I are going to battle that until we get to glory. And what's It's the great media, Jesus Christ. God and then glorified and now glorified Flesh, consummate excellency, the joy of all the earth, the one in whom alone is everlasting life, and not a counterfeit utopia But the real thing called New Heavens and New Earth. And this image is the word made flesh. Note the primacy. The word made flesh. And when you, out of your commitment to Christ, live with just that little phrase, the word, the primacy of the word, let him who hears, let him hear. And that word that focuses on the great media, great medium, Christ Jesus in his kingdom. You live for that, and you'll hear something a whole lot better. than to have a good day from the clerk at the store that you go to because you've been enticed there from the media. It'll be the words of the great commander in chief, the great beautiful spouse. Don't you want to hear those words? Well done. Well done, good and faithful servant. And then he says to you what no media can ever say and really promise when it's focused on the so-called happiness of this life now. Enter the joy of your Lord. May God make us to be a kind of soldier, female and male and younger and older, in this battle for the mind and the heart, these media wars, to live as those who want to hear but two words. It's well done. Let's pray. Now, our Lord, we pray that you will make us realize that along with being the bride of the Lord Jesus Christ Along being with being the sons and the daughters of the living God, along with being citizens of the kingdom of heaven, we are soldiers in the great battlefield for that kingdom. kingdom and oh God on this great big battlefield of the media that just saturates us and surrounds us and would overwhelm us, pray that we would take care of the soil of our own hearts. And we pray, our Lord, that we would hold fast. your word and the word made flesh as given to us in the gospel, and we pray that in doing that we would with the patience of Good soldiers on the battlefield bring forth fruit, both for the glory of God, for our joy, and the joy of others, both now and evermore. Amen.