Please open your Bibles to Psalm fifty-one. We'll read the first four verses. Psalm fifty-one To the choir master, a psalm of David when Nathan the prophet went to him after he had gone into Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love. According to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight So that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. The reading from Paul's letter to the Romans begins at Romans chapter 2, verse 25, and then the text is Romans 3, 1 through 4. Paul here continues his discussion. Verse 25. For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law. But if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code and circumcision, but break the law For no one is a Jew who is merely one inwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God. Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the value of circumcision? Much in every way. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God. What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means. Let God be true though everyone were a liar, as it is written, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Now, Lord, as we take up this portion of your word, these four verses, we pray that you will help us to Understand them in their context, understand them spiritually. Help us to know the sense that Paul meant when he wrote them by the Spirit. And then to be able to make use of them by applying them to our own particular situations. And indeed, may they inform us about the act of baptism which we So as you just heard, and I reiterate just in In ordinary words, Paul in that end of chapter two was making it very clear that the Old Testament right that God had commanded To Abraham back in the earliest days, that on the eighth day, all of his male descendants and every male in the household under his spiritual guidance must be circumcised in order to be a part of the covenant that he was making with his people. He had made that case and made that very strong statement back then. But Paul is now saying That although that is what God commanded and it's important, and it points towards something very important, that it is not the thing in and of itself. Merely having the outward sign. Does not make you a true Israelite, he says. A true Israelite isn't Isn't one who is outward and physical, but one who is inward and a matter of the heart by the Spirit. That's what he says at the very end. So now we come to the objections that he's dealing with, and we come to chapter 3, verses 1 through 4 I'll just read it again and then we'll open it up. Then what advantage has the Jew? Well, what is the value of circumcision? And then he says, much in every way. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God. What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means. Let God be true, though everyone were a liar, as it is written, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged, a quote from the psalm we just sang. So Paul here has been arguing with some sort of antagonist. He's doing this mentally and on paper. You might remember, by the way, that Paul was standing nearby right after the day of Pentecost when a young man named Stephen who became the first deacon when Stephen was preaching, proclaiming to the Jews as they were listening, it's recorded in Acts chapter 6 He was preaching the gospel. I guess deacons are allowed to preach, according to Acts anyway. And it says, Then some of those who belonged to the synagogue of the freedmen, as it was called, And one of the Cyrenians and the Alexandrians and of those from Cilicia and Asia rose up and disputed with Stephen. But they could not withstand the wisdom and the spirit with which he was speaking. He was opening the Old Testament up and preaching the gospel of Christ to those who were listening. He was disputing with them. And you know who was standing there at the time? Yes, Saul, who became Paul, right? What was the content of Stephen's preaching and his disputing? He was giving, as you read it, if you go back and look at it, he was giving a sweeping account of Israel's history And when he had finished giving that sweeping account of Israel's history, he pointed his fingers at those listening and said, You stiff-necked people, Uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit, as your fathers did, so do you. Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the righteous one, whom you have now betrayed and murdered. You who received the law as it was delivered by angels and did not keep it. That was Stephen's hard line fire and brimstone sermon. With his fingers pointed back to the listeners. And Paul, who was standing there holding the cloaks of those who were about to stone Stephen to death, was no doubt mentally disputing. With this young deacon who was preaching, mentally disputing with him. How can this crucified Nazarene be the Messiah? Probably what Paul was questioning. How can salvation, the forgiveness of sins, come in his name? How can a man who said the temple would soon be destroyed and then rebuilt by him, how can such a person be the Messiah? And how can you, Stephen, criticize the traditions and the interpretations of the teachers of the law? And how can Gentiles of all people be welcomed into God's covenant family? And what is the advantage of being a Jew if these things about Jesus are true? See, Paul knows these objections very well because he probably had them himself before he met Jesus on the road to Damascus. So we get to the second point already, the advantages of the Jewish people. Then what advantage has the Jew, or what is the value of circumcision? Much in every way. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God. What advantage has the Jew? Paul has carefully explained. That the mere possession of the law, the bearing of the covenant sign of circumcision will not save the Jewish person. If this is the case, then what is the advantage of being a Jew? What is the advantage of being a member of God's chosen people? And after all, if Paul is right in chapter 2. that he says there's no partiality with God, uh if that is true, then what's the advantage of being a Jew at all? If there's no partiality, we want God to be partial to us, you see. But Paul answers his own argument here, his mental argument, he says, the advantage is much in every way. And then he only gives a few examples that he will unpack that later. He knows that there are many advantages God gave to the Jewish people. In particular, he entrusted them with the oracles of God. Which refers to God's written revelation before the time of Jesus. He gave the Jewish people his word, an indescribable gift. No other nation had his word. One commentator says this was their prime privilege, that they were God's library keepers. You see, librarians are really important here. That this was a heavenly treasure entrusted to them. And Paul will later explain and expand on the advantages of the Jewish people in Romans chapter 9, where he explains they also had the adoption of the Jewish the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the service of God, and the promises. So let me just stop and apply this much here for all those who are present. Particularly, perhaps, for young people. If you were raised in a real Christian family and a faithful church, you have great advantages, much in every way. Never envy those who did not have these blessings. Sometimes Christians will tell conversion stories about how deep in sin they were once living. For example, they were a drug-peddling gang member, or a prostitute, or an abusive alcoholic. Then they became Christians and did a 180-degree turn. This is indeed wonderful when it happens. It's a great thing that God can transform such persons, but never envy them for that experience. Never envy them. Their past comes at great cost and very much baggage. They are not to be envied for their experience of conversion like this Rather, they are to be pitied for the ugly scars on their memory and the chinks in their character from that past. God's ordinary method, and the best method, of making followers of Christ is through the blessed privileges of the covenant. The Christian family, Christian baptism, and instruction with it The regular preaching of the Word of God and the weekly feast of communion, these are God's outward and ordinary means of making Followers of Christ, you don't need a terrible conversion story to tell So you have these privileges if you're a member of the covenant people. You have these blessings. They're amazing and great blessings. But Paul also taught that these privileges must not be squandered, young people, and everyone. They must not be squandered. They must lead you never to presume that you're safe in sin, or that the mere possession of these privileges ensures your salvation. No, these privileges lead you to repentance with faith in the saving Savior Jesus Christ. And so that's number two in our short outline, the advantages of being Jewish. They are great and many. But Paul then gives another answer. What if some were unfaithful? He's arguing from history. The Jewish people had been unfaithful to God's covenant many, many times. What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? And he answers. Don't even think that way. By no means. But let God be true, though everyone were a liar, as it is written. And he gives a quote from Psalm 51, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. So he's saying this. The fact that some Jewish people as a whole had rejected the gospel does not mean that God's faithfulness to them was in vain. It did not mean that God's work was futile or without effect or that it hadn't failed in any way. It did not mean that God was lying when he made these promises of the covenant to his people. The objection that Paul is arguing against is this. Here's the objection in the mind of the Jew. God made the Jews his treasured people and made covenant with them. He gave them his word on Mount Sinai. God's word cannot change. God cannot renege on his promises. So how can you, Paul, preach that the law is completed through Jesus, and circumcision, which God commanded for every Israelite boy, is now unnecessary? And Paul doesn't really answer this reasoning, he just bluntly objects and rejects the reasoning. He says, let God be true, and everyone a liar. You haven't even figured this out. Your logic isn't right. So don't even go there, he's saying. The fault is not with God, but with his chosen people. That's where he's going with this. God has not lied, but Israel has been unfaithful to apprehend the promises of God by faith. Israel has been relying on their status and on their external obedience while their hearts have been far from God. They have not understood the cleansing and relationship to God which the ordinances of Israel were pointing toward. And then Paul cites one of the greatest figures in Israel's history. From Psalm 51. Paul cites the great man, the great sinner, the great King David, speaking in Psalm 51, where he says in the context, for I know my transgressions and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. And then these are the words he quotes. So that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. So when he's quoting David here, what he's really saying, in effect, is, God is right. And God is true and God is faithful, whether or not you understand it. You better change your way of evaluating God's words. instead of thinking you've got it figured out and God has to please you. And by the way, when he quotes this It's a wonderful picture of what a saving faith always looks like, Old Testament or New. This man, David, turns to God sincerely and seeks his mercy. David, a covenant member and the king of the covenant nation, here is the model repenter. David did not rely on his status as a circumcised man, which these Jews that Paul is arguing with seem to do. He did not even rely on his anointing as the king. Or the fact that he was the steward of the law of God as the king of God's people. When he sinned and God exposed him in his sin through the prophet Nathan. He turned in faith to God with repentance. And so Paul is really saying to the Jew who is listening, who is arguing with him, at least mentally, be like David. Be sincere. Be true. Don't rely on your outward privileges and your outward opportunities, but apprehend what they mean spiritually, and then respond truly to what God is doing. By the way, that is one of the reasons that we do this weekly in our worship service. You see, worship, weekly worship is a training for life. Because when you sin on Monday and Tuesday, etc. , etc. , you need to be in the habit already Of not denying, not justifying yourself, but you need to be in the habit of coming to God and saying, Most merciful God, I confess that I And by nature sinful and unclean, and have sinned against you. In thought, word, and deed, by what I have done, and by what I have left undone. I have not loved you with my whole heart. I have not loved my neighbor as myself. Oh Lord, the remembrance of my sins is grievous. The burden of them is intolerable. I am truly sorry. And I humbly repent. And if com covenant members will not repent Paul is saying, God is not frustrated, and God will still be justified in all his actions. In the end, if you will not repent, it will be demonstrated that even your unrighteousness will somehow proclaim his righteousness and glory, even if only in judgment. One of the old commentators, Clark, said, Should any man say that the promise of God had failed towards him? Let him examine his heart and his ways, and he will find that he has departed out of that way in which alone God could consistent with his holiness and truth fulfill the promise He has departed, not God. And then you need to think about the context of Paul here. Paul had a young protege, a young pastor that he was training and helping, named Timothy. And let's think about Timothy for a moment, in relation to this whole matter of covenant and circumcision and and all that business. Paul's young protege, Timothy, was not circumcised as an infant child. Because his father was a Gentile, and his father evidently would not allow it. But his mother and grandmother were Jews and faithful covenant members. By virtue of that context, Timothy was a covenant child. And so Paul describes Timothy's covenant blessings in 2 Timothy 3, 14 and 15, where he says, But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you learned it And how from childhood or infancy you have been acquainted with the sacred writings which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. See, Timothy was a covenant child, but he was admonished by the Apostle Paul to continue to appropriate the blessings of that covenant relationship, even though he didn't bear the sign of the covenant. Until later, when Paul did that thing for other reasons. Today, we're going to baptize Barnabas Potter. Because he is a highly privileged child of the covenant. He will receive the mark of baptism. Which replaces circumcision as the sign of union with Christ in his law-keeping and in his death for sin and to sin, according to Colossians chapter 2, 10 and 11. The name of the triune God will be invoked in the formula of baptism It'll be invoked in the formula of baptism as Barnes' true identity, his true name, his true citizenship, who he really is. Barnes will enjoy all the great blessings and privileges that belong to the covenant people as he grows up. According to the scriptures, Barnabas, this little baby, is holy. The Apostle Paul calls such children holy in 1 Corinthians 7:14. Where he says, otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, because of the covenant relationship, because of one believing parent, they are holy, he says. That word holy here does not equate with the word saved as we usually use it. Or born again. It does not mean born again. Or regenerated, as we use the word theologically. It does not mean regenerated. It indicates the great privileges of being set apart. That's what holy means, set apart, from other persons who are outside this amazing benefit. It indicates a relationship to God through his people, his church, which must not be squandered. Jesus said in Luke 12, 48, Everyone to whom much is given from him will much be required. Covenant children are given much. Great blessings, great opportunities. They must not squander those blessings. Barnabas is the blessed child of the covenant, and will be required to bear the fruit of that blessing. How? In personal repentance and personal faith under the operation of the Holy Spirit. And I add for all of you who are baptized or who may be in the future You must also bear the fruit of the signs, the opportunities, the privileges, the blessings of the covenant. You must bear the fruit You who sit here today, by virtue of the fact that you're here, are blessed and highly privileged. But that privilege must lead you to personally turn from sin. How many times? Again and again and again and again. We do not presume upon the past where we walked the dusty trail or we said yes to Jesus or raised our hand in a meeting, we repent again and again and again and trust in Christ our Savior daily. And by that we appropriate the blessings of the covenant Amen. Lord is indeed much in every way the blessings that we have By the virtue of the providence of God in being born into the Christian church, the Christian family, of being instructed in the way, of being given the outward and ordinary means of grace. The preaching of the Word of God, the prayers of the people of God. All these things, we pray that you'll help us to appropriate these blessings and make good use of them. We pray that your Spirit will make our hearts turn toward you that we might apprehend and receive all these great blessings. In Jesus' name, amen.