Congregation of the Lord, as you can see today we begin our study together of the Heidelberg Catechism. There's 52 Lord's Days. It's meant to go through in a year. It will take a little bit longer than that for us. And how I want you to think of the Heidelberg Catechism is I want you to think of it like a roadmap through the Bible. If you've ever, you know, went on a journey, you need a map to guide you, it's a roadmap to take us through Scripture. Its job will be to guide us, but I also want you to consider it also kind of as a guided tour. Its job is also to make sure that you and I know what God's Word says on the most important and significant topics found in Scripture. So it's a roadmap taking us through Scripture But if you've ever gone on a guided tour, they're there to help you to understand the significance of the things. It's also to make sure we grasp the meaning and significance of all the important things in God's Word. Everything that you and I need to learn and to do to be holy and happy Christians. As taught to us in Scripture, this catechism is going to guide us through this next year. Now my chief reason for going through the Heidelberg Catechism with you, is that I want to be assured as your pastor that I've gone over the whole counsel of God with you. I want to be able to say I have taught them on the atonement. I've spoken to them about what faith is. I've taught to them about regeneration. I've made known prayer and the Lord's Prayer. I've taught them on God's law. I want to make sure I've gone through the whole Counsel of God with you as your pastor. And this catechism does just that. It is not perfect, but it is a tool. And it is a really useful tool. Very recently, my son William has been very interested in being a Marine, if you probably are already aware of that It has been over ten years since I have picked up a rifle and did any sort of drill with it And yet the other week with broomstick in hand, I was able to execute a right shoulder arm from the position of attention. Why was that? Because I had it drilled into me. Catechisms are good for that. Drilling into us God's truth. And so then, if I can put it this way, soldiers of Christ, let's review our basic training, and possibly for some of you. Let us attend to our basic training as Christians. And may God bless us this year as we go through this catechism together. Now, my exhortation to you this morning, congregation, is going to be twofold. First, it will be that you will be, it is that you will be comforted, as we read this morning, that you will be comforted. By your only comfort in life and death. Or to put it another way, that you will comfort yourselves with your only comfort in life and in death. And if you are already doing that, to continue doing that. Second, my exhortation to you will be that you will learn what is required to live and die in the joy of this comfort. And to get you, to get me to do these two things, this morning, congregation, I'm going to show you what your only comfort is in life and in death I'm going to show you how you comfort yourself by it, and I'm going to show you what you must know to live and die in this comfort. So these three things will be my teaching or doctrine this morning, and those two things will be my exhortation to you. Comfort yourself as Christians. with your only comfort in life and in death. And know, if you don't yet know what you need to know to live and to die in this comfort. As you can see then, Congregation, the topic for this morning's sermon is comfort, what it is, and how to get it. And maybe you are wondering whether comfort is biblical. Let me assure you that it is. Consider the famous words of Isaiah chapter 40, verse 1. Comfort, comfort, my people, says, You're gone. God wants his people to be comforted. The only question is comforted with what? Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned. That she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sin. In a word God wants his people to be comforted with his salvation. So comfort is biblical It has as its source the gospel of your salvation. But why start a catechism with comfort? Why start a presentation and an exposition as we will go in these coming weeks of the gospel with comfort? Because God did. Those famous words of Isaiah just read to you mark the beginning of Quote the gospel of Isaiah, as some call chapters 40 through 55 in the prophet Isaiah. They tell you and me what end or what purpose our God has designed in our salvation that we would be comforted. The chief architect of the Heidelberg Catechism, his name was Zacharias Ursinus. In his commentary, he wrote a commentary also on the catechism, and he says, I quote, the question of comfort is placed and treated first Because it embodies the design and substance of the catechism The design is that we may be led to the attainment of sure and solid comfort in life, both in life and death. On this account, all divine truth has been revealed by God and is especially to be studied by us. This catechism, the Heidelberg catechism, has as its very substance our only comfort And it has as its design, how it was put together to lead us to the attainment of this comfort. Now these last words I just read to you of his, on account of this, or on this account, what he means, on the account of attaining sure and solid comfort. All divine truth has been revealed by God. When I read that, I started scratching my head, and it kind of set me thinking, going, is that right? Because I I had never considered that God reveals his truth to comfort us. Maybe I thought that that was too man-centered a reason, right? Maybe you think that too. Our own catechism, by that I mean the Westminster, the shorter catechism, it starts right seemingly a bit more God-centered. About glorifying him as the reason for his revelation in our existence. And yet How can we glorify him properly if we do not take his gospel as our only comfort in life and in death? So then I think it is a worthy and it is a biblical place to begin an exposition of the gospel, the message of your salvation with comfort. What a God glorifying thought that God wants his people to be comforted. And More than that, that God has comforted his people, both in life and in death. So comfort is biblical. Comfort is a proper place to start when expounding the gospel of Christ. But what is comfort? Maybe you're thinking, what is comfort? Well, the Oxford English Dictionary gives two definitions of the word. Let me read you the first one because I think It is the one that you and I generally think of when we hear the English word comfort today. Quote, a state of physical ease and freedom from pain or constraint. End quote. That sounds nice. Sitting in our lazy boy. And as a particular instance of this kind of comfort, it gives, quote. Prosperity and the pleasant lifestyle secured by it, end quote. The rich and the famous, the wealthy. That sounds like comfort. That sounds also kind of like a health and a wealth gospel, doesn't it? And I know you're probably thinking that that's what it sounds like. And is that really what the Bible Is that really what God is after when he says, comfort, comfort, my people? Is that what the Heidelberg Catechism is after when it says, What is your only comfort? In life and in death. No, it's not. In the world to come. Yes, I dare say these things will be true God has promised no more tears. God has promised no more pain To go back to that quote, it will be a world of and we live in a state of physical ease and freedom from pain and constraint. But the Heidelberg Catechism in this question is concerned with the comfort of this life. And its death. It is not concerned with the world to come. So then, what is the comfort? What is comfort? Well that's the second definition. Well you and I generally consider to be consolation. Quote, consolation for grief or anxiety, end quote. That's the second definition of comfort. The English word comfort, consolation for grief or anxiety. And that gets us closer to the biblical idea of comfort for this age. Your sinus himself gives, I think very helpfully, a definition of comfort in his commentary. I'll read it to you. Quote: comfort is that which results From a certain process of reasoning in which we oppose something good to something evil That by a proper consideration of this good, we may mitigate, that is, lessen, our grief, and patiently endure the evil. The good, therefore, which we oppose to the evil must necessarily be great and certain, in proportion to the magnitude of the evil with which it is contrasted End quote. Makes sense. The greater the evil we face, the greater better be the good that we have, and the more solid and certain it is if we're going to get any comfort in this life. Grief mitigation, not its complete removal, patient endurance of evil Not its complete removal is the biblical idea of comfort in this age. For we all face disease, which had quite a wave of sickness to the congregation. We all face disasters, floods, hurricanes, other things, and we all face death at a recent funeral. And many other evils. As the Apostle Paul says in Acts 14, 22, through many tribulations, Must we enter the kingdom of God? Now, this process of reasoning In which we comfort ourselves, taking that good, opposing it to that evil. It's something you and I do all the time already. Why do you and I have insurance? The evil of diseases, as I mentioned, disasters and death plague us all. Insurance is a good that can help you and me to mitigate grief. Patiently endure these evils. It keeps you and me from having right to start over at zero. Or it keeps us from excessive anxiety when you and I need time to grieve the loss. I read about um preppers. Does that name mean anything to anybody? Preppers. I read about preppers this week and World Magazine's cover story for January. Bunkers, band-aids, canned goods, and all these other things, right? These are ways that people comfort themselves about whatever evils may possibly come upon them this in this world, right, apocalyptic or not. The idea is when the time comes, we'll be ready. We'll have comfort. And right, even the thought, isn't even the thought of being ready a comfort to us? Now, I do not have the answer. And I do not think any one of us, maybe together, but any one of us has the answer as to how much we should prepare ourselves for potential evil. What I'm trying to say is if you're a person who's preparing, I'm not trying to say that's necessarily wrong. How much we're to prepare, how much we're to get ready, I don't know. Maybe collectively together we'll know. And maybe you and I can discuss that after the service over our fellowship luncheon. Here's what I do know. God promises to feed and clothe all who seek first his kingdom. Jesus promises a hundredfold in this life with persecution to all who forsake everything and follow him. And eternal life in the age to come. I do know that God promises never to leave us or forsake us, so that you and I should not love money, nor be discontent with what we have All I really want to say about, if I can put it this way, non-gospel comfort, is this Who can adequately prepare themselves against death, the day of judgment, and the wrath of God coming to burn up this world and everything in it? What bunker can you build? How deep can you go? What can you have to prepare yourself against that? What comfort do you really have? In the end, all human attempts to mitigate the grief of our sinful misery in this age To endure the trials of this life are futile. Atheism, oh, we don't have to worry about judgment because there's not a God. Evolution, everything's getting better. Just wait a little bit longer. Buddhism, Islam will just return to nothing and go be a part of the one and dissolve into everything. Mormonism, hedonism, giving ourselves our pleasures, because what's the point? Stoicism, that stiff upper lip, just take it like a man, and every other satanic ism will prove to be no comfort at all. What comfort then do you and I really have, beloved? What is my only comfort in life and in death? And that is the comfort of the good news of our Lord and of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Against the greatest evil of sin and eternal death, God has given you and me and all believers. the Savior Jesus Christ to comfort ourselves with. You and I will have plenty of opportunities As we go through the catechism this next year to consider this comfort more fully, what I want to do this morning is to just survey it with you So we're not going to open up every element of the comfort, but just survey it. Our comfort as Christians begins. With not being our own, but belonging to Jesus Christ, our faithful Savior. Isaiah foretold that comfort. We read, For your Maker is your husband. Maybe more so in other ages than today. But for a woman not to belong to some man generally meant a miserable and comfortless life. For a husband could redeem her out of trouble. And that's why Isaiah goes on to say: and the Holy One of Israel is your redeemer. We cannot get ourselves out of our troubles. Belonging to Jesus is the essence of our comfort in life and in death He alone can save us from our sin. And this catechism doesn't even go into here, and that's why it said we're only going to survey, but then there's just the comfort of just knowing Jesus. Of just of who he is and living with him. Just he, besides all the things he does for us, just having him is great comfort Belonging to Jesus is also like the relation of a shepherd to its sheep. You and I can imagine how comfortless That as miserable a flock of sheep would be without a shepherd, how exposed it would be to every ill, to be ravaged and torn apart. It would not be able to sing what we sang in Psalm 23. There'd be nobody to lead it to green pastures. Nobody to lead it to still waters. Nobody to provide for all of its ones. Nobody in the face of his enemies to prepare a table. Nobody to go with them to the dark valley of the shadow of death. Nobody. Just left alone. But thanks be to God that Jesus, as we heard in John 10, is the good shepherd of God's flock. Hear again what he says. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life. They will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father has given them to me as greater than all. And no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. That's comfort, beloved. Always belonging to Jesus. Always belonging, if I could put it this way, to this herd of the living, this herd of life. The Heidelberg Catechism goes on and lists five benefits in that first question about belonging to Jesus for our comfort. Let's look at those. But also as we look at them, let's comfort ourselves by them utilizing this reasoning process. Think about it. What good do you and I have as Christians to oppose the evil of our sins with? The guilt of them, which makes us liable to God's judgment, the power of them, which we cannot get ourselves out of. The ransom of Christ. He has fully paid for all my sins with this precious blood, to the great evil of our sins. What good do we have to oppose to this? The blood of Jesus Christ. Who, as we read in Titus, gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness, and to purify for himself a people for his own possession. We have his precious blood. Right. We have his words. It is finished It's a done transaction. We have the knowledge that he on our behalf is our head of the body, of which we are part, our surety, which means his stand-in for us. That he made satisfaction to God's law for us, taking away the sting of death, our sin. He kept its precepts. He suffered its penalties in our place for our sins on the cross. That is comfort. To be forgiven. That is comfort. Not to be punished for the wrongs you have done. I know most of you, I think, have children. I'm learning what it is to hear that agonizing cry. When they refuse to turn from their sin and have to go into timeout or lose their toy. I I know it's funny. What is that but a foretaste? Of the wails that will happen on the Day of Judgment, and the comfortless state of people who refuse the blood of Christ. It is comfort, beloved. Priceless. Priceless comfort. You can't buy it. Priceless comfort. Not to be punished for your wrong. What good do you and I have to oppose the Satan's tyranny? You and I by Christ have been delivered from it. Delivered from the power of darkness, translated in the kingdom of God's dear son. We live under his loving lordship. Beloved, that is comfort. To be made citizens of heaven, children of God, to be beloved by the King of heaven and not a prey to a tyrant Satan promises good, he only wants to destroy you. To not be expendable, that is comfort, as so many citizens are in this world who live under the tyranny of men. Nothing but expenditures to the state. And it's comfort to be loved, to belong, to be cherished. What good do you and I have to oppose to the sorrows and ills of this life that come to us from our sin, from others' sin, from the common curse? Christ's constant watch over us. In his divine way, right, he bounds all the actions of his creatures. He otherwise orders them, though they intend them for our harm, he otherwise orders all their evil deeds, assuring that all things must work together for your salvation, for my salvation. That is come to think that everything must work together for your everlasting salvation. I ran out of time trying to find an illustration for that, to fathom that. There's not a molecule It's not a planet. There's not an evil thought and deed of man or angel that God does not divert for your good and your salvation What good do you and I have to oppose to the evils of doubt as Christians? Doubting our salvation. What good you and I have to oppose to the evils of backsliding, the most grievous evil of the saint. The assurance of eternal life by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit in the believer is God's seal. Claiming that soul as his, my property, does the Holy Spirit say? As we read in Titus, Jesus died to purify himself of people for his own possession. His property. That language there is the covenantal language of Mount Sinai when God brought Israel out of Egypt. My treasured possession. That is comfort, beloved. To be sealed with an indelible seal. That means not able to be wiped out or destroyed. To be Christ treasured possession forever. The Holy Spirit is also a deposit in the believer. Guaranteeing that the believers shall receive the full inheritance when Christ comes again. And you house sellers, you know how comforting it is to have a buyer's deposit. That is comfort that when we lose or have taken away the things of this world, Jesus talks about the moth, the rust, those who steal. That we have an inheritance, right? Imperishable, undefiled, unfading, kept in heaven for you. That's comfort Losing one inheritance here, opposing to it our eternal inheritance, to mitigate the loss of whatever we may have to suffer And in patience we endure whatever evil that is. We have the comfort of an everlasting inheritance. See how this process of reasoning works, right? You have evils in this age, you and I all face. It is Wrong to deny it, unchristian. God does not say, just turn a blind eye to it. He says, look at the comfort I've given you my people. And comfort yourselves with it. The Holy Spirit also produces in us true faith with all of its saving effects. Saving faith amongst many things comes with a conscience that is at peace with God. It comes with an earnest desire and a will to believe God, to obey the Lord. Against all the weakness of the flesh, against the persecution of this world, against the seat of Satan, you and I have Wholehearted willingness and readiness for now on to live for Christ that His Holy Spirit produces in us. That's comfort. Persevering in the way of salvation, going on that danger. Read Pilgrim's Progress if you haven't. Going on that dangerous journey through every trial and tribulation, being preserved by Christ. That's comfort. You know, what what if you and I lived in a different age and we had to get on the Mayflower and go across? It'd be a lot of comfort to know that we were going to get across. Even when the storm clouds come and the waves get high and wash over the boat. Think about the comfort Paul had. That boat was going under in Acts 27. The angel visit me tonight We shall not die. What comfort God gives to him if you've ever been out at sea, then this is the end. And yet God gives us his comfort So what, beloved, or correction, so that is, beloved, our only comfort in life and in death, belonging to Jesus. These five things that I went through. And that's how you and I comfort ourselves by it. We take what God has given us, we take our union with Christ and its benefits, and we oppose them to every evil of this age. And by doing that, we mitigate our grief and we patiently endure our evil. Kevin DeYoung, in a book given to me by Elder Spaulding, Titled The Good News We Almost Forgot, Rediscovering the Gospel in a Sixteenth Century Catechism. This Catechism. He writes, and I say, quote, we are meant, emphasis his, meant, we are meant to live and die in the joy of this comfort. That so few Christians do is a testimony to both how hard life can be and how little we meditate on what it means to belong to Christ. End quote. If that is true of you, that is true of me, that is unfortunate. God gave us Christ It is of God that you and me, you and I are in Christ. That we are united to him by faith. Our union with Christ is God's gift. God does want your belonging to Christ with all the benefits that come from that to be your only comfort In life and in death. And this first question and answer of the catechism is designed to help you understand, beloved, what it means to belong to Christ. So that you can more effectively meditate upon that. And by meditating upon that, comfort yourselves with it. But may you and I do that more and more. But what if you don't yet have this comfort? Or what if it is fuzzy to you? Is there anything that can help you to get this comfort? Is there anything to help you get it more clearly? And yes, there is. There's a knowledge. Of how great your sin and misery are. There's three things. The first being the knowledge of how great your sin and misery are. If you don't know that, you need to get that, because it is needed to motivate you to seek for comfort. Beloved, false religion is a testimony to the fact that the knowledge of our sin and misery leads us to see comfort. People in this life are miserable People in this life are looking for comfort in their misery. They want some way to mitigate their grief. They want some way to patiently endure the evils they can't get themselves out of. But second, you need to know the knowledge to get this comfort. You need to know the knowledge of how you are delivered from all your sin and misery And you need to know this so that you will seek your comfort only from the gospel of Jesus Christ. So you need to know your sin and misery, so you'll seek for comfort. Many people are at ease because they don't know it They will know it. But you need to know how God delivers you from your sin and misery so that you'll only seek for comfort in the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that so many have found comfort from Christ is a testimony to its veracity and its power to comfort If you don't know it, I encourage you to read Christian biography. You'll find they're as sinful and miserable as you are. Their life is as difficult and hard as you are. They've gone through many trials and they have found comfort by this alone. They belong to Christ Think about that song in As Well with My Soul. I can't imagine the agony. Losing my wife and children. And what does he sing? Oh, this thought, that not in part, but in the whole, my sins are forgiven. That so many haven't found comfort, though, in no way detracts from the truth of the gospel or its power to comfort, because God has foretold the unbelief of this age. But third, the knowledge of how you are to thank God for such a deliverance is needed so that you will come to get this comfort and also be able to assure yourself that you have gotten it. A life belonging to Christ with its benefits is a life of gratitude for the benefits received. A knowledge of gratitude is essential because God only delivers those who are thankful. He hath adopted us to the praise of the glory of His grace. Ephesians 1:4 But furthermore, knowledge of how you and I to thank God for his deliverance is needed to assure us of our deliverance. Let me ask you this question: When do you say thank you? Do you say it before or after someone gets you out of trouble? After. When you've been delivered. Gratitude is proof of deliverance and possession. By knowing how God wants us to show our gratitude for delivering us? And so that finding then that we are showing this gratitude. We acknowledge that we are certain of his deliverance of us in Jesus Christ. Just like we are certain when someone gets out of our car out of the mud, we say, thank you for delivering me. It is those who have been delivered by Christ from their sin and misery, and have Him as their only comfort that show this gratitude. So then, beloved, in closing, my only my only question to you is, is this your only comfort in life and in death? If it is, rejoice. Thank God. Keep comforting yourself by it under all the evils of this age and its final one. Death. Meditate upon this comfort. It will increase your gratefulness to God. It will endeavour you, in excuse me, endear you more to Him in greater love. It will give you peace and it will make you more dutiful as a Christian. If this is not your comfort, Learn how great your sin and misery are. Learn how you are delivered from your sins and misery. Learn how to thank God for such a deliverance that you may come to have this as your only comfort. In life and in death