As you get up in the morning, you may look outside and see how the weather is. I often do. You observe the world, that is the part where you live. Maybe it's a beautiful day with a fresh breeze, blue skies, dew on the green grass, birds singing. If you live like a few of you do near the Potomac River or the Patuxent River, you might assess the state of the river, whether it is calm or choppy. Or walk down and see whether the water is clear with jumping fish or such things. You will notice in all this the mark of the creator of this world. You will not assume that all this exists by some blind chance accident. It has the stamp, the mark, the insignia of the Creator, the order, the beauty. In Psalm 19, we see that God is creator. And those first several verses tell us that. Go through them again briefly. The heavens declare, that is, preach. Heavens preach. What do they preach? The glory of God. And the couplet, the sky above, proclaims, preaches again his handiwork. How often do they do this? continuously, day to day pours forth speech. Night to night reveals knowledge. Couplet again And this preaching goes everywhere. It goes into every language. It's heard and seen by everyone. Because verse 3 says, there is no speech, nor are there words whose voice is not heard. No language, everyone everywhere gets the message. Verse 4, their voice, that is the voice of the creation, goes out through all the earth. And their words to the end of the world. Then in them he has set a tent for the sun. He's picturing the way The world works, the uh the planet works. Which comes out like a bridegroom leaving its chamber. See it Before the dawn, see the brightness of the sky, and then suddenly the bridegroom comes up out of his chamber, and like a strong man runs its course with joy. Just a beautiful description of the revelation of the glory of God in creation, particularly of the sunrise and the sunset. Its rising is from the end of the heavens and its circuit to the end of them. There is nothing hidden from its heat. So the preaching is everywhere and all the time. The big picture being painted here of God's revelation in creation is an orderly universe. With stars which are, we now know, light years away, swirling galaxies, planets in motion, That we can only see through powerful telescopes. There is a creator. It is preached loudly everywhere all the time In large and large paintings. But there's also a smaller picture. There's a creator also of the hills and the mountains and the oceans and glaciers and the bays And, going down further, flowers with glorious colors and amazing fragrances. And hummingbirds. Our daughter Megan gave us a hummingbird feeder recently and uh two big containers of the stuff that you put inside. And so we have one hanging uh right outside the window where we can both see from our chairs in our living room And the hummingbirds have been coming. They hover and fly forward and backwards. Amazing fellow creatures. There are fields and trees and crepe myrtles blooming. And if you look in the water, especially around here, jellyfish that can produce as many as 45,000 eggs each day. I'm not a fan of jellyfish myself, but uh There is a creator. All this preaches that there is a creator And if you go down even further, the smallest things seen only in microscopes, where DNA and genes and proteins and microscopic organisms live. proclaim that there is a creator. It's a fact which everyone can see and smell and feel and hear. God created this world, and it's hard to deny this, but some do. Some do. The Apostle Paul tells us that some do, in Romans chapter 1, verse 18 and following. He says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness. and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth Then he says, I think in reference back to Psalm 19 and others like it, for what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. And then Paul says, so they are without excuse. They're suppressing the preaching of creation all around. Sners choose to interpret the data of creation by denying the Creator. Rank atheism is the most virulent form of this suppression. Bible teaches that God created ex nihilo in Latin. That means from nothing by his word. He said it and it became. That's the way it works. Secularists, especially atheists, say that from eternity matter existed by blind chance. This leads to two opposing views or interpretations of the creation. One view is catastrophism, and the other view is uniformitarianism. Catastrophism describes the alternative process which It's primarily responsible for the formation of the geologic strata and embedded fossils. Catastrophism teaches that the geologic rock strata were primarily the result of catastrophes. Like the worldwide flood in the days of Noah. Catastrophism was accepted as the only possible explanation until about the 18th century At that time, James Hutton and Sir Charles Lyle proposed an alternative explanation, uniformitarianism. Theory of uniformitarianism taught that the present situation that we observed was the key to the past, and exactly Came through a slow process that we see today is the only process responsible for the formation of all the geologic strata. Just long, long, long, long times. All happening the same way at the same time. And since this deposition of strata with the uniformitarianist theory was so slow, long eons of time were required for it to happen. This meant that the biblical beliefs about the recent history of life on earth and the worldwide flood were completely discredited. Uniformitarianism laid the foundation for and supported Darwin's theory of evolution, which also needed an old, old, old, old, old earth to be credible. So, uniformitarianism has largely dethroned catastrophism, and macroevolution has dethroned biblical creationism. Both of these new theories have become the dominant theories in academia and science. Currently, the majority in academia and science are clinging to uniformitarianism and biological macroevolution with all the strength they can muster. However, large splits have been seen in the ranks. During the last 50 years, an enormous amount of information has been collected that supports catastrophism and intelligent design. The eruption of Mount St. Helens, the subsequent erosion that happened, has shown that rapid deposition and rapid canyon erosion Actually occurs. It's a fact. It doesn't take years for these to form, happen real fast. Also, it doesn't take rocket science to know that life forms cannot be fossilized unless they're buried. Rapidly in a catastrophe regarding biological macroevolution No transitional fossils have been found. Museums, if they were to be found, would be full of them, but they're not. There have been hoaxes and forgeries and misrepresentations But evolutionists can't explain the origin of life. Evolutionists can't explain complexity or irreducible complexity. Evolutionists can't explain consciousness. Evolutionists have no way of even accounting for the laws of logic that all scientists must use to do anything. Many in science and academia have a deeply held religious belief in uniformitarianism and evolution in spite of all the evidence pointing in another direction. I think this is described actually in 2 Peter 3, verses 4 through 7 Peter says, They will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. That's uniformitarianism. Nothing has ever happened. It's always the same Catastrophism, though, Peter describes in verse 5. For they deliberately overlook this fact that the heavens existed long ago, and that the earth was formed out of water and through water by the word of God. creation story, and that by means of these the world that then existed was deluged with water perished. Biblical catastrophism And Peter says, by the same word the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. What did God say to Adam in the garden? In verse 17 and following of chapter 3, Genesis, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. That's a catastrophe. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat plants of the field By the sweat of your face you shall eat the bread, till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Paul says very similar in Romans 8. 20, which we read, where the creation was subjected to futility. That's the futility that came as a result of Adam's sin. Not willingly, but because of him who subjected it. So that's first half of the psalm. It recapitulates the story of the fall from Genesis and so forth. So now we have the second half, Psalm 19, verses 7 through 14. So we had the first half, which is a revelation that can be suppressed, can be twisted, can be Made to deny the cre the Creator, denies that there's ever been a curse, denies that there's ever been a worldlide catastrophe that might have shaped and changed things. Now we have the perfect preaching of God's Word. And it's in verse 7, the law. The law. The law here doesn't mean the Ten Commandments, although it includes the Ten Commandments. It means the whole word of God. The law of Yahweh is perfect. Reviving the soul. See, the fallen down soul needs to be revived. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. Who was the simple? In the Garden of Eden. Eve was simple when she ignored God's word so foolishly The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. Our first mother, Eve, needed instruction in order to avoid error. The precepts of the Lord are right The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. Adam and Eve took the forbidden fruit which they saw and delighted in They were expecting enlightenment. That's what the devil promised. Their eyes were opened and they were ashamed. Fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. I think this is really pointing back in a way to Genesis, to the fall, more to be desired. Are they than gold? What did Eve and Adam do in the garden? They desired. They desired wrongly, and they took the fruit. And they ate it with the catastrophe that followed. More to be desired are they than gold. The word For that word desired is very rare found in Genesis 2 and 3, where Adam and Eve looked on the fruit and desired it. Same word, thinking that it was better than obeying God. But now the Psalm tells us, more to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold, sweeter also than honey, and the drippings of the honeycomb. The creation still bears the mark of the Creator. On the Mercedes-Benz automobile, there's an emblem on the hood. Maybe it's on the rear, I'm not sure, but it's on the hood, I'm pretty sure. It's a circle enclosing a three-point star. World's largest luxury automobile maker Is recognized in nearly every country. But what happens to a Mercedes-Benz if it is crashed? It's hauled to a junkyard. The mangled metal, the cracked engine block, the nice leather seats, even though they may be torn or stained with blood. The quality paint job where it's not bent and crinkled is still shiny. And the Mercedes-Benz emblem will probably still be on that rack. Creation that we look at. Though it's fallen down, though it's been subject to decay and frustration, Still shows the mark of the Creator, the emblem of who made it. Human beings, you and me and others all around us, still bear the mark of the image of God. Fallen down, broken, subject to disease and death, we still bear the mark of God. But we have a redeemer. God is a redeemer. Because Psalm 19, verses 11 through 14 goes on to say, moreover, by them is your servant warned. Adam and Eve had a warning back in chapter 2, verses 16 and 17. Don't eat of the fruit. In the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. By them as your servant warned, in keeping them there is great reward. Adam would have had a great reward. Then Psalm says, who can discern his errors? You think you know all your errors? You think you know all your folly? I've discovered new follies. And he says, because I can't discern all my errors, declare me innocent of hidden faults. I've got plenty of faults, and some of them are hidden. Keep back your servant also from Presumptuous sins. Some faults are hidden and they overtake you in a moment, but some of our sins are presumptuous. I'm going to choose to do this thing, or not do what I should do and am commanded to do, presuming to know better than God. That's what Adam and Eve did. He says, let them not have dominion over me. It's fearful. Then he says, I shall be blameless and innocent of great transgression. And he pleads, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my rock as something solid. The Word of God is solid. It's a sure thing. Oh Lord, my rock and my Redeemer, one who rescues me. Romans 8. 19 said the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing, that is the redemption. of the sons of God. And the word picture there is of a a baby bird with its mouth open waiting waiting earnestly for its mother to drop a morsel of food. Creation, even at this very moment, is in a futile state because of human sin. Still nice. There's some beauty in it. It still bears the mark. Creation is waiting for human redemption. It is waiting for restoration. It is in travail as of pains of childbirth. Paul wrote this about A. D. 57, but it's still in travail today. Paul had met God, the Redeemer. He had met God who came down from heaven's perfection and identified with your pain and mine and the suffering of the fallen creation. This one who came down, walked the hot, dusty roads of Palestine, saw disease and death, got tired and thirsty and hungry. He was tempted in all ways, like you and me, but without sin. He cried in sadness over unrepentant Jerusalem. He agonized and sweat great drops of blood in Gethsemane. A crown of thorns was pressed on his brow. He allowed himself to be hanged on a tree, a tree created by himself, and done by men who were created by him. He bore the curse. The curse that is said in the scripture, cursed is everyone who has hanged on a tree. Isaiah says, he was pierced for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities. On him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. We all, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. The Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. So, Paul goes on in Romans 8 to say, what shall we say to these things? If God, really, since God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he also not along with him graciously Give us all things. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who is indeed interceding for us. People often note the beauty of creation and remark about what a beautiful day it is or what a beautiful sky or what beautiful water. We can draw them deeper. Because we can say to them, yes, it bears the mark of the amazing designer. A great mind who created this beauty, who made an orderly universe and a beautiful world, we can also say It is pretty, but it has also fallen from what it once was. The weeds and the thorns must be a part of the curse, you see. It's not like it was. Things get sick and die in this fallen world, subject to futility. But the created world is waiting for the redemption and restoration which we see coming. It's groaning But it's waiting for redemption. You and I were made for that redemption, for glory. This week I was uh talking to a young man who came to my house to do some work and uh We got off into the discussion about things w being hard and difficult in this world and fearful political situations and things like that. And uh I said I have little hope in mere political solutions to the situation. There will be another problem over here. It's like playing whack-a-mole, you know. Whack this one down, another one pops up. That's the way the world is. And he said, yeah, I don't know what can possibly ever come that's good. I said, I said, but God is in charge. God is in charge. And so I am confident and optimistic. Because this world is waiting in frustration, in futility, it's groaning, but it's groaning for something coming. It's groaning for, waiting for redemption. Your redemption, my redemption, the redemption of the creation is drawing near. That we can rejoice. I hope it was a good witness to him. Redemption is accomplished through the work of Jesus Christ on the cross. It didn't look like that on Good Friday. It began to look like that and appear like that on Easter Sunday. And when God's people began to see that Christ is risen and got to see him ascend into heaven and got to hear him say, I will come again, in like manner. That is our hope. That is our our joy as we still live in this fallen, broken world.