So our readings, we have two readings, one from the book of Romans, and then another from the book of John. So let's open up to Romans 1, where we'll read verses 18 through 25. Romans 1, verses 18 through 25. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things Therefore, God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts, the impurity, the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth about which about God for a lie. And worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. And now to the preaching text. Which is John fourteen verses one through fourteen. John fourteen verses one through fourteen. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me In my father's house there are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you that I would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me If you had known me, you would have known my father also. From now on, you do know him and have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? How can you say, show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words I say to you, I do not speak on my own authority. But the Father who dwells in me does what his works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works of the The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. O most powerful and glorious Lord God. at whose command the wind blows, and lift up the waves of the sea, and who stills the rage thereof. We thy creatures, but miserable sinners, do in this our great distress cry unto thee for help. Save, Lord, or else we perish. We confess when we have been safe and seen all things quiet about us. We have forgotten our God and refuse to hearken to the still voice of thy word, and to obey thy commandments. But now we see how terrible thou art in all thy works of wonder, the great God to be feared above all And therefore we adore thy divine majesty, acknowledging thy power and imploring thy goodness. Help, Lord, and save us for thy mercy's sake in Jesus Christ, thy Son, our Lord. Amen. You may have been wondering about that prayer for illumination. Um it seems a bit out of place in a nice church. Built on the solid ground here in southern Maryland. It talks about winds lift blowing and lifting up the waves, and of course, unless your house is on the shoreline and there's a hurricane making its way up the Chesapeake. And uh it doesn't seem to apply as much. I'm sure those who were in Houston and in Corpus Christi this past week had that prayer in their hearts as well. Let us pray that we make it through another season without that calamity. No, that prayer comes from the 1662 English Book of Common Prayer, as adapted from Thomas Crammer's 1552. version, written at the height of the Protestant Reformation. And the title before the prayer says this: the morning and evening service to be used at sea Shall be the same, which is appointed in the Book of Common Prayer. And these two following prayers shall also be used in His Majesty's Navy every day The one I read was the second of the two prayers, and this particular one was used to be used during storms at sea. And if you can imagine yourself in the 1600s in one of those little ships, which are minuscule. compared to the ships that we sail on now, you could see why they might want to have this prayer. You were much more at the uh at the mercy of the seas. And if you've ever been to a sea in a major storm, even in a in a large ship, even in a a thousand foot aircraft carrier, nuclear powered aircraft carrier, it makes you feel pretty pretty small. When you have waves, green water breaking over the bow of a 75-foot ship that that's 75 feet above the ocean, you feel pretty small. And so that this type of prayer makes a whole lot of difference. That, however, is not the title or the purpose of this exhortation, but it ties in nicely with the overall nautical theme. So to get everybody in the right frame of mind, I've come up with a little plan, actually, a little gift for you all. Have any of you and I know you most of you won't admit this, at least I wouldn't admit it, have seen snippets from the old Oprah Winfrey show? where she would have the the uh the m audience participants reach underneath the seat and they pull something out and they'd win, you know, a a major appliance. One time it was even a car and the the audience would go crazy and and you know, she would pull this gift out of her billions of dollars and give it to everybody. So I've decided to do something very similar. If you don't reach under your seats though because all you're gonna find, which is probably a good thing you're gonna find is is a Hymn or a Bible, but uh I do have a gift for you. It's a boat. Yes, each of you is going to get a boat. Now it's good, I can see the expressions on everybody's faces. The the people that have never had a boat are all smiling. And the people who recently gave away their boat or sold their boat are the little downcast and please not another boat. I just got rid of the last one. Truth is I don't have the money and the church doesn't have the money to give everybody a boat. So this is going to be an imaginary boat. So I want you to think of a boat. Now the the good news is that this boat can be anything you want it to be. It can be as small as you can want. It can be a little rowboat. It can be the Queen Mary. It can be an aircraft carrier. It can be anything you want. It's your boat. So you just imagine this boat. Don't close your eyes. We don't want any eyes closed during this whole exhortation. Later when we're praying, but Um and so you picture this boat. Now because it's a free boat, there's there's conditions that come with it. So this boat that you're in now is unfortunately out of sight of land, or maybe that's a good thing. Have you ever been on a ship where you were completely out of sight of land? You see anything, as far as you can see in any direction is water. Have you ever been there? You recognize that you You know, there's nothing out there to navigate by. There's nothing out there to to be able to look at. It's not like being on a road where you have road signs along the way, you have the road in front of you that you can You're just on this water. Well, that's the boat that we have, and you're in this boat, and unfortunately, um this particular boat is out is out of sight of land, and then there's another catch because um As a smart sailor, normally what you would do if you're sitting in this boat, you're standing there, you've just suddenly appeared or you don't know where you are, you'd run down to the navigation locker and you'd uh you know you'd turn on the GPS or you'd pull out your phone and try to get no that's that's not working. Or in the old days in old Ran, or if you're really an old sailor like maybe Jeff, um, you would you would pull out the sextant. You know what a sextant is? Yeah. A sextant is just one of those things that has little mirrors and little lines and you'd line it up with the sun at noon or you'd uh take a shoot on the stars at night. But we don't even have that. So our we're sitting here out in the middle of nowhere. Um and it if it had been Oprah's boat, it would have had all that good stuff on it, but it's not. So um we didn't have enough money in this year's budget cycle to be able to put all that stuff in it. So we just have a boat and you're sitting out there in the boat in the ocean So what do we have? Well, the sun still rises in the east and sets in the west, right? So we know that we can at least figure our way back from east to west. you know we can maybe set up a course to follow the sun so that we can head to the west. We may remember that the prevailing winds are coming out of the west, unless of course you're in the tropics, in which case there's a different set of winds. If you're really you know an accomplished Boy Scout or or Sea Scout, you might remember the stars. You might be able to identify the North Star and be able to figure out somehow that You know, it's it's sort of off the uh you know the the starboard bow and and I can keep it roughly there. Um but that's not a whole lot to navigate by. So things aren't really looking too good in our newly acquired boat. Now, if you were an existentialist, You'd probably say, why do we even need a direction? Why can't we just find happiness right where we are? Except that seems rather contrary to our nature. There aren't unlimited stores of food on and water on board, so we need to get somewhere else so we can survive. Our practical natures show that we are almost hardwired to need to the need for purposeful navigation to a destination. After all, that's how we've survived as a species for all these centuries. We all sit here today because our ancestors were able to feed themselves on a regular basis, thanks to God. So we have a natural, innate need to find things. So at this point, I'm sure you're wondering, how does this tie into the scripture readings? Where's this going? And the answer to that is you're now floating on a sea where the only truth that you can discern is general. Revelation. It's the sea where science lives. It's the sea where we all rely on our own wisdom and understanding. It's the sea where Adam and Eve dropped us off after the fall. It's the sea where atheists and deists try to live, because they can figure things out by themselves, thank you very much. Because they don't need an active God to tell them how to survive. So back up a step. General revelation. What's that? Well, we read about it in Paul's description in Romans 1, and let's refer back to that. Verses 19 and 20. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world. In the things that have been made. We can perceive that God exists because He has made it clear to us in the orderliness and cohesion of the universe that surrounds us. and of which we are part. We have an observational or a perceived understanding of God's existence because the orderliness that surrounds us speaks volumes against the chaos that we would expect if we were all if we were all perceived we were in place here merely by chance. Now I know that there are some Bantillian presuppositionalists out there in the congregation who are ready to pop up and say, now wait, wait, there's more. But that's that's for after. That's for the fellowship time. And I'll need So we're not going to go there. Suffice it to say that by itself our observation is the grandeur and the perfect synchronized beauty of God's creation. It's not enough really to make sense of it. It gives us a profound sense of truth, but it leaves us at the shoreline with only part of the story. It makes us ask why. And how could this all be? And it leads us to the question of who or what brought all this order into being. Of course, going back to the existentialist view, that The universe just is, and there's nothing else. But if we follow that through to its logical conclusion, our mind ends up with a profound sense of meaninglessness. Thanks be to God that He didn't leave us there to fend for ourselves. Thinking back on the text in Romans 1, the Apostle Paul explains that general revelation is the truth that we fallen men continue to deny. So to help us make sense of it all, God gave us a written word, first to Moses, and then to other prophets and apostles The question is, can we can we or will we trust in His Word and believe it? As Christians, we are called not just to believe in God. We are called to believe God. Okay, hold that thought for a minute while I read a story, which I hope will take us further down this path. Now I've been toying with the idea of of reading this in a Maine accent because I grew up on the coast of Maine and but I'm not gonna I'm not gonna put you through that. It's uh the his the it comes from a book called The Historic Shipwrecks of Penobscot Bay, a a waiting religious tome. But it's by a man by the name of Harry Gratwick. And it refers back to the pictures that I handed to the children earlier. So let me just read this. It's very short. On a pleasant late July afternoon in 1904, the city of Rockland left Boston, heading for Penobscot Bay under the command of Captain Marcus Pierce. a thirty five year veteran of the company. With four hundred passengers and a crew of one hundred and a full load of freight, newspapers described the graceful steamship as the magnificent white flyer, Queen of the Eastern Sea. Steamship Company. So I have a little bit of tie into this. My grandfather was the comp troller for the Eastern Steamship Company many, many moons ago. And the city of Rockland is actually this named after the city that I grew up in. And Penobscot Bay is the body of water I grew up on. Okay, so enough of that. So the best and my dad used to to to sail these up from the coast. What it was is you had the train back in those days, nineteen oh four, right? We sl had we had trains back. then but it was easier and faster to go by boat. And so there were boats, big boats, four hundred passengers plus a hundred crew. They would go up from all the way from Boston to points north, all the way up to Nova Scotia, if I remember. So the vessel left Boston on schedule at 5 p. m. on July twenty-fifth. Professor Robert Coombs noted, when I retired, went to bed, at 10 p. m. , the sky was clear as a bell, the moon was shining, and there was not a ripple in the waters. It was a most beautiful night. The situation would change rapidly in the next few hours. Early in the morning of July 26th, the city of Rockland ran into a thick fog, which got worse as the steamer proceeded up the coast. In an interview with the Rockland Star, 63-year-old Captain Pierce commented, it was one of the thickest nights I have seen on this coast during my 30-odd years of steamboating. Pierce added that they spent more than two hours in the vicinity of Monhegan getting their bearings and trying to pick up the whistling buoy off that island. Monhegan is a little island out in Pranopsky. Bay. And a whistling buoy, for those of you not as familiar with the the ocean, is basically a a a buoy that's tied to a specific place to a specific location. It has a little as the wind passes through it, it has a whistle and you can hear it even in the fog, although the fog typically doesn't have a lot of air passing through. When they finally located it, the pilot fixed a course for Whitehead Island and Spruce Head Island, which would take them to the Mussel Ridge Channel and hence to Rockland. At about 5. 20 a. m. on the 26th of July, the city of Rockland was groping its way through the Mussel Ridge Channel in a fog so thick that one passenger stated he could not see across the ship. Captain Pierce reduced the speeds the ship speed to four knots when it ran upon the upper gangway ledge with a terrific crash. Now a ledge is a big rock that sits underneath the water. And if any of you have um seen granite countertops, if you have granite countertops in your home. Ledges, all the all the ledges and all the rocks up in that part of the country are made out of that granite. I mean that's that's where the granite comes from. And now the countertops you have are very polished. These are obviously not very polished, these are really hard. And some of them sit just below the surface of the water. So if you remember in that little chart that the children have It has little water depths on there, and those are high, and remember the tides go up and down, so it tells you how far how deep the water is over the top of that ledge. Well in this particular case, he hit the upper gangway ledge with a terrific crash. The impact broke the main steam line, disabling the ship's machinery, including the pumps, which were unable to clear the seawater pouring into the hull. There are two gangway ledges in Muscridge Channel, one at either end. They are so-called because they sit right in the gangway or in the middle of the thoroughfare. The city of Rockland had passed Lower Gangway Lidge off of Whitehead Island and was on course for the buoy can of Ash Island, leaving the upper gangway ledge to the starboard to the right side when the accident occurred. There is deep water on both sides of this ledge, but even a slight deviation from the course would result in running onto the spread of rocks that extended out from Ash Island or hitting the upper gangway ledge. Perhaps to make up for lost time, because remember he was had to wait. The city of Rock Rockland hit Gangway Ledge. Captain Pierce immediately gave the order to stop the engines. I would never back off a ledge not knowing where I was or how much water I was going into for the vessel might have large holes in it and sink before the passengers could be landed. said later. It turned out that the city of Rockland was badly damaged on the starboard side, where a large hole of 60 by 20 feet had been opened up in the forward section of the ship. Captain Marcus Pierce then gave the order for the ship's whistle to be sounded repeatedly to notify those on shore of the accident. Hearing the whistle, the steamer J. T. Morris, which was sitting in Rockland Harbor seven miles away. Headed immediately for the site of the disaster. Pretty impressive in that fog. Captain Pierce next lowered the boat with instructions to telephone the company agent, Ralph Sherman of Rockland, for help. Meanwhile, the rising tide had lifted the city of Rockland, which was now filling with water, off the upper gangway ledge. Remarkably, the sinking ship proceeded to drift nearly two miles up the Mussel Ridge Channel, where it lodged on the grindstone ledge between the sheep and fisherman's island. On board the ship, order was maintained. Passengers donned life jackets. and six lifeboats and several rafts were readied. Many passengers went to the baggage office to collect their belongings as they waited for the rescue vehicles to arrive Well the good news at the end of the story is that everybody was surviv everybody survived. They were able to get everybody off the ship. It's really not that far to land where they are, so they could probably have put everybody in the rowboats, gone over. one of the islands, come back, come over, back and forth. A lot of times for four hundred per people. So that's the good news. So you might ask yourself, how can a ship's captain with 35 years of experience not be able to navigate through the waters he had traversed so many times? Where the and here's where the title of the exhortation comes in. Navigation. The art of navigation at sea is far more complex than simple example I showed the children earlier. The charts that allow navigation over water don't have the advantage of constant landmarks and terrain contours that overland navigation charts. They don't have roads and signs along the way either as we have with our road sign uh with our road carts. There are also added factors to work in to complicate the navigation solution. In basic navigation, we have time, distance, and heading, just like on the overland chart. But at the sea, other factors can throw the dead reckoning solution off. The effect of the wind on the ship has a factor that must be evaluated, and sometimes that's not clear. And the term for that is called leeway. It simply means how much the boat is moved across the water by the push of the wind on the boat's side. If I have a wind on the starboard side of the boat, it pushes me to the left. And that will tend to push the boat on something other than my intended course. So even though I take up a compass heading and I say, I think I'm going this direction, my actual direction across the water is like this. Now if the wind is in my face, it's slowing me across the water. If it's in the at my rear, it's it's accelerating me across the water. And in the stage of power boats, we really don't see that much. But if you have um A ship with a high amount of freeboard, and you can ask Josh what that is. Think of a container ship or a lot or an ocean liner with a lot of the ship above water. And the wind is constantly pushing on it, it's constantly moving across. There are other similar effects. They're called set and drift that will throw off the intended course. It's basically the the the tides and the uh Um and the co the currents in the water will throw the ship off and will move it along. And if you remember from the story, he drifted off the ledge and drifted two miles because the water itself was moving. There's also variations in the flux lines of the Earth or the magnetic field, so which but that can get complicated. The point is that just steering in a specific direction Doesn't get you necessarily where you intended to go. So because of this, the boat's captain must have a fit. Remember we talked about a buoy. They knew where the buoy was. He had a f he could fix his known point of reference on that buoy, and they can make that corrections to navigate along the intended course. Captain Pierce, the captain of the city of Rockland, didn't have that option on July morning. He was surrounded by a thick fog which obscured any option for a fix. This was back in 1904, so they didn't have GPS, they didn't have radio navigation aids. He had nothing but his dead reckoning and his skills as an experienced captain to go by. And he knew the risks. He knew the treacherous nature of the waters into which he was sailing, but he decided to press on anyway. The story doesn't tell us why he took such a risk risk except to make up for lost time, or maybe because he trusted his own wisdom as a sea captain. Maybe he'd done it many times before and gotten away with it. Whatever the reason, by trusting in his own personal resources, Without the assurance of a fixed navigation plot, he put his ship and the five hundred souls on board at great risk. So remember from Proverbs 3, what we read: trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In other words, trust in what you know to be true, not in your own limited wisdom. But hasn't that and that that been man's flaw since Adam and Eve? Okay, so at this point, you're probably wondering, thinking to yourselves, We've gotten a lever lesson in navigation. We've been put adrift out of sight of land in an imaginary boat, and now we've heard the story of a shipwreck, which many of you are probably thinking is where this exhortation is headed. Well when I was teaching young aviers to navigate and they figured out they were hopelessly lost, remember I showed you how the chart would spin around. What we did is we went back to the last point of known reference. In other words, take a place where they knew where they were. So let's go back to where this exhortation was still per. In John 14, 1 through 7. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house there are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself. That where I am, you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we don't know the way to where you're going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, You would have known my father also. From now on you do know him and have seen him. In our study of navigation, the title of this Exhortation, We have learned that to find our way, we need to know where we are going. We need a fixed position that we can use as a reference to help guide us there. God gave us this in His special revelation in our scriptures. Those of us who trust in this word can use it to take ourselves far beyond the perceived truth of just God's general revelation. The world, however, doesn't want us to believe in it as truth. It fogs our faith in the Word. Our natural inclination as fallen creatures is to disregard both special and even general revelation. The world creates alternate versions of truth. It tries to pick it apart and cast off God's word bit by bit so that eventually we disregard the whole of the canon of Scripture We saw ample examples of that in Pastor Tyson's Sunday School series on the OPC, in the history of the OPC. The new worldly interpretations of scrip scripture offered up by liberalism began to undermine the foundations of the gospel in the mainline churches. That line of false teaching continues even today. It's a repetition of the serpent's same old line we recall from Genesis 3. 2. Did God really say? So how can we know where we're going and how can we get there? Well, Christ told us, as he explained to Thomas and Philip in today's gospel reading. In verses 2 and 3, he gave us the answer to that question, where are we going? In my father's house there are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you that I go, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. Christ has given us the destination It's Christ's Father's house in which He has prepared a place for us. It's heaven. It is where we are headed if we are believers in Jesus. He also assured us that he will come again to take us there. But when Thomas responded with the question in verse 5, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus responded with this powerful statement: I am the way. the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. For now on from now on, you do know him and have seen Him. In this statement, Jesus makes the world-changing claim, a claim that is at the core of our Christian faith, that Christ and Christ alone is the way, the truth, and the life Many of us have this verse memorized, but do we really know how bold a claim this is? So let's unpack it a little bit. I am the way. The way. What does that mean? Is it simply that he is the path to heaven? Well, yes, that's true. But in the context of the statement, it means so much more. The Greek word John uses here is hodos, which simply can mean path or road, but it is also the word chosen by John and by Matthew to translate the Hebrew word derek. Used in Isaiah 43. A voice in the wilderness. In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. This is the quotation that John the Baptist used when he claimed to be that voice crying in the wilderness. In this statement, Christ is claiming to be the way prophesied by so many centuries before. And of course, the way was the early name for our Christian faith. He also claims to be the truth, and John quotes him using the Greek word alethea. Which means much more than simply the opposite of falsehood. It's the word used in Greek for absolute truth. It is the word John uses in chapter 1, verse 14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Full of grace and Aletheia Alethe is also the Greek word used to translate the Hebrew word emet, which is a principal word used in the Old Testament to signify truth and faithfulness of God. For example, does the word used by the woman at Zarepath in reference to Elijah after he had brought her son back to life in 1 Kings 1724? And the woman said to Elijah, Now I know that you were the man of God, and that the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth. And in Latin, the word Alethe is translated veritas, as in Pontius Pilate's famous statement to Jesus during the trial: quid es veritas. What is truth? Lastly, Jesus claims to be the life. And the Greek word here is zoi or zoe. Once again, the word carries greater depth of meaning. Zoe is not simply the word for biological life, which is bias, nor is it the Greek word used for mind or soul, which is suke. No, Zoe is the word used for eternal life. And it's the same word that John uses in Revelation 22, 14 for the tree of life. The tree of Zoe. And so in this statement, because it is a declarative statement, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Jesus identifies the purpose of the Messiah. And just to cap it all off and make sure there's no uncertainty, he goes on to say No one comes to the Father except through me. Unlike the claim of many liberal scholars, Christ claims not to be one of the ways to the Father. He claims to be the only way to the Father. In these statements, Jesus provides us that navigational fix that we need. His claim is unmistakable and unequivocal. Now we as fallen men must place our faith in it. But how? How can we accept the testimony of a single man and the answer is we don't have to Remember back to the reading of Deuteronomy concerning the testimony of the witness, and I'm leveraging off of what Pastor Tyson used in a couple weeks ago as we looked at the ninth commandment. It takes two or three witnesses to condemn a man to a death sentence. That's just two or three, and the authorities can exercise the highest power given to the state, the power to justly take things. Another man's life. You only need two or three witnesses. Throughout the Gospels, we are given eyewitness accounts of the deity of Christ, the transfiguration witnessed by three: Peter, James, and John. The feeding of the 5,000, witnessed by, well, actually more than 5,000. The raising of Lazarus from the dead, witnessed by Mary and Martha, and all the disciples, plus the mourners. The arisen Christ after the resurrection, which Paul notes was witnessed by over 500 souls This is what Jesus means in verse 11 when he's explaining to Philip: believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. Brothers and sisters in Christ, we have an unmistakable and undeniable fix that we can lay our trust on. And because we have that solid point, we can order our lives around it. Because we have this one point of reference. We can then have faith in everything else that special revelation of the Bible gives us. Christ, to mix metaphors a bit, becomes the cornerstone that makes everything else fit into place. We don't need to worry about the fog or the stormy seas that the world throws at us because we know where we are we are, and we know where we are going. Amen. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you have given us your word. You have Given us the special revelation that we can trust so that we can understand that the world is greater than simply what we see, feel, touch, smell. Or hear. Lord, you have reached into our hearts with your word. Give us the power to believe you, Lord. Not just to believe in you, but to believe you And believe what you say in our scriptures. We ask this in the name of our Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.