Leading up to this interview with Nicodemus, Jesus had chased the animal sellers out. The animal sellers and the money changers, he had chased them out of the temple area. That area of the temple had been reserved by God for the Gentiles. It was the court of the Gentiles. Jesus was angry, even outraged, that the Gentile area of the temple was crowded beyond any use by the Gentiles. That area called the court of the Gentiles was to be a small fulfillment of the promise that in Abraham's seed all the nations would be blessed They would be able to worship God too. That was just the beginning of it. So he was angry about this. The action of Jesus in taking a cord of whips and chasing out these money changers, these animal sellers This was an action that was appreciated by the Pharisees and not appreciated by the Sadducees. The Pharisees were a vocal minority in the Sanhedrin, that is the ruling council, much like our House of Representatives. The Sadducees were the religious liberals, particularly Annas the high priest. Annas had ordered that the market which had bed out on the Mount of Olives area be brought into the temple area, into this court of the Gentiles. In order to, I don't know why, but he did it. And it was an outrage to Jesus. And it was an outrage to the Pharisees. They did not approve of what the Sadducees and Annas had done to the temple court. So here it was that Jesus expressed his outrage in this violent action. When he did this, when he chased out the animal sellers and the money changers, he got the attention of many people. And he got some real appreciation and approval from the Pharisees. They were the strict religious people that wanted to keep all the customs, all the laws, all the cleanliness And they wanted it to be the way God had ordained it. And they now believed that Jesus was sent from God, and they wanted to know more about him. That brings us to our situation. Jesus summarized. John summarizes the situation Uh in chapter 2, verses 23. Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing. But Jesus, on his part, did not entrust himself to them because he knew all people and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he knew himself what was in a man. So some believed in him. They liked the signs he was doing. It's kind of like when you hear a political figure making big promises, you say, yes, I like that. I believe in that. And later on, when you find out that the political leader can't deliver, then you turn away and go a different direction. Anyway, this leads directly on to the interview with Jesus. Being visited by this Pharisee one night, night would be probably for secretive reasons. You don't want to be seen with this Jesus And it says in verse 1 of chapter 3, now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews, part of that Sanhedrin group This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you're a teacher come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Jesus answered him, truly, truly, I say to you, truly, truly always means amen, amen. Or get this, underline it, don't miss this. Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, in a perplexed, no doubt, how can a man be born when he's old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered again with that emphatic, truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born of water and spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not marvel Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. It shouldn't be such a surprise. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it is comes from or where it goes, so it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. What Jesus is doing here with Nicodemus is he is announcing to Nicodemus that it is time now for the new covenant. The new covenant that was promised in Ezekiel 36. And in Jeremiah as well. The old covenant was a great and gracious gift to Israel, but it was being Fulfilled now in Jesus. Jesus had come. The wind of God's Spirit was now going to blow in the new age. It was time. The time had come. Jesus is announcing this new fulfillment, not a replacement, not a throwing away of the Old Testament. Not a throwing away of the old covenant, but a fulfillment of the new of the old covenant. Now, I'm going to remember To illustrate, I'm going to remember when my son, some of you know my son Aaron, he used to sing in the choir here, beautiful tenor voice. When Aaron had a girlfriend here in St. Mary's County named Autumn, Aaron and Autumn found great delight in one another. And they eventually became engaged. Aaron planned the proposal Aaron purchased the ring after finding out which ring i Autumn would want, she took him shopping. And they were given an engagement party as a surprise with many friends and family. So it was a very nice event they had. They were enjoying their engagement and all the things, all the accoutrements that went with the engagement. They began to plan the wedding and the reception well in advance. But then Aaron had to go away to the Air Force for a time. In order to prepare his career and to be able to ensure their life together. Their engagement had been a great delightful thing and fulfilling in many ways And it gave them strength to get through the many trials and hardships of that separation when he went off to basic training. Then they had the brief uh seeing one another again for a short time. Then he went off again for many many months to uh technical school. All that waiting in greatly increased their anticipation of their future wedding. The engagement was great. It was so much fun. It was excitement. Why not just continue the engagement indefinitely? You know why not. Engagement is temporary. It is not permanent. And that's what Jesus is saying to Nicodemus, the engagement, the old covenant has been great. It's been wonderful. But now it's time for the wedding. And we're ready to receive one another and be united permanently. Nicodemus said to him, how can these things be? Jesus answered him, Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things? He should have understood that the old covenant was the engagement. And it was now time for the wedding. The bridegroom has come. And that passage that that Pete read From Ezekiel. I'll just refresh it to you. Listen again to this wedding coming passage. I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land a home. a together home. And I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols, I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. So there's some things in there that sound like a wedding, and there's some things that, well, I'm not so sure about the heart of stone and heart of flesh thing. The image to keep in mind from that part of Ezekiel, the heart of stone and the heart of flesh, is important to what's going on here. You see, we are accustomed to think of this as a metaphor of stone-hearted means hard and dead, while flesh-hearted means soft and alive. And that's a good illustration of some spiritual things, but that's not what is in view here. And by the way, uh I want to remind you in this context that There was no Ark of the Covenant with the stone tablets in the temple at this time. They had been lost long before. in 587 B. C. , when the Babylonians destroyed the temple. And it was carried away. The Ark of the Covenant had been carried away at that. So keep that in mind as well. So in chapter 1, Jesus was the word of God made flesh. Think of that in context with this heart of flesh. He is the word of God made flesh. The Ten Commandments, the Ten Words, were the what? They were the word of God become stone and placed in the heart of Israel, in the temple, in the Ark of the Covenant, which is not there anymore at this point. And there it was said by John, for the law was given through Moses, grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. The age, Jesus is saying, that e that Nicodemus should have known, the age of the heart of stone, that is the ten words written on the stone tablets and placed in the heart of Israel The Ark of the Covenant in the Temple, that age is over. And what has come now is due birth New life together, fulfillment, wedding, consummation, a feast. That's what's up now. Jesus, you see, is the heart of flesh. He is the word made flesh, the new heart of God's true Israel. Looking back to John chapter 1, remember, in the beginning was the word, all things were made through him, and then verse 14 says, What? The word became flesh. Jesus then brings the Spirit. Jesus brings new birth. Jesus cleanses. Jesus sprinkles us. Brings new life. And Jesus is saying to Nicodemus and to all Israel, who would read this later, you must be born again. The old life will not do. The engagement period is over. Get married to the bridegroom. The time has come. He is ready and waiting for you. And if you think maybe, Pastor Ed, you're putting a little too many metaphors together Just remember what I preached last time in the evening, that Jesus attended a wedding and supplied the celebration with abundant wine as the sign of Messiah. Keep that in mind. The word made flesh here, the wedding feast is on now. Just a few comparisons between the old covenant and the new covenant In the old covenant, the word, in the new covenant is the word made flesh versus the word made stone. The temple area of his body, he said, destroy this temple and I'll raise it up in three days. He's talking about his body. Versus the temple in Jerusalem that, again, I say did not even have the Ark of the Covenant anymore. The darkness of the past. Not knowing what's going on. The angels longed to look into these things. The people of God were waiting to see what these things meant. The darkness of the past versus the light of the glory of God in Christ Jesus. His own who did not receive him, the old Israel, many of them, versus the new who believe and become the children of God. All those things are in view here. Who is the Messiah? Who is the bridegroom? Who is the heart of flesh for a new Israel? The new temple? Who is it? It is the one who is speaking to Nicodemus right now. And he says in verse eleven, Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. The one who tells you heavenly things of a new birth, of a new life, of a wedding, of a union And Jesus said to Nicodemus, if I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? You've got to get a different mind, Nicodemus. He's the one who bridges heaven and earth, as we also saw before, Jacob's ladder, which was being meditated upon by Nathaniel in his dream that Jesus saw. That bridges heaven and earth, and he is the one on whom the angels of God ascend and descend, Jesus Himself. And he is the one who will be lifted up like the bronze serpent affixed to a pole in the wilderness. What was that story about? What does that mean? Well, in Numbers chapter 21. We see the people of God disobeyed God's word, and the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, so that many of the people of Israel died And the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, we have spoken against the Lord and against you. Pray to the Lord that he will take away the serpents from us. So Moses prayed for the people, and the Lord said to Moses, make a fiery serpent. I'm not sure what that would look like, but You know, you can imagine, maybe children could draw one, maybe. Make a fiery serpent and set it on a pole, and everyone who is bitten when he sees it shall live. So Moses made a bronze serpent and set it on a pole, and if a serpent bit anyone, he would look at the bronze serpent and live. So Jesus here says. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. There's the picture of the story of a new age, a new union, a much better covenant that Jesus is bringing. How is anyone born again? How is anyone born again? It is by faith Which isn't like the faith we heard about earlier in the passage, that just to believe for a little while and then turn away later. It's a faith that grabs hold of Jesus. It's a faith that leans into Jesus, that throws itself upon Jesus, and trusts in nothing but Jesus. Faith, trusting into the Messiah who was lifted up on a cross and believing that his His disgrace on that cross, his nakedness, paid for your shame and your guilt. Believing that his death took away your death and gives you everlasting life, as Jesus said to Nicodemus. Whoever believes in him may have eternal life. So Jesus is basically saying to Nicodemus, who came to him at night here, Nicodemus, will you stay where you are? Stuck in the old covenant? Waiting for something to change, waiting for a political messiah to come and throw the Romans out or something like that? waiting for another prophet to come, waiting for some champion to throw the Romans out, wishing for the good old days of Israel's glory during Solomon's time Or, Nicodemus, are you ready for a new birth? Are you ready for a new birth? Now, how does the story end? We didn't see it in the passage here. How does the story for Nicodemus end? In John chapter 19, we find him. In chapter 19, verses 38. After these things, Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, Asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him permission, so he came and took away his body. And now listen to this: Nicodemus. Also, who earlier had come to Jesus by night came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes about seventy-five pounds in weight. So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews. There's Nicodemus. He has believed. Even in the light, even in the face, I should say, of the crucifixion, the ignorable, disgraceful crucifixion. He has believed and he's clinging to Jesus, and he's giving up his treasures to follow Jesus even in the grave. This basic question then comes to you and me. We see that we are sinners, that we are not being transformed by our own efforts, by our rule keeping. Neither our good upright morals or our indulging in sins of the heart and mind and body are serving us well. We're getting a day older and deeper in debt before God. That's why we confess our sins in worship. And God offers, as he offered Nicodemus then, he offers now a new birth. He offers new life. He offers union with himself, the new The new center-hearted Christ in you, the new Christ in you, the hope of glory, the new eternal life, the unending life. Of God and with God, He offers that to you and me, just as He offered it to Nicodemus Because Jesus said to him, Whoever believes in him, believes into him, trusts into him, may have eternal life. Have you trusted in this Jesus? Or are you listening to him from a distance and thinking about it and maybe you'll weigh it and consider it later? Trust in Jesus now. Put your whole confidence in him. And have eternal lies