Psalm forty-six God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble Therefore, we will not give, not fear, though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea. Though its waters fear, roar, and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling sea-law. There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God will help her when morning dawns. The nations rage, the kingdoms totter. He utters his voice, the earth melts. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah Come, behold the works of the Lord, how he has brought desolations on the earth. He makes wars cease to the end of the earth He breaks the bow and shatters the spear. He burns the chariots with fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress And now Ezekiel chapter forty seven, verses one through twelve. Then he brought me back to the door of the temple. And behold, water was issuing from below the threshold of the temple toward the east, for the temple faced east. The water was flowing down from below the south end of the threshold of the temple, south of the altar. Then he brought me out by way of the. Fort North Gate, and led me around on the outside to the outer gate that faces toward the east. And behold, the water was trick trickling out on the south side. Going eastward with a measuring line in his hand, the man measured a thousand cubits. Then he led me through the water, and it was ankle deep Again he measured a thousand and led me through the water, and it was knee-deep. Again he measured a thousand and led me through the water, and it was waist deep. Again I measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the water had risen. It was deep enough to swim in. A river They could not be passed through. And he said to me, Son of man, have you seen this? Then he led me back to the bank of the river. As I went back, I saw on the bank of the river very many trees on the one side and on the other. And he said to me, This water flows toward the eastern region. And goes down into the Arabah and enters sea. When the water flows into the sea, the water will become fresh. And wherever the river goes, every living creature that swims will live. And there will be very many fish. For this water goes there, that the waters of the sea may become fresh, so everything will live where the river goes. Fishermen will stand beside the sea from Engedi to Englion. It will be a place for the spreading of nets. Its fish will be of very many kinds, like the fish of the great sea. But its swamps and marshes will not become They are to be left for salt. And on the banks on both sides of the river there will grow all kinds of trees. For food. Their leaves will not wither, nor their fruit fail, but they will bear fresh fruit every month, because the water for them flows from the sanctuary. Their fruit will be for food and their use for healing. The word of God. Beloved Congregation of Our Lord Jesus Christ. Florence And Michael have visited our southern shores recently, and they have been most unwelcome guests. Fear of physical danger, destruction, and even death are indeed frightening experiences. Most of you here do not know the extent of what the people of the South faced. And the effects of these events that must be felt even today. These states were swamped with a deluge that devastated much of their properties Water. Way too much water. Well, Psalm 46 proclaims a comforting, gracious canticle. The protection God offers his covenant nation in the face of threatened destruction, which would be the same as the wiping out of his name, reputation, and people. From off the face of the earth. That would be truly something unthinkable. And God will not let such occur The Church of Jesus Christ may have full confidence in the deliverance of his people from all harm, whether it be climatic, physical, or spiritual. Past, present, or future, that he does not deem beneficial for their discipline or growth and blessedness But there is an even greater danger facing the children of men, namely the final and utter destruction of the physical universe. This storm is held out in Scripture as the end of all things that the entirety of the human race will not There will be no evacuation, no escape, no protection. But our psalm urges no fear for the inhabitants of the city of God, the New Jerusalem. It is strong enough and fully capable of riding out this hurricane. God, the fortress of his people, is extolled in Psalm 46 And adored for completely delivering them so that they have no fear of any present Or future calamity that would threaten their well-being, or even their very existence, all through the mediation of Jesus Christ. Note first the church's firm anchorage, set forth in verses one through three. God. That's Elohim, the creator of the ends of the earth Francis Schaefer termed him the God who is there. He is the mighty fortress of Martin Luther's hymn. He is on Israel's side in the time of extraordinary trouble. The opposing kings that unceasingly sought to exterminate the Jews Are seen not merely as political enemies, they are in a metaphor, powers of destruction, threatening the ordered creation The ruination of Israel would be nothing less than a slide into the formless void that characterized Earth in the beginning Before the Spirit of God completed his brooding upon the face of the deep, when God said, Let there be. Light. From the formless void, God brought forth created order. The reason, of course Is that God's name and honor are linked to Israel's fortunes? Should the Jews be wiped out, it would constitute the end of the earth. Not just the disappearance of one small Near Eastern people group. The sea, you will remember, is throughout the Old Testament a symbol of chaos and the force of darkness, a metaphor of evil inscription. You might think of the Japan Trench, where the depths of the Pacific Ocean exceeds four miles. As the epitome of removal from the realm of life and safety. And in the book of Revelation, we are confronted with the beast from the sea. He is no harmless dolphin. You may be sure of that. So, in the words of verses 2 and 3, we have described a situation constituting worldwide devastation. Should that presumptive slide back into chaos actually take place, the apple of God's eye, beloved Israel. Will be preserved. For he is her shield, a very present help in trouble. Yes, God will not permit lasting evil to befall her Because he is Judah's protector. Now, all of this, of course, is contingent upon and hangs on the coming of the Messiah. Messiah of Israel and the Savior of the world, Jesus Christ. The Jews may not have had a very clear view of him. But he is most definitely prophesied in this psalm. For the threatened calamity facing Israel is but a picture of the end of the world. Indeed Then God will close out human history as the earth does give way Slipping not into the sea, but into the fire of God's final eradication of all evil. And the ushering in of a new heavens and a new earth. And yet there is hope For the Savior has no fear, for the church has no fear in the face of such calamity. God is her Savior And the church of both dispensations, the old and the new, may know that he will help her, for he is her refuge and strength. The Hebrew of verse one, a very present help in our version. May be rendered a well-proved help. God may surely be trusted. He has never yet failed to keep his promise. All these ones learned that well. Noah. Abraham on Mount Moriah with Ishmael. All Israel squeezed between Pharaoh's host and the Red Sea. The wilderness nation besieged by ravenous Amalek All these may be called into the dock to swear to it. As for us today, we all face a coming day of judgment. But God has ordained a fortress, a place of safety for his people when that judgment comes. And the amazing picture that the psalmist next presents is one that involves water of all things. Not a flood, however, not waters that destroy a river. A blessed river that brings salvation. That's found in verses four through seven. The church's joyful assurance. The psalmist proclaims, There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the inhabitation of the Most High. That's Jerusalem. Now, this is quite intriguing, isn't it? Because there is no river on Mount Zion, nor anywhere in Jerusalem for that matter, at least not a literal one. I've been there, and I didn't See one. But remember, this is poetry. And so in the mind of the psalmist, there is a river indeed. It is the river in Judea, wherein lies Jerusalem, about which our choir has just sung. Not the Jordan or any other literal river. Could it not be the river? That Ezekiel saw in a vision, flowing out from under the threshold of the temple, south of the brazen altar We read all about it in his prophecy, chapter 47. That one was a truly remarkable river. Because as it flowed eastward toward the Dead Sea, it gained depth as measured every quarter mile by the astonished seer. Ankle deep, knee deep, thigh deep, waist deep, chest deep, glove glob Then it was that God said to Ezekiel, Son of man, have you seen this? But there was wonder still awaiting him, apparently, for as the river at last emptied its torrent into the lake. Its salinity was miraculously changed. The water of that dead sea became instantly fresh. And all of a sudden, fishermen from Engedi to Engliin spread their nets to receive an abundance of fish. I also swam in that dead sea And I saw no fish. And there was more. The banks of that formerly useless lake became a fertile and rich orchard Yielding not only fruit for food, but also medicine for healing. All this Ezekiel saw, and we know, we know, if he didn't. What it was all about. God was busy about the saving of a host of hopelessly dead people Through the Messiah who would come out of Zion. Yes, a river of salvation flowing from under the throne of Calvary. And our Psalm knows of it too. For it is a river whose streams make glad the city of our God. Indeed, Lord, how lavish you No wonder that the anthem or choir sign is designated to be taken as gospel swing. It makes us ecstatic. Now you remember that Eden also had a river. Like Ezekiel's River, this one was an amazing water course also, defying normal hydraulics. For that river, instead of being formed of tributaries like Hampton Roads in Virginia, resulting from the confluence of numerous streams and rivers This river presented an opposite natural phenomenon. As it left Eden It branched out into four other rivers, extending out into the known world of that time, even to the Gulf, stretching out to the Orient and down to the African continent. For the fortunes of Eden would be felt worldwide. Indeed so. But instead of refreshment and blessing, The results of what transpired in that garden were felt worldwide. In fact, one could say that the fresh water became became salty, with a consequence that only death ensued wherever it flowed. But thanks be to Yahweh Sabaot, there is another river, this time in Judea, whose streams make glad the city of God. That's you, believer in Jesus. That's why the choir anthem is such a happy one. For you are glad whenever you hear of, read about, think of, or observe the mighty Spirit of God powerfully working in the hearts and lives of sinners. Why, the International Conference of Reformed Churches, of which the OPC is a member denomination, received not too long ago two new Reformed churches, one in Congo. And another in Spain of all places. And our hearts were deeply moved at the first-hand account to which we were treated a few weeks ago as Al Trikarico chronicled what God is doing in Uganda, even as we know what the Holy Spirit is accomplishing through our missionaries in China. not North Korea, Uruguay, Haiti, and more. Yes, the river. That river in Judea has flowed. With resulting life and blessedness. And salty, dead, fruitless creatures are everywhere being made over Over, brought to life and value by the mercy of the God of Salvation. Now we've traveled that watercourse through Scripture from Eden's sadness and loss, through the psalmist's hopeful assurance that there is a river of life, to Ezekiel's striking and powerful image. That was much more than a happy dream. But the saga does not end there. It proceeds all the way To the Savior of the world, Jesus standing there in the Palestine of this doomed earth and announcing, I am the living water. Whoever partakes of me shall never thirst. Jesus is the river of life Wherever he flows, life and blessings abound. And John receives this summary in Revelation 22 Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal Flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb, through the middle of the street of the city, also on either side of the river the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit. Fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. Let the one who desires take the water of life. Without price. Yes, dear congregation, there is a river. And it should make you glad Tonight. The waters of one hurricane after another will besiege our shores, but in all of them, our sorry nation is given a preview. Albeit only a tiny glimpse of the total annihilation of planet Earth that is coming someday When that occurs, there will be no human escape. But there is an escape that is divine. God is our refuge and strength Therefore, we will not fear when the earth gives way. All who are in Christ Jesus will ride safely out that calamity. And thirdly and finally, and briefly, verses eight through eleven say something about the church's responsibility. That responsibility is to consider the works of the Lord. The inference of the crisis, in the midst of which Yahweh is Israel's fortress, must be plain not only to the Jews. And to us today, but to all peoples. Surely no nation, no people, no one could doubt, though they might try, that the Lord God in Israel Has done astonishing deeds. The route of the enemy, whether it a historical political foe or a cosmic and spiritual one Or even a physical one to us today, as our bodies still suffer under the results of the fall, was and is indeed beyond dispute. But truly, he has been exalted among the nations. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge Yes, greater than the event was the divine power which molded the historical development of Israel And in the cessation of every hostile campaign that would threaten Israel's existence, the psalmist catches a glimpse of the future inauguration of undisturbed peace. When all implements of warfare will be destroyed. As Isaiah prophesied, when they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks Heaven, my friends, will be a place of wonder. Of all things, undisturbed peace, not just between peoples, but peace within peoples. No sin at all. Hardly imaginable to us, but surely coming. The point of the Psalm is plain: all attempts to usurp Yahweh's covenant purpose will fail utterly. All warfare that would threaten his plans must cease. Every effort to challenge his sovereignty over creation and redemption are doomed to failure. Therefore, people might as well stop trying because Their plans will come to nothing. People wonder, and sometimes we catch this on Fox News, when will these things end? The Psalmist answers When God stops them by ushering in a new earth in which evil will be eradicated. And there will be only peace and security. O Church of Jesus Christ, will you not praise and extol the name of God Yahweh Sabaot, the host of angels. God of Jacob, our fortress. Worship him. Romans 8, 31 asks, What shall we say to these things? We will, with Isaiah 2, verses 10 and 11, enter into the rock. What rock? The one that is Christ Himself. There in him is the fortress. Lawrence and Michael shrank into insignificance by comparison to the cataclysm that is. Coming, when the old world will completely pass away. What safety will you invoke? On that day. Flee to the fortress that is built from above. Take refuge in the only one that will never crumble. Stake everything and all upon the Lord Jesus Christ, who is able to deliver to the uttermost. All who come to God by Him. Amen. Let's pray. Thank you, Lord, for this welcome, help, and promise of your covenant deliverance. Of your people, those united to your Son, our Savior, Jesus Christ, us, unworthy sinners that we are, dead in our sins without you. We praise you that you cause this psalm to be written, and we sing it with joy and Thankfulness to you right now. Amen.