Well the first thing I wish to say to you this morning, congregation, is that like all of God's commandments, this one is very broad. It is very searching. And this is one I think we all transgress a lot. I won't be spending as much time uh this morning. If you notice, you probably heard it when I read from the larger catechism, and you notice what it says there in the answer to question 96 about God's will for us in this That not only does this commandment deal with not making an image of God, but it also deals with not worshiping God in any other way commanded in his word. I'm not going to, that would be a sermon worthy in itself. We call it in the Reformed tradition the regulative principle. And that means that God regulates our worship by his express will. We only worship him as he's commanded in the word. Not merely what he hasn't forbidden and it leaves us open to do what we want, but we just do what God says to do. That is behind this, that is taught. But I I'm gonna focus again just a little more narrowly on the issue of images and what's behind that and why God forbids that and some practical application for us today. But if you paid attention to the larger catechism, it gives an excellent summary of the worship God does require of us And uh you probably as you're listening going, Hey, that's a lot like every Sunday morning for me at Grace and Peace. And I would be rejoiced to say, yes it is. I like to think that those elements are what we uh do here in many faithful bodies Uh but continue to pray, you know, that we would worship God would continue to reveal Himself to us and and help us to worship Him as He's promised to write His law in our hearts to do this command them So let's take a look together. You want to turn to your Bibles? We didn't read it yet in Exodus chapter 20 at verse 4. That will be our our text for this morning. Verses 4, 5, and 6 actually what we call uh in the Reformed tradition the second commandment. Some some number these in other ways, but we refer to this as the second commandment. And I'll read it here. Second commandment is, you shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath. For that is in the water under the earth, you shall not bow down to them or serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me is showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. Just you know a reminder as we you know hear try to hear this and read it and context, uh God is giving this to a redeemed people that he had brought out and brought to himself. He wasn't giving this to them so that he would redeem them and so that he would save them, but he is giving this to them um as a way of life for them. As he's about to bring them into the land he's promised, and as they would live there under his rule and be a light in the nations, they were going to live a very counter cultural way, a true way to preserve the true knowledge of God. So uh one way to think then about the Ten Commandments Congregation is as a manual for Christian living The law of God, as we've been going through the Heidelberg, the law of God certainly comes in when it deals with our guilt, and we've already been taught that we come to know our misery as as sinners through God's law. Which requires us to love and we hate and we see that we are disposed to hate. And we've fallen under God's wrath and curse for breaking the law. But you'll also notice in the in the catechism, its largest treatment is given here in the section of gratitude. God in his grace has redeemed us. And made us his children in Christ and given us his promises to make us holy and new in him forever. And now is a way in which we show our gratitude for God for his grace, who says to you, I'm the Lord your God. And I have brought you not simply out of Egypt, I've brought you out of that spiritual bondage in Satan. I've brought you out of that house of tyranny, and I've brought you to myself. I brought you, delivered you, Colossians 1, out of the power of darkness. and into the kingdom of my dear son. And now here is how you are to live before me. But God has also, we know, promised the new covenant. His grace to enable us to do this. So as we seek to do this, we pray that we can do this because this is what Jesus paid for. He redeemed us. And therefore we pray, Lord, help us To walk in your way, but that God's law, as we're looking at it, is a manual for Christian living, instructing us in how as Christians redeemed by Christ and in Him And given his spirit power to live as disciples and as Christians. But what is this commandment teaching us? This commandment is teaching us very plainly that God forbids all making and worshiping Any idol or image whatsoever. He says, heavens above, whatever you look up in the sky and see Don't turn that into a carved image. And and the Hebrew here, Pesel, doesn't just mean a carved image if you took wood. It can also mean a a block of marble you sculpt. Or uh smelting gold, metal, silver and casting it. It's saying, Don't turn something you see in the heavens Whatever you see on earth, whatever you see in the seas, do not take inspiration from that as some form by which then you can turn into an idol to worship other gods, obviously, no, but even to worship me God forbids the making and the worshiping any idol or any image whatsoever. It is broad, it is absolute, there is no exception to the rule. There is no making of idols. There is no making of images that is sanctioned by him. There is no to bow down and worship to them or anything. This commandment forbids all image making of God whatsoever and making idols by which to worship him with. If you know the history of Israel, it didn't take them too long before they transgressed this. When Moses went up into the mountain, and he was gone for a long time, and they didn't know what had happened to him. And they went to Aaron and they said, make us gods. And Aaron gave in wrongly and took their gold from them and threw it in the fire. And turned into using, we read in Exodus 32, verse 4, he received the gold from their hand, and he fashioned it with a graving tool, and he made a golden calf. And they said, These are your gods, O Israel, or this is your God. The Hebrew is ambiguous because the most common Elohim is plural in Hebrew for gods But in the Hebrew language, if you wanted to describe something as very majestic, you would just pluralize it. And so we call it a plural majesty and God is The the real God, the true God, the only God, the one God is very often referred to in the pluralist Elohim, and so it becomes a question in context, does this mean gods? What does this mean God, Elohim? And here it means God because Aaron goes on to say, tomorrow shall be a feast to the Lord. And so they tried to worship God in a way that He did not command, making this idol, rising up early, offering burnt offerings to it, bringing peace offerings Sitting down, eating, drinking, rising up to play. It basically brought all their pagan revelry from Egypt and used it to worship God. And by the way, that's exactly what took place in the Christian church in about the year 300 when there was peace and Constantine gave the edict. The Milan that Christians weren't to be persecuted anymore. And uh a little time after that when Theodatius became emperor and made Christianity a state religion, Waves upon waves upon waves of nominal Christians entered the church and brought their pagan practices that the church is still dealing with and some branches have sanctioned The actual venerating of icons and worship of God by these things. We are very prone to worship God how we want. But we must worship God how He wants us to worship Him. A lot is on the line. In Psalm 126, which excuse me, Psalm 106, which recounts God's mercy shown through a very rebellious people. Giving all the ups and downs of God's people throughout the centuries. We read in verse 20 or 19, they made a calf in Horeb and worshipped a metal image They exchanged the glory of God for the image of an ox that eats grass Well that that's what's on the line. That's what Paul says in Romans one. If if you worship idols, you exchange the truth of God and you turn it into a lie, because God is only falsified through image worship He becomes his image, true image revealed in Scripture, becomes obliterated to us. And his knowledge is lost to us. And his knowledge of who God is is preserved amongst his people in their worship of him. Because we are only to worship him according to who he is and how he has revealed himself to us. Notice what it says here for people or when this happens, when God's people worship him in these ways. In unsanctioned ways, not just obviously the making of these idols. I remind you that as we go through these one as these are broad commandments, one of the principles by which we uh interpret these is You can kind of think of this as uh you know classifications for animal families. You've got the big thing and under that all these other ones. Well, here's the big sin. To make an idol bow down and worship. That's the big sin. But classed under that is all other self worship of God, will worship, where we worship him according to our image and how we want to, fits under this heading of making idols. And so God tells us what he thinks of that. He says, I'm a jealous God. This provokes him to jealousy. This is would be like cheating on him. This provokes in him that feeling you have espouses. Uh you might have, you know, for your other one when these things happen. This is how God receives That. This is what it does to our God when we worship him our own way, when we make these images and idols to worship him in that, we provoke him to jealousy because he loves his people And he will brook no rivalry. We are his people. He has redeemed us. And he wants us to worship him because as soon as you go to an idol, you've falsified him. And idol making, even in the good intention to worship God through it, you've lost the true God and he's become a false God. He's become something other than than he is. Notice what God says about it. Those who do this, he considers it hating him He says that he will punish it the sins of the fathers who do this on the children to the third and the fourth generation, those who hate me. That's why their grandchildren and and great grandchildren Or great grandchildren and great-great grandchildren. The point is clear that in when he says there are those who hate me, he's he's not saying I'm going to punish innocent children who may repent It can happen that you can have a sinful father and the child repents, the grandchild repents, and of course if they do that, God would not bring it on. But he's talking about often that sin can be generational They may be given up and left to this, and they will just continue on in their fathers' ways, down to the third and fourth, and they hate God just as much as their fathers hated God, and this punishment, and God will afflict them for this Let's be very clear too from God's Word that God still punishes people today for this sin. In Revelation 9, we read in verses 20 and 21, the rest of mankind who are not killed by these plagues did not repent of the works of their hands, nor give up worshipping demons and idols of gold and silver, and bronze and stone and wood, which cannot see or hear or walk We read in Revelation under King Jesus as these and I'm the one who interprets Revelation to mean that these things are cycles and they will culminate in something big. There's history to them, there's cycles to them, there's an endpoint and culmination, but God plagues even now people and brings on these afflictions. You can see that they might repent, but they wouldn't repent. God still and you notice the sins they're not repenting of. Idol worship. This is still a sin that God judges. He doesn't just judge it in time, he will judge it eternally. Revelation 14. Verse 9, and another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice: If anyone worships the beast in its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, he also will drink the wine of God's wrath. Poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb And the smoke of their torment goes up for ever and ever, and they have no rest, day or night, these worshippers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name. So you see what God thinks of idolatry. It provokes him the jealousy. He considers it those who practice it as those who hate him. And he will afflict that they may repent, and if they do not repent, then they will be judged. He will punish. Punish is a sin in time and in eternity. And as we heard in Acts 17, as Paul ended his sermon there, he commands all men everywhere to repent. That's God's gracious will as we preach the gospel and make known. You know, Paul went into Athens and we read, we didn't read that part, but you can read if you read the chapter. He was provoked in his spirit Paul had met the image of God, the risen Lord Jesus Christ. He had seen God. And he was provoked in the spirit to see all these false thoughts. Robbing God of his glory, empty, stupid, dumb, blind, nothing, and the masses led astray, and God's robbed of his honor. And out of that provoking Even that probably being jealous of his own God. And I hope we also have a jealousy for our own God in his worship. And a zeal then to proclaim that gospel of you need to repent of this. You need to turn from these things, and you need to worship the true God, because he will forgive you if you do. But when God says here that it is hating him, I want to look a little bit more at what that means. you know, hating him. Because, you know, people that engage in it, we we could think of Roman Catholics, we could think of Eastern Orthodox who really think they love God in this Many people who practice it, and you know the the pagans who probably thought they really you know loved God and they were shown heartfelt worship. And you know this this this this l this existed in Israel for centuries under Jeroboam When he wrected the golden calf and Dan and Bethel and the people did this for centuries. And they may have really thought, we're not turning from Yahweh, we're just worshiping Yahweh through this. And they might think, you know, we we love him, but This is actually shows hatred to him. Let's let's look a little bit at why this shows hatred Well the first thing this uh if you make an idol of God and you say this is how we interact with Yahweh, and maybe we should say something real quick on because it might seem strange to us, why why did the nations make idols in the first place It's clear in their own writings that they didn't actually think that was the God. They didn't actually think the Son was the God, but they thought the power of God was put in it. The power of God, as you heard in the catechism, we don't worship God by or in it, they thought that God was somehow tied to this idol He was present in it, and his power was available to them, and if they performed the proper sacred rites, they would be guaranteed the blessings, right? And so it was really a way to wrest control away from God, is why we make idols. To deal with him on his own terms. But that's why they had these idols. They would remember their gods, he would be present with them, his power would be available to them. You heard that inscription there, right? They didn't want to forget any God so they erected one and said, If there's even a God we don't know of yet, we w this one's for him So that we can worship him and have the power and blessing he would bring to us. And so you see why they made idols. But when we do that, Even in the name of worshiping Yahweh the true God by it, as Israel has done and as the church can do, and Israel did, we falsify who God is. We falsify God's freedom. You know the story of of 1 Samuel 4 when they encountered the Philistines and wanted to take the ark? And they brought the ark. And they made this great should they thought, why are we suffering loss? Oh we gotta go we we need to go get the ark. Our God's tied to that ark. We gotta if we bring the ark, God has to come up and God has to fight for us. And they gave that great shout, but still seems like our God has come into their camp But God has brought them out of Israel. Woe is us, but let's be men, because if we get defeated, we'll be slaves like they're enslaved to us today. And Israel thought God would fight for them. God didn't fight for them. You can't manipulate God like that. You can't tie him down to this idol and drag him along and bring him with you wherever you want, because they were in sinful rebellion against God. They're walking contrary to his covenant with him. And so we utterly deny the freedom of God when we tie him down to some visual image saying that we can guarantee his presence and power with us. We also deny the majesty of God. You know, we read in scripture and we'll sing in our hymn to follow after this. God dwells in inapproachable light. I I was on the beach the other day when the sun came out with my kids 'cause it's nice and you can finally start going down there and uh it was kind of that morning sun and it was I don't know, ten or eleven and a chopper was flying overhead and I took my hat, but I didn't quite shove the sun and I looked up to see the chopper and I was just like pain-searing blindness Tell me how you're going to image pain-searing blindness. Tell me how you're going to bring down the earth and carve and paint the light that God dwells in. It utterly falsifies his majesty. God even describes himself in the opposite extreme. He says, I am shrouded in darkness, impenetrable darkness. How are you gonna depict that? We're just gonna hold up a black screen and be like, that's our God. No God greatness, his unfathomeness, his incomprehensibility. Even when we see him face to face and the Lord comes, we're never going to get to the bottom of him. Our minds and understandings, yeah, we think like children. Now we don't know, and we know in part, and we'll know full then, but never comprehensively everything and say, I know God as God knows God. No. All this imaging of him in falsifying ways and takes away from his majesty as who he is. Thirdly, it falsifies his covenant. You know, one of the reasons they had their gods is if they had his image, then God would be bound to them And they would have a relationship with God. But God does not bind Himself to us through idols. God binds Himself to us through His covenant promise As we heard in Deuteronomy 4, as we sung in Psalm 48, O Israel who is near to the Lord. Deuteronomy 4, what nation has a God so near? A nation there's not supposed to be any image of him in it, and yet can proclaim Who has a God so near? I don't need him sitting on my heart in my house. I don't need him in my purse and tucked under my arm and carrying him with me. Because God's covenanted with this people. And he is near to them. And so we we do that because God had, as we as we heard in our reading, if Israel would by faith hearken to their God. Listen to him and obey him. He promised good and prosperity and blessing to them. They need not question, will God be for us and is God with us? He's declared it to them in his covenant. But we falsify that. Like Israel did. They wanted to bring God with them without living with them according to his covenant Without faithfully listening to him and obeying him. They wanted to get the blessings from him by just bringing him along in an idol. And so you can see when we make an idol Call it our God, even Yahweh's idol, that somehow through it and in it we are worshiping Him and the honor we give to it doesn't go to it, but to Him, we are falsifying God We are denying and misunderstanding Yahweh's freedom and majesty and his covenant nearness and relationship with his people. And so I think it is right then that he calls it hating me because it's not me. Why aren't you taking me as me? Why aren't you worshiping me as me, the free God, the majestic God, the creator of the ends of the earth, in whom everybody has their being? And who has promised to you and covenant to be your God. Why won't you take me as me? Why do you insist upon these idols? And Paul answers it definitively in Romans. Because the lust of our heart. But also just want to point out before we have some application and finish. Idol idolatry makes God absolutely unknowable. Think about that in in Acts 17 again in Paul's sermon there. It's kind of very ironic. This is such a perfect sermon. Unknown God. I'm going to declare to you the unknown God. He declares the unknown God, and you think, how do they not know this God? They receive everything from him. They live in him, they're not far from him, they're his own offspring, and they don't know him, and he put them on this earth to find him? Why is the unknown to them? They be wanted to be wise, but they became fools, became darkened in their understanding, and they changed God's glory into these likeness of fish and birds and creeping things and men, and said Here's your gods, and they utterly lost the knowledge of. It's very important in church that we worship God according as he's given it, because the knowledge of the true God is preserved by it. Have you ever thought that? That how I worship God is saying something about who God is? You go into pagan lands and you go to this is still happening. I was reading in the voices of martyr this week about the amazing, wonderful things God's doing in Nepal. But the Hindus still worship their gods in temples. And that says a lot about their gods. You can walk into a place and you can learn a lot about God by how they're worshiping him We can say a lot about our God by how we worship him today. But what does this then mean for us in maybe some some more practical ways that God here forbids All making and worshiping idols and images of him whatsoever Well, firstly it means that Roman Catholic teaching, Greek Orthodox teaching and practice of venerating icons is idolatry, it's wrong, and it's sinful. And you shouldn't participate in it. You know, in 2 Kings we read about God gave the brazen serpent as a wonderful thing for his people to look to and be saved You know what they did to that? They began to burn incense to it. And Hezekiah had to come in and they gave it a name, the Neshutan, or something means this is the bronze thing. And Hezekiah to come in and destroy it because as I said to you, I I I don't I'm not an expert on this, but I read a couple different sources this week on sort of how did this come into the church. Venerating icons and a bit of the history of it. And everybody I read traces it back to, well, paganism. Pure and simple. Nominal Christians and church leaders capitulating and giving in to the wants of people, often maybe just bringing in an image, an innocent image frontal piece, some mosaic, some fresco, which just turns into then we we worship and we have to have it. The the Second Council of Nicaea in 782, the Greek Orthodox says you must worship God through these. Not optionally. You have to. Just want you to be aware of what's out there because we live in a time where people want Deepness and history. And they want to find a church that's rooted and grounded. And I have only ever found and I say before God to you. As I've become a Reformed Christian and have studied God's Word and read it and read church history, I'm amazed at how the Protestant Reformed Church is the historical church. And it is rooted and it is grounded all the way back to the beginning. And those practices are not. Plain and simple. Well, what about pictures of Jesus or All the Protestant church agrees, if anybody makes a picture of Jesus and bows down and worship it through, that's idolatry. The Luther and others thought, though maybe we should leave, uh we should have pictures of Jesus for a teaching purpose. Or just an ornate reason and have them to adore in our places of worship. But I would hope to convince you that even that is not good. As it says here in our catechism very helpfully, it's being wiser than God, and it's really playing with fire. It's a temptation to become an idol. Let me turn and read to you a couple passages to get the sense of what God thinks about those who say we need these to instruct people with. Jeremiah 10, verse 8, we read, They are both stupid and foolish, the instruction of idols is but wood. It's a vain thing. The prophet Habakkuk, God says through the Prophet Habakkuk What prophet is an idol when its maker has shaped it, a metal image, a teacher of lies Or its maker trust in his own creation when he makes speechless idols. And I know you'd say, but that is not at all what I'm doing with my story Bible. But let me just ask you this question. Let's just say you had a story picture of Jesus with no words. It's not a story Bible And you exposed it to somebody who didn't know a lick of Christianity. And you showed them this picture. Who what what do you think they would say that is? That's a man. And you just taught a lie, because that's God in the flesh. The only way you and I are accustomed to seeing this certain Western picture of Jesus, because we've been accustomed to think that's him and it's not him, and you and I know the Bible story of the incarnation, but if you just give a picture with no words, you're teaching lies. And then we're challenging God and His wisdom. Why didn't He give us an illustrated children's Bible? I just want you to reflect and think. Because again, God takes his worship serious. And the only reason you could want it is because you want it, not because God's commanded it And then it just becomes a matter of, well, why do you want it? Is the scripture not good enough? Can we not paraphrase it enough ourselves and bring it down in mere words? Can we not paint a good enough image by it? Do we need to have this? And what are we training ourselves to? And where do you put the checks on? And where does this get to? And just the simple saying of Jesus is God, beloved. He's God. And if you're saying, well, I'm just picturing his humanity, well, sorry, that's heresy. He's never been just a mere man. He's God in the flesh. Now, I'm gonna stand here and tell you the same thing. I've looked at children's Bibles with them, especially like the little cartoon ones, which are trying to do a much better job of showing them as a Middle Eastern Jesus. I read him and I thought, wow, that was a great reminder of the incarnation, and it was somewhat edifying. But beloved, we cannot say it's edifying, so it's allowable. Could you imagine where that would get to? Where do we stop that? Because I'm going to come to your house and you're going to say it and it's sin and you're going to say, well, it's edifying me. Oh gosh. How do I argue out of that? It's edifying to you, therefore we have to be able to do it. I'm sure they thought it was edifying to worship with a golden calf in Bethel, Dan. And to pray to the bronze thing and light things for it. I'm I I'm sure the the the priests and the Greek Orthodox will say this is edifying to me. Well God didn't command it. So we just need to think. We just need to be careful with what we're doing and how we treat God's worship. Now, John Calvin rightly said, our hearts and minds are idol factories. This commandment that's forbidding the physical making of idols and bowing down is just as much Forbidding that we would make a God in our mind, a God after our own image, right? He's only in the liberal, gentle Jesus, who's one not even really divine, but doesn't have any really wrath and punishment, right? That can that can form a wrong image of God, and then we can worship that and not be the true God. Or even go on the other extreme And only preach the wrath of God and the destruction of sinners. And you can paint a distorted view of God as well. You could be in a church that only ever sings hymns. I don't think hymns are as balanced as psalms. I'm not saying you should only sing psalms. I'm saying Psalter. You have an inspired songbook. Preserves a whole balance of who God. I'll just begin. This is another historical thing. We've gotten to a thing today in Protestantism where most churches have never even seen a Psalter. That is historically an anomaly Read through the Psalter and see who you see of God there and read through a hymnal. See if you see the same thing. Think about the hymns you generally hear when you go into certain churches and things. And the praise that that the people of God give to God. Because we praise him for who he is. It's part of our worship. I hope I can get into you. That's one of the easiest things in the world, to be an idolater. And that's why we need to constantly be careful about this. I think one thing that can help us is uh well let me say this first. Do you know what an iconic class is that's someone who destroys idols? Do you know what the great iconic last is? It's God's Word Churches that have expository ministries that go from the beginning of a book to the end are better prepared to combat this. But they're not immune to it. Again, churches I think that use assault, they're not immune to it. It's not saying, hey, we're going to be immune to this if we just do all these things. It's saying There are definitely things we can do to help do that as God's inspired word as we hear God wants his people instructed by the living preaching He doesn't want us just to read Gustin' sermons. You could to be edifying. He wants a man today preaching in today's world, to today's people to instruct them. By the living preaching of God's Word. Because you know, one of the things about sermon is a pastor might get it wrong one week, he can go back and correct it next week. He can fix that image of God that he gave to the people Especially if there's a kind soul in the s in the in the in the service can say, you kind of messed that one up. But you can say there's that Ananias and Sapphire, wasn't it them who pulled Apollo apart and say, hey, there's a little bit more doctrine you need to to get yourself squared away. But you can correct those. Put a thing down to paper and stone. It's quite rigid. Churches that never change their liturgy, you can become this is the only way we can worship God to this form and this manner and this is angry. Is God tied down to this? No. But we can do that. I think this is the only way we can approach we I've just given you all the ways it is possible to do this. You could sit in a whitewashed room And still say this is the only place God can meet with us. And when I pray, I have to look at that corner because I get I get devotional feelings by looking at that corner. God's word and responding to God's word is how we are to worship God The good news of this though is that God can be worshipped rightly. I know we've heard a lot of don't do this and not do that. That's to guard God's worship. But the good news is, beloved, he he can be worshiped rightly. Jesus said he is seeking such to do it. It's an invitation to come to the Lord Jesus and believe on him. know him and and receive from him the Holy Spirit and in the power of the Spirit and in Christ you can worship God in any place You know, Paul went into um we forget the name of the town now, but it's in Acts 14, and he healed a man. And they said, the gods have come down in the likeness of men, and they began to sacrifice to him. And he said, brothers, we're bringing you the good news. Turn from these idols to the living God. It's good news that God can be worshiped. As the Christian church, we're bringing the good news of who God is to the world and encouraging people Worship this God. Worship the God who's given his son for you to die for you. Worship the God who lives in heaven as the God of grace who is so majestic in majesty. Worship him As I mentioned, but will say, there's just one image that we are allowed to bow down and worship, and that's Christ. He is the image of the invisible God. We all have to wait to see him and not try to do it now. We'll have to wait to see him so we can bow before him and worship him and thank him for his grace But we can now at His name, when His name and His deeds and His power is proclaimed and His greatness fall on our faces and worship Him, but it's His name that we are bowing before and worshiping. Well, congregation, then I close with this. God forbid the making and worshiping of all idols and images whatsoever. They belie who he is. So let's do our part to promote the true knowledge and worship of God according to Scripture. And to remove false worship where we can, because God has promised a blessing upon those who love Him and keep His commandments. And let our response then be to this commandment that I will not make an image of you and bow down before you But I will only bow down and worship you as you have revealed yourself in Scriptures, my Lord and my God. Amen.