You shall have no other gods before me. That's our text this morning. You shall have no other gods before before me. Now I I know all of you, probably besides our littlest ones here, know this as the first commandment, and hopefully you've You you memorize it and can say it. It's the first word of the Decalogue, the ten words that God gives at Mount Sinai And I want to say this before we start that though in a way as we look at the Ten Commandments over the coming weeks, we will in some way right be going back to Sinai, but we will always remember where we have come and where God has brought us in the new covenant through the Lord Jesus to Mount Zion. And to the city of the living God, into heavenly Jerusalem, where the mediator there is, the one who did obey this perfectly for us. Who is that man who ascended on high because he has a heart pure? And he doesn't worship idols and vain things. And when the devil tempted him, he said, You shall worship and serve the Lord your God only. And he demonstrated that even on the cross. And so though we're going to look there and be at Sinai, if you will, we know that where we have come by God's grace is to the heavenly city in Jerusalem where Christ mediates for us by his shed blood as the one who who paid the penalty for our sins and assures us the grace as God is working in our hearts to keep these commandments. And to live this way. But we do want to remember, because we've gone through this in Hebrews, that our God does, He still is a consuming fire. And so we must uh worship him and serve him with reverence and fear. And so we must take this command very seriously. You shall have no other gods before me. Now, I think one way you you could preach this is uh just go through our larger catechism. And the reason I read it to you there is so that might be in your mind and you might see something of what we learned last week of the exceeding breath of God's Word. That it expands into many things spiritually into the way we think and act and covering a very broad breadth of our behavior. But I'm going to just try to focus on the kernel this morning, just to get at the heart of what is at the heart and center of this commandment. But do highly commend to the larger catechism for your own reading and use and homes and heads of households to you know take the family through those things every now and again and the walk through because We can seem to sin can creep in and things can happen if we don't check ourselves we're not aware of and those are useful tools to bring us back to to this commandment So you shall have the other gods before me. Now, I think to hear this commandment properly, which is what we want to do this morning, we've got to hear it in its context, which means we've got to look first and foremost here at verse 2 So verse 2 in chapter 20, which says, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. out of the house of slavery. That is the context here. Now it is debated. Is this part of the first word or is this the preamble It's not savingly significant. It's God's word and what's what he says here. But this is the context in which we are to hear not only the first commandment, but all of the commandments. This was the context God gave when he first spoke it to our our our spiritual forefathers, the the the Jewish people, as we now hear it in Christ I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. Now, when God says this word to his people, he's doing two things here. He is first identifying himself to them, I, right? That's a personal pronoun, this is who I am, I. But he's also then by identifying himself to them, I am the Lord your God, he is establishing his relationship with them Who he is to them and also who they are to him. I am the Lord your God who brought you out to the land of Egypt, out of the house of sleep. So that's the first thing he's doing. Here is who I am to you, my people. Here's the relationship that I have to you as your God and Redeemer and Maker. But secondly, he is establishing by this, by this identification of himself to them. Which establishes his relationship to them, who he is to them and who they are to him, he is giving them then the proper motivation. For their keeping of this. That it is grounded upon his electing love and favor to them as their God. So when he identifies himself to them as the Lord your God and who brought you out And establishing that relationship, that gracious relationship with his people, is in also giving them the proper motivation. to keep these commandments and to obey them and that is his free favor, his love, his redeeming work on their behalf, which we heard Joshua recounts a lot of it, which if you read through the Old Testament, it is regularly to be recounted to the people Which is something right we gather weekly to regularly remember what our God has done for us in grace, because that establishes the relationship about which we then give our hearts to him And obedient love and fellowship and friendship with him. Now, just uh let's look a little bit closer about the relationship that he establishes The first part of that relationship is he says, I am the Lord or Yahweh or I am, and he's establishing there his relationship to them as creator. Yahweh signifies God's sovereignty, his supreme authority, his freedom of action to do as He will. It also signifies his self-existence. I am who I am. He is undetermined by anything outside of himself He is, who he gloriously, eternally has been, will be, and is. But it also makes known to them that he is the source of their life and their being, that all things, life and breath, come to us from the one who is I am. Out of his being, his eternal self-existent being comes our being and our existence. So he first and foremost establishes a relationship to them as creator and maker. And that, of course, establishes his rights. and puts us in a in a where we should be by creation with him. But then he goes on and he says these next words, you're God. And here he is establishing his relationship right as our Redeemer, our covenant Lord. God did not begin recently with this people to be their God, but he had been their God hundreds of years before When he came to their father Abraham, and gave Abraham the covenant of circumcision, and said to Abraham, Abraham, I will be a God to you, and to your seed after you. And that is God, that's why God says to his children, many centuries later, as he's brought them out. I'm your God From the God who made a covenant to your father. And here then he is showing what it means as he establishes our relationship with us. He's a faithful God He keeps his word. He keeps his covenant with us. He keeps his promise. He remembers his mercy with us. God also showed himself to be their God in the Exodus. When he brought them out, they were in miserable bondage, forced to labor and build Pharaoh's city of man. propagate his false religion and his idolatry and give their blood, sweat, and tears to that false kingdom. And were in horrible subjection and even have their children exposed to death because of his wickedness. And God rescued them. As he promised from that. And so in his in their Exodus, they're being brought out of that death, brought to him life because God's presence is life. I heard a phrase recently that I really enjoyed. Life-yielding fellowship with God. When you are in fellowship with God, that's what produces life And he's bringing him that to himself. And so as their Redeemer who has purchased them, ransomed them, right, by the firstborn of Egypt, giving a a a Passover lamb in their place for their sins. making atonement for them, which you know points to uh its fulfillment in the Lord Jesus Christ. That he has redeemed them and they belong to him as his people. So that's the relationship he's establishing with them there. You're at Sinai. I am your God. You belong to me. And then with belonging to me becomes privilege. Right? And he's beginning then to talk about you'll be my treasured possession You'll be my shining jewel in the world as I'm now going to make known to you the way that you are to live as my people, to be a bright and shining light. I have not set my love on anybody else like this. I've not privileged any other people but you. And that's what's being preached to them there at Sinai. God's electing love, God's faithfulness to them, but they're being honored and distinguished amongst any other people and raised up and given this calling, of which then God says, you shall have no other gods before me. So it is by an act of the Lord's faithful love, by an act of redemption, that he establishes this relationship Now that really is the same as we have today in the Lord Jesus Christ. As we've been looking at already, you could remember several weeks ago in Titus, the Lord Jesus gave himself for us. To redeem us from all iniquity. Right? The Exodus in Egypt typified the true Exodus out of that spiritual bondage that we were in. As we are enslaved to our lust, slave to sin, and kept in Satan's house and tyranny, that God has rescued us out through the Lord Jesus, who redeemed us with his blood and purified for himself a people, right? Zealous of good works. These good works here, beginning with, you shall have no other God before me Well the motivation then that he establishes here from that relationship, right, is one of redeeming love, but one of liberty too. He set them free. I'm set free. Hallelujah. Let's keep this law because I've been set free. This is as James will say, a law of liberty. It's given to a redeemed and Free people as a way of life to walk in. It's not put upon them as bondage. But it is the privilege of their status as a liberated people here now Because I I say to you, I'm not gonna go into it, but the true bondage is sin. I know the world will continue to preach to you. Take off Jesus' yoke so you can be free. You will fall into horrible bondage. To whatever lust you're giving into. It will enslave you and dominate and control your life, and it will wreak devastation upon you and those whom you love. Believe it You can read the testimony of David's life and others in scriptures. You might read it in church history and know from others. Wear Christ yoke. It's the law of liberty. So gratitude then is for God's grace. That's the motivation. God has established a gracious relationship with us in his Son Jesus as our Lord and Redeemer. And therefore, gratitude is our motivation as we seek to honor our God and live this way that He's called us to. I often address you when we begin worship with the words from Romans 1, as Paul addresses the church in Rome, beloved of God, right? I'm the Lord your God. You're redeemed the beloved of God because you've been elect, you've been redeemed, called to be saints. That's something God creates in us as He's called us. Remember, He calls out of nothing. That's the attitude that we are approached this as Christians, that we are beloved of God and called to be saints. Therefore, we shall have no other god before him. Well, let's look then now at these words. What do these words themselves tell us? Well the first thing is you need to know is that the word you here is in is singular. So God's talking to you, you, you, you, you, you, all of you, right? He's talking to all of you, but he individualizes it. And God does that because he is calling and expecting an individual response. It's not enough of the pastor to respond for the church, whoever thought that, or anybody else, or a father for his children, or anything like that. God does after the faith of parents include his children in it and covenant, God still calls each child, each one of us, to a personal response. faith and obedience and repentance. And so the U is singular here because God's talking to each one of us. You shall have no other gods. Well, God is very simply here forbidding the worship and service of other gods. And at the same time, then he is enjoining or commanding upon the people exclusive loyalty to him, exclusive allegiance to them as they're God. This in its day was counter-cultural. If you know the history of the Old Testament, you can read it there. No nation had one God. There was a king of heaven A queen of heaven and all other stuff, but one God and only one God that you worship. So just to live this way would have been counter-cultural for Egypt, or excuse me, for Israel To live worshiping and serving and proclaiming simply one God, one Almighty Maker, who is the possessor of the ends of the earth. So it's counterco that's counterculture today too, isn't it? To not be ruled by many gods, but to live singularly devoted to the one God, to Jesus Christ, as He's come to us today in the full manifestation of Himself. in the person of the Lord Jesus. That's countercultural too today. To have only one God living and reigning in our hearts rather than many gods living and reigning. I just want to pause it just to make clear that this this is one of many passages in the Bible that teach monotheism. Mano is a Greek adjective that means alone, meaning God. There's one God and him alone, then there's not other gods. This doesn't teach you might hear in other cultures Hinotheism. Hino is a Greek word that means one. And the idea was, well, we should only worship one God, but there might be other gods. Or monaltry, which is we're only going to worship one God, but there are other gods. That's not what this text is saying. This text is saying, worship me the only God, because there is only one God, monotheism. Do other gods exist? I don't know. It just comes out of it. What if I said yes and no? You're right. All you said no, you passed. There's not. They're non-entities. We heard Paul say that in Romans, right? But what did Paul also say in Romans 8? To others there are What do we mean by that? No, they don't exist. But the Bible recognizes there is a persuasive attractiveness to these other gods. There are demons behind these other there are other powers, spiritual beings, besides God who is spirit. Angelic forces and beings that he's created are creatures like us. Good ones and fallen bad ones and demons are behind this false worship. So there is there is that there's gods in the sense that there's a real power and people are attracted to them But we can also turn fame into a God. We can turn just about anything into a God. That's actually the kind of why I'm trying to stick at the kernel here is because we can make a God out of anything. We've shown ourselves to be able to worship every creature. A child, a parent, somebody, a rock star. Success, a job. It it isn't just the known ones, the pantheons. And so yes, there's other gods in that People are turned aside from the true God that no, there's not other gods that they actually created and they're the maker and they're the Lord of all and you owe any allegiance and loyalty to them. So, yes and no. Beware. And I again just want to emphasize to you as we as we go through this congregation, let us not be, you know, as Paul tells the church in Corinth. God had greatly blessed that congregation, rightly so, and he recognizes all the gifts, but he had to warn him too, be careful lest you think you stand. Let's not be people that think, well, I don't have a picture of Zeus in my house, so I'm not committing idolatry, right? We need to remember the words we sung. We are prone to wonder. We need to be very aware of how easily we can be ensnared into idolatry. The need to take and I'm gonna try to give you some help, but just want to let us be reminded that because there's the the war if you read Revelation that the there is a worship war going on between the true God and the false God. The true holy trinity, Father, Son, and Spirit, and the false Trinity, Satan, the beast, and the false prophet, vying for men's allegiance. And that worship war continues around us and surround us. You know, the the the constant biblical metaphor, you know, in the in the months of the apostles' writings is We're out of Egypt, but we're not in Canaan. We're in the wilderness. Be careful, church. Stay close to the Lord. Because there's danger. There's temptation. Paul says right in 1 Corinthians 10, all those things are lessons to us that we would not do the same things that they did. So let us take it to heart, this command. Before me means upon my face in Hebrew. And it means to us, it means in my presence. It's not saying before me as far as rank, don't have other gods in rank before me, but it means literally in my presence because God tells them, I brought you out of Egypt that I might dwell amongst you. God wants to be with this people He brought them to himself, and he's going to dwell amongst them. They live in his presence, and he's simply saying very simply to them, Do you not bring other gods into my presence? All creatures that God has made live in his presence and owe him this singular loyalty and allegiance. But the redeemed in Christ, right? We live in his presence in a special way, in a holy way, in a sanctifying way. We doubly owe him as our redeemer and to love him singrely with all our heart. The church of the Lord Jesus Christ is the place for this commandment on earth is to be realized And it is the place, by God's grace, as he's promised as a new covenant. I will write it on your hearts that he's going to realize it. But the church of Jesus Christ is to be the place where it's seen. This is what life looks like When the Lord reigns in the heart of his people. This is what fellowship and humanity and human life looks like when this commandment is kept and no other gods are brought. Before the Lord. You know, this is really the revolution of a converted person's life, to say, like Thomas to Jesus, my Lord and my God. I uh when when God is bringing me back out of the uh sinful idolatry I'd fallen into he he used my time in Afghanistan and and witnessing the worship of Allah to convict me Where that false god had a lot of say in their lives, praying five times a day, not even fighting with us, because that took precedence, and a whole month months off in Ramadan My God had no say in my day. God used that to convict me, the idolatry of others to show me my own idolatry. I was not saying, my Lord and my God, to Jesus, he was not at the center of my life. Or we're getting at here, who is at the center of your existence? Who is the one that you live for? Who is the one that you acknowledge give you life and brought you to life? And who is every that's what we're dealing with in here. And God's saying to his people, it's me. I not only created you, I redeemed you. You owe everything to me. Everything. And you are to be the one That you live for because I love you. And you're mine. So here's the thing that this passage is teaching us very, very simply. God forbids. Having other gods in his presence. As simple as that. You shall have no other gods for means God forbids that we have any other God in his presence. presence. Now I just want to real quick um here's the passage that you know that what I was going to read from the New Testament, but I changed last minute. 1 Corinthians 5. 21, you know, God still requires us in the church. You know, John ends his his letter by saying, Little children, keep yourself from idol. You know, idols can be brought in the church with false teaching of Jesus if you deny his deity, if you deny his humanity, you lose the true God and who he is, as he's revealed himself to us in his Son. And so it's not only just images and statutes and things, but what is preached and taught about Jesus? Can heresy. Can as we said here, God forbids heresy because it's denying the truth and who he is and especially when it deals with the person of Jesus. I really appreciated um but the reason why I wanted to read to you from First Corinthians chapter eight is because it I had never noticed this before and still studying this week and looking a little more more closely at the the Greek there that Paul's saying, so everybody around us, you know, at that time, they recognized many gods and many lords. But he says to us, the church, right, we recognize one God, the Father, of whom comes everything, and for whom we Not just as mere creatures, but we as the new creation exist. We believe one Lord, not because there's several gods, but what one God, Lord, you know, there's the Son, you know, the Trinity there, but one Lord, Jesus Christ Through whom God made it. Jesus was the mediator in creation, right? John tells us in the beginning was the Word. Was with God. And was God and ball things made him. But he's also the mediator in redemption, a new creation, through whom we, the church, have been made. That's what he's saying there, that this confession of one God, that is an act of saving grace in a person's life. To make that confession from the heart, to to confess as we confess every week the Apostles' Creed or the Nicene Creed, to say what Paul says there. That's a redeeming act of God. That's a confession of the truth as God has revealed Himself to you in His Son, Jesus Christ, not merely by the Word, but by the Spirit. And therefore, as I want him to read that to see, we we stand on the same ground as God has brought us to. Acknowledge him. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the house of slavery. God forbids. Now we have other gods in his presence. Now why is this? Let me I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna ask here four questions just to kind of help open this up and then apply it and we'll be done. But why why is this First question, why is this? I think there could be several reasons given. I'm gonna give you two from the context. The first one is because Israel has a God. Pretty obvious, right? I'm the Lord your God. Therefore, don't have other gods before me. You have a God. I am your God. I'm the true and living God, right? If you bring other gods and forsake me, you're forsaking the fount of living waters for broken systems. So Israel has obeyed this because Israel has a God, and that's why he doesn't want other gods brought in their presence. They have a God. You have a God, beloved, in Christ, the Father, Son, Holy Spirit. You have a God. But secondly, because God's a jealous God You know, he says it right here in the law. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. The Apostle James. He reminds us of this truth in his letter In James chapter 4 and verses 5 and 6, he writes, For do you suppose it's to no purpose that the Scripture says he yearns jealously? Over the spirit that He has made to dwell in us. But He gives more grace. Therefore it says God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. And that spirit that God put in your congregation, he yearns for your fellowship. He's zealously, with jealousy. I hope you husbands are jealous for your wives, and I hope you wives are jealous for your husbands. God is jealous for you. He is jealous that he made you and put his spirit in you. He wants your love. He burns for it and yearns for it. I imagine it would Tear your heart apart if you were a spouse to see your spouse give it to somebody else. I think we could all imagine the horror of Bringing another one into our relationship, especially before in the faith of our spouse, and give to them what we owe to our spouse. And God says that's what it's like when you commit idolatry. It's no different. I love James' word because he tells us, you know, if you've done that congregation You haven't been living for the Lord? You see that and know that? What does James say? But he gives more grace. You know the last time you did it? Well he gives more grace even from the last time. Just turn from it, acknowledge it, repent of it. He gives grace to the humble. Submit to the Lord. It's done. It's in the past. He gives grace. You know, I think also that he's really teaching us here, what he's saying to us is, don't settle for a lesser love congregation. Who can love you like the Lord? Who yearns more jealously for you? I I every creature you meet is yearning for somebody's love. Every human being yearning for love. We yearn for it. We're made for it. The problem is, in our sinners we seek it everywhere but God It will let you down. It will bring you bitterness. It can't fill you up. It can last for a day. It can last for a year. It can last for 10 years. But it won't let. There's one who loves you the most. It's your Maker. It's the Lord Jesus who died for you. He's saying, my people. Don't settle or lesser love. Here's how God here's the way they did it through scriptures. Because if if you know, if you know the scriptures, this is probably the thing that they did more than anything. Here's where they had so much trouble. You know, God uh God says you're not even to mention other gods in my name. Of course we don't mention we would think that with our own spouses. We would never mention the name of somebody else God says, Don't even take them on your lips and make a mention of them in my presence. He describes it as when they go after them. He says, Don't go after them, don't pursue them, don't seek them, and whatever they're offering you and promising you. Give it to me, streak me. Come after me. Serve me, don't serve them, worship me, don't worship them. Listen to me, don't listen to them and their false prophets. Don't bow to them, bow to me Don't incline your hearts towards them. Incline your hearts towards. I'm just reading I just I just go I just did a search on other gods in the scripture. I'm just reading you all the things God says. Not to give to other gods, but to give to him Don't whore after them, but love me, your faithful lover, your God. Don't let Solomon divide your heart But singularly give it to me. Don't sacrifice for them, no burn in, no paralybations. Bring your offerings to me, your God. Don't fear them, fear me. Don't walk after them and be like them. Walk after me and be like me. Don't estrange my place. Don't fill it with idols and emanations. Look at this whole this world looks very different than God's house when he made it God's house doesn't have pantheons in it with other gods and images. Don't estrange it. The church becomes an estranged house when we bring in other idols before God and doesn't look like his house And don't do that. How does God view it? What does he call this? He calls it fornication. It's committing adultery with God. It's breaking the covenant. It's forgetting and forsaking the covenant. It's casting God behind your back, he says It's provoking him to his to his face, to anger, to jealousy, it's to turning your heart from God when you do this. It's having a divide in his heart. It's in the New Testament it's it's shutting Jesus out of the church And he has to knock and say, because the church has riches there in Revelation, the last church, I forget which church it is in Revelation 3. Think about that. But Jesus says, you're so rich You've increased in so many goods. You got all things. And he says, you don't know your poverty, your misery, your nakedness, your blindness, but come to me and I I can I can give it to you. And they they shut him out and he's knocking on the door Saying if you open it up, I'll I'll come sup with you and I'll be your God and give you real life. That's amazing to think, right? That's a real church. Let's shut Jesus out. That can happen. It can happen today that we break this and do this, and we've got to be on guard. What's the consequence for doing this? The Bible's answer is uniform. Death Unless idolatry is repented of, it leads to death. Unless you make a true confession like Thomas My Lord and my God to Jesus Christ and live it out, then you'll die. Because you've chosen death. God is life. And so he does say, repent, desert more grace, given. Make Jesus your Lord today. Believe on him. Now let me see here just to apply this a little bit closer to us. What God is saying then, if he forbids us to have other gods, is that he wants us, I'm going to use the language of marriage here, to have and hold him alone, right? He's teaching us monogamy in our relationship with the Lord. He wants a monogamous relation, right? Ephesians 5. 32, Paul says the great mystery of one man and one woman becoming one flesh. I'm talking about Christ in the church. It's in one spirit with him. We are of his flesh. We're members of his body, of his bones, he says. Um let me read to you from Second Corinthians eleven. Paul writes to the church, I feel a divine jealousy For you, since I betrothed you to one husband to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. But I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning Your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ. A sincere and pure devotion to him, the one that you've been betrothed to in the gospel. So God wants, He's teaching us monogamy here, which then requires on us fidelity on our part, faithfulness to him, devotion to him, singularly as our God. Here's where I um thank the Lord for the new covenant, which He promises to show grace and write this. But here's what we should be desiring and I think God burns for us with a white hot, intense love. And He wants that back from us. I think for me as I study this this week and repairing that, that's the area of re repentance in my life. Why am I what is it in my life that's keeping me from so zealously and jealously living for the Lord No, what is it? What fear is it? What pursuit is something, right? How do we maintain this jealousy that he has for us? This yearning for us that he clearly tells us that he yearns for us, that we might as a people love him back, begin something to approximate to that intensity and singularity of which He loves us with. as our people. I'll give you a a couple things we can do. Well as the as the text says, you shall have no other gods before me. That means you've got to remove them That they're there. You know the reason God's putting it in the negative is because they are there. We heard in Joshua. Get rid of the gods then. He is summoning to them Make a choice, people. Okay, you chose put them away. So removing God's in is part of this. And not only removing them, but keeping them out. And how do we do that? Well, that has to start within an acknowledgement of the true God. We have to acknowledge God who says, I am the Lord your God, to say back to him, You are my God. And we are supposed to do this every week in the ministry of the word and preaching and at communion. The response of God's people should be I will have no other gods before you, Jesus. You are my God. You are my Lord, who loved me and gave yourself for me. That's something we should be saying to him in response as he's made the revelation of himself to us in the bread and wine, in the supper. That's what our heart should be saying back to him. But I also think that's something we should say every day in our daily devotions. I would encourage you every day to acknowledge the Lord in some way as the Lord your God. And to spend time in Scriptures because every page of Scripture confronts us with the majesty of God. calling and vying for our singular loyalty to him, as he's been revealed now in the Lord Jesus. And so weekly devotions, but Daily devotions as well, but it begins with acknowledging, and with that acknowledgement then comes a choice. Choose today. Who are you going to serve? We should wake up every day, congregation, and say, Who are we going to serve? Heads of households, you should be reminding the family every day who we're going to serve. We're going to serve the Lord for me and my house Get on your knees and confess to the family Jesus your Lord and say you are our Lord and you are God and we're gonna live you Make that choice because beloved, if you are not a think about it, if you don't regularly acknowledge that about your spouse, things creep in. If you're not making a conscious choice, you have to make a choice of them. Oh There are times of great romantic seasons and it feels like it's just the easiest thing to love 'em. And there's other times where a choice. You gotta choose to live for God, even when as like C. S. Lewis says, right, the skies feel like grass. We don't think he's hearing our prayers. Choose him. You know what he says? When you do that, Satan can do no more to you. Because you have be you he's essentially saying you almost have no reason from God. You you you're not sensible of any love and fellowship and friendship and favor at the moment. And despite all that, Lord, I love you. You're my Lord. I choose you. What more can He do to you? Acknowledge the Lord. Choose the Lord. That means in loving the Lord. That means obeying Him as He goes on to say. Those who love me keep my commandments. So we'll get to look more at that as we go. And this will bring us true freedom, beloved, when we acknowledge one as God. We will not live in terror by other gods or or overly anxious and careful. You know, Jesus really picks on this in the Sermon on the Mount as he lives amongst as super anxious. People full of all kinds of cares, wondering where bread is going to come, wondering where supplies are going to come. And he's having to remind them, you've got a father who takes thought for you You see how easy it is to fall when we are consumed with anxiety. Tell you what, other gods are coming in You're not resting. You're not trusting. You're not turning to him. You're not saying, you made me, I can trust you. You redeemed me, I can trust you. And wait upon the Lord. This is where true human growth will flourish as we live for this one God. And serve him. I've always found one passage that helped me, 2 Corinthians 5. 9. Whether by sight or you know, whether in the body, here now, or away from the Lord, which means here the body or with him, we seek to please the Lord. Go through your day. If there's something you're doing that you wouldn't invite Jesus to do, be careful of what you're doing. We seek to please the Lord. We live before His presence. Have no other gods before me. If you've got to turn the close the computer, hit the remote, change the channel, put the book away, stop the way you're talking Be very careful. Seek to please the Lord. I'm just giving you one passage that has helped me to seek as a Christian to live this way. Let us end with this gospel espousal, because here is Jesus' word to the world. Isaiah 45. 22. Turn to me and be saved. all the ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is no other. If you have not responded to this in repentance and faith, if you have not said to Jesus, My Lord and my God, I urge you to do that today. If you are like Thomas and have doubts and wonders of who he is, he hears them, voices them, and he can reveal himself to you. Seek him in prayer, seek him in his word as he has revealed himself there But the Lord also adds this congregation, by myself I have sworn, from my mouth has gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return. To me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance. You hear that in Philippians 2, but Paul's taking it from Isaiah 45. So we can rejoice then that The Lord is at work to establish in the earth the one true religion of Christianity. And he will bring that to pass when he comes in glory or to its fullness. But let's not lose sight of this. Christianity is a religion. It has as its center a God, the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the worship and service of the Lord Jesus. That is Christianity. Let us continue to wait. upon him, watch for his return, and live and serve him with all charitable and humble obedience. You shall have no other gods before me, congregation. That is the Lord's word. Let us say back to Jesus, we shall have no other gods before you. Amen.