We're going to actually read two portions of the New Testament. First we're going to read Luke 18, 10 through 14, a short passage. And then the text, Romans 2, 17 and following. Luke eighteen, ten through fourteen. I'll go actually go back to verse nine Luke 18, beginning at verse 9. He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and treated others with contempt. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee standing by himself prayed thus, God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers Or even like this tax collector, I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me A sinner. And then the text of our preaching, Romans chapter 2, beginning at verse 17. Romans two seventeen But if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in God And know his will, and approve what is excellent, because you are instructed from the law. And if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of children, having the law, the embodiment of knowledge and truth You then, who teach others, do you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing, do you steal? You who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who boast in the law, dishonor God by breaking the law. For as it is written, the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law, but if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So if a man who is uncircumcised keeps the precepts of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code and circumcision but break the law For no one is a Jew who is merely the one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that you have preserved the written record of your holy word. So that we have it for us today. Now help your minister, your servant to proclaim your word faithfully. May we hear the voice of the gospel. Spoken through these words today. In Jesus' name. Amen. In Romans chapter 1, which we covered If you were here, you might remember that Paul pointed out the sins of the most notoriously guilty people. He named their sins in a catalog of vices, beginning with suppressing the truth about God revealed in creation. And then ultimately leading down that trail to the idolatries of worshiping man and creatures, and finally leading to sexual perversion which is contrary to nature. And finally, to the moral degradation that he ends up with in verses 28 through 31, which I will read again. There it says, he ends up saying And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what is not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent haughty, boastful inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Wow. Paul railed against these people and their wickedness relentlessly and foretold the coming judgment of God on such persons. Anticipating their objection that God doesn't seem to mind their sins, because he isn't doing anything about it at the present. Paul declared the fact that God, the fact that he lets them go on and on in those sins is a judgment in itself. It's a passive form of judgment, but it's a judgment in itself that God lets them go on and doesn't stop them in those sins for a time. It would be compared to the situation of a parent who, after repeatedly trying to restrain a wayward youth, finally just throws up their hands and gives up Allowing them to do whatever they will. God, in judgment, removes the restraints and lets them go on Now, the morally upright person who is listening to Paul and heard that rant and heard all that list of vices, the morally upright person Maybe I could imagine standing in the choir behind the preacher. We don't have a choir behind the preacher, but a lot of churches do That morally upright person is nodding with approval while Paul is railing against these evil people. And he is saying either quietly or his own heart. Right on. Amen. Preach it, Brother Paul. But suddenly Paul turns around. And he points the finger to this upright person and says to this person, You have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges For in passing judgment on another, you condemn yourself. Because you, the judge, practice the very same things. Paul assumes these moral persons are congratulating themselves, patting themselves on the back because they are not like the people he described in Romans 1. A good example of this moral mindset is found in Jesus' illustration, which we read of the Pharisee and the tax collector in Luke chapter 18. If we take those two men from the parable, Jesus was first speaking in Romans 1 to the tax collector. The bad guy, and now he addresses the Pharisee, the moral person. Many of the Jews in Paul's days were like this moralist. But his words in Romans 2, 1 through 16 seem to have a wider application beyond merely Jewish Pharisees. Because you see, it wasn't just Jewish Pharisees who were moral. There were moral Gentiles, too, such as Seneca, the Roman politician He was a moral teacher. He was the tutor of Nero. I don't think Nero got the lesson very well. But he would have agreed wholeheartedly with the Apostle Paul's preaching regarding the morals of most uncivilized pagans But a man like Seneca would think I'm different. I'm better than that F. F. Bruce says, many early Christians admired Seneca and his strong stand for morals and family values. But too often he tolerated in himself vices not so very different from those he condemned in others. And the most flagrant of those, he mentions, is the instance of being in connivance with Nero in murdering his mother, Agrippina. So Paul turns the very same argument upon the moralist, and he says, You You, the judge, practice the very same things. John Murray says: since you know the justice of God as evidenced by the fact that you're judging others, You are without excuse, because in the very act of judging you condemn yourself. And he says that in verse 2. We know that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who practice such things. The moralist here is not condemned for the very same sins that Paul listed, but for being guilty of essentially the same things that he judges others for. And Jesus brought that out very clearly in Matthew chapter 5 and following, that great list of the Beatitudes and the Sermon on the Mount, one of which was in Matthew 27, 5, 27, and 28. You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. You see, Jesus gets down to the moralist. Says, You think you haven't done this? You have the point is real clear. The moralist is just as guilty as the obvious sinner How does he expect to escape? And then verse 3, do you suppose, O man, you who judge those who practice such things and yet do them yourself? That you will escape the judgment of God? The you here is emphatic. Do you think As I told the kids, judo has as its most prominent feature, using the opponent's own weight to throw him or take him down to the ground. That's what Paul is doing. He's using the guilt weight of his opponent to bring him down. Paul bears down here using the moralist's own sense of right and wrong. And his own moral judo moves, he throws him down, wham, to the ground. He robs him, absolutely robs him of his shelter in moralism. As the way of escaping God's wrath. This will not work. The second point, Paul announces the future extent of God's judgment against the moralist in verses 4 through 5. It says this, or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? But because of your hard and impenitent heart, you were storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. What's he mean here? Paul points out that the moralist himself is presuming on the goodness, forbearance, and patience of God. Which are meant to bring the moralist into a humble repentance instead of an attitude of superiority. Considering all this, it's no surprise that Paul describes these things of God's patience and kindness and forbearance. He describes them as riches. Riches. The riches of God's mercy may be measured by four considerations. First, his greatness. To wrong a great person is a great wrong, and God is the greatest of all. His omniscience, if someone knew all of your sin, as God knows all of your sin. Would they show mercy if your friends knew that? If your spouse, your neighbors knew all your sins, if we flashed them up on a big overhead screen before the service began? You think you'd stick around long? But God knows everything, and He's rich in mercy God is powerful. Sometimes wrong wrongs are not settled because they're out of the person's power to settle them, but God Is not without power to settle wrongs, and yet he is rich in mercy. And the object of God's mercy is mere man. Falling away in sin, yet God is rich in mercy. He calls these riches. He says, these riches, this forbearance, this patience, are meant to lead you to repentance. And this forbearance and patience thing. The fact that God is not doing, always doing something about everybody's sin, constantly coming down on them. The fact that he's forbearing and patient, sometimes people think that's weakness in God. Or evidence of his non-existence, maybe. There used to be a famous atheist years ago named Madeline Murray O'Hare. And uh she would come on television. uh debating uh an evangelist, she would run out on stage shouting and screaming, asking God to destroy her if there is a God If there is a God, strike me dead, she'd say. And then when he didn't, she'd say, see, I told you there's no God Some others simply misinterpret God's forbearance and patience as approval. If God isn't stopping me, it must be okay. And so they refuse to repent. Spurgeon says this about it. He says, It seems to me that every morning when a man wakes up still impenitent and finds himself out of hell, The sunlight seems to say, I shine on thee yet another day, as that in this day thou mayest repent. And when your bed receives you at night, I think it seems to say, I will give you another night's rest that you may live to turn from your sins and trust in Jesus. Every mouthful of bread that comes to the table says, I have to support your body so that you still may have space for repentance. Every time you open the Bible and the pages say to you, we speak with you that you may repent Every time you hear a sermon, if it be such a sermon as God would have us preach, it pleads with you to return unto the Lord and live. Many people misunderstand the goodness of God toward the wicked. They misunderstand the entire reason for it, and that is to lead them to repentance. You should see the goodness of God and understand that God has been better to you than you deserve. That's a good answer when someone asks you, how are you today? You should answer, better than I deserve. God has shown you kindness when you have ignored him. God has shown you kindness when you have mocked him. God is not a cruel master, and you may safely surrender to him. God is perfectly willing, through Christ, to forgive you. God should be served out of simple gratitude. Are you waiting for God to drive you to repentance? He doesn't usually work like that. God, as Paul says, leads you to repentance. Leon Morris says this: Notice, dear friends, that the Lord does not drive you to repentance. Cain was driven away as a fugitive in a vagabond when he had killed his righteous brother Abel. Judas went and hanged himself, being driven by anguish and remorse because of what he had done in betraying his Lord. But the sweetest and best repentance is that which comes not by driving. But by drawing, the Lord leads you to repentance in his goodness and kindness and patience and forbearance. That's what Paul was saying to his opponent, his moralistic, upright opponent. Since most of us here today are more likely to err as moralists, I pause to ask you: are you storing up for yourself wrath? In the day of wrath and the revelation of the righteous judgment of God, Paul can rightly say that the moralist was storing up wrath for the day of wrath. The moralist thinks he treasures up merits because of his good behavior. But God condemns him in the future. He only stores up wrath. The revelation of the righteous judgment of God in the first coming of Jesus wasn't so much seen. The loving character of God was revealed with greatest emphasis in the coming of Jesus. At the second coming, however, it will be different. The righteous judgment of God will be revealed and emphasized most clearly to those, whether those who are morally impure and Degraded that list in Romans 1, or those who are morally upright, but do not trust in God, who are not led to repentance by the goodness and kindness and forbearance of God And now we come to the standard of God's judgment, which is set forth in verses 6 through 10. There it says, He will render to each one according to his works. That's the standard. To those who by patience and well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life. But for those who are self-seeking and who do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil The Jew first, and also the Greek. But honor and glory and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first, and also the Greek. He will render. That's the basis for his judgment coming. He will render to each one according to his works. This is an awesome and fearful thought. And it condemns the moralist as well as the obvious sinner. but eternal life to those who do well. If someone genuinely did good all the time He could merit eternal life. But there is none, as we will see in coming sermons. There is not one Because all in some way or another have been or will be self-seeking, as he says. And not obeying the truth, but obeying unrighteousness. That is our real case. And so he says, there's going to be, on the basis of works, there's going to be wrath and fury and tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil. Because all falls short of this standard of God's constant goodness. God's wrath will come to all who do evil, without respect of whether they are Jew or Gentile. This judgment comes to the Jew first, because they have been primed, you see, by God's self-revelation. But they are also first in line for the gospel. And then first in line for the reward of glory and peace, but also in line first for judgment. The word wrath is important to not pass over quickly. It's got a word picture associated with it in the Greek language. It's the idea of boiling up. Boiling up. Have you ever been cooking potatoes, ladies? and the potatoes finally come to a boil and then the lid is on so tight and then it kind of starts popping up and the stuff starts running o over into the stove. It's boiling up. It's It's a picture of wrath, boiling over, boiling up. The word fury comes from the idea of a swelling of a dam which eventually bursts and breaks forth. God's wrath will come in the future. And now fourthly, God's principle of impartiality is set forth in verses 11 through 13. God's principle of impartiality. Verse 11, for God shows no partiality. For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law. And all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. There is no partiality. with God. The word partiality in the original language means to receive by face. That is just to just to see something and take it as face value. That's partiality. Not looking deeper, not looking at the motives behind it. There is no partiality. There's no judging on the mere externals with God. He looks deeper than that, as Jesus taught us. Now, some ancient rabbis taught that God showed partiality toward the Jews. They said that God would judge the Gentiles with one measuring stick and the Jews with another. Paul is denying that doctrine. He says in verse 13, for it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. The Jewish person or the religious Gentile may think that he is saved because he has the law. But has he kept it? It's one thing to have the law. It's another thing to actually obey the law The Gentile may think he is saved because he does not have the law, but has obeyed the moral impulses of his heart and mind, his own conscience. Morris says, people will be condemned not because they have the law or do not have the law, but because they have sinned. And verse 12 says, For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law. That brings us to the fifth and final point. Possession of the law will be of no advantage to the Jewish person. in the day of judgment. Possession of the law will be of no advantage on the day of judgment. Verses 14 through 16. He says, For when the Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse sometimes. On the day when, according to my gospel, God judges secrets of men by Christ Jesus. Paul explains why the Gentile can be condemned without the law. He says, their conscience still has the law. The work of the law is written in their hearts, and it is enough to condemn them. Theoretically, if they could obey all the right principles and precepts that were built into them, into their DNA, so to speak As a person made in the image of God, that would be enough to justify them. Many authors of Paul's day referred to the unwritten law within man They thought of it as something that pointed mankind to the right way, like Seneca and others. He says they are a law to themselves. That does not mean that they make up their own laws as they go. but that there is something internal within them by God's design. He says their thoughts, conflicting thoughts, either accuse or sometimes excuse them. What does this mean? It means they have a conscience, and the conscience works And they are excused or accused by their own conscience. Now, a word about the conscience. Let's think about that for a second. Though God has his work of conscience in every person, every person who's ever been born in this world, you can corrupt. The conscience. That's why conscience varies from person to person. In fact, your conscience can become damaged. It can become twisted or calloused by false doctrine or through sin and rebellion. Your conscience can become hardened and calloused and seared. Jeremiah the prophet in chapter 7, verses 8 through 10 says to the to the Israelites who had the law of God, he says, Behold, you trust in deceptive words to no avail. Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, make offerings to Baal? And go after other gods that you have not known, and then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, We are delivered Only to go on doing these abominations? You see, people can get their conscience so screwed up, so messed up, that they think they can get away with all the things that were just listed there And yet come to worship in God's house. Here's another example of conscience ruined. In an Israelite situation, Proverbs chapter 30, verse 20, Proverbs says, This is the way of an adulteress. She eats and wipes her mouth and says, I have done no wrong. On the other extreme, there are some persons who develop such a tender conscience that they suffer from deep introspection and false guilt. And we are glad that in 1 John 3. 20, we have these words, if your conscience is condemning you wrongly, you can take comfort in the idea that God is greater than your conscience. Those are the two sides of conscience. But people who have never heard God's word directly still have this moral compass to which they are accountable. Conscience. And finally, he speaks of the day when God will judge. The day when God will judge. On the day of judgment, No one, he says, will escape God's judgment by claiming ignorance of his written revelation. Violating God's internal revelation is enough to condemn all people. The commentator Clark says, God therefore will judge all nations according to the use and abuse they have made of his word, whether it is written in their heart. or written on tables of stone. God will judge the secrets of men by Christ Jesus, and that judgment will come according to truth. Romans 2. 2. God's judgment will come according to accumulated guilt, Romans 2. 5. God's judgment will come according to works, Romans 2. 6. God's judgment will come without partiality, Romans 2. 11. And God's judgment is coming according to performance Not mere knowledge. Sometimes you can know what's right, but you don't do it. It's not enough just to know And so I ask you who hear this today, who could be in the choir behind the Apostle Paul preaching in Romans 1. How will you escape the coming judgment of God? How will you escape? For several years, we have gathered here each Good Friday, remembering the judgment of God which fell on Jesus. That's why that event is so solemn. It's a solemn gathering meant to draw our minds and hearts away from the ubiquitous, silly noise and lies of the world that rejects the coming judgment of God. Yet for those who know Jesus and who are united to him by faith. The judgment that fell on him that good Friday has bypassed you. No, it didn't actually bypass you, but you were hidden in Christ, sheltered in Christ. And that judgment came upon him instead of you. It fell on him, and he absorbed it completely for all who are in him, who are united to him by faith. And that is what the Apostle Paul is laboring. To bring to his hearers, whether they are pagans who do awful things, or whether they are Gentile moralists, or whether they are Jews with the law. He is laboring to bring them to a place where they shelter in Jesus Christ alone and not hide in a cloak of their own righteousness. Are you in him by faith? A faith that shelters in him. I trust that you are. I pray that you are. If you are not, turn to him. And shelter in him, hide in him from the coming wrath of God. Amen. Lord, we thank you that we have been delivered not because we have been good. We have not been good. And we are ashamed when we point the finger at others and forget that we ourselves are guilty sinners. Help us not to condemn and judge others wrongly, but to trust in the one who took the judgment in our place. We prayed us through Jesus our Savior. Amen.