Ephesians four twenty-eight, a single verse. Let the thief no longer steal. But rather let him labor doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need. And then Luke 23, 39 through 43. One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God, since you were under the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward for our deeds. But this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And he said to him, Truly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks. Be to God. Let's pray. Lord, you have caused these words to be recorded You inspired the memories of the apostles, you inspired the words of Joshua to be The words of the narrative in Joshua to be written down. You cause David to proclaim the glory of Christ in the Psalms We praise you and thank you that you have inspired your word as a sure word that is timeless. Help us now to understand it in its time and in our time time to understand it correctly and apply it truthfully. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, let's begin on the eighth commandment then. The eighth commandment as we continue in Exodus. The Hebrew word Ganaf G A N A F means to carry away To carry away. In its context, it indicates carrying away the property of another person. Stealing. Thou shalt not steal. That's what's in view here. Now, I will say that, and uh one of my favorite preachers, when he preached a on this commandment said he expected to offend the most people on this one than in all the other ones. Because most people don't think of themselves as having anything to do with sleevery, and yet the point of the sermon is to show us that indeed It is part of our fabric as sinners to be thieves. The vast majority of evangelical Christians plead not guilty, according to Barna. to this breaking of this commandment. So we need to think about whether we actually are guilty, since I think the Word of God would teach us that we are What does the commandment teach us? Well, I have pulled out three things. The first one that I will pull out is the right of private property. There is such a thing as private property. Now millions around the world at various times have not thought so. Dictators and monarchs and communists and many others have limited private property or forbidden private property so that a lot of people grew up thinking there was no such thing as private property And yet the Bible teaches there is. Private property is a given, and it is given to us And we can see that as we begin to study the Old Testament scriptures. In the Old Testament, we have the patriarchs such as Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And we see God blessing them as they made their journeys and as they took possessions, selling and buying and increasing in property and riches. Abraham, in particular, became a very rich man, and what he had belonged to him. It was his private property. The Bible teaches private property And we see also in the broad picture of the Old Testament that God gave the land of Canaan to Abraham by promise And then he gave it to the Israelites by conquest. God is the owner of everything, and he has the right to give private property to people. to bless them and promise them and give to them private property. In fact, that's what we see here in the fall of Jericho, as it's recorded for us in Joshua chapter 7. I'm going to read more than what was read earlier by Pete. Let me just refresh that story to your thinking. It's the story of a thief. Here we go. Joshua 7, 7, verse 10. The Lord said to Joshua, Get up. Why have you fallen on your face? Israel has sinned. Now what happened here? They went to battle and they lost. And Joshua was all upset about it. Why did we lose the battle? He's fallen on his face. And God said, Israel has sinned. They have transgressed my covenant that I commanded them. They have taken some of the devoted things. They have stolen and lied and put them among their own belongings. What happened was In chapter 6, God said, When you go into Jericho, when you march around the city and you blow the trumpets and you break, you do all that stuff, and the walls fall down, which they did Don't touch certain things. Kill all the animals. Kill the people. I know that's hard to hear, but it's what God said to do. They needed it. They deserved it. It was time for it. And don't touch the silver and the gold because they belong to the Lord. They go to His treasury. Don't take any of it for yourself. Don't touch it. It's devoted to the Lord. He has private property. two. And he said not to take any of that stuff. Therefore the people of Israel cannot stand before their enemies, God says. They turn their backs before their enemies because they have become the they have become devoted to destruction. I will be with you no more, God says, unless you destroy the devoted things from among you. Get up Consecrate the people and say, consecrate yourselves for tomorrow. For thus says the Lord God of Israel. Here's what he says. There are devoted things in your midst, O Israel. You cannot stand before your enemies until you take away the devoted things from among you. In the morning, therefore, you shall be brought near by your tribes. And the tribe that the Lord takes by lot shall come near by clans, and the clan that the Lord takes shall come by households, and the household that the Lord takes shall come near man by man And he who is taken with the devoted things shall be burned with fire, he and all that he has, because he has transgressed the covenant of the Lord, and because he has done an outrageous thing in Israel So Joshua rose early in the morning and he brought Israel near tribe by tribe and tribe the tribe of Judah was taken. And he brought near the clans of Judah, and the clan of the Zarahites was taken. And he brought near the clan of the Zarahites man by man, and Zabdi was taken. Then he brought near his household man by man, and Achan, the son of Carmi, was taken. Then Joshua said to Achan, And you read, you heard it before. My son, give glory to the Lord, the God of Israel, and give praise to him, and tell me now what you have done. Do not hide it from me. And Achid answered, Joshua, Truly I have sinned against the Lord, the God of Israel. And this is what I did. When I saw among the spoil a beautiful cloak. Probably worth about a $500 suit in today's money. From Shinar, and 200 shekels of silver. And a bar of gold weighing about fifty shekels. Then I coveted them, and I took them, and see they are hidden in the earth inside my tent with the silver underneath So Joshua sent the messengers and they ran to the tent, and behold, it was hidden in his tent with the silver underneath And they took them out of the tent and brought them to Joshua and to all the people of Israel, and they laid them down before the Lord. And Joshua said to all Israel with him He took son Achan the son of Zarah and the silver and the cloak and the bar of gold and his sons and daughters and his oxen and his donkeys and his sheep and his tent and all that he had. And they brought them up to the valley of Acor, and Joshua said, Why did you bring trouble on us? The Lord brings trouble on you today, and all Israel stoned him with stones. They burned them with fire and stoned them with stones, and they raised over him a great heap of stones that remains to this day. And the Lord turned from his burning anger. Therefore, to this day the name of the place is called the Valley of Acor. So there's an example that God owns things, and God gives private property, and God keeps his own private property, and there is such a thing as Thievery, and God sees it and God knows it. G. K. Chesterton said, even thieves respect private property Many went on to say they want to take your private property and make it theirs so that they can respect it all the more. Phil Riken gives countless ways that people violate the eighth commandment. So think about these as I read them. He says, they pilfer public property. Stealing supplies from hospitals, building sites and churches. I know, for instance, the house across the street from Al, all the copper has been taken out of it Yeah. One hotel reported in its first year of business having to replace, believe it or not, 38,000 spoons Wow. 18,000 towels, I believe that. 355 coffee pots, and a hundred Bibles. That's ironic. Citizens steal from the government by underpaying their taxes or making false claims for disability and social security Then Riken says the government steals too. We're happy to hear that. With its huge bureaucracy, the federal government commits theft on a national scale by wasting public money and accumulating debt without planning to repay it. Deficit spending is a way of stealing from future citizens. There is also theft at work. He says. Employees fill in false time cards and call in sick when they want a day off. And then there was this notice to employees posted somewhere Notice to employees, if you need to call in sick, please do so before 8 a. m. on the day of the game. Employees help themselves to office supplies and pad their expense accounts. Sometimes they go so far as to embezzle. But a more common workplace theft is simply failing to put in a full day's work. Instead, workers idle away their time, sitting in their offices, surfing the internet Sending emails to friends, even playing computer games. I think we probably add by now Facebook. Whenever we give anything less than our best effort, we are robbing our employer of the productivity we And then he says these are not victimless crimes. Estimates are that this costs more than $200 billion a year. And it's not only employees, but employers steal too. They downsize their workforce to improve their profit margins, making the remaining workers do all the extra work. That was being done by those who were laid off. We've seen some of that around here too. So theft is everywhere, isn't it? And it has very many forms. Question 110 of the Heidelberg Catechism lays it out very well. So listen to this What does God forbid in the eighth commandment? And the answer, God forbids not only those thefts and robberies which are punishable by the magistrate. But he comprehends under the name of theft all wicked tricks and devices whereby we design to appropriate to ourselves the goods which belong to our neighbor. Whether it be by force or under the appearance of right, or as by unjust weights, L's, and I had to look up L'E-L-L-S. It's a form of tricky measurement. Okay? Measures, fraudulent merchandise, false coins, usury. Usury was forbidden. Charging interest to believers in Israel was forbidden. Or by any other way forbidden by God, as also all covetousness, all abuse and waste of his gifts. So there we have it. We have the the thievery, the right of private property and the thievery that has come. Because of sin. The second point I want to see from the commandment is the stewardship of private property. Emphasis on it all belongs to God. Go back to Genesis chapter 2. Genesis chapter 2 tells us that the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden to work it and keep it, and the Lord commanded him, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for on the day you eat of it you shall surely die. Then the Lord said, It is not good that the man should be alone, and he made a helper for him. And then the Lord God said, He brought every beast of the field, every bird of the heavens, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them, and whatever the man called, every living creature that was its name. And the man gave to all the livestock and all the birds of heaven, to every beast of the field, and so forth. So there is God giving Adam The stewardship of the world, the stewardship of the garden. You can eat of this, not that. You may take care of these things, and I give you a helper to help you take care of them. That's in Genesis chapter 2, the stewardship of property. Calvin says: not only are those thieves who secretly steal the property of others, but also those who seek to gain from the loss of others. accumulate wealth by means of unlawful practices and are more devoted to their private advantage than to equity So stewardship means equity. It means caring about others in the course of property. It means caring about others. That's stewardship. And Calvin in Geneva long ago encouraged his congregation to get rich. He said, gain as much wealth as you possibly can. By all lawful means get rich. But he also had the habit of calling on the wealthy members of the congregation in Geneva. He would call on their homes, whether day or night, whenever refugees would come into Geneva from persecution out in the hinterlands, and he would say, these people need help. These people need lodging. These people need provisions. And he would knock on the doors of those wealthy members and he would tell them how much was needed. And they would he would wait there while they went in and got it out of their safe. We're not going to do that here. But stewardship means share You see, God gives us things to take care of and to gain and to possess, but not just for our own selves. To share with others, stewardship of private property. It all belongs to God, but we're all called to be generous and share. Jerry Bridges describes the three basic attitudes toward possessions. He says: the first one is that of the thief. The thief says, What's yours is mine, and I will take it. And then what most of us say is, what's mine is mine, and I will keep it. And then what the godly say, what's mine is God's, and I will I will share it. I gave you one of the questions of the Heidelberg Catechism, but let me give you the positive side of it. Now, question one hundred and eleven. What does God require in this commandment? Listen to it, that I promote the advantage of my neighbor in every instance I can or may And deal with him as I desire to be dealt with. That's that golden rule, right? Further, also that I faithfully labor so that I may be able to relieve the needy. Getting is for giving. It's not just for keeping, you see. And that's where we get that Ephesians 4. 28 that we read Let the thief no longer steal, but but what? But rather let him labor doing honest work with his own hands so that he can have a lot, right? No So that he may have something to share with anyone in need. And of course, we may not be in the position of Achan and Joshua and taking Jericho and having God forbid uh devoted things. as they did back then, but there are still things that God says are his. In Malachi Chapter 1, God says, a son honors his father, and a servant his master. If then I am a father, where is my honor, he says? If I'm a master, where is my fear? says the Lord of hosts to you, O priests who despise my name. But you say, how have we despised your name? And he answers, by offering polluted food upon my altar. But you say, How have we polluted you? By saying that the Lord's table may be despised. When you offer blind animals in sacrifice, is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lamers sick, is that not evil? Present that to your governor. He's kind of mocking them, because the governor was What was a sad situation to have a governor over God's people? A foreign governor. Present that to your governor and see if he'll show you favor. No, what he's saying here is when you give to God, give the best, give the most, give all you can, be generous. And then, of course, there's a famous stewardship passage from Malachi 3. Will a man rob God? And he says to Israel, at that time, yet you're robbing me. How have we robbed you? In tithes and contributions. You're cursed with a curse, for you're robbing me, the whole nation of you. Then he says, bring the full tithe into the storehouse that there may be food in my house and put me to the test. God promises that he will. Pass the test. That leads us to the generosity of God. That's also taught. In this commandment, I believe, in a in a sideways way, but nonetheless, the generosity of God comes to mind as we think about the forbidding of theft Paul says in Philippians chapter 2, as a result of what God has done in Christ, as a result of his mercy, as a result of what Jesus did for us. He says, do nothing from selfish ambition. That's keep it for me. You know, selfish ambition But in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, that's keep it for me, but also to the interests of others. That's generosity. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, united with Christ Jesus, in the Spirit Who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied him. By taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. And Paul gasps and says, even death on the cross. That's how much God is generous. Even death on the cross. In his book, Run with Horses, Eugene Peterson tells how he saw some birds teaching their young to fly. Three young swallows were perched on a dead branch that stretched out over a lake. One adult swallow got alongside the chicks and started shoving them out toward the end of the branch. Pushing, pushing, pushing. The end one fell off. Somewhere between the branch and the water below, the wings started working, and the fledgling was off on his own Then the second one, the third one, however, was not to be bullied. At the last possible moment, his grip on the branch loosened just enough so that he swung downward, then tightened again. Bulldog Tenacious. The parrot pecked at the desperately clinging talons until it was more painful for the chick to hang on than to risk the insecurities of flying The grip was released, and the wings began pumping. The mature swallow knew what the chick did not, and it would That there was no danger in making it do what it was designed to do. Peterson writes Birds have feet and can walk. Birds have talons and can grasp a branch securely. They can walk, they can cling. But flying is their characteristic action. And not until they are living at their best, gracefully and beautifully That's when they're flying. As we are being restored into the image of Christ, giving is what we do best. Not keeping, but giving. Living according to our sinful nature in Adam, we try desperately to hold on to ourselves. To live for ourselves, we hang on to the dead branch of selfishness and self-centeredness, afraid to risk our untried wings of giving. We are afraid to live generously because we have never tried. We were created to live generously and give generously of our time, talents, and finances. In Christ, we are meant to soar in generosity. And it is Jesus. Who paid for this rebirth of generosity in us? And I remind you of the gospel that was read. One of the criminals, and Matthew tells us that the two robbers were the criminals. Two robbers, two thieves. One of the criminals, one of the thieves who were hanged, railed at him, saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God, since you are in the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward for our deeds. But this man has done nothing wrong And he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And he said to him, Truly I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. That man, that thief, that breaker of the eighth commandment, had faith in Jesus. Faith in who he is, the Messiah, the Savior of the world, the promised one of Israel, and faith in what he was doing as he died on the cross. He had faith in that. Jesus is our salvation and our example. The challenge for you and me Is following the crucified Jesus and imitating our generous God. As I said at the beginning, GANAF, G-A-N-A-F, means to carry away. And in its context, it means to carry away the property of another person But, brothers and sisters, I remind you that it being generous begins with believing that Jesus carried away our sins. Jesus stole them away from us, carried them away. He carried away our seething heart. And by his grace has implanted within us a generous heart. Believe the gospel. Live out that generosity by grace through faith. Amen. Let's pray. O Jesus, who was numbered among the transgressors, crucified between two thieves. Thank you that you became sin, even a thief, for our sake, and have delivered us from selfish clinging to material blessings. Keep working and helping us to be generous as you are. Amen.