Come with me in your Bibles to Genesis three. We'll read verses six and seven Genesis si Genesis 3, 6 through 7. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise. She took of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her And he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths. This is the word of the Lord. The New Testament reading will be from Romans chapter 7, 7 through 13, and then a portion from Luke. Romans 7, 7 through 13. What shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means. Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness For apart from the law, sin lies dead. I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive and I died. The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me. For sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, deceived me, and through it killed me So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, and righteous, and good. Did that which is good then bring death to me? By no means. It was sin producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. And then Luke twelve, thirteen through fifteen Someone in the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. But he said to him, Man, who made me a judge or arbitrator over you? And he said to them, Take care and be on your guard against all covetousness. For one's life does not consist in the abundance of his Possessions. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, as we come to this tenth commandment, the commandment not To covet anything that belongs to our neighbor. May your Holy Spirit Speak to us through the abundant treasures of your word that have been handed down to us. Help us to hear with spiritual ears, pierce deeply into our hearts that we may understand and rightly obey your word. of truth and bring glory to you. Amen. Well the commandment, the tenth commandment, as we finally come to it, Is of a different sort than all the others. Breaking the tenth commandment is internal and hidden That may make it appear less important, but that would be a mistake to think so Interesting to note that the ancient Near East law codes, out of the Babylonians and the Hittites and others like them, have some of the same commandments as our ten commandments. Commandments that God gave. They have commandments not to murder and not to steal and so forth, and not to commit adultery even. But they never have a commandment about an attitude of the heart. Covetousness. They simply don't deal with internal things, but only external things. Covetousness Is wrong desire. Wrong desire. And covetousness, if we just read from Romans Covetousness was Paul's undoing. Covetousness was what caught him and what got him, what had brought him down from his lofty thoughts of himself. I imagine that the Apostle Paul was somewhat like the rich young ruler in Matthew 19 and Mark 10 and Luke 18. That rich young ruler who asked Jesus, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And then Jesus said, keep the commandments, and he said, All these I have kept. Outwardly, yes, Paul and this rich young ruler hadn't committed murder, hadn't committed adultery, hadn't stolen, hadn't Been bowing down to false gods or images. But what does Paul say in Romans 7? He says By no means is the law sin. Yet, if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin, for I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, You shall covet. not covet. That's what caught him. An internal thing, something of the heart, an attitude. Caught Paul and brought him down. And then he says, but sin seizing an opportunity, verse 8, through the commandment produced in me all kinds of covetousness. What he's saying is, when I saw that an attitude of the heart is seen by God, and I saw the attitudes of my heart I realized that I was worthless, that I was undone, that I was destroyed, that whatever law-keeping I had managed to do was nonetheless worthless because I had committed covetousness all over the place. And then he says in verse 13, It was sin producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin and through the commandment might become Sinful beyond measure. That's what brought Paul down. The law of wrong desire. That is desire particularly focused on the possessions of others here. There are desires that are not focused on the possessions of others that can be sinful, but this one is wrong desire, particularly focused on the possessions of others. And I want to just look at some other scriptures briefly with you to see how that same idea of wrong desire is Is brought forth in other scriptures as well. James chapter 1, verses 14 and 15. James says, each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own. Desire. It's an internal thing. Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death. The wrong desire in the heart is the place where outward sins get their birth And in James chapter four, he says to the Christian community, he says, What causes quarrels and fights among you? Is it not this that your passions are at war within you? Then he says By way of explanation, you desire and do not have, so you murder. See, desire leads to murder here. Wrong desire. You covet, he says, and cannot obtain, so you fight. So he says it's very important that this commandment about covetousness. And then we want to see that the roots of covetousness Are in the Garden of Eden. In Genesis 3, 6 and 7, as it was read. So when the woman saw That the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that it was to be, here's the word, desired. To make one wise, she took, she stole Of its fruit and ate. And she gave some to her husband who was with her. God had given Adam and Eve all the trees, and all the fruit of all the trees, and the whole garden, except this one. And she saw it and said, That looks good too. And I desire it. That's covetousness It was not hers, it belonged to God. She desired what was not hers, and she took, she stole, and she ate and gave to her husband. And then the eyes were opened and they were guilty, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loinclaws. Well So as we think about these scriptures, and there are many that describe covetousness, there are two narratives, two stories about life that are told to us constantly. Two stories, two narratives. The first one is the narrative of the world. What does the world say about life? It says, listen up, you consumers, you people with money in your pockets, life consists in the abundance of one's possessions. If you have more, you have more life. That's what the world says. And it doesn't tell you this, but you'll have never enough. And you'll never be satisfied. There's always more. How much more do you need? Just a little more is the answer. And commercial producers of goods and services make a fortune appealing to greed and envy, and more subtly See, greed and envy can just be generalized. But more subtly they appeal to covetousness as they remind you, consumers, of what others have. Have and make you desire it. So that's one narrative that's being constantly shouted in our ears on the radio and on television and And in every place, magazines, internet. Life consists in the abundance of your possessions. And if you have more, you have more life. And then there's God's narrative. And God's narrative is this: life does not consist in the abundance of possessions. And what is God's narrative? Life consists, and this is kind of profound. I didn't come up with it, but here it is. Life consists in having God. Life consists in having God. Contentment in having God. In our gospel reading, someone in the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. There was a squabble going on about money and about possessions. And Jesus said, take care and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. Contradicts the world's story. And what we have to conclude, brothers and sisters, is that the only possession That finally matters is the personal presence of God. That's the only thing that matters. And that is not having God so that you can get from God all the things you want. That's not it. But having God Himself as your reward, having God And let me just show you another passage of scripture that points this out. In the letter to the Hebrews, chapter 13. The writer, I believe it's Paul, says he tells the Christian church to be willing to give up costly things. Let me show you those Hebrews 13, 1. Let brotherly love continue. That's costly. It costs you something. It costs you time and energy and emotion. and investment to love brothers. Brotherly love continued. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers. That's costly. You have to go out of your way to show hospitality to strangers. For thereby some have entertained angels unawares, he says. Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them. That's costly. Visiting those who are oppressed, those who are in prison is costly. He says, and those who are mistreated, since you were also in the body, it costs a lot to do. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous That's costly constraint. In a world God gone mad with sexual promiscuity, it costs something to be restrained And to honor the marriage bed. And then he says in verse 5, keep your life free from the love of money. And be content with what you have, and then the clincher. For he has said, I will never leave you for you. Forsake you. What is that? That's having God Himself. Having God who will never leave you or forsake you, having Him. And that. That is the antidote to covetousness, having God. And in 1 Timothy, Paul says in chapter 6, verses 6 But godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world. But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content. He's saying, Be content. Yes, we need things. Sure, we need some things. But be content with what you have. And then verse 9, but those who desire, and there's that word desire again. Remember all the instances of desire before. Those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. And then he says, For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evils, and it is through this craving that many have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. Having God Himself, being content in God, and with the things that God has given, that is the antidote to covetousness. But as I was studying this and listening to some other resources I saw that this commandment, this tenth commandment, really throws us back to the first commandment, which is what? What is the first commandment? Thou shalt have no other Other gods before me. Because if we have other desires, other things that come in the place of God, we have committed idolatry. That's the first commandment. Tim Keller has a book that I recommend very highly. Not a very long book, but well worth reading more than once. And it is called Counterfeit Gods. And in this book, uh Keller quotes Alexis de Tocqueville. Now, maybe some of you know who that is, and maybe some don't, but let me just say Alexis de Tocqueville was a French political thinker and historian, best known for his work, Democracy in America. This appeared in two volumes in 1835 and 1840. De Tocqueville analyzed the improved living standards and social conditions of individuals in America as well as their relationship to the market and the state in this Western society. Democracy in America was published after Detoqueville's travels to the United States and is today considered an early work of sociology and political science. So that's just who this is that he's quoting here. And then Keller says this, in the eighteen thirties, when Alexis de Tocqueville recorded his famous observations on America, he noted A quote strange melancholy that haunts the inhabitants in the midst of abundance. Americans believed that prosperity could quench their yearning for happiness, but such hope was illusory, because, de Tocqueville added, quote, the incomplete joys of this world will never satisfy. What is the cause of this strange melancholy that permeates our society even during boom times of frentic activity? and which turns to outright despair when prosperity diminishes. Deuthville says it is comes from taking some incomplete joy of this world and building your entire life on it. And Keller concludes that's the definition of idolatry. And then a bit later, Keller says, What is an idol? It is anything more important to you than God. Anything that absorbs your heart and imagination Imagination more than God. Anything you seek to give what only God can give. And that is the malady of covetousness. It is idolatry. Richard Baxter, a moderate Puritan, Some years ago, and I believe it was the seventeenth century, Baxter uh wrote a Christian directory. This is uh, according to Keller. the the the best and largest pastoral counseling manual available. So you might want to get it. Richard Baxter in this Christian directory, part one, chapter four, part six. says about about covetousness, he says this, it is idolatry or denying God and deposing him in our hearts and setting up his creations instead of him in the measure that it prevails. He says it is contempt of heaven. He says it shows that unbelief prevails at the heart so far as worldliness prevails. He says it is the debasing of the soul of man and using it like brutes, while it is principally set on serving the flesh and on temporal happiness, and neglects its eternal happiness and concernments He says it is a perverting of the very drift of man's life as employed in seeking a wrong end. He says it is a perverting of God's creation to an end and use contrary to that which they were made and given for. And abusing God, abusing God by His own gifts, by which He should be served and honored, and a destroying our souls with those mercies which were given us for their help and benefit. And then you have this on the front of your worship folder cover. Some, this is not all of them, but this is some And we need to examine ourselves. This is some of the signs of covetousness. Number one, preferring not preferring God and our everlasting happiness before the prosperity and pleasure of the flesh, but valuing and loving fleshly prosperity above it. worth. Esteeming and loving the created things of God as provisions for the flesh and not to further us in the service of God. 3. Desiring more than is needful or useful to further us in our duty. 4. An inordinate eagerness in our desires after earthly things. Five, distrustfulness and worrisome desires, scheming unduly for a time to come. That's over planning, folks. Discontent, troubling, and a repining at the poor condition we have, no more than our daily bread. Number 7. When our thoughts of worldly plenty are more pleasant and sweet to us than our thoughts of Christ and grace and heaven, do you think about your bank account? And your home in the mountains or wherever the beach is that sweeter to you than Christ in heaven Number eight, when our speech is freer and sweeter about prosperity in the world than about our concerns of God and our souls. When the world bears sway in our families and our conversations and shuts out all serious endeavors in the service of God and of our own and others' souls, what do we talk about? Or at least does cut short religious duties and is preferred before them and thrust them into a corner. We'll just put religion over here. Because what really matters is Our stuff. When we are dejected overmuch and impatient under losses and crosses and worldly injuries from man. When worldly matters seem sufficient to engage us in contentions and make us break peace, we're willing to fight over everything except what matters 12. When in our trouble and distress we fetch our comfort more from the thoughts of our provisions in the world or our hopes of supply than from our trust in God and our hopes of heaven. And I could read them all. Let's go on to twenty-one. When the riches we have are used But for the pampering of our flesh and superfluous provision for our posterity, and nothing but some inconsiderable crumbs or driblets are implored for God and His servants nor used to further us in his service and towards the laying up of a treasure in heaven. That, these, and there are more than these, are signs. Of covetousness at work in us, brothers and sisters. So those two narratives You need more. You have to get more. That's the world's narrative. You'll never have enough. Keep going. Keep working. Never take a break. Always go on and on. No Sabbaths, no rest. Work, work, work. You've got to have more. And the world, and then God's narrative, if you have God. If you have God, and you have daily bread and clothing Then you have enough. Because you have God. That's God's narrative. Why should we come here? And repeat the same basic story each week in word and sacrament. I know I see the same thing every Sunday Sunday, don't I? In many ways, I say the same thing every Sunday, and I'm glad I do, and I hope you're glad that I do. We come here to counteract the lies that are shouted to us in so many ways. Every day. We come here to get back on track. We need a realignment. My wife's car. We drove it up to Baltimore to see our son Timothy and it's not a car that we drive on the highway very often. But as I was driving it, I noticed it pulls to the left. It keeps pulling to the left. And so after we get back from that trip, I took it up to Tom Hodges for an alignment. We come here for an alignment because the world keeps pulling us to the left or the right. We need to be aligned with God's desires and God's ways and God's thoughts. And he says that godliness with contentment is great gain. And we need to be reminded that we have the very God who created and redeemed us as our own companion who says. I will never leave you or forsake you. Brothers and sisters, beware of contentment. Beware of covetousness, I should say, and seek contentment God has not cheated any of us. No matter what troubles you have experienced, God has not cheated you. Given himself to you. Be content with the treasure you have, the provisions that you have in this world, but most of all the treasure of God Himself. Be content with the family you have, the house you have, the money you have, the body you have, the church. And don't believe the lies. We have come here, as we always do, to worship God who didn't stay in heaven, but God who came down and was born poor. And lived poor. The Son of Man has no place to lay his head And to worship the God who suffered loss, the loss of the incalculable riches of heaven. And the world's narrative about Jesus was that he was a loser, that he was a disgrace, that he died in his prime and was buried in a borrowed tomb. That's the world's narrative about Our Savior. But the church's narrative, the Bible narrative, is that Christ was raised the third day And he ascended into heaven, and he is exalted, and he is ruling, and he will come again with great power and glory, and he will be seated on the throne. of heaven. We will all see him there face to face. Having him As your Lord and Savior, as the God who will never leave you or forsake you, having Him lay aside all coveting. One more thing. In Psalm 73, which we didn't read, Psalm 73 is the is the narrative Of a psalmist who became covetous, who became bitter and brute in his covetousness, in his desires for things. But when he recovered, when he recovered in verse 23 of Psalm 73, he says, Nevertheless, I am killing continually with you. You hold my right hand. You guide me with your counsel. And afterward you will receive me to glory. And then he says in 25 Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. He says about the things of this world, my heart and my flesh may fail, but God is the strength of my heart. And my portion forever. Let's have that attitude. God is our portion forever. He will never leave us or forsake us. And lay aside all covetousness. Receive the forgiveness of God for covetousness. Christ died for our covetousness. And then he died to teach us to be content with God. Amen. Lord, we thank you that we have all things richly to enjoy, that you've given us more than enough stuff And we thank you that both in body and soul, in life and in death, we do not belong to ourselves, but to our faithful Savior. who has purchased us with his precious blood and satisfied for all our sins and delivered us from all the power of the devil, and so preserves us that without the will of you, our Heavenly Father, not a hair can fall from our So make us sincerely willing and ready from now on to live unto you. Amen.