Hosea four. We'll read verses one through three. Hosea four, one through three Hear the word of the Lord, O children of Israel. For the Lord has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. There is no faithfulness or steadfast love, and no knowledge of God in the land. There is swearing, lying, murder. Stealing, and committing adultery. They break all bounds, and bloodshed follows bloodshed Therefore the land mourns, and all who dwell in it languish, and also the beasts of the field, and the birds of the heavens And even the fish of the sea are taken away. This is the word of the Lord. And we turn to Colossians chapter three, one through ten. Colossians three, one through ten. If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Put to death, therefore, what is earthly in you sexual immorality, impurity, passion. evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming In these you too once walked, when you were living in them, but now you must put them all away. Anger, wrath, malice, slander And obscene talk from your mouth. Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self With its practices, and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Almighty God, grant us the illumination of your Spirit, that we may rightly understand and truly obey your word of truth. Open our hearts that we may love what you command and desire what you promise. Set us free from private distractions that we may hear and from selfish pride That we may receive the promise of your grace through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Well, we come on finally to the ninth commandment as we continue through Exodus chapter 20. The ninth commandment, and it is In Hebrew, transliterated, not to lie, or as the King James has it, thou shalt not lie. Not to lie. And so as I was considering the phenomenon of lying, I decided to do a little research, and I found a lot of research that I could draw from. I'm going to draw from this particular thing. It's by someone named Kathy Benjamin in a periodical called Mental Floss. You just have to get the image of mental floss. your mind. But uh here's what she says. There are two things you can say for sure about human beings. Our opposable thumbs make us great at using tools, and we are all big fat liars. She says, by age four, ninety percent of children have grasped the concept of lying, and it just gets worse from there. How bad is it? According to a 2020 oh two study conducted by the University of Massachusetts. 60% of adults can't have a 10-minute conversation without lying at least once. I don't know how they determined this, but anyway, here it is. But even that number makes uh that makes uh conversation uh makes the sound better than it really is, because those people in the study who did lie actually told an average of three lies during their brief 10-minute chat. And I know that you're sitting here right now, she says, insisting that you would be a part of the 40% that didn't lie That's what the liars in the study thought too. When they watched the tape conversations back, they were shocked at how many fibs they had told. And then she goes on to say, we lie to everyone. Our parents get the worst of it. According to something called the Day America Told the Truth, 86% of us lie to parents Parents regularly, followed by friends 75%, siblings 73%, and spouses 69%. But in general, she said says we lie about things that are not important, little things that we think will make us look better and more likable. And then she says, sometimes we do lie about things that matter. According to an estimate, 40% of people lie on their Resumes, right? 40% lie on their resume. While that's something for employers to be wary of, it's worse if you're part of the 30% of internet users looking for a love connection. on a dating site. According to a study in Scientific American of Whopping, 90% of people looking for a date lie in their profile. Their biggest fib, as told by women, is an obvious one. On average, ladies claim to weigh eight and a half pounds less than they actually do. And men, on the other hand, try to use their profile to convince potential partners that they are taller, richer, or better educated than they actually are. Well, we expect, don't we, to be lied to. It's sad to say, but we expect to be lied to. We expect to be lied to about commercials that claim marvelous things. This thing, if you buy it, will change your life. You'll be saved by it, really. It's going to enlighten you and bring you to a new level of living. And you go, uh-uh, that ain't going to happen. Or politicians. I promise that if I'm elected, XYZ ad infinitum And they can't deliver and they don't intend to deliver and they're lying when they say it to get elected. And even Bill O'Reilly, who had The famous no-spin zone. It's up to you to determine whether he always tells the truth in every case. I will not venture there What is lying? What is lying as defined by the Bible? It's not just anything, it's certain things. And it is not simply declaring a mistake, a mistaken idea. For instance If I tell you, based on the clear skies and the cool temperatures outside, that it's going to freeze tonight, if I tell you that And then the south wind blows and clouds cover and the temperature does not go down below 32. I have not lied to you. I simply have been mistaken in what I guessed. That is not a lie. That is not a biblical lie, even though what I said was false. Or if one of you asked me about a decision I made that was very complex and nuanced, I have not lied if I gave you a simple answer. Which was less than the whole detailed process. It's a matter of need to know sometimes, and not everyone needs to know everything And it's not a lie to not say everything that could be said. For instance, I have a Fitbit I got this for my birthday in July. It's a thing you wear on your wrist and it tracks your activities and so forth. And it also tracks my sleep pattern Now, some one of you might ask me, Pastor, how did you sleep? Now do you really want me to say just a minute and I'll give you a detailed account of how many times I was awake and how many times I was restless and what percentage of my bed period was actually sleeping? No, you don't want to know. You want a simple answer. Not every deception or failure to disclose facts is a case of ninth commandment breaking. And I'll give you some biblical examples of that. It's okay sometimes to not tell the whole truth or even the truth at all. The midwives. Who were commanded to kill the Hebrew baby boys in Egypt to lower the population growth of the Hebrews? They deceived the Egyptian officials about the baby boys being born and the way they were being born and how how the women gave birth so quickly they couldn't get there to kill them. God rewarded those women for their deception. He gave them children of their own. And then there's the famous case of Rahab, the woman who was resident in Jericho, who was a prostitute. But she heard about the Hebrews coming. She heard about God's judgment coming. And she repented. And when the spies came in, she sheltered them and hid them. And she deceived in so doing. And she was rewarded and is commended as a woman of faith in the letter to the Hebrews for what she did. She deceived. And then there's the story that we many of us have heard of the Dutch woman in World War II, Cory Tanboom. And she purposefully hid Jews in a secret passage in her house, a secret room. And when the Nazis came and knocking, she deceived them about the hiding Jews in the secret room in her house. She was not doing wrong in deceiving them Because there's a component of Ninth Commandment breaking which has nothing to do with that kind of deception. In the context of the Ninth Commandment, We have a legal court. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. There's a legal court where a serious loss of life or livelihood or reputation is at stake. So it really equates to false swearing or perjury. And that's what we heard in the indictment in the book of Hosea reading that was read earlier. Hear the word of the Lord, O children of Israel, for the Lord has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. There is no faithfulness or steadfast love and no knowledge of God in the land. There is, he says, swearing. That's false swearing. That's Perjury, ninth commandment breaking, lying, that's less formal, less courtly, but still deception, that's destroying And then he goes on to say, murder, stealing, and committing adultery. They break all the bounds. And bloodshed follows bloodshed. And so what he's saying here to these people that he's writing to is that these kinds of things, false swearing, telling lies that hurt other people, destroys trust. in a society, described here in Hosea, leads to injustice and violence when people take revenge for the deceptions that have been perpetrated and the destruction that has come to their personal lives and livelihood. And it causes a breakdown of society. Lying is a serious matter. Our larger catechism asks the question, what are the duties required in the Ninth Commandment? And I want you to listen to the answer because again and again it is a relational thing. It is a thing where someone is being harmed by deception. Listen to it. The duties required in the Ninth Commandment are the preserving and promoting of truth between man and man And the good name of our neighbor, as well as our own good name, appearing and standing for the truth, and from the heart sincerely Freely, clearly, and fully speaking the truth and only the truth in matters of what? All the time, any time, on every occasion? No. On matters of judgment and justice, and in all things whatsoever, a charitable esteem of our neighbors. You see, you don't tell everybody everything all the time But you care about them, you love them, and you seek their good, and that is the truth-telling that is required by the nine. He goes on to say, loving, desiring, and rejoicing in their good name, sorrowing for and covering their infirmities, freely acknowledging their gifts and graces, defending their innocency. A ready receiving of a good report, and an unwillingness to admit an evil report concerning them, discouraging tailbearers, flatterers. See, flattery can be a lie too. It is a lie Slanderers, love and care for our own good name, and defending it when it when need requires. Keeping a lawful promises, studying and practicing whatsoever things are true, honest, lovely, and of good report. So this commandment is about truth in the Context of love for our neighbor, and truth in the context of God and his truth. The ninth commandment requires promoting truth in relation to God and our neighbor. Why do we lie? Someone might ask, why? Well, I think there are two simple answers to that question First one is, we lie because we're afraid of the truth of God. We're afraid of the truth of God. Dr. Greg Bonson, an OPC minister who died several years ago, wrote a doctoral thesis His PhD thesis, and it is called The Crucial Concept of Self-Deception in Presuppositional Apologetics. Now that's a big title, and it's about self-deception It's about lying to ourselves. And he cites the scripture as the main focus of this dissertation, Romans 1, 18 through 20, where Paul says The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. Truth. Hold the truth down. Put a lid on the truth. Throw a wet blanket on the truth. For what he says, for what can be known about God is plain to them. So they already know the truth. It's plain to them because God has shown it to them For his invisible, he gets, he tells particulars here, for his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made, so that they are without excuse. And what do people do? They suppress And so they suppress the truth about God. They lie to themselves. They know the truth and they lie to themselves about the truth. And that's the subject of his Thesis. We want to escape the verdict of God, so we deny the existence of the judge. in this case. So that's one of the reasons we lie, because we're afraid of God. We suppress the truth of God that's been revealed to us. We hold it down in unrighteousness. And then why is the second reason why we lie is because we're afraid of the truth of ourselves in relation to God. And uh Bonson's thesis, he says this. So whether we turn to works in religion or philosophy or literature, and he enumerates many of them in this thesis. Whether we turn to sociology or psychology, we cannot come to the conclusion that the notion of self-deception is somehow an unfamiliar We have ample evidence that men identify something in their experience as self-deception The notion is readily utilized in everyday conversation, not simply in published works of scholars Vocabulary of self-deception is recognizable even by children. It is mastered by people and taught to others. Self-deception is widespread, he says. Even just comes to mind right now that the phrase, you must be kidding yourself. That's a description of self-deception. Kidding yourself. How can you kid yourself? So he gives an example. He says, so when the son of Mrs. Jones has been caught red-handed stealing lunch money out of the students' desks at school, and Mrs. Jones continues to protest her son's innocence despite this being the third time that such a thing has taken place, despite her discomfort and red face when the subject of dishonesty comes up in casual conversations. despite the fact that she does not trust her son around her purse any longer, and she continues to explain his innocence with strange explanations such as the school officials have a vendetta against little Johnny. And they're framing him. Nobody, he says, finds it awkward to say about the poor lady that she is deceiving herself. You see, self-deception is part of a common experience, and familiarity with it breeds acceptance of it as a genuine reality in life. Well that's a bit about what the Ninth Commandment is concerned with here. It's concerned It's concerned with injustice. It's concerned with deception before God and in our own lives, lying to ourselves, being self-deceived. And it is concerned with truth. And coming into the light and being known and saying what is right. And that leads us to this final point I want to make the truth with a capital T. The truth is for us. In our place and for our good. Everyone is a liar. We are liars against God, against ourselves, against our neighbors. As Jeremiah says, we are all deceitful above all and desperately wicked. All except for Jesus Jesus, all except for Jesus. Jesus is the truth with a capital T In John 1:14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son of the Father, full of grace. and truth. And in John 8. 44, he says to the Jews who were lying about him and self-deceived, he says, You are of your father the devil. and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth. Because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. And then the famous passage which we should all know by memory, John 14, 6. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. So this Jesus is the only one who escapes the verdict of being a liar. Last Sunday school and into the summer, we had a Sunday school series here by attorney Brian Dugan, in which Brian went through the trials of Jesus. Jesus Christ, the illegal trials, the Roman trial, the Jewish trial, and compared that to the law of God. And we see there in that long but excellent Sunday School series that Jesus, the truth with a capital T Was falsely accused by lying witnesses which were paid to lie in an unjust court, conducted at the wrong time of day and in the wrong manner He could have defended himself. He could have. But he remains silent. He remains silent. Isaiah 53 says he was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He didn't defend himself Like a lamb that is led to slaughter, and like a sheep before his shears is silent. So he opened not his mouth. Why? Did he not open his mouth? Why did he not defend himself? For you and me, he kept quiet. He kept quiet to go to judgment for you and me. And so we see in Isaiah, by oppression and judgment he was taken away, and as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? And 1 Peter reiterates the same thing. 1 Peter chapter 2. He committed no sin, neither was any deceit. Lying, ninth commandment breaking. Neither was any deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten. But continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. What's going on here? Jesus, the truth with a capital T, died, kept quiet, and died for our lies. Our destruction of others with our tongues, our self-deception. And he died to make us people of the truth And so the Apostle Paul says in Colossians, after he shows the supremacy of Christ, he says, do not lie to one another. Another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices, and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. Believing, believing the gospel of Christ begins with the ugly truth, first of all, that we are deceivers. That we have lied to God and lied to ourselves and lied about others if we don't come clean before God about our Sin, our lying, we cannot receive the gospel. So believing the gospel first means believing the bad, bad news about our reality. And believing the gospel means believing the glorious truth that Christ was condemned, Jesus was condemned in a human court and the divine court. kept silent, didn't defend himself, so that you might be accepted and forgiven and honored without shame in him And so when you believe this gospel, when you let it sink into your life and begin to dye the fabric of your life When you believe it, it begins to allow you to take off the mask of self-righteousness and pretense and all the covers up. Allows you to take all that off. Christ allows me to begin to be honest to God and to I close with a verse from this famous hymn that describes no cloak of hiding, no more lying, no more No more self-deception. Listen to these words. Nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress. Helpless look to thee for grace. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for the truth incarnate. Who came to reveal you to us and our own inner selves to us as well. and then to be condemned unjustly in a court of law, keeping silent, not defending himself, so that he might be a sacrifice in our place. Purge away all of our deception and make us the people of the truth. Increase in us the grace of honesty, truthfulness, openness. In the image of Jesus we pray, Amen