Dear Saints, we started this year seeing our need for comfort. We are sinners, and therefore that brings misery. And last week we were shown what kind of comfort we need: a mediator able to deliver us from God's wrath and to restore us to his favor. For as one hymn puts it, we stood neath a debt we could never afford. His mercy is more as at him. But this week that comfort is found. The search is over, and I get the great joy this morning of proclaiming mankind's hope The one mediator between God and men, our Lord Jesus Christ. The message this morning is this. Our Lord Jesus Christ is the one mediator between God and men. That is, only our Lord Jesus Christ can make peace and reconcile God and men together. No one else can do this. The catechism gives three reasons why no one else can do this. I want to first look at those. And then I want to consider why this matters, that Jesus is the one mediator between God and men. So only Jesus is qualified to be our mediator. That's the first reason that the catechism gives. Why Jesus, or the first reason the catechism gives why Jesus is the only mediator between God and men is because only he's qualified to do it. And what qualifies only him to do it is that only he is a true and righteous man who is also true God. And why must he be a true man? Well, as we read, and there are a few reasons. For one, man sinned. And therefore, man must pay. Man must die. And Jesus must be a man, our mediator must be a man that he may die. Jesus came to do many things, but the chief thing he came to do on earth was to die. For God did say, In the day that you, man, eat of it, you shall surely die. But second, why he had to be a true man is God promised that the deliverer would come from the seed of the woman. Therefore, he had to be a true man. And what they mean by that is he had to be a descendant of Adam. And not, if you will, some other species created on the spot. It wouldn't work if John just X Nahil out of nothing, made a human nature and joined it to his son. You had to be one of us And he had to be one of us because the gospel promised, as I said, was to the seed of the woman. Unless he was of the seed of the woman, he's not the promised Savior. But three, he had to be like us. one of us in every way, so that he could be our brother, and therefore our high priest, able to make propitiation for our sins. And the gospel tells us that Jesus is such a man, that he is a true man. In Luke 3, you can read as Luke traces his genealogy that Jesus is the son of Adam, the Son of God. And Paul in Hebrews 2 tells us that Jesus was made like his brethren in every way, so that he could die for us. But why must our mediator also be a righteous man? Because only a righteous man has no need to die himself. He has no need to make payment for his own sins. The gospel tells us that Jesus also was such a man, that he was a righteous man. At his trial no testimony could be found to put him to death. And at his resurrection He received God's testimony that he was innocent of all charges, that he was a righteous man. For God does not raise wicked men to immortality, nor bring them into his presence and seat them on his eternal throne. As Paul says, God was manifested in the flesh, justified in the spirit. But why must our mediator also be true God? The gospel tells us he's a true and righteous man, but why also a true God? Why isn't enough? If he were to just be a man like us, except not like us, but righteous, why does he also need to be true God? Because our finite human nature cannot endure the infinite wrath of God against our sin to make the payment and satisfy it and so deliver us. Human nature cannot bear up under the infinite wrath of God because of the infinite guilt we have brought upon ourselves in our sin. And this should that should really teach us one thing. As our catechism says, what does every sin deserve? The wrath and curse of God. There really is no small sin. And I think as you grow in grace, beloved, you come to learn that and see how even at times the wrong look let alone the wrong word, is so evil and such a burden to bear. Praise God that Christ bore it and frees us from its guilt. Only a man upheld by the divine nature could endure such hellish punishment. And quench the eternal flames of God's anger against sin, and that's not hyperbole That's the language God uses in Jeremiah 17. You have kindled my eternal anger, the fire of my eternal wrath. For the gospel tells us that Jesus did this, that on the cross God smote him, the shepherd, the king. And that what he drank there was the cup of God's wrath. You can read that in Mark 14 Therefore, only Jesus is qualified to be our mediator because only Jesus, as the gospel tells us, is a true and righteous Man who is also true God and therefore perfectly meets our need as sinners born under God's wrath and curse. Only He can deliver us from the punishment we deserve and restore us to God's favor. And so that's the first reason why Jesus is the one mediator between God and men. Only He can do it, because only He is the God-man. But what's the second reason? The second reason why Jesus is the only mediator between God and men is that only he has been given by God to do it The gospel tells us, as we read this morning, God so loved the world that he gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. Now, this tells you and me something very wonderful about God. Our redemption And our reconciliation is his idea. It's something He wants. It's his initiative. He desires it. He wants to love us. And he wants us to love him. Therefore, he loved us and sent his only son to die for us and to rise again. And having done that, Jesus having done that, he gave to his son the spirit of sonship to give to his blood-bought people. Redemption and reconciliation is God's loving gift. He takes the initiative, and it is only Christ's work to do it. Not ours, but Christ's Well the catechism goes on and it tells us a couple reasons that God gave us his son. And really these two reasons we're going to get to look at in much fuller detail as we go through the next weeks in the catechism. So I'm just going to say some summary things about him here. The catechism points out two things that God gave his son for: our complete deliverance. And to be our complete righteousness. Complete deliverance can be broken down into Christ for us And Christ in us, Christ for us, and Christ in us Christ for us and Christ in us, it's just the career of Jesus. It's the gospel story. It's the path of his eternal life. That first God's son leaves heaven and becomes a man. Then he lives as a man serving God. He obeys God wholeheartedly in everything God asks of him. And lastly, he lays down his life for the sheep. That is Christ for us, from incarnation to passion Christ lived a perfect life for us. He died in atoning. That means guilt removing by penal substitution death We incur guilt by our sins, objective guilt that deserves punishment, that can only be removed by God putting it on a substitute and he taking the punishment. That's what we mean when we say atoning death. He died an atoning death for us. Christ, therefore, is our complete righteousness. That's his righteousness His life lived for us. His death died for us to satisfy God's law. That's his righteousness. The righteousness of God is Christ Himself, and He's given to be Our righteousness. Only that righteousness delivers us completely From the curse of God and brings us forgiveness. And that means you won't be punished for what you deserve. Christ for us is our standing with God. Christ for us turned away the wrath of God. Christ for us reconciled us to God. Christ for us is God's loving gift. Christ for us takes away the guilt of our sin. Christ in us is also God's loving gift, and that takes away the power and pollution. Of sin. Our heartfelt enity against God, so we won't submit our lives completely to His will. Christ in us is life in the Spirit of God, or life in the Spirit of Christ. After our Lord's resurrection, when he ascended into heaven, having completed all the work that the Father gave him to do on earth. Jesus then sat down at his right hand. He asked the Father for the gift of the Holy Spirit. And in possession of this, he poured it out upon the church. With Jesus' Spirit in us, beloved, being regenerated, being born again of God, we break off our life of sin. That's repentance And we begin a new life of fellowship with God. As John says in 1 John, truly Our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ And the last step will be Jesus is coming in glory when he raises us from the dead like himself, and we behold God face to face. That will be perfect reconciliation. Nothing but perfect, constant, holy, abiding love of God His love for you and your love wholeheartedly return to him. From incarnation To passion, to resurrection, to ascension, to coming in glory This is our complete deliverance, our complete righteousness that was given for us And maybe another helpful way to understand when the when the gospel talks about our deliverance and righteousness, it's always in Christ. Where is Christ today? Is he dead in the grave in hell as a reprobate sinner? No He's at God's right hand in the fullness of joy evermore, enjoying God in glory. Well, if you're in him. So will you be, because he became our sin to deliver us that we might share in his glory. Looking objectively at where Christ is And understanding his whole career, from heaven, maybe the song said it best, right? From heaven to earth, he came to show the way From the earth to the or from the cross to the grave, he came our debt to pay. And from the grave to the sky, Lord, we lift your name on high. That's our deliverance. That's our righteousness, and that's ours in Jesus Christ. God loving men. Because the obstacle to it is removed our sin. Men loving God, because the obstacle removed our sin. That is what Jesus was given for. That is what the Father tasked the Son to bring about. And that is what God promised. Ever since the fall that he would do, and today his gospel proclaims to us. And that's the third reason why Jesus is the one mediator between God and men, is because only Jesus is proclaimed as having made peace between God and men. As the only one promised to do it in the gospel. For 2,000 years now, Jesus has been preached as the way back to God. And the world has never been the same since. Now there was a way, as God dealt with his people under the law, as we saw, but the way now is Christ. And that was just foreshadowing of Christ. It's always been Christ. Jesus is not made known anywhere else but in the gospel. You can't learn of him anywhere else. You can't find Jesus under a microscope. You can't search for him at the telescope. You can't go meditate out to him in the woods and find him in the deep recesses of your hearts. He is the free, loving, gracious gift and provision of God, and you'll never learn of him until somebody preaches them to you. That's the only way to know him, is through the gospel. Through the got Word of God, the Bible. Some things are said about him wrongly in the Book of Mormon, some things are said about him wrongly in the Quran. Only the gospel in the Bible, in the Word of God, reveals who Jesus really is. as our mediator, as our advocate, because only the gospel is the word of God. Our catechism helpfully reminds us that for 4,000 years the gospel was a promise. God first promised peace by the Messiah in paradise. And I will put enmity between you and the woman. Between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. God kept this promise alive through the long period of the patriarchs and prophets After Abraham's great test of faith, God swore an oath, saying, In your seed, all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. Not cursed. And through Jacob, God promised that when Shiloh came, to him shall be the obedience of the people. Peacefully submitting to God's King. With the prophets, God gave many testimonies to the coming Messiah, but none more clearly Then in the fifty-third chapter of the prophet Isaiah, which we read this morning, God promised there that after his sufferings to justify man, his righteous servant shall see his seed, the people he died for. He shall prolong his days and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the labor of his soul and be satisfied. And I love the words of the song, This is my father's world. Jesus who died shall be satisfied, and earth and heaven be one. That's his work as a mediator to bring peace and harmony back to God's world, his creation. What a beautiful picture of the Messiah's redeeming and reconciling work. God also promised the Messiah through the sacrifices and the ceremonies in the law which foreshadowed his coming. Through his blood and intercession as our victim or the offering and priest, and through his spirit poured out, the nations would have access to the Lord in his house of prayer. All this The old covenant promise. And all this God has now fulfilled in His beloved Son as the gospel proclaims it to us today. And what the gospel really needs, beloved, today is ambassadors Who will go for me? The gospel is not properly a promise, it is proclamation. It proclaims that God's loving and peaceful kingdom has drawn near and is even here as first fruits. In the Spirit, through the redeeming work of Christ. It proclaims that Jesus is the Messiah who has reconciled the world to God through his atoning death. That he is coming back to rule, to judge. The gospel summons all men to return to God by faith in Jesus Christ. Promising them the forgiveness of their sins and eternal life if they do And this ministry of reconciliation, Jesus now lives and he reigns to uphold in the world By His Spirit working by and with the Word of the cross, he regenerates our hearts so that we draw near to God in repentance and faith. But two other things are absolutely essential to the ministry of the gospel as well. The Bible And you. Only the Bible faithfully reveals the one mediator between God and men, our Lord Jesus Christ. And only you can tell men to read their Bibles or read the Bible to them So let's keep our Bibles open and let's keep inviting people to hear the Bible read. So then, our Lord Jesus Christ is the one mediator between God and men, because only He is qualified to do it. As the true and righteous man who's also God, he perfectly meets our need. Only he was given by God and God's wonderful love for us to do it. The work is his alone And only he is proclaimed in the gospel as the hope of the nations. But what does this mean for us today? If you know your Bibles, you know the text that I've really been preaching to you is 1 Timothy 2, 5 to 7. For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all. to be testified in due time, for which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle Many wonderful things said in this text, such as all men have the same God, for there's only one However, not all men know this God and love him. All men have the same mediator, for there is only one. However, not all men believe in him. Or know him. All men have the same value put upon their lives, so there is only one ransom for them However, not all men are redeemed. All men, God wants to hear about this, for He's appointed people to be preachers of it. But not all men have heard. But the words I want to focus on are these. One mediator between God and men. And I take it, beloved, that if there is one mediator between God and men, Then there needs to be one, and he needs to be there in order for us to approach the holy God that we have offended by our sins and live before Him He needs to be there, interceding for us on the basis of his sacrifice. That our sins be not laid to our charge, who trust in him and so draw near. He needs to be there working faith in us that we would entrust ourselves to the word of God's grace alone and not our works. In John Year. He needs to be there pouring out his Spirit into our hearts that we cry, Abba, Father, and draw near and nearer. He needs to be there, beloved, because the sacraments don't do this. The sacraments are not Jesus. They do not mediate between God and men. They do not take away our sins. They do not regenerate our hearts. They only confirm the message of mediation. and strengthen our faith in Jesus. They are the means of God's grace. They are not its source. He needs to be there because our prayers do not make peace with God. He needs to be there because Repentance does not reconcile us to God. Repentance is a response to the mediator. To Jesus and his dying grace worked in us by the Spirit. He needs to be there because our good works do not silence our guilty conscience. So that we may draw near to God without fear. Only the love of God in Christ crucified does that. Good works are the fruit of Christ's mediation. They are not your mediator. He needs to be there because preachers and pastors and so-called priests are not Jesus. They cannot bring you near to God Only Jesus. He needs to be there because profession of faith does not reconcile you to God. Profession of faith is the acknowledgement that Christ is the one mediator and your trust in Him who has reconciled you to God by His blood and Spirit working in you. He needs to be there because not even the gospel reconciles you to God. The gospel only tells you of the mediator Jesus and the reconcile that Christ The reconciliation that Christ offers you for peace with God. I think you get the point. Jesus And Jesus alone reconciles you to God. There is no approaching God but faith in the living Christ. Period. Only in Him, by faith and repentance, are you at peace with God. How many people They're so close to God in nature. They may be in awe of Him. But if they are not in Christ, they are not at peace with Him, and they are not drawing gear And especially if they're doing it on a Sabbath day rather than coming where he's promised to be. You only approach God through Christ, the mediator. Please draw near and worship him in nature through Christ. But you need Christ. It is not a peace. of your making. It is a peace for your taking. God offered it in his love. Christ accomplished it in his grace, and the Spirit affects it in His fellowship. Our confession of faith in chapter 21 on religious worship says in its second article, religious worship is to be given to God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. and to him alone, not to angels, saints, or any other creature, and sins to fall not without a mediator, nor in the mediation of any other but of Christ alone. Many pray today. But if your prayer is not in the name of Christ, it is not heard, and you're not drawing near to God. Does that mean that you have to say in the name of Jesus when you pray? Yes, but not necessarily the words. It means that the person and work of Jesus Christ must so saturate your prayers that it is obvious that God's grace in Jesus is the sole reason for your praying. All prayer, not in the name of Jesus, should be repented of. It is not pleasing to God. He needs to be there, beloved, because Christ is greater than your hearts. How many of you lie awake with anxious thoughts about your spiritual state? Who yet can ever keep their heart perfectly set upon God? And do not mistake me. We should work at it. But I have found a lot of rest myself this week in being reminded that Jesus mediates for me. Not my good thoughts of God, Jesus, and I trust in Jesus He is greater than my inconstant good religious feelings. He assures my acceptance with God. And I've got a lot better sleep this week, and maybe you can get it too if you're like that. Jesus, he mediates for you. Beloved, we need a mediator. Think of David when he tried to bring God's ark, and God's anger broke out against Uzziah for his irreverence. There is no approach to God in prayers, service, or fellowship without faith in Christ. He alone makes your entire approach to God acceptable. Period. Not even your one thing makes it acceptable. I'm glad you want to, but Jesus makes it acceptable. Period. And therefore, come as you are and approach Him, but don't just wait till you feel good about it Trust in his mediation. Let what he has done for you draw you and bring you nearer and nearer to God. And finally, beloved, and I'm ending here, if we do not preach a God offended by sinners, Angry at them for their sin, whose justice must be satisfied, then we do not need a mediator to save us. Many do not like that preaching. They just don't want to mediate. If we do not preach that men are unable to atone for their sins and make them right with God, then we don't need a mediator to save us. If we don't preach that men are unable to save themselves and do any good apart from Christ's Spirit working in them, then we don't need a mediator to save us. If we don't preach that men can't raise themselves from the dead for eternal life, then we don't need a mediator to save us. But the good news is, beloved, we do have a mediator to save us. His name is Jesus. He is God's own son. He has been given up for us all by God's amazing love. So take God at His Word. Put your trust in Jesus and His righteousness, and you will live. Forever. Call on Jesus, and every one of you come to the Father through the Son. Amen