What is a high priest? What are his qualifications? What are his duties? What is his demeanor to be? Our text tells us that a high priest must be human in order to represent humans to God. This is in chapter 5, verses 1 through 3. I'll read it again. For every high priest chosen from among men is appointed to act on behalf of men in relation to God. To offer gifts and sacrifices for sins. He can deal gently with the ignorant and wayward, since he himself is beset with weaknesses. Because of this, he is obligated to offer sacrifice for his own sins, just as he does for those of the people. A high priest must be someone who is exposed to the same conditions, the same pressures, the same trials. As those whom he represents. That's what it says. His job is to represent the people as he makes a sacrifice for sin on their behalf. He must perform the ritual exactly to make a sin offering on the annual Day of Atonement. But more. What the text tells us is that he must have inward feelings that match his outward doings. He must have inward feelings in sympathy or in sync with this sacred work. Now, this is exactly the opposite of the example set by Alexander Genaus. Alexander Genaus was a Hasmonean king who took it upon himself to be priest in the temple in Jerusalem. From 103 to 76 BC. Alexander Genaeus was a king. He wasn't supposed to be a priest, but he took it upon himself to be a priest. But worse than that, or at least as bad as that, he was a miserable, uncaring, unsympathetic priest. He just wanted the prestige of performing the duties. In fact Few, if any, of the high priests who followed, from the end of the house of Zadok to the destruction of the temple 240 years later, served that office well. They were all a bunch of pretenders. They were all a bunch of wolves in sheep's clothing who cared nothing for the people. The Greek word behind the phrase in our text, deal gently, indicates forbearance. It indicates kindness. It indicates sympathy. Now, who had that kind of quality? Well, in the Old Testament priesthood, Aaron did, and Moses most certainly did. Aaron and Moses were excellent in this way. Just think of it. How would you like to go to a doctor? You have a problem, you're ill, you have a pain somewhere, you go to this doctor, and the doctor has never been sick a day in her life. She has never felt any pain. How would you like to have her for your doctor? You want somebody who sympathizes with you who can understand what it's like when you say, I can't stand this excruciating pain, it's killing me. How about a counselor? How would you like to have a a problem in your life that is perplexing you and overwhelming you and depressing you and you go to a counselor? This counselor has lived a perfectly calm life, has never been troubled at all in any way, never been depressed, always carefree. Everything goes right. All the lights are green. You wouldn't want that kind of counselor, would you? That counselor wouldn't be able to understand you, wouldn't be able to help you. You want a counselor who can sympathize with you, at least in some ways. Well, think of Aaron. Think of Aaron the high priest. He was a man who knew weakness. He was a man who knew sinfulness and sorrow. Remember what he did when Moses was up on the mountain, Mount Sinai, getting the ten words from God? What was Aaron doing? He was down below with the people having a party, and he told them to take off all their gold and all the gold that they had collected from the Egyptians. And he threw it into the fire in a pot, I'm sure. And then he he later said, Out jump this calf! They were making a God to lead them forward because they didn't know what happened to Moses. And then Moses came down. And he had the ten words from God, and the first two were about not doing what he had just done. You think he felt weak? You think he felt sinful at that moment? I'll bet he was deeply humbled when Moses came down with the words from God. So, when Aaron ministered as a high priest, when he obediently offered A bullock for himself and his family before he offered sacrifice for the sins of the people. He was sympathetic. He was sympathetic. A high priest must be sympathetic in order to be an effective high priest. Secondly, High priest must be divinely appointed to this task, text tells us. In verse four. And no one takes dishonor for himself, but only when called by God, just as Aaron was. So you couldn't just say, you know what? I think I'll join this high priest business. I'll study for the priesthood and be a high priest. Couldn't do that. God alone decided who would bear this office. And no others need apply. In fact It would be deadly to presume to be the high priest, not called by God. In Numbers 18, uh the scripture says Levites, that's Priests, Levites must perform their service in the tent of meeting, so that the people of Israel, that is, those who were not called to that office So that the people of Israel do not come near the tent of meeting, lest they bear sin and die. You couldn't just decide to be high priest. That's what the text says. Third point. Christ was appointed to this office of high priest. That's what the writer of Hebrews is saying. These are the qualifications. This is how it has to happen. But guess what? Jesus Christ was appointed this way. Verses 5 and 6, and then quoting Psalm 2 and Psalm 110. Verse five, so also Christ did not exalt himself to be made a high priest, but was appointed by him who said quote Here it is. You are my son, today I have begotten you. You are my son, today I have begotten you. How is that an appointment to the office of high priest? How is that psalm Pointing to the office of high priest. Well, it's also quoted, by the way, in Acts 13, and it's there quoted in reference to the resurrection. It's it's the today there that is the resurrection. Verse thirty-two of Acts thirteen, and we bring you good news that what God promised to the fathers This he has fulfilled to us their children by raising Jesus as the resurrection, as it is also written in the second Psalm: You are my son, today I have begotten you. So you put those two together and you see that Jesus entered into his high priesthood at the resurrection. Why at the resurrection? Because the sacrifice was complete on Calvary. And since the sacrifice was complete, he now ascended to the throne of God, and he presented himself, his sacrifice, and prayers for the people. And these prayers are received through the sacrifice of himself on Calvary. Let me just show you again where that is, one place in Scripture. In Isaiah 53. It's discussing the suffering of Jesus in verse 11. It says, out of the anguish of his soul, he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities. That's the cross. Then God says, Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoiled with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death, there's the cross again, and was numbered with the transgressors. Yet he bore the sin of many and makes, ongoing, makes intercession for the transgressors. He is now entered into the office of high priest, making intercession for the transgressors. And then the text says in verse 6 also, in another place, you are a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. After the order of Melchizedek. Now, what's this about? Why are we bringing Melchizedek into this picture of Jesus being high priest? How does that all fit together? Well, think about this for a moment. Some of the Jews in that period, and I am told even today, some of the Jews of that period actually expected not one Messiah, but two. They read the scriptures about Messiah, and they could see in the scriptures that Messiah was a king. And they could see also in the scriptures that Messiah was a priest. And in their way of thinking, how could those two offices ever come together? They were forbidden to come together. Jesus is both. That's what the writer of Hebrews is saying. Jesus is both. He's not in Aaron's line, is he? No. He is in Jacob's line, so he's not of the priestly tribe. How can he be a priest? He is in the line, the writer tells us, not of Aaron. But of Melchizedek. Melchizedek's line is another priestly order. And at the same time, Melchizedek was a king. the King of Salem, or what we would call now Jerusalem. So you see the writer is telling us, Jesus is bringing these two offices together. He is king and he is high priest. According to the order of Melchizedek, it's all coming together. Don't turn away from Jesus, don't go back to Judaism because Jesus fulfills everything. Everything. The two Messiahs come together in one person. The Messiah Jesus, who is priest and king. Fourthly, Christ is sympathetic. Christ is sympathetic. Verses 7 through 10, and then also Matthew and Mark, John. Verses 7 through 10, here's what the writer says. In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears. To him who was able to save him from death. And he heard because of his, he was heard because of his reverence Although he was his son, he learned obedience through what he suffered and being made perfect. Wait a minute, you say, isn't Jesus perfect? In this sense, he had to be made complete. He had to be fully ready to discharge the office of sympathetic high priest. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him. And being designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. Now, what is this Veiled reference about this Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears. Where is that? When did that happen? Well Matthew and Mark tell about the Garden of Gethsemane. They tell about the anguish that Jesus experienced as he contemplated the hell that he would suffer Bearing our sins on the cross. You need to know this, children and adults. Jesus was not Superman. Superman is faster than a speeding bullet, more powerful than a locomotive, able to leap tall buildings in a single bound. Jesus is not Superman. Jesus really suffered. And students, Jesus had to study. Jesus had doubts. I think I can prove that if you give me the opportunity. It wasn't like at any time he could just flip a switch and his divine superpowers would come on. It wasn't like that. He grew in wisdom, the scriptures tell us. He didn't know everything. And he wasn't play-acting about being human. Like you and I might play act about being a two-year-old and make the kind of sounds and actions that a two-year-old or a three-year-old does. No, Jesus was really human, and he was like us in every respect. And yet The infinite God became finite for you and me. He was like us in every respect except one: Sin. He did not sin. But again, this was not because he had some kind of secret superpower that none of us has. Temptations were real to him. That's what the writer of Hebrews says. However, you want to reconcile that to his divinity, it's a complicated issue, but his temptations were real. That's what the writer of Hebrews says And that's necessary so that he can sympathize with us who are tempted, who are really human. It's very necessary. And he underwent all kinds of sufferings from those forty days in the wilderness at the beginning of his ministry, where he was sorely tempted by the devil, and at the end of that time it says the devil left him until an opportune time. And there were many opportune times, I'm sure. And probably one of the most crucial opportune times was the Garden of Gethsemane. And yet Jesus willingly faced the cross. In John twelve, verse twenty-seven Jesus says, now is my soul troubled. What shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. Jesus willingly suffered. And he met every test from the forty days of temptation in the wilderness, which, by the way, recapitulates Israel's forty years of wandering in the wilderness. All the way to the painful and shameful death of the cross. And so as a result, he is able to deal gently. With me, with you, he is able to deal gently. He is able to make atonement as a merciful and faithful high priest And he is able to rule his church as a loving, gentle shepherd, sympathetic to us in our weakness. Isn't that important to know? We have a doctor who knows what it's like to be in pain. We have a counselor who knows what it's like to have troubles and be distressed and depressed. We have a sympathetic high priest. Very important. And as a result, number five. You may draw near the throne of grace. And that goes back to chapter 4. You may draw near the throne of grace. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, ascended. Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weakness, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore then draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find help to grace help in time of need. That's what the text says. He has ascended as priest and king for us. And what is the throne of grace? What is the throne of grace? Is that just some interesting phrase about prayer? Is that what it is? No. The throne of grace is the mercy seat. The mercy seat. Well what's that? Leviticus 16. The Lord spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron. When they drew near before the Lord and died, and the Lord said to Moses, Tell Aaron your brother not to come at any time into the holy place inside the veil before the mercy seat that is on the ark, so that he may not die. The mercy seat was where the atonement was made, that is where the glory cloud of the Lord appeared over that mercy seat to show that God was receiving. his people through the sacrifices. He says, For I will appear in the cloud over the mercy seat in the holy of holies where nobody could go except the priests. The mercy seat and the throne of grace are one and the same. Aaron Ben and his priestly sons had to draw near, but only very precisely They had to be washed. They had to be dressed in just a certain way. They had to wear certain turbans and things on their head. They had to perform these things both outwardly and inwardly. They had to have their hearts right if they went into that holy place to do this holy work. And they had to bring only the proper sacrifices, and then only one day per year. That's how they drew near to the mercy seat. But you and I may now draw near to the throne of grace, the throne of God, the mercy seat, one and the same. We are invited to draw near. We share in the priesthood of Jesus, the priesthood of all believers. And the service, by the way, the service of communion. is the pinnacle of our drawing near. Because How do we get into that holy place? How do we get in? Why are we allowed to come in? Why are we called to draw near now? Because Jesus, through his body and blood, and The sacrifice of Calvary has torn the curtain top to bottom, and we are invited in now. To the throne of God, the throne of grace, the mercy seat. He has opened the veil through what? Through his body and blood on Calvary. And so he is there as a merciful and faithful and sympathetic high priest and king on a throne of grace. We are in fact. We are in fact to ascend there every time we gather to worship. Every time. There is a sense, by the way, in which you and I may personally draw near to the throne of grace anytime, out driving your car, at home, wherever. But that is only because you are part of the church which is invited to draw near, washed in baptism, and invited to the Holy Supper. That's the basis for your personal and private entrance to the throne of grace. The letter was written to the church. The holy brothers who share in a heavenly calling. The church gathered in worship and especially gathered on the Lord's day to the Lord's Supper is invited to the throne of grace. Church draws near in the sacrament of communion because the body and blood of Jesus, once shed, has opened the way. It is not an accident that in the earliest versions of the communion service, which we can find if we go back and study, the early documents of the Christian Church, the earliest versions of the communion service, of which ours is a legitimate version I found it in Hippolytus' second century documents, the Apostolic Constitutions. The minister in the earliest service says, Up with your hearts! We say, lift up your hearts, but up with your hearts, the literal translation. And the people respond knowingly, knowing what's going on here, they respond, we have them with the Lord. What does this mean? Where are our hearts? We have them at the mercy seat in heaven. We ascend there now and have access to the mercy seat through our ascended high priest and king. Up with your hearts, we have them with the Lord at his mercy seat Glory be to Jesus, who is our ascended, sympathetic high priest. Amen. Amen. Lord, we pray that you would now give us grace to draw near through Jesus Christ. Through his sacrifice, we thank you that we have a sympathetic and faithful high priest who has passed through the heavens. Jesus the Son of God, the priest after the order of Melchizedek, and our King. Amen.