Please turn in your Bibles to Psalm ninety. We'll read the entire Psalm. Psalm 90. A prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. You return man to dust and say, Return, O children of man. For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past or as a watch in the night. You sweep them away as with a flood. They are like a dream, like grass that is renewed in the morning. In the morning it flourishes and is renewed. In the evening it fades and withers. For we are brought to an end by your anger By your wrath we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. For all our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength, eighty. Yet their span is but toil and trouble. They are soon gone, and we fly away. Who considers the power of your anger and your wrath according to the fear of you? So teach us to number our days, that we may get a heart of wisdom Return, O Lord, how long? Have pity on your servants. Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love That we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen evil. Let your work be shown to your servants and your glorious power to their children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us. And establish the work of our hands upon us. Yes. Establish the work of our hands. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. It's always appropriate. We thank you that you are a gracious God who revealed yourself. You didn't have to reveal yourself, but you condescended to reveal yourself. To Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. You revealed yourself in the garden to Adam. We thank you that you now have shown yourself to us in the words of Scripture, the history, the sacred history of your people. And in Jesus Christ, the word made flesh most perfectly. So we pray now that as this portion is broken before you that you will speak again as you have revealed your word through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Psalm 90, please. Psalm 90, which was read so well. And you're hearing a few moments ago. Psalm 90, the beginning of the fourth book. of the Psalter, Book 4. And I want you to notice as we go through the Psalm that it has a U-shaped structure. It starts on this side high with verses 1 and 2, something very beautiful to say And then it descends rapidly to troubles and sorrows and struggles and remains in those struggles and sorrows for a while. And then in verses 12 through 17 rises back up to recount good things, hopefulness. So let us consider it that way. It is first said in the opening words, a prayer of Moses, the man of God. This is the only psalm that is a prayer of Moses. And perhaps the oldest of the Psalms, because it is a prayer of Moses who goes way back, it is an ancient hymn of biblical faith. And it tells us, first of all, that our short life is full of trouble Life is so short. When I was young, I did not believe this. It just seemed like something old people said. A year was a long time to me when I was young, and ten years was unimaginable. But now, in my 64th year, it seems to me, as the Latin phrase has it, tempus fugit, time flies, whether you're having fun or not. Tempest fugit. And now we go from that beginning, those two verses, which we'll come back to at the end, to verse 3, this descending down into the bottom. Where Moses says to us, you return man to dust, and say, Return, O children of man. Moses then reflects, for a thousand years in your sight are as but yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night. What he's saying is, life is short. We are dust, and we will return to dust real quickly. This is here compared to God's infinite eternity. God's unimaginable eternity. Folks, it was just 13 years ago that Jennifer and I came here with some of our children. Timothy, who was here yesterday, now a state trooper in West Virginia, was thirteen when we came here. And Stephen, who's here today, was six in those long ago 13 years. It seems like yesterday that that happened. I feel like I just came here. And yet, for God, a thousand years are as yesterday Like a watch in the night, Moses says. What's a watch in the night? It's that four-hour period that a soldier did his watch around the camp of other soldiers or on the walls of a city while others slept. Four hours and it's over. You're done. Like a watch in the night is our life. Or think of it. 500 years ago, Columbus lived and sailed to the New World from Europe. Moses says in verse 5, you sweep them away as with a flood. They are like a dream. Like a dream. A dream is something you wake up from and then you forget even the details of the dream that seemed so vivid just a few moments ago. Like a dream. Death, he says, comes quickly. Like a flood of a wave sweeps Sandcastle away on the beach. Or in Middle Eastern thought, more like a wadi that suddenly floods when a thunderstorm passes over a nearby mountain, and everything in its path in that wadi is swept away, man and beast by A sudden flood. Moses says life is like grass that is renewed in the morning. In the morning it flourishes and is renewed, and in the evening it fades and withers. In the Mediterranean world, grass grows up quickly in the winter and spring when the rains come. And then overnight it turns green. It soon dried up and gone. I saw something like this when visiting my children who were living in Northern California at the time. They would tell me about the green hills all around Salerno County and various places like that. The green hills that were there in March and April, but suddenly in June they became golden brown. It's a picture, I think, of youthful vigor, which soon fades. The push-ups you could do when you were twenty. Aren't so many now, huh? Why is life so short? This is the second point. Why is life so short? Why is it like grass? Moses had witnessed a great deal of death. Moses was there when the death angel took all the firstborn of the Egyptians in one night. Moses was there when Pharaoh's armies were swept away and drowned in the sea. He tells about it in Exodus 15. Let me read parts of that to you. Here's the song of Moses. He says, Then Moses and the people of Israel sang this song to the Lord, saying I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously, the horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea death. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him, my Father's God, and I will exalt him. The Lord is a man of war. The Lord is his name. Pharaoh's chariots and his host he cast into the sea, death. And his chosen officers were sunk in the Red Sea. Death The floods covered them. They went down into the depth like a stone. Your right hand, O Lord, glorious in power, your right hand shatters the enemy. In the greatness of your majesty, you overthrow your adversaries, you send out your fury, it consumes them like stubble. The blast of your nostrils, the waters piled up, the flood stood up in a heap, the deeps congealed in the heart of the sea The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil, my desire will have its fill of them. I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them And then verse 10, you blew with your wind, the sea covered them. They sank like lead. in the mighty waters. Moses knew what death was, didn't he? And Moses not only saw the death of the Egyptians, he saw a lot of other death too. Moses was there when the Earth opened and swallowed those Israelites who complained about the meals that God was providing for them every day, like clockwork. Moses was with the Israelites for that forty years, while a whole generation of adults except two Except Joshua and Caleb were buried in the sands of Arabia and in the Negev. One by one, they turned to dust. Why is life so short? Why is it like grass Verse seven tells us, for we are brought to an end by your anger. By your wrath we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. Folks, this is why all die. Theologically, we know this. This is why all die. Adam's sin and God's righteous anger against it. Moses says in verse 9, for all our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. Life is short. If you look back to Genesis 5, you notice the lifespans in Genesis 5 after the great flood. Genesis 5, well this is before the great flood. This is the book of the generations of Adam, Genesis 5. 1. When Adam, when God created man, he made him in the likeness of God. Male and female, he created them. And he blessed them and named them man when they were created. When Adam had lived a hundred and thirty years, he fathered a son in his own likeness. Now that's a hundred and thirty years, and he becomes a father, right? After his image and named him Seth. The days of Adam after he fathered Seth were 800 more years. And he had other sons and daughters. Thus, all the days that Adam lived were 930 years, and he died. When Seth had lived 105 years, he fathered Enosh. Seth lived after he fathered Enosh 807 years, and he had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Seth were 912 years, and he died. Then you come down in that passage to verse 25. When Methuselah had lived 187 years, he fathered Lamech. Methuselah lived after he fathered Lamech 782 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Methuselah were 969 years and he died. But then you read in Genesis chapter 6, the next chapter, verse 3: Then the Lord said, My spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he is flesh. His days shall be one hundred and twenty years. And by the time of writing of this psalm, man's lifespan had contracted even further from that 120 years in Genesis 6 Moses here says in verse 10, the years of our life are 70, or even by reason of strength, 80. Yet their span is but toil and trouble. They are soon gone, and we fly away. Who considers the power of your anger and your wrath according to the fear of you? In the past few months, two younger Orthodox Presbyterian ministers in central Pennsylvania have lost their young wives to death. And last September, Jeff and I attended the memorial of a 57-year-old David Haney, who had recently, last summer, served as moderator of our General Assembly. And yesterday, here, we remembered and gave tearful tribute to God. For the life of my mother Levita Cathy, 82. Folks, life in the fallen world is full of trouble. That's what Moses is saying. It's full of trouble and it's short. And it's good to get a firm grip on this, not live in some kind of delusion. It's good not to live in denial of the fact of the shortness of life. He says, verse 9, for all our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like A sigh. And there was one person who sighed as he died, who didn't sigh because of his own sin, but Because of our sin. That was Christ on the cross. This reflects, I think, his sighing on the cross when he gave up his spirit at the last, like a sigh. This is the honest view that Moses, a believer, a man of God, a friend of God, takes about life. So we're down at the bottom of this U, but let's go up to the other side. The point number three is make God your eternal dwelling place. We began with that at the beginning of the Psalm. The Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Isaac Watts, 300 years ago, put it in a paraphrase that we sing: Our God, our help in ages past. Our hope for years to come, our shelter from the stormy blast and our eternal home He says in verse 2, before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. And this, my friends, is the dominant theme of the psalm. Not the shortness and difficulty of life in those middle verses. This is the beginning and the end of this psalm. This is the dominant theme. And it is this. A Christian is someone who knows where home is. If you know the Lord Jesus Christ, you already have the keys to your home. And you're almost home. So don't dwell on the troubles, but dwell on God's goodness. Count your many blessings as one old hymn puts it A couple of years ago, I stood out in my driveway and took photos on the backside of a severe storm that had come through St. Mary's County just a few minutes earlier. I saw it moving off to the east toward Calvert County. It was amazingly beautiful to see the towering dark clouds in the east. And then a rainbow appeared, arching from the storm as the sun shone in from the west. It was beautiful. I took photos. But I'm guessing that it didn't seem so beautiful to the people across the river in Calvert County at that time who were under the wind-blown torrent. They might not have any idea how long before that storm would pass. We're not to dwell in the storm. But wait. For the sunshine. Charles Wesley put it beautifully in this hymn: Jesus, lover of my soul, let me to thy bosom fly. While the nearer waters roll, while the tempest still is high. Hide me, O my Saviour, hide, till the storm of life is past Safe into the haven guide. Oh receive my soul at last. Moses wrote this psalm 3,000 years ago to show you that you must dwell in God, not in the troubles. Home is a place where you can bring your troubles and your weariness and find comfort and care. My friends, Jesus Christ is your permanent address So Moses prays this prayer in verses twelve and following. So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long? Have pity on your servants. Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, for as many years as we have seen evil. Let your work be shown to your servants and your glorious power to their children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the work of our hands upon us. And then when the Bible wants something to be remembered, it's repeated. Yes, establish the work of our hands. Here, Moses prays for the eyes of faith to see God's work even in the troubles. Think of it. What had Moses really seen accomplished when he wrote this psalm? Moses had seen forty years of encampment in the deserts of Sinai And there were no monuments remaining in the wilderness. The wind swept over every encampment and covered any fragments of their sojourn there. Moses had not seen the Israelites into the promised land as he hoped. Moses prayed for things he could not yet see. Because Moses had faith, as the writer of Hebrews has it in Hebrews 11, verse 1. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for. The evidence of things not we could add yet, not yet seen But my dear friends, this morning, if the Lord is your dwelling place, the Lord will use your life. Your life. He will use your life, and your labor is not in vain. Because as St. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 4, we have this treasure In jars of clay. Jars don't last long. We have this treasure In jars of clay, so that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us Paul sounds like Moses here in verse eight of that passage. He says, We are afflicted on it in every way, but not crushed We are perplexed but not driven to despair. We are persecuted but not forsaken. Struck down, but not destroyed Always, he says in that clay jar, always carrying in the body the death of Jesus for our sins. So that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies here and now. So Moses says, let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us, verse 17. And establish the work of our hands upon us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. And you know Moses' prayer is answered because in Revelation 14, verse 13. Here's what is said. I heard a voice from heaven saying, write this, blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them. Moses had said, Establish the work of our hands. Establish the work of our hands. And they rest from their labors for their deeds, the work of their hands. Follow them. This is good news for those of us who are travelers on this planet, travelers in this time, whose life is now short. Much shorter than it was. We may trust in God through our troubles. We have a permanent address in Jesus Christ. We're almost home. And we will be home And our deeds, the work of our hands that we do here and now in Christ will be established. They will last for all eternity. The deeds will follow us. Amen. And Lord, we thank you for This psalm which reminds us of realities and joys and glorious things That are set before our eyes and in our hearts and will follow us into eternity. Give us perseverance and strength. Fill us with joy for as many days as we have through Christ our Lord. Amen.