Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the third chapter of Malachi, the very last book of the Old Testament, right before Matthew. Malachi chapter 3, the first four verses. Hear now, people of God, this word from God. Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord, whom you seek, will suddenly come to his temple. And the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. But who can endure the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fuller's soap. He will sit as a refiner and purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, and they will bring offerings in righteousness to the Lord. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the Lord as in the days of old and as in former years. This is the word of the Lord. Reading is from James chapter 5. This is the preaching text. As we continue through James, and then after that, we'll return to John. James chapter 5, beginning at verse 1. Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted, and your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidenced against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days. Behold, the wages of the laborers who mold your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you And the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in the day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you. Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient about it until he receives the early and the late rains. You also be patient. Establish your hearts for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. As an example, the suffering and patience, brothers, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. Behold, we consider those blessed who remain steadfast. You have heard of the steadfastness of Job, and have seen the purpose of the Lord, how the Lord is compassionate and merciful. Merciful. But above all, brothers, do not swear either by heaven or earth or by any other oath, but let your yes be yes, and your no be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Or we pray now that as we've opened your word, That you will speak to us by it. Bless your messenger with clear expression and cogent thought and spiritual truth. In Jesus' name. Amen Amen. So let's think about the New Testament church. What was it like? Everybody, not everybody, but I've heard people say at times past, oh, I wish we could just go back to the New Testament church. What was it like? Well, we see some positive things and some not so positive things. In Acts chapter 2, verses 42 through 47, we see amazing generosity It says there, and they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers, and awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. It says this. And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all as any had need. And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God, and having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to their number, day by day, those who were being saved It's a beautiful picture of sharing and generosity and and people really getting into the the care of each other. Now I want to say this. This is not a paradigm for the future. It it sounds kind of like communism, a Christian kind of communism. You know, sell all your possessions and everybody share and nobody has any possessions anymore. That's not what we uh want to see. But what was there Here these pilgrims had come in Pentecost and they had gathered from all over the world. People that didn't have jobs in Jerusalem, that had to have a place to live, came for the Pentecost feast. And then the Holy Spirit was poured out on them and they needed to stay there and learn and share in the apostles' teaching. So they did stay. They stayed for weeks. They stayed for months. They opened their homes and people from all over the world stayed. And they had to have stuff to eat. So that's why they sold their possessions. That's why they provided for all these things. It wasn't a permanent situation, it was a temporary situation situation. situation that they shared everything they had. But they did share, and that's a beautiful picture. I'm not trying to denigrate it at all. But so you want to go back to the early church? Let's go on to the next bit in Acts Acts chapter 5, Ananias and Sapphira. But a man named Ananias and his wife Sapphira sold a piece of property. They're going to sell their property and give it all to the church, right? And with his wife's knowledge, he kept back for himself some of the proceeds and brought only a part of it and laid it at the apostles' feet. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? There was no command that he had to sell his stuff and give it. Okay? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? He didn't have to give it. Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart and have lied not to man but to God? And you know what happened after that? When Ananias heard these words, he fell down and breathed this last. And I'm not going to read it, but shortly after that, his wife showed up, and they asked her the same questions, and she gave another lie, and then she fell down and breathed her last Not good. So that's the early church. Right? There's a divided loyalty in our hearts, brothers and sisters, even in the early church. We're going to do the right thing. We're happy. We're aligned with God. We do the right thing. But sometimes we don't. And there's a divided loyalty, and we make a lie, and we do this and we do that. What it means is that it's a normal condition, fallen condition, to stand in God's new creation in Christ. To be the recipients of the Holy Spirit, to have the Word of God, the Apostles' teaching and all that, and also at the very same time to obey the fallen world's advice and directions and the promptings of our sinful hearts. And we see the cure to this split personality, which I outlined last week after the snow, and so many weren't here, but uh It was a picture of a dysfunctional soul. And the cure to this is found in James chapter 4, verse 7. Submit yourselves therefore to God. says, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify you hearts, you double-minded. Double-minded I think this and I also think that, and I can't get them to reconcile, you see. He says, Be wretched and mourn and weep, let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. So that's the cure. And the lessons that came from that, last week I'm recapping, you know, is the lessons, put on humility. We just heard it. Put off worldly pride. Resist the devil. Imitate Christ. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. That's that's the cure to this split soul, this split personality. Now, now we come to the passage today, and before we do, I'm going to ask you a question. If you knew that the U. S. and the world economy Was going to crash within the next several years, and that all your accumulated wealth would be lost, what would you do? Well, someone might say, well, I would withdraw all my money from the bank. And I would spend it on a really good car. and some great clothes and an extravagant vacation because I don't want to I want to at least enjoy it, right? I would buy some would say I would buy gold. I would buy gold and I would put it in my safe department deposit box and I would buy silver. Dave Ramsey would tell you you need to pay off your debts. Keep your property. Well, someone has said on a bumper sticker Being of sound mind, I spent it all. That's their last will and testament. Or maybe, maybe, maybe Some would do this. If they knew that it was all going to collapse, all going to go away, you were going to lose it anyway. Maybe some would say I'm going to support the mission of the spread of the gospel in the world. I don't know how many years are left, but I'm going to give what I have to mission work, to the spread of the gospel. And I'm going to give it away to others in immediate need. In today's section, there's a thesis for this sermon that Christians are to exhibit generosity In plenty and in patience. To exhibit generosity in plenty, when we have plenty, and patience in suffering, remembering the promise of Christ's coming. Now, what is this promise of Christ's coming that I'm referring to and will help us sort out this particular teaching here? In Matthew 24 Jesus actually did say that a huge thing was going to happen, that a huge collapse, a big change was going to happen within one generation. That he sold his disciples that some of you are sitting here or standing here today, and these things, the end of this period, the end of all these things, the huge change is going to come before your generation ends, before you die. I'll read a little bit of it to you. Matthew 24. Jesus left the temple and was going away when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple built by Herod. But he answered them, You see all these, do you not? Amen, I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown upon down. That was absolutely like the end of the world to them. Earth shattering. The temple of God Will be dismantled and not one stone left upon another? That's unthinkable. That's the end of everything to the Jews. And then he goes on in the same chapter down in verse 15. When you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel standing in the holy place. Then let those who were in Judea flee to the mountains. You better get out of town when you see this thing starting to happen. Let no one who is on a housetop go down to take what is in his house. Hurry And let no one who is in the field turn back to his cloak, to get his cloak. And for alas, for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days, because it's going to be hard to run in those conditions. And then he says in verse 27 of that chapter 4, As lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. The coming of the Son of Man in that generation, dismantling the temple. That's what it says. Now, I need to give some theology here because otherwise you You might say, what are you talking about? There are two comings of Christ in the New Testament. Two comings predicted. One is a spiritual coming that Jesus here in Matthew 24, this part of that I just read He's talking about a coming in judgment on the old order of Jews in Jerusalem and the Jewish nation and the priesthood and the sacrificial system and the temple. He was saying, I am coming. This is similar to the Old Testament prophets that speak for God, and God says, I'm coming, and I'm going to destroy the things that you trust in. The Old Testament. So it's very similar to that. I am coming, Jesus said, within this generation, and I'm going to end the sacrificial system, I'm going to destroy the temple, I'm going to end the priesthood. It's all going away. And there's going to be a whole lot of other ramifications, economic and social, because two million people crammed into the city of Jerusalem are going to die at the hands of the Romans. That's a big deal. But that's not the final and bodily and visible coming of Jesus That is going to happen at the end of the New Testament church. And that is going to inaugurate the new creation in its final form. So there's two comings, a spiritual coming, and it happened in the year 70 A. D. , and there's a future coming when Christ will visibly and literally come. and inaugurate the new creation. So I think, brothers and sisters, that in James chapter 5, verses 7 through 11 That James is referring to this spiritual coming. James is referring to the spiritual coming when he says to the believers, Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. In seventy A. D. , I think. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient about it until he receives the early and late rain. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is 2,000 or 3,000 years hence. No. The coming of the Lord is at hand. That's what it says in that text. Do not grumble against one another, brother, so that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge is coming a long way off, no, standing at the door. This is, I believe, reference to Jesus' promise of this huge thing that was going to happen. Now, I'm not alone in this. Jonathan Sariah, a New Testament scholar, says it is true that the eschatology of the New Testament is predominantly fulfilled in A. D. 70. And he talks about the fact that there is yet a very important future coming of Christ, visibly and literally. He also says that Clement of Alexandria, one of the early church fathers, believes this. this way. Eusebius believed it. John Lightfoot, New Testament scholar, believed this. John Owen Great New Testament scholar believed it. Milton Terry. J. Adams, who was a professor at Westminster Seminary in Philadelphia, believed it that way And so this interpretation does not deny the final coming of Christ. It merely finds that not all the coming passages refer to that event. The 8070 interpretation is actually the most faithful to the biblical text because it recognizes the Old Testament prophetic terminology was used by the New Testament authors. God's spiritual coming in judgment, you see. This recognition is helpful, distinguishing the prophecies of Christ's coming that were near in the first century and those that are far. That's the literal final. And then there's a bunch of passages we could look at, but we're not going to. I'm going to throw that out there and hope that you can soak it in and take it. John Brown says it is quite plain he's using this text in James. It is quite plain that in our Lord's prediction the expressions the end and the end of the world are used in reference to the The events of that period were very minutely foretold, and our Lord distinctly stated that the existing generation should not pass away till all these things Should be fulfilled. This was to be a season of suffering for all, like the people that James is writing to, of trial, of severe trial to the followers of Christ, of dreadful judgment on his Jewish oppressors. And the glorious triumph of his religion. So that's just one comment. This is also held by Adam Clark in the 18th century and by Gary DeMar, who is. Who's contemporary and you hear him on uh Redeemer Broadcasting regularly? Uh Gary DeMars says this about that passage in James. He says, James, as well as the other New Testament writers, is clear about the nearness of Jesus' coming when he says, quote, the coming of the Lord is at hand, James 5. 8, at hand for those who first read the letter. And finally, if I need another authority, we had a Sunday school series here, some of you attended, and it was uh R. C. Sprohl's series on the last days, according to Jesus And he takes the same point of view. So that's how we're going to take this context. And in this context, we have, therefore, in verses Two, and following, James's rebuke. This sounds like the Old Testament prophets again. He says, Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. in that generation. Your riches have rotted and your garments are mothy and your gold and silver have corroded and their corrosion will be evidence against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up the treasure in the last days. The last days, then. Behold the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud. are crying out against you. The cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord. You have lived on the earth in luxury and self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in the day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered the righteous person, he does not resist you. He's saying that to the Christians. See, the church is not always good. It's sometimes a mess. But he's warning these people, you're acting like the sinners in the Old Testament, and God is going to come. Don't you remember what Jesus said? He's going to come this generation. Why are you hoarding all your stuff? Why aren't you sharing generously when Jesus has said that it's all going to be white Out. Get with the program, he's saying. And so I ask you again: if you knew that Jesus had unequivocally stated, 20 years ago If he had, that the United States and the world economy was going to crash and that all accumulated wealth would be lost, what would you do? That's the situation these people were in. James's message to the church, then, it's all going to be lost in the coming judgment of God. So don't hoard. Start acting like Christians. And Jesus had taught, and James, his little brother, is writing here, Jesus had taught in Matthew chapter 6, 24 No man can serve two masters, for he will either hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. And the Apostle Paul had said, godliness with contentment is great gain. We brought nothing into the world. We cannot take anything out of the world. And he says later in that passage, it is through this craving for money that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs. Now let's think about our moment here in life. In 1980, that's a long time ago, I know now, but in 1980, the American standard of living was the highest among the industrial countries, according to uh these statistics. Out of 85 million households in the United States, 64% owned their own living quarters. 55% had at least two TV sets. That probably translates to about five computers now. And had 51% had more than one vehicle, and that would probably increase more. In terms of possessions, telephones, now mobile phones, no doubt, TV sets, school enrollments, animal protein and diets. and energy consumptions, the United States was far ahead of other industrialized countries. I'm not trying to put a guilt trip on us for being productive, successful Americans. I'm not. But we are the richest people on earth. And the gospel always calls us to be generous and to share and to fulfill the gospel mandate. We don't know. Jesus hasn't said that he's going to come and judge our land and destroy the capital in a few years. He hasn't said that. He may. We probably deserve it. He may not. He did not say that he would come in a generation as he did to his own disciples in Matthew 24. It has been more than 2,000 years, but he will bodily, physically return. We do know that we are to be generous toward those in need. We do know that we are to support relief for the poor, responsibly done Not the way the government does it. We are to be church planting and doing evangelism. We are to be involved in Christian education and mission to places where the gospel is not. Been received. This is still our job, our calling, as the people who have been blessed with so much. And as members of Grace and Peace Orthodox Presbyterian Church, we do this primarily by supporting I didn't do this because of the meeting coming up Wednesday, but I'll say it anyway. We do this primarily by supporting the church budget. With the tithe. And in that church budget, you see, it's not just the pay for pastor. It's there, yes. But it's diaconal ministries, including disaster relief. When that terrible earthquake swept and there was a tsunami that came over the northern part of Japan, we sent people there. We sent people from our own congregation there through giving to diaconal ministry. In the OPC. And we've done that in Haiti and other places. We did it in northern Louisiana where there were floods last summer. We support church planting through our giving in the budget. That is building new churches, starting new congregations, supporting our regional home missionaries so that he can help start new congregations. We do that through supporting our foreign missionaries who have been carefully vetted and go well into these countries to do the right kind of work that will last, that will build the Church of Jesus there. We do this through Christian education, through publications and opportunities to grow in our Timothy Conference, which is coming up in the spring, which is helping young men to discern where they're called to the gospel. ministry and through the administration of the larger church, we give some of that money to the General Assembly to operate. Okay, there it is. There's no word from Jesus that he's coming as he did in 70 A. D. So this is not as urgent and on the moment as it was then to the people that James is writing to. But don't let that keep you from taking it seriously. Because you can be sure of two things. You, sad to say, but truthfully, will be going to him. In a short time. Even if he doesn't come, you will be going to him in a short time. And you'll give an account. And the second thing that you know for sure, without any doubt at all, is that he will come again. And while he tarries, he expects his church to be faithful to the gospel commission, no matter how long or how short the time before his bodily second coming. He expects us to be faithful. And I, as I was doing this sermon, I thought of an old hymn that I knew from my youth, and it's really apropos, so I'm going to read some of those. lines. Here's Jesus speaking. I gave my life for thee, my precious blood I shed, that thou might ransomed be and raised up from the dead I gave, I gave my life for thee. What hast thou given for me? And then he says, My father's house of light, my glory-circled throne, I left for earthly night. For wanderings, sad and lone. I left it all for thee. Has thou left aught for me? I suffered much for thee, more than thy tongue can tell, bitterest agony to rescue thee from hell. I've borne, I've borne it all for thee. What hast thou borne? And I have brought to thee this wonderful good news. I have brought to thee down from my home above salvation, full and free, my pardon and my My love, I bring rich gifts to thee. What hast thou brought to me? For the love of Christ. What are you doing with the wealth that God is in charge of Amen. Lord, we would not be like the hoarders That James wrote to, who were failing to pay wages and keeping and failing to give. Storing up things for for themselves in the last days of that era. We would not be like them. We would be careful in our planning But generous in our giving. We ask that you would, through the wonderful gospel of the Savior who came and gave everything for us, who loved us before we Before we even were born, that through him that we will have a generous heart, a gospel heart. And we pray in his name. Amen.