This morning's Old Testament reading comes from the book of Isaiah. We will read the first chapter in the first 20 verses. Isaiah 1, verses 1 through 20. The vision of Isaiah the son of Amaz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah, kings of Judah. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. Children have I reared and brought up, but they have rebelled against me. The ox knows its owner, and the donkey its master's crib, but Israel does not know. My people do not understand. Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, offspring of evildoers, children who deal corruptly. They have forsaken the Lord. They have despised the Holy One of Israel. They have utterly estranged. Why will you still be struck down? Why will you continue to rebel? The whole head is sick, the whole heart faint. From the sole of the foot, even to the head, there is no soundness in it, but bruises and sores and raw wounds. They are not pressed out or bound up or softened with oil. Your country lies desolate, your cities are burned with fire, in your very presence foreigners devour your land. It is desolate as overthrown by foreigners. And the daughter of Zion is left like a booth in the vineyard, like a lodge in a cucumber field, like a besieged city. If the Lord of hosts had not left us a few survivors, we should have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah. Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the teaching of our God, you people of Gomorrah. What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices, says the Lord? I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of well-fed beasts. I do not delight in the blood of bulls, or of lambs, or of goats. When you come to appear before me, who has required of you this trampling of my courts? Bring no more vain offerings. Incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath and the calling of convocations, I cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly. Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates. They have become a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are full of blood. Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean. Remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes. Cease to do evil Learn to do good, seek justice, correct oppression, bring justice to the fatherless, and plead the widow's cause. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land. But if you refuse and rebel, you shall be eaten by the sword. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. We continue in Galatians chapter 4. Galatians 4, 12 through 20 today. Brothers, I entreat you, become as I am. For I also have become as you are. You did me no wrong. You know it was because of a bodily ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first. And though my condition was a trial to you, you did not scorn or despise me, but received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus What then has become of the blessing you felt? For I testify to you that, if possible, you would have gouged out your eyes and given them to me. Have I then become your enemy by telling you the truth? They make much of you, but for no good purpose. They want to shut you out, that you may make much of them. It is always good to be made much of for a good purpose. And not only when I am present with you, my little children, for whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth until Christ is formed in you. I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone, for I am perplexed about you. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Now let us pray. Oh God, we pray that as we consider this little bit in the middle of Paul's letter to these Christians, professed Christians, in Galatia that you'll help us to understand the issues that were present and be able to hear the word of Christ. As the word is preached today, which applies to our own situations, we ask this through Christ. Amen. Well, here the Apostle Paul gets extremely personal. He has been blunt before, so this isn't the first time. He has even yelled at them in the letter, scolding them. If some of his previous words so far in this letter were in a text message like we use today, they would be using all caps. And angry-faced emojis. Let's look at his first appeal. as he makes these appeals to the Galatians. The first appeal, he says, become as I am. Verse 12, brothers, I entreat you, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. How could he ever urge them to become like him? Shouldn't he only point them to Jesus? In what way should the Galatian Christians become like Paul? Well, Paul well knew that he himself was not sinless or perfect. The doctrine that someone could become sinless and perfect, taught by some of the Wesleans, simply is not true and was refuted very well by uh Princeton professor B. B. Warfield and others. So Paul wasn't standing before the Galatian Christians saying, Look at how perfect I am. Don't worry about following Jesus. Just be like me. No, he was not. He simply wanted them to follow him as he followed Jesus. Paul wanted the Galatian Christians to imitate his clear thinking And his theological consistency, not so they could win first prize in a theological exam or something like that But because it really was a matter of death and life, that's why he was so insistent. Become like me. By the way, do you believe that the gospel is a matter of death and life? Is the gospel of Christ a matter of just personal preference? I happen to be a Christian. I like my church. I like my religion. I like to talk about Jesus. Or is it really a matter of life and death? Do people really need Christ? Will God really judge and condemn those who reject His way of salvation? The way of salvation, which is only through Christ. There is no other name given among men whereby we must be saved, as was preached in Acts. The Galatians had begun with the right understanding of the gospel, because Paul had led them consistently into that right understanding. And the gospel had delivered them from eternal death. Listen to the verses 3 through 5 of chapter 1. He says, Grace to you and peace from God our Father in the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age According to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. You see how important this was. Deliver us from the present evil age. But some of them didn't stay there in their understanding. They were being drawn away, in this case, drawn away into legalism. The idea of earning righteousness by performance. Paul says, No, no, become like me. Can you say to others, become like me? If you can't, then why not? If Christianity is true, shouldn't it be true in your life and true for all the people around you as well? John Scott says all Christians should be able to say something like this, especially to unbelievers. Namely, that we are so satisfied with Jesus Christ, with his freedom, joy, and salvation that we want other people to become like us. In this phrase, Become L, Paul may have also had in mind that he had become like the Gentiles when he was among them. According to his own philosophy of ministry expressed in 1 Corinthians 9, where he says, he says, For though although I am free from all, I have made myself a servant to all. that I might win more of them. To the Jews I became as a Jew in order to win Jews. To those under the law I became as one under the law, though not being myself under the law. That I might win those under the law. To those outside the law, I became as one outside the law, not being outside the law of God. but under the law of Christ, that I might win those outside the law. To the weak, I became weak. that I might win the week. I have become all things to all people, that by all means I might save some. I do it all for the sake of the gospel, that I may share with them in its blessings. So he may have had that philosophy of ministry in mind, as he said, become like me. Because he also added, for I have also become as you are, in order to serve you. And then the next phrase, he says, You did be no wrong. What does he mean by that? I think he's pretty offended by their not following him anymore, their turning aside, but he says, you did me no wrong. What does he mean by this? Paul has used very strong words with the Galatians. It would be easy for them to think that he spoke out of a sense of personal hurt. Paul's feelings have been hurt by their steering away from the gospel to these other ideas. So Paul assures them that this isn't the case He only wants them to get the gospel right for the glory of God and for their own sakes. Do you feel, therefore, listener, Paul's heartfelt emotion in these verses As John Stott puts it in Galatians 1 through 3, we have been listening to Paul the Apostle, Paul the theologian, Paul the defender of the faith. But now in this section we are hearing Paul the man, Paul the pastor, Paul the passionate lover of souls. And Luther says about this: like Paul, all pastors and ministers ought to have much sympathy for their poor, straying sheep and instruct them in the spirit of meekness. They cannot be straightened out in any other way. Overly sharp criticism provokes anger and despair, but no repentance. So he's not defending himself here. You did me no wrong. I'm concerned about your following away. Your falling away, I should say. Say, from the gospel. That's what I'm concerned about. That's why I'm so agitated. It's not about me, Paul says. It's about Christ and the truth. Become like me is the first appeal. The second appeal is remember how you used to treat me Verse 13, 14, and 15. He says, You know it was because of a bodily ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first. And though my condition was a trial to you, you did not scorn or despise me, but received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus. What then has become of your blessedness? For I testify to you that if possible you would have gouged out your eyes and given them to me. Apparently, Paul traveled into the region of Galatia because of some type of physical infirmity. A physical infirmity that he suffered while on his first missionary journey. The book of Acts, which records the missionary journeys, doesn't tell us as much as we would like to know. But we can piece together a few facts. What exactly was Paul's infirmity that he mentions here? Some believe his problem was depression. Or epilepsy, or that his illness was connected with a thorn in the flesh mentioned in 2 Corinthians 12, undescribed other than thorn in the flesh. None of these can be established with certainty, but the phrase, you would have gouged out your eyes and given them to me, does clue us in, doesn't it? Together with some other things. Morris, Leon Morris says, obviously, a plucked-out eye would be a gift to nobody, but Paul's point is that his converts had been ready to do anything for him in those early days. So, noted Greek scholars such as Weist, Rendel, and Robertson believe that the nuances of the Greek text indicate that Paul's physical infirmity was an eye problem. Also in Galatians 6. 11, at the end, Paul makes reference to writing with large letters at the end. of the letter. He didn't write the original text. Some secretary did that he had employed, but he signed it at the end with large letters. The real point here is that despite whatever Paul's infirmity was, the Galatians did not despise him or reject him when he came to them at first. One commentator says, as physical infirmity and illness were regarded by many Jews and Gentiles alike as a symbol of divine displeasure and punishment. There would have been a natural temptation for the Galatians to despise Paul and reject his message. But this is exactly what they did not do. Even though Paul seemed weak and afflicted, they embraced him and responded to his message of grace. God's love. Now Paul is longing for those days. He is broken up by their jilting him for these false teachers. He says in verse 16, have I then become your enemy by telling you the truth? The Galatians should not think that Paul has now become their adversary when he simply wishes to confront them with the truth. He knows as pastor that they needed the truth more than they needed to feel good. I'll pause to say this. As you think of me and as you think of future pastors here, every minister, being human, wants to be liked by you. Wants to even be loved by a few. The danger is that the minister will fail to tell you the hard truths. That you need to hear, that he will fail in order to curry your favor. Paul is unwilling to do that So now on to the third appeal. He says, Beware of the affection the legalists show you. Verse 17. He says, they make much of you, but for no good purpose. They want to shut you out that you make make much of them. He says in verse 18, it is always good to be made much of for a good purpose. Gusick says, legalism often comes wrapped in a cloak of love, but the end result is for no good purpose. Many cults use a technique informally known as love bombing. Love bombing. They overwhelm the prospective member with attention, support, affection, gifts. But it isn't really a sincere love for the prospect. It is really just a technique to gain another member for their group. Legalistic groups might also use the same technique. It is not sincere. The goal in such cases is to grow our group, not the glory of God, not the gospel to the lost. It's just grow our group. We're all in it for our group. He says, they want to shut you out that you may make much of them. Paul's legalistic opponents wanted to draw the Galatian Christians away into their own little divisive group. They actually wanted to exclude the Galatians from other Christians and to bring them into the super-spiritual group of the legalists. Do you admire the zeal of legalists who appear at your door? Offering literature and private Bible studies. Often they are clean-cut young men wearing neat white shirts. and name tags that says Elder So-and-so. They have given up many months of their youth to go out on mission. Or it might be another case. It might be the lady and gentleman with the youngster who appear at your door with a portfolio of free literature. And good news about a kingdom about to be revealed. They are offering a non-gospel. They are legalists who want to shut you out of the gospel church. One commentator says the zeal cultivated by legalism is often more a zeal for the group itself rather than for Jesus Christ. Though they name the name of Jesus in practice, the group itself is exalted as the main focus, and usually exalted as the last refuge of true super Christians. We don't want to have that kind of zeal for our own congregation or for our denomination. Or for our theological subset. You want to have zeal for the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's why we pray for other church bodies when we gather here on the Lord's Day. We're not the only ones. We're not a cult. The phrase, shut you out. is literally lock you up. The legalists are courting the Galatians like a charming boyfriend. But once they have alienated them from Jesus and from Paul, the legalists will demand that the Galatians serve only them. Legalism is always associated with some kind of religious bondage. Paul says in verse 18, it is always good to be made much of for a good purpose. Paul certainly isn't against zeal. Zeal is good. He wants Christians to be zealous in good things always. But it is important to make sure that your zeal is in a good thing, because zeal in a bad thing. is dangerous. The Galatians were impressed, impressed by the zeal of the legalists They were so sincere, so passionate about their beliefs. Paul will agree that it is good to be zealous. But zeal in the service of a lie is a dangerous thing. Paul knew this from personal experience, didn't he? Before he became a believer in Jesus, he had plenty of zeal, even persecuting the church, as he records in Acts 7, 58-84. Later, Paul looked back at that time of great zeal in the service of a lie, and he deeply regretted it. Fourthly, Paul appeals like a father and a mother. Don't miss this. He appeals like a father and a mother. Verse 19, My little children, for whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth, until Christ is formed in you I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone, for I am perplexed about you. Here, Paul is both a father and a mother. He both planted the gospel seed and shaped them in his womb. Through this section, Paul masterfully mixes These metaphors to give a powerful picture. Paul likens himself to a father who planted the seed in love and a mother who formed them over time and gave them spiritual birth. He calls them my little children. But something unnatural has happened. The Galatians are drifting away from Jesus and the gospel back to the law. So Paul says he has to labor in birth again. And this is unnatural to have to labor again, to have labor pains a second time after you've given birth. But Paul will keep laboring until it is Christmas, and Christ is born for the Galatians, until Jesus is formed in them. John Stott says, he likens his pain to the pangs of childbirth. He had been in labor over them previously, at the time of their conversion, when they were brought to birth. Now in their backsliding, this has caused him another confinement He is in labor again. The first time there had been a miscarriage, this time he longs that Christ will truly be formed in them. And finally, in our section today, at least, he says, I wish, I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone, for I am perplexed about you. Paul wished two things that he could be present with the Galatians, but he also wished that he did not need to speak to them in such strong words. He wished he could change his tone. But their danger of leaving the true gospel had made such strong words necessary. And has made Paul's doubts necessary to address. Again, my dear friends, everyone wants to be liked. You want to be liked by all your relatives and neighbors and friends and coworkers. Everyone wants to be liked and everyone wants to avoid offense. It's very tempting, therefore, just to let people be whatever they want to be and do whatever they want to do rather than confront them and risk the relationship. Great wisdom is required. Should you awaken someone in a burning house? Yes, it's an act of love to say something, even if you are scorned for it at first. Principles for the attitude of a pastor toward the people in the church come to mind. In Ezekiel chapter 33, verses 6 through 9, here's what God says to Ezekiel. But if the watchman, that's the man on the city wall who's looking out for the safety of those inside the city If the watchman sees the sword coming and does not blow the trumpet, so that the people are not warned And the sword comes and takes any one of them. That person is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at the watchman's hand. So if you, Son of Man, I have made a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me If I say to the wicked, O wicked one, you shall surely die, and you do not speak to warn the wicked to turn from his way, that wicked person shall die in his iniquity But his blood I will require at your hand. And he does not turn from his way. That person shall die in his iniquity, but you will have delivered your soul if he does turn. From his iniquity. So the pastor, the watchman, must be willing to serve and sacrifice for his people. He must tell them the truth. He must love his people deeply, like Paul does here, but never for a selfish motive. He must desire to see more than mere excitement. But zeal for good things. He must desire to form Jesus in them, not himself in them. How important is the gospel? Isn't it okay just to let people be? Mind your own business? Then there's principles for the attitude of people in the church toward their pastor, the watchman on the wall. Your attitude, church member, must not be determined by your pastor's personal appearance or personality. Your attitude must not be determined by your own theological whims. Your attitude should be determined by his loyalty to the apostolic message in the Bible. You must heed his message as the voice of Christ. That's what Paul said the Galatians heard at first, the voice of Christ. I close with this little story. A few years ago, a young man very close to me nearly left the true biblical understanding. And consider joining a religious group with what was at best muddied, a muddied understanding of the grace of God. He was motivated by romantic feelings for a young lady in that religious group I felt like I was losing this person for whom I had labored spiritually. I had a choice to make. I could tell him the truth and possibly alienate him Or I could just smile and give my approval and win his immediate pleasure. By God's grace, I told the truth to both he and the young lady. I sat down with them and explained the difference between the biblical gospel and its twisted and distorted counterfeit. And the outcome was good in the long run. So I, your pastor here today, say to you, imitate me in this. If the gospel is true, if it really is a matter of life and death, you cannot be silent. You, along with Paul, need to have the same zeal for the truth, for the glory of God, and for the salvation of others. Amen. Lord, we thank you for the Apostle Paul's becoming very upset. In love and concern, not for himself, not personal offense, but upset for a very, very good cause, the truth. We thank you that he spoke up. The fact that we know the gospel and that this letter was written defending the gospel against legalism, is proof that you worked through his zeal in a good thing. So help us also to follow him. In this we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.