Romans seven, seven through twenty-five. What shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means. Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. But sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment produced in me all kinds of covetousness. Apart from the law, sin lies dead. I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive and I died The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me. For sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment destroyed So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. Did that which is good then bring death to me? By no means. It was sin producing death in me through what is good. In order that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold under sin. I do not understand my own actions For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. Now if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law that it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is in my flesh, for I have the desire to do what is right. but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on Now, if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of God in my inner being. But I see Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body Of death. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I myself serve the law of God with my mind But with my flesh I serve the law of sin. Then Psalm 6 to the choir master. With stringed instruments, according to the Shemoneth, a psalm of David. O Lord, rebuke me not in your anger. Nor discipline me in your wrath. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am languishing. Heal me, O Lord, for my bones are troubled My soul also is greatly troubled. But you, O Lord, how long? Turn, O Lord, deliver my life, save me for the sake of your steadfast love. For in death there is no remembrance of you. In Sheol, who will give you praise? I am weary with my moaning. Every night I flood my bed with tears. I drench my couch with my weeping. My eye wastes away because of grief. It grows weak because of all my foes. Depart from me, all you workers of evil, for the Lord has heard the sound of my weeping. The Lord has heard my plea. The Lord accepts my prayer. All my enemies shall be ashamed of me Ashamed and greatly troubled, they shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment. Psalm 6 is known as the first of seven penitential psalms. It is a song of confession and humility before God. It was a custom in the early church to sing these seven penitential psalms on Ash Wednesday beginning of the Lenten season. The title is to the chief musician with stringed instruments on an eight-stringed harp, Psalm of David. The first part is David's agonized plea, verse one: a plea to lighten the chastening hand of God. He says, O Lord, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. We do not know what the occasion of sin was. But because of his sin, David sensed that he was under the rebuke of God. Therefore, he called out to God to lighten the chastisement. There may be times when we believe we are chasten by God's hand when we really are just suffering the troubles common to all people. So we have to be careful when we are struggling. We tend to think when we are struggling under some chastisement, we tend to think What did I do? Where did plenty of them to consider? But we have to also at the same time remember Remember that there are simply troubles that are common to all people that don't have any connection. And Jesus pointed that out when someone asked him, did this man sin or his parents, the man who was born blind? mind, so forth. And Jesus said, Neither one, this was for the glory of God. So it wasn't because of some particular sin of this man or his parents. Nevertheless, there are certainly times when the Lord does chasten his children. His children know it, they feel it deeply, and David seemed sure that this was the case. He says, do not rebuke me in your wrath, nor discipline me in your anger. Of course, that's a couplet. poetry. We know that God's chastening hand is not so much a mark of his anger. The word anger here and the word punishment that we often use Don't really fit when it comes to God's children. The writer of Hebrews, in chapter 12, verse 7, makes it clear that chastening is evidence of our adoption. It's not so much anger and punishment, although it may be displeasure. We could call it that, displeasure. In Hebrews 12, 7, the writer says, if you endure chastening, displeasure, chastening, God deals with you as sons. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? Now, I have to admit that In my teenage years, I wasn't perfect. And there was a particular occasion that I recall where I was discovered in some Sin or error, both really, and suddenly my parents noticed And they took note of it in such a way that I really got their attention, shall we say? And at first I didn't like that attention. You know, you'd rather not be discovered. Or scrutinized carefully, or feel that chastening look or questioning about what you did or where you were or what happened here or there. Rather not, because it feels Very tense. But on later reflection, it's a great thing that someone cared enough, loved me enough to notice When I was in error, when I was not doing what I should be doing, and questioned me about it. See, that's the mark of love It's not anger, it's not punishment, although there may be a consequence, a chastening. It was love that looked after me and questioned Me and called me up short. And that's the same thing here. On this side of the cross, we know more clearly than ever that all the anger Of God against sin has been poured out on Jesus at the cross So when we are in trouble, as David felt trouble here, we need to understand that God's chastening us as believers. believers out of correcting love, not out of anger, not out of punishment, not because God hates us. We sang just a few minutes ago, Jesus loves me. I know for the Bible to that's unconditional because Christ died for us on the cross. So we need to understand that Spurgeon says this about this. So we may pray that the chastisements of our gracious God If they may not be entirely removed, may at least be sweetened by the consciousness that they are not in anger, but in his dear covenant. love. So that is what we say about David's agonized plea. And then we see, secondly, David's double troubles, verses two and three. 3. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am languishing. Heal me, O Lord, for my bones are troubled. My soul also is greatly troubled. But you, O Lord, how long? I am weak, my bones are troubled. The double troubles. David knew the trial of physical weakness and pain. That's one kind of trouble, isn't it? In the midst of this kind of chastisement, he cries out to God for help Help me, I am weak, I am hurting, I am in pain. And he says also, my soul also is greatly troubled. So there's two things. There's my body Body and my soul. David experienced the trial of spiritual weakness. I think we saw a bit of that in Paul's description of his struggle against sin in Romans 7. Spiritual weakness. I want to do what is right, but then sin is right there. Soul and body are deeply connected and affected by each other. Our souls languish when our bodies are in pain. Pain and suffering, and our bodies can be made painful and suffering by our sick souls. They work both ways. We are psychosomatic beings, both parts. And one integrated whole. That's the way God made us. So everything affects everything else. He had a tender conscience in this situation. And that is something that we all need. It is a good thing, I think, when when we are suffering, when we are troubled, our soul is troubled, our body is suffering. And we feel that we've sinned, and we may have sinned, and we may know it very well, that we have a tender conscience like his. If we don't have a tender conscience, then we just keep going. And we keep thinking, I did that and I got away with it. I did it again and I got away with it again. I did it again and I got away with it again. You know, I'm not even sure if God cares. I'm not even sure if Freeze a god Because I keep getting away with all these things. And there will be a consequence, there will be a chastisement. It will come in time. Be sure your sins will find you out. But to avoid that, we need to do what it says in Proverbs 29:1. He who is often reproved yet stiffens his neck will suddenly be broken beyond healing. No, we don't need to do that. We need to realize that. That if we keep on going, even if the consequence doesn't happen now, we will suddenly, it says. Be broken beyond healing. Great consequences do come. The difficulty of these trials drove David with his tender conscience to seek the mercy of God. These trials of body and soul were amplified by David's sense of God's displeasure. When we are not confident in God's love and assistance, even small trials will feel unbearable. If you are sinful and sinning and consciously living that way, then every bad thing that happened, every red light Jeff said he had all the red lights here. Every red light makes you wonder if God is unhappy with you. He could be. I mean that sounds silly, right? But if you have a clear conscience, if you know that God is pleased with you because Christ is your Savior, then you won't take every little problem or situation that comes along as Some kind of chastisement. So this really gets a doctrine that we need to consider tonight. And that is the doctrine that we find in Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 18, about the assurance of salvation because that's what this is about in in a sense here. David is languishing, he's got he's struggling with this whole thing. Listen to this in Westminster Confession 184 about the assurance of salvation. True believers May have the assurance of their salvation, divers ways shaken, diminished, and intermitted As by negligence of preserving of it, by falling into some special sin, which woundeth the conscience and grieveth the spirit, by some sudden and vehement temptation. By God's withdrawing the light of his countenance and suffering even such as fear him to walk in darkness and to have no light. Yet, it says, they are never utterly destitute of that seed of God and life of faith that love of Christ and of the brethren, that sincerity of heart and conscience of duty, out of which by the operation of the Spirit, this assurance may in due time be revived, and by the which, in the meantime, they are supported from utter destination. So, yes, you can fall into some doubts and lack of assurance. And that's where we find David in his struggle here He says, how long, O Lord, how long? David sensed that he was under the chastisement of God, but he still knew that he should ask God to shorten the trial. There is a place where we should be in humble resignation to God's chastisement, but at the same time, God wants us to seek Him and get things right with Him. ask him to remove the chastisement. Third point is from verses four and five, David's urgent plea. So he says, Turn, O Lord. That's really a an odd thing in a way. We talk about repentance, don't we? Turning away from sin, turning. Well, God uh David is saying, repent, Lord, turn. Turn, O Lord, deliver my life. Reverse the situation. Save me for the sake of your. And this is important This is, save me for the sake of your steadfast love. We said that recently in one of the morning sermons, I think it was, that we are always right To plead to God for the sake of his name, for his glory, for his good. And we are wrapped up in all that His name is on us. So when we plead for his name, for his glory, for his good, for his kingdom, we're wrapped up in that. And so we can say, save me. Help me. Deliver me because of your covenant love, your steadfast love for your name, for your glory, save me. And that works. That is a prayer that God always repeated over and over in Scripture. And then we get to this very interesting phrase in his urgent plea, which sounds a little odd to us in verse 5. For in death there is no remembrance of you. In Sheol, who will give you praise? Sheol here in the King James has translated hell, I think. uh or Hades, I'm not sure which, but it simply means, in the Old Testament uh sense, the place of the departed. Those who have gone on. There is a good side of Sheol, Abraham's bosom, and then there is a bad side of Sheol, a place of suffering. And estrangement from God. So he says, For in death there is no remembrance of you, and Sheil, who will give you praise? In his agony, David pleads for deliverance He pleads on the ground of God's mercy, not his own righteousness. David knew that the Lord's chastisement was righteous, but he also knew That God is rich in mercy. When he prays this prayer about there is no remembrance of you, he's not making a definitive theological statement about about life after death. That once we die we're dead and we can't praise God and it's all over. Or God doesn't receive praise from those who have gone on. That is not what he's saying. He's simply testifying that in his particular case, in his life, he wants to live so that he can praise God in life. He wants to live so that he can serve God in life. And he's saying, I think, in a sense, if I die, my opportunity to serve you and praise you and live for you here will be over and I won't be able to do it. That will be past tense. He's not saying that there's no afterlife or there's no praising of God after life. In fact, we can verify that when we compare Scripture with Scripture, right? That is called the analogy of faith when we compare Scripture with Scripture. We cannot take one verse that maybe seems to say that there's no there's no praising God after life. It's over, and make that a whole doctrine. No, we We have to compare it with other places, and one of them is Job 19, 23 through 27, perhaps the earliest book of scripture in the whole Bible. And Job says, Oh, that my words were written, oh, that they were inscribed in a book, oh, that with an iron pen and lead they were engraved in the rock forever. So he wants this to be remembered. this thing that he's about to say. Then he says in verse 25, For I know that my Redeemer lives. And at the last he will stand upon the earth. And after my skin has been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold, and not another So Job gave testimony to, though I die, though my flesh is destroyed, yet it will be raised. It will be made whole again. In my flesh shall I see God, and my eyes shall behold him with my own eyes, my future, regenerated, remade, glorified eyes. Will see God. So there is a clear statement, a very definitive one. Write it down, engrave it, Job says. And he says this in a very prophetic situation. Spurgeon, again commenting on this question about this verse, says the churchyards are silent places. That's all David was saying. Churchyards are silent, aren't they? Aren't they? The people that are there don't have the opportunity to praise God with the living at the present time. The vaults of the sepulchre echo not with songs, he says. Damp earth covers dumb mouths until the resurrection. David's words are not meant, he says, to present a comprehensive theology of the life after physical He is in agony, fearing for his life, and he knows that he can remember God and give him thanks now. And he wants to give He doesn't want to die prematurely and lose the opportunity to praise God and testify of God's grace to others. That's what we make of these verses, verse five in particular. And then we get to toward the end of the Psalm, David's determined resolution, verses six and seven. A vivid description of David's agony. He says, I am weary with my moaning. Every night I flood my bed with tears. I drench my couch with weeping. My eye wastes away because of my grief. It grows weak because of all my foes. Now this is in somewhat a contrast to what we were saying at the last preaching of the Psalm before. When we said, I can go to sleep in peace, because I I know you, Lord, even with all these troubles around me, I just go to sleep in peace. This doesn't sound quite the same, does it? So we have different experiences at different times, don't we? He says, I am weary with my moaning God's chastening hand was heavy upon David. His life seemed to be nothing but tears and misery. David's trial has at least three components. He felt God was angry with him. He lacked a sense of God's presence, and he couldn't sleep. Again, that psychosomatic union. Is affecting him badly. So he says, every night I flood my bed with tears. Of course, that's an exaggeration. David didn't want us to believe that his bed actually floated in a pool of tears. But because of this poetic description, we can understand the depth of what he was saying. Have you ever experienced that? A trial so dark and so deep? So all encompassing that you just can't quit crying Even if you're not physically crying, your heart is crying. Your face is crying. You don't sleep. That's what David was Experiencing. He says, my eye wastes away with grief. Spurgeon says David's eyes were red and sore from all the tears and lack of sleep. Have you ever been there? As an old man's eyes grow dim with tears, years, so David says, My eye is grown red and feeble through weeping. And then the phrase, Because of all my foes, David is brought so low that his enemies no longer spur him to seize victory. He seems depressed and discouraged. He can't even get up and do anything about it anymore. That is the condition that we find him in. He is experiencing great trouble. He feels that he sinned. He perhaps he knows that he sinned. And um we don't know what that sin was, but uh he he was troubled by it. Verses eight through ten ten. Depart from me, all you workers of evil, for the Lord has heard the sound of my weeping The Lord has heard my plea. The Lord accepts my prayer. All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled. They shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment. Sudden turn He's pondered his situation. He's called out to God and he's evaluated his reality In light of God's covenant love, and now he can say, I'm not going to let the evil workers have it. I am not going to give into that. I am not going to cave. The Lord has heard my plea. He accepts my prayer. All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled. They shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment. God is going to rule. God's work is going to go forward. I need to believe that. That's what he's saying. It may be that the sin that led David into this chastisement was some Interaction with the ungodly, because he says, get out of my way, all you workers of evil. We can think of perhaps situations where David might have been tempted and might have come close to being evil and might have even done some evil. One that was reminded to me recently talking with someone was a situation with, and it's recorded in 1 Samuel 25 with uh Abigail and Nabal, her husband. Do you remember that bit? having shed blood without cause, or for my Lord working salvation himself. And when the Lord has dealt well with my Lord, then remember your servant. See what happened here was This woman, Abigail, was a beautiful woman and a wise woman, and she was married to this fool and this knave named Nabal. And David asked Nabal for something And Nabal gave him a rude and rough and nasty answer. And David was ready to kill Nabal. He had got the men all set, gonna go wipe out Nabal and all his And then the wise woman Abigail came and said, please, you know, my stupid husband did some stupid things, and please don't destroy us. She interceded. So in verse 32, David said to Abigail, Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel who sent you this day to me. Blessed be your discretion. And blessed be you who have kept me this day from blood guilt. He said I would have been blood guilty and from working salvation with my own hand. He would have been guilty of trying to do God's work. Not God's way. For as surely as the Lord the God of Israel lives, who has restrained me from hurting you, unless you had hurried and come to meet me, truly by morning there had not been left to Nabal so much as one man. So David is, that's just one example of a possible situation. David says, depart from me all you evil. evil workers. I think we could at least say this about that. We should set limits on people who are troubling us unjustly. We should say, enough of this. I'm not going to put up with it anymore. I'm gonna set you aside and I'm not gonna deal with you anymore. I'm not gonna be sinning because of your constantly provoking me. Now, the Lord has heard my plea, the Lord accepts my prayer. David ends the psalm on a note of confidence He made his agonized cry to God, and God heard him. And someone, some commentator says this. I think it's worth thinking about. about carefully. Listen to this. Tears have a voice before God. Tears have a voice before God It isn't that God is impressed by emotional displays, but a passionate heart for truth and grace does come before God. Tears Have a voice before God. And David wasn't afraid to cry before the Lord. And God honored the voice of his weeping. Spurgeon again says, Is it not sweet to believe that our tears are understood even when words fail? Let us learn to think of tears as liquid prayers. Finally, let all my enemies be ashamed and greatly troubled David knows that when God receives his prayer, it will be trouble for his enemies. David now sees that his temporary agony and trouble gives way to a permanent agony. And this reminds me of what uh Pastor Tom said in a recent sermon from First Peter. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon On you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice in so far as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed. Turn it around. See it in a different way. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed. You are blessed, because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. And then 2 Peter 2, 9, the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials. And to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment. There is a day of judgment coming. There is hell everlasting. And so we would do well to understand that. Pray for God's deliverance for his name's sake, for his covenant love for us. Let our tears flow. But then recover and be confident in God's covenant love for us and with us. Let's join together in prayer. Lord, we thank you for this penitential psalm. We don't know the occasion of David's sin, but so many occasions could be such an occasion for us. Help us, Lord, to understand the cross of Christ. That you do not punish us, you do not hate us, but your chastisements are for our good and for your glory. And help us to return to you You and seek your glory and believe that you are acting in love. And thank you that our tears are heard by you. They have a voice And help us to trust in your love in all kinds of conditions and situations. We thank you that we will not fall under the judgment at the last Say, but be delivered because of Christ, and we come in his name, amen