It's a joy for me again to be here with you. You know, in the midst of uh the conversation that is taking place the reports on the political crises, the International situation, the border crisis, economic crime in the streets. I Read with my wife from what's called the Daily Light. Some of you might be familiar with it. We came across these words. This is uh just a collection of verses pretty much on the same theme. Oh my God. My soul is cast down within me. You will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever, for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. Cast your burden upon the Lord, and he will sustain you. He's not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. Neither has he hidden his face from him. But when he cried to God, he heard. Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid Take no thought for your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, or even for your body, what you shall put on. Behold the birds of the air. For they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much better than they? Be not faithless, but believing. Lo, I am with you always. Do you know this game? Anybody recognize that? You know it's it's called Jenga. The idea is that you very carefully take out pieces and then you place them on top and you can do that later if you want to but This is a representation of what many people think of our times. A metaphor, if you will. How many think that we're in this gigantic game of Jenga? And at some point, somebody, somewhere in the world, is going to pull the wrong block, and the whole thing's going to come tumbling down. Are you feeling that? Think that about your own life? Are you fearing that? Well, as Christian people, You need to remember one thing, that you do not need to fear anything, because your Heavenly Father has this whole thing right in his hand. And not one thing will fall to the ground apart from his grace and mercy. On his Second missionary journey, Paul planted a church in the city of Philippi. He wrote a letter to that church. A body of believers. And what he wrote to them is still, we believe, and it's true, that it is appropriate. In the face of all that's going on in our world now 2,000 plus years later. The letter has some very specific purposes in mind. He repeatedly encourages the saints in Philippi to live in a manner worthy of the calling that they have received in God's grace. Chapter 1, verse 21. Understanding in this letter to Christian people that Paul is encouraging them to live in harmony with one another. to live consistently according to the purity of the gospel, the good news that they had received, and thus to live striving toward that goal and purpose of holiness before the Lord Paul says that to do this begins with relying upon and resting in the finished and sufficient work of the Lord Jesus Christ. His righteousness and his present and future salvation that will surely come The Philippians were saints in the Lord, saints in Jesus Christ, in whom God had begun a good work. And he would, by his grace, bring that work to completion in the day of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, as Paul wrote these wonderful exhortations to the Philippians in the context of their everyday living, so he writes to us. We can't cover the whole book of Philippians. But let me just read a few verses in the last chapter for our consideration this morning. Chapter 4 of Philippians, just beginning at verse 4 and reading down through verse 9. This is God's word, and it is true. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which passes all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, Whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, If there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me Practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. Let's pray as we look at these verses this morning. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the experience of saints through the centuries. Evidently, beginning with these ones in Philippi and probably earlier, your people have always had to live in this world, broken world, fallen world. And yet you have redeemed us, and you give us a perspective that is reflected in what the apostle exhorts us to here in these words. Bless our minds and our hearts as we consider them this morning for Jesus' sake. Amen. These are familiar words to most of us who've read the Scripture any length of time. As I studied them, I tried to determine what's the thing that holds this passage together. And I think it's the use of those all-inclusive words. Look at the text again. I'm not going to go through every one, but Paul uses words that include always, everyone, anything, everything, all. I think what the Apostle Paul is doing is something different than he's done in the past. In the previous chapters, he's used a method of communication by contrast. That is, he's drawn the Philippians to see the difference between those who put confidence in the flesh and those who put confidence in Christ alone in chapter 3. Verse nine, the the idea of loss versus gain. Verse 11, the evil workers, the evildoers, as opposed to those who are faithful citizens of God's kingdom. And so he uses that method of contrast. Now he switches a little bit and uses a different teaching method And that is, now he's going to build, even as a builder would build a house with cinder blocks. He's going to put one on top of the other on top of the other in order to make his point. here, implying some of the negative and some of the natural instincts and tendencies of human beings But bringing to the surface those things of God which allow us to come to that one single end which He is striving for, and that is peace. in everyone, always about everything. That's heavy, isn't it? Peace in everyone, always, about everything that happens in the life of every believer. And so this morning, from this passage, let me just suggest three things. I call them the three R's, not reading, writing, and arithmetic, but rather rejoice, relax, and rest. Rejoice. There's a road, there's a street in Edinburgh, Scotland that the Scots call The Royal Mile. You can begin at the Great Castle in Edinburgh and go down High Street past St. Giles Church and the home. uh of what is reputed to be the home of John Knox. And at the far end of that street you find a castle. It's the Scottish home of the late Queen Elizabeth, and it's called the Palace of Holyrood House. I'm not sure if King Charles goes there or not. Tradition has it that on the occasions when the Queen would come to Scotland and stay at the Holyrood House that all the turrets would be uh moved out of the grounds and a flag would be raised over the castle, indicating that the monarch The queen or the king is in residence, and the privacy of that monarch is to be regarded. Well, as I thought of this illustration, my wife used to be a high school teacher, and uh in her room she had a big banner that went from one side of the room all the way to the other side, and it says Joy is the banner that is flown from the citadel of my heart when the king is in residence. Joy is the banner that is flown from the citadel of my heart when the king is in residence. Now the fact is that you and I can look at people in this room, in the faces of people that we know. I don't know almost any of you. But this issue is on our minds. We see it. We see the dread. What's coming? Is that virus coming back? Is it still out there? I was in the store yesterday and people were wearing masks. I'm not putting down masks, but maybe we should all be wearing those. There's an election coming up. What's going to happen with this virus? A new virus? A new election? I don't know. But there are a lot of other issues, aren't there? Out there? Some of you in the congregation perhaps have suffered a recent loss of a loved one. Others are sick even now with serious illness. Perhaps some of you just lost your job or got demoted or are having trouble in your jobs, financial loss. There's turmoil in many families over a wandering child. Who's departed from the faith, struggles in marriage, as well as relationships outside the home. I can't list them all, obviously. But each of us is facing some sort of storm. I once preached a sermon entitled, Everybody Is Dealing with Something Everybody's dealing with something. Doesn't it seem a little bit naive, unreasonable for Paul to write this in the Bible? Especially when you put it in the form of a command, an imperative, he says, rejoice. Rejoice always. You didn't hear me? Rejoice He says. Now one might tend to think that's unreasonable, except that the same principle is repeated In many other places in the Scripture. James 1 says, Count it all joy, my brothers and sisters, when you encounter trials of various kinds. Matthew five, rejoice when they persecute you for my name's sake. In fact, the whole concept of Christian rejoicing is couched for us back in the Old Testament in the establishment of the feasts of Israel, the feast of the Booths You can go back and look at this in Leviticus twenty-three, but it was a scheduled feast at the harvest time when the The crops were in, the money was in, and everybody was prospering, and Moses said, During this most prosperous time of the year, when you got the most money and you're supposed to have the most joy I want you to go outside of your homes and I want you to build yourself a booth, build yourself a lean to, a shack, and I want you to go into that shack, and I want you to stay in that shack for an entire week And you're to rejoice while you're in that situation. Why? Because Christian joy is not celebrated on the base of what's happening outside of us, but what's happening on the inside Well, maybe it was easy for Paul to write, rejoice always. Oh, yeah? Read about Paul in Corinthians, some of the things that he went through. Now I mentioned here that some of the natural and negative parts of our character, what makes us sad? What makes you sad? Well, there's the sadness of the guilt of sin. That's fundamental. Just contemplating some of the things that I've done in my life. What I'm doing even this week makes me sad. The suffering that I see in other believers In the church, in my friends, my family, even on the other side of the world where they're being persecuted for righteousness' sake. That's sad. Maybe the presence of death made Jesus sad to the point of weeping. Paul knew all of that personally. So he's not writing out of some sort of elevated super spiritual mentality or experience or situation. The thing you learn from the scripture is that it's not the circumstances that determine the condition of the heart, the emotions, or even the decisions of the will In fact, if you consider what Paul writes here in Philippians, it's our thinking. It's our thinking. That informs the emotions and the will. Look in chapter 2. Let this mind be in you. Let this way of thinking be in you that was in Christ Jesus, who humbled himself. And became obedient. Later in chapter 3, I consider, I consider, I think about the fact that everything is lost in order that I may gain Christ. And that's the key here. Sinclair Ferguson says, we think the command to rejoice always is unusual, even impossible, because we have sometimes been misled into thinking of joy, just as we tend to think of love as primarily a matter of feelings and spontaneous emotions. These perspectives of the heart, by definition cannot be commanded, cannot be ordered. They simply happen. But that's a distortion of the Scripture's teaching You see, joy, real and abiding joy, can be cultivated by the believer in the midst of any That's why Paul adds here, in the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. In Leviticus. Moses said, rejoice before the Lord, because he's God. So Rejoice always. How do you do that? Why you take into active mental account the things that should command your consciousness. Think of these things. I'm saved. I've been redeemed from a life of sin, in order that I may truly glorify and enjoy God. My Savior, who once wore a crown of thorns, now wears an eternal crown of glory, because he rules the universe for my good. He was here. And he's coming back. I have loved ones. I have a family. I have some new family. Spread abroad, who love me just as I love my Lord. The gospel is still the best news for a world today. And when it is spread abroad, people come to Jesus. And I have the freedom to go to the throne of grace, to gain real forgiveness when I'm guilty Wisdom when I'm stupid, strength when I'm weak, and comfort when I'm afraid, and joy. When I might naturally be sad. The bottom line is: I live in the hands of a good and sovereign God Who cares for me? And where does that all end? Some of you will identify with this. I have the joy, joy, joy, joy. Down in my heart, down in my heart to stay. And so rejoice. Number two is relax in verse five. He says, let your reasonableness be known to everyone the Lord is at hand. This is an interesting Greek word because We don't have a single equivalent to it. One commentator says it means it puts together all of these things, forbearance. geniality, kindness, gentleness, considerateness, charitableness, mildness, and generosity of spirit Another commentator says, this is the principle of not pressing the technicalities of justice and equality to a minute point. That's a good reminder for the Reformed and the Presbyterians. Don't press everything. What's the natural and negative thing that's implied here? Well, what do we say about people who are bundled up with all kinds of concern and impatience? They are uptight. They are high strung. Well, to them, Paul simply says, chill, dude. Chill. Be cool. Kasa. Relax. You need not be concerned about every minute issue of life. You need not control every circumstance and every decision of every person in your life all the time. You see those encompassing things? They have names for those in psychology books, don't they? But uh boy I can identify with that. Why is that? Why why not do that? Paul says the Lord's near The Lord is near. Now that could be understood in a couple of different ways. The New Testament points to the fact that following the death, the resurrection, the ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ Since the coming of the Holy Spirit upon the church on the day of Pentecost, the only great event left For the complete redemption of God's people is the coming of Jesus. And from that perspective, the end of the age is nearer today. than it was yesterday. The Lord is always near. That's a perspective that we need to have The Lord could come before the evening service. He could come before I finish. The Lord is near. Or it could also be the truth that we know from other scriptures. The Lord is near to the broken-hearted And saves those who are crushed in spirit. The Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in truth. Jesus said as he went away, I've got a job for you to do. Go and be witnesses. Why? Because I'm with you always, even to the end of the earth. I always like the old Negro spiritual that tells it this way. You can't hurry, my God. No, no, you just gotta wait. You've got to trust him and give him time, no matter how long it takes. He's a God you can't hurry, but he'll be there. Oh, don't you worry. He may not come when you want him, but he's right on time. Relax and extend the hand of help Even in the face of pressure. Now the third R is rest, if it's in verse 6 Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. Is that a strange word in connection? Rest? Because Paul's talking about worry. He's talking about anxiety. Well, it's not a strange word. Because worry is a machine. Worry is a machine. It consumes the energy of life, the energy of the mind and the emotion. Worry consumes. the energy by manufacturing all the possibilities that might take place over which I have absolutely no control And yet I'm going to think about them and be concerned about them. Several years ago, and I I couldn't come up with a better illustration than this, but it's really an old illustration especially for some of you techies. Uh one of my friends uh purchased one of those Texas instruments programmable calculators. Anybody? Know about those? Yeah, okay. Um and so I went to uh her house one day and this little calculator was sitting on the the desk beside uh the door and the numbers were the little red numbers, remember, were flashing, flashing, flashing, flashing. And I said to her, Barbara, what is that? And she said, I've programmed it to find all the prime numbers. I said, why? She said, because it can. Well, the calculator had been running for hours. That's what happens with worry. It consumes vast amounts of energy For no real good purpose at all, really. The practice of worry and anxiety is to be consumed with the nonessentials The details of what might go wrong, of what might happen, what might be the right thing to do, if you want to cover every single detail of life. And most importantly, if you want to please everybody all the time. That's what worry does. And worry is that major addiction, addiction of the soul. Because it's no less draining of the resources than alcohol or drugs or gambling or any other of those bad addictions. Now, we need to observe that Paul presents a biblical pattern of the three R's. And it's also an indicative. The answer is not apathy. The answer is not inactivity. The answer is prayer. There in verse 7 or in verse 6, don't be anxious, but in everything by prayer and supplication. Prayer is a frame of mind, prayer as an attitude, a response of gratitude with confidence to the Lord, in petition to God in all things. One author said we need to recognize that we are suspended between the past, present, and future blessings of God. You've heard of living in the present, conscious of the past blessings of God, and looking forward to the future. What do we call it now? The already and the not yet. Imagine you've heard those phrases That kind of prayerful perspective implies both gratitude, according to Paul, and submission to the perfect rule of God. in our lives. And so if joy is the flag that flies over the citadel, then prayer is the sentinel. The guard on the walls of the castle. And that's the very word that the Apostle Paul uses here. The sentinel. He says that prayer is that thing that brings one into the peace of God and into the heart of the believer. Paul has a couple of suggestions to help us in our prayer. First is you have to feed your brain. Feed your brain. Verse 8. Okay? You know this. I'm not going to take time on each one of these, but I'm going to give you an assignment. Okay? Whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, there's anything excellent, there's anything worthy of praise, think about these things. All human minds are set on something as a point of focus, as a point of concentration, as a point of importance. And our natural tendency is to think on the negative. Now, I'm not uh this isn't Robert Schuler up here, this isn't uh Joel Osteen up here. uh talking about this. This is Paul, the apostle, saying these things. If you want to improve upon your unrestful condition, do not ignore the counsel of God. for the improvement of your sanctification in this area of life. Take the challenge. Go this week. Go this afternoon. Take a piece of paper in your quiet time and just take these various elements, true, honorable, just pure, lovely. And write down some things that fall under these categories. And then meditate on those things. You might have to look some words up in the dictionary. But you can begin, you see, to train your mind with meaningful, positive, praiseworthy thoughts. And in addition, Paul adds this additional element in the final exhortation, verse 9. Find an encouraging model. You can find someone that you know, someone that you trust. This is the very reason. Why we have fellowship in the church. You're going to have fellowship in a little bit. What is fellowship in the church? These cookies are really great. How they get all that bread from Panera. That's not fellowship. Fellowship is when the people of God get together and they talk about things that are important. Fellowship. It's the reason why we encourage people to read good books. People have gone before us. Some of the old classics, Pilgrim's Progress. Fox's Book of Martyrs, Knowing God, Holiness by J. C. Rile. The list goes on. Ask another believer, what have you read lately that's helpful to you? Paul leaves with this simple benediction: the God of peace will be with you. Peace of mind, peace of heart, peace in life, all to his glory. We read earlier in the last words of Jesus to his disciples on the night before he was crucified. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Not as the world. Jeremiah tells us that one of the main problems that we have in life is we create cisterns, things that hold water, except we poke a hole in them. Jesus says, real rejoicing, real resting, real relaxing Comes from these words, fear not, little flock. I am with you always, even to the end of the world. May we know This peace that passes understanding in our lost and panicked world. May we be examples of light. By showing that we are people who rejoice and rest and are relaxed. And that peace always finds its source in God Himself. As he provided the basis for our real peace in the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. We remember that perfect And sufficient work of his living, of his dying, of his rising again to new life, in the table that's set before us this morning. And we come Remembering that perfect sacrifice, it is the table of peace, the peace of God Spread for each one who comes by faith to God through the Lord Jesus Christ and through Him alone. So as you partake as a believer this morning in the elements, you're assured again Of your peace with God, your new life in the Spirit, sins forgiven. You are clothed in the perfect righteousness of Christ, and you have a Heavenly Father Peace be with you. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for The words of the Apostle Paul to uh people who lived long ago and yet to us today We thank you for the spirit of your word that teaches us, that motivates us, that calms us down. And I pray for anyone who's In the congregation today, who is especially sad or especially restless or especially worried, we all are those things, but we pray that the fellowship of your people today, first with you in this worship service, then with the Lord Jesus at the table set before us, and then in the fellowship and interaction of your people following the service today. That you would give us that peace that passes understanding. For your glory. And we grant that to you in Jesus' name. Amen.