Please open your Bibles to the book of the prophet Isaiah, where we'll read chapter 2, verses 1 through 4. Isaiah 2, verses 1 through 4. The word that Isaiah, the son of Amaz, saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem. It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains. It shall be lifted up above the hills, and all the nations shall flow to it, and many peoples shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. that he may teach us his ways, and that we may walk in his paths. For out of Zion shall come shall go the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. He shall judge between the nations, and shall decide disputes for many peoples, and they shall beat their swords into plough shears, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nations shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. The word of the Lord. The reading is 1 Timothy 3, 14 through 16, and then Pastor Shaw will come and preach. 1 Timothy 3. I hope to come to you soon. But I am writing these things to you so that if I delay You may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the church. Truth. Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness. He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit. Seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Gracious God and Heavenly Father, we give thanks to you that you have spoken to us by your word. And that we can know that this word of God is your word, and that everything that's in it is true. Every promise that is made you will accomplish. And so we pray, Lord God, that as we come now before your word, that you would make us ready to hear, that you would give us soft hearts and ears ready to listen. So that we might believe your promises and obey your commandments. We pray this in the glorious name of Christ, our risen Savior. Amen. The Apostle Paul writes, I am writing these things to you so that you may know how one ought to behave. And the house or household of God. He's telling us the reason for which he writes this letter. Now, if you were taught maybe in grammar school or high school how to write a paper Maybe you've heard it described like this before. A teacher might tell you, in the introduction, tell me what you're going to say. In the body, say it. And in the conclusion, tell me what you said. That's how we first learn how to write, correct? We have to make a thesis statement and be clear right from the beginning. This is the purpose for which I'm writing. That's not what Paul does in Timothy, in 1 Timothy. We know, of course, as you grow as a writer, that that's a framework that you begin with, but you learn how to write. in different ways to make and make things important to emphasize them. And that's what Paul does for us here, right in the middle of the letter. He tells us the reason for which he writes. I'm writing to you so that you would know how one ought to behave in the house or household of God. And so he's telling us the reason. And he does that at this point in the letter, it seems, for a very specific reason. He's just described for us the beginning of chapter 3 the things that would qualify someone to serve as a deacon or an elder in the church of God. And now, as he gets to the middle of the letter, he's saying that church of God to which they're called to serve I'm writing to you so that you would know how that church should behave and act and what they're called to do, so that these elders and deacons might know how they ought to lead the house or household of God. And in particular, he tells us that the reason that the church exists is to hold up the truth of God, the glory of the gospel, and the glory of our Savior, to hold it up and lift it up so that the world might see and worship. Christ. This is why he writes to us so that we would know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of God, the pillar and buttress of the truth. This institution of the Church of Jesus Christ is given a very specific purpose, given to the Church and to no other institution known in the history of the world. World to hold up the gospel so that the world might see the glory of Christ. We need To hear that, to be reminded of the glorious task of the church that's been given Christ so that it might hold up his gospel so the world might see him. worship him. We live in a world and in an age when people might tell you that the church is indifferent, in uh unnecessary for the world and even for believers. Some would even tell you that the church is detrimental to the to what it means to live as a Christian, certainly incidental, but maybe even detrimental to what it means to live as a Christian and to carry the gospel to the world. But what do we We see here the church is the pillar and buttress to hold up the glory of God so that the world might see and worship our Savior. Not incidental, not detrimental, but absolutely Necessary for the believer to know how they would live in the world and for the unbeliever to know that they are called to glorify and worship Christ. And so we'll see as we open up this text this morning the glorious task of the church as we're reminded of the glorious task. Glories of our Savior. Paul uses some clear images to describe for us the task that's been given to the church. First of all, he gives us the image of a household or a house. He says right there in verse 15, this is how one ought to behave in the house or household of God. It seems as if the image that he's giving us is really the house of God. He's using Architectural imagery in here, things like pillar and buttress. So he's describing a building or a house of God. And think about what that would mean for Paul and for those to whom Paul is writing. The house of God in their minds means the temple, the tabernacle. It referred to the place where God dwells with his people. Whenever the Israelites wandering in the wilderness would pitch their tents, the Levites would set the tabernacle right in the center of the people of God, and then the glory of God would descend and dwell there in the very center of the people. of his people. This is the place where God dwells with his people. And later, when the Israelites entered the promised land, Solomon would build the temple of the living God in that mountain capital of Jerusalem. And there, God would make his dwelling with his people, and the Israelites from throughout the kingdom would come here at specific times to the temple, to this specific place to worship before the presence of God. This was the house of God, the place where God makes his dwelling within and among his people. And it became a place of blessing. For the people of God. They took great joy in knowing that God dwells right there with them because they understood that the blessings of God flow from the house or place of God We see that in the Psalms, don't we? They're filled with expressions of this joy in knowing that God dwells with and among his people. For instance, Psalm 84. It's a beautiful psalm of praise that opens in this way: Psalm 84, verse 1, it says, How lovely is your dwelling place, O Lord of hosts. My soul longs, yes, faints for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh sing for joy to the living God. And then later in the Psalm it says, For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere, I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. Or Psalm 122, where it says, I was glad when they said to me, Let us go to the house of the Lord. The temple became a symbol that represented the joy that belongs to those who have fellowship with God. He's their God, they're his people, and he dwells in their midst. But the house of God also became a symbol of God's faithfulness. Again in the Psalm, Psalm 90, verse 1, it says, Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or even or ever you had formed the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. It's a symbol of God David understood this. He had a special appreciation for the presence of God in the house of God in the midst of his people. He had a deep understanding of what it meant that God dwells with his people. He even understood the temporary nature of that earthly tabernacle or temple, then he longed for a day When he would know the presence of the Lord and the house of the Lord forever. Psalm twenty-three. It ends that way, doesn't it? Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And Psalm 27, this psalm that David writes at a time when he's driven away from the presence of God, probably hiding in a cave, the way he describes it, he he opens the psalm by Saying that he's surrounded by his enemies who are seeking to devour him. And in the midst of that, David cries out for one thing. And it's probably not what we would expect. But surrounded by enemies who seek to destroy him, David says in Psalm 27, verse 4, One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. Life to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. Intimate fellowship with his God in the house of the Lord. Lorv, to gaze upon his beauty, to inquire in his temple. That's the imagery that's being picked up on in the New Testament when the writers like Paul and Peter describe the church as the house of God. Peter in 1 Peter 2 verse 5 calls the church a collection of living stones being built up as a spiritual house. To offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. And those living stones are being built on the living stone, Jesus Christ Himself, a living, breathing temple of God. That's the Church of Jesus Christ. Paul, in writing to the Ephesians, describes the church as members of the household or house of God built On the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Christ Jesus himself as the cornerstone in whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. That's the image that Paul gives us here in 1 Timothy 3. That when the church gathers were a collection of living stones being built on Christ Himself and the Lord meeting with us, welcomes us, has fellowship with us, communes with us, and calls us his own The house or household of God. This is the church of Jesus Christ. But what's really important for us to grasp as we read a passage like 1 Timothy 3, verses 14 through 16 is to understand that when Paul is describing this church and house of God, he's not simply speaking of the invisible church. In other words, not just The universal church throughout the world and throughout the ages, all the people of God throughout history. But he's speaking to a pastor of a local, visible congregation, and he's telling him that this church that you serve is the house of God. He's writing to a specific pastor of a specific congregation in Ephesus and he's telling him this church that you serve is the house and household of God And he makes that point very clear in 1 Timothy 3. Paul says, I'm writing about how one ought to behave in the house of God. And think about the kinds of behavior that he addresses in this letter. False teachers, public prayer, modesty and dress. He's describing the elders and deacons who might serve this church. He talks about preaching and relationships among the people in the church, respect for your elders. He's writing about behavior in a public, visible church. And Paul describes that visible church in a specific location as the house or household. of God. Think about the significance of this as we consider what it means to be a congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. What does it mean for believers if Paul calls not only the invisible or universal church, but even calls the visible church in a specific place the house and dwelling place of God? The house of God is the place from which springs of living water flow. Ezekiel 47, the prophet Ezekiel describes one of his visions where he sees the temple of God. The house of God. And he sees flowing from that temple a river of water that brings life. Wherever the water flows The animals and the plants live. But wherever the water does not flow, the animals and the plants die. This life-giving, this cleansing water, this refreshing water, it flows from the threshold of the house of God. So that the Church of Jesus Christ, which is the house of God, is the particular institution to which Christ gives streams and rivers of living waters so that as the gospel is proclaimed, people believe and they live This is the image that Paul gives to Timothy and gives to us his church. That we are the house of God from which rivers of living water flow. This is what is meant by our Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 25, paragraph two, when it says this about the visible church. As the visible church consists of all those throughout the world that profess the true religion and of their children, and is the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ, the house and family of God Out of which there is no ordinary possibility of salvation. But in which, as the gospel is preached and Christ is protected proclaimed and people believe they live forever in Christ This is why we plant churches. This is why we send missionaries to other nations, because we believe that it is the Church of Jesus Christ by which the world might believe Believe and trust in the Savior and know eternal life. So that the church, far from being incidental or detrimental to the Christian faith, is actually Necessary so that people might believe and trust and grow in Christ. The church is the house Of God. But Paul then uses a second image, borrowing again from the Old Testament. He says that it is the house of God which is the church of the living God. We think of church as a New Testament term, but it really comes right out of the Old Testament. It's a word that means an assembly or a gathering. God gathered his people around himself at Mount Sinai. Later, he called them regularly to gather around his dwelling place on Mount Zion. And now, once again, God calls and gathers a people to himself He calls them by his powerful voice, the voice of the living God who called the world into being. The same voice that said, Let there be light, and there was light. And by that same voice, God calls his people out of darkness and into the kingdom of light. And they become his church, his Assembly gathered around the living God. Now it's important for us in considering this image to remember that the assembly of God that's Being called out in this passage is the Church of Jesus Christ, and that the voice of God by which they are called out of the world is the voice of Jesus Christ, the risen Savior. And the good shepherd of the sheep. He's described in John 10 in this way. It says, the sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name. And leads them out. When he's brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. The church is gathered by Christ. The church is assembled around Christ, where he is now even in heaven So that Paul describes us as being seated in heavenly places with Christ. We're called in the scriptures the church of the firstborn enrolled in heaven. This is the assembly of God now. Not a nation wandering in the wilderness and gathered at Mount Sinai, not an idolatrous nation periodically approaching Mount Zion But an assembly gathered right now as citizens in the heavenly Jerusalem, the Jerusalem above. Right now, we are members of this church by grace through faith in Christ. All those who trust in Jesus and confess their sins and cling to Him as the only hope of salvation, they're gathered around. Right now, as the people of God enrolled in heaven. And as God calls his sheep and gathers them into the fold, these people are gathered into the assembly and church of the living God. And that universal church of Jesus Christ takes visible form in congregations in specific places as the assembly of God. Again, isn't this why we plant churches? Why we send missionaries to other nations? Because the voice of God and the voice of Jesus Christ, the Good Shepherd, is proclaimed In and through the church. And when the gospel is preached, Christ Himself speaks. And his people hear and they listen and they follow. The house of God, which is the church or assembly of the living God. More image. It's a building image. It's the house of God, the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth. The imagery of a pillar, that's fairly easy for us to understand. A pillar holds up the weight of a roof or of a ceiling. Maybe you could have Samson in my His last act on this earth was to take those two pillars and push them down, and as he did so, the building collapses around him. The church is a pillar. That holds up the weight of the gospel. But what about this other word, a bottress of the truth? That's maybe less familiar. Other translations use the word ground or foundation, and those are helpful. It reminds us that the church is built on something, a foundation of truth that is universal. But what about this image of a buttress? It's an invention, an engineering invention that helps to build larger and larger buildings. Maybe if you You've studied uh Renaissance history, you might have the idea of the flying buttresses that were used in Gothic cathedrals. And what was the reason for those flying buttresses? It was so that you could build larger and larger cathedrals. They hold up the weight of the horizontal weight of the walls, but also the vertical weight of the ceiling that you could build a larger and larger cathedral with bigger stained glass. So that the building with all the light shining through that stained glass would be more glorious, more beautiful. That's something of the image that we have here in 1 Timothy. Timothy 3. The church, as a buttress of the truth, holds up the weight of the gospel in such a way that people might see the glory of our Savior. This is, in essence, the primary responsibility and the great privilege of the Church of Jesus Christ. To hold up the weight of the gospel so that the world might see the glory of Christ To serve as the pillar, the ground, the foundation, the buttress of the truth of the gospel, so that people might worship our Savior. This is the primary reason for which the church exists. Patrick Fairbairn was a nineteenth-century preacher. As a claim. In other words, how do you know that a church of God is faithful? You ask, how do they handle the truth? Of the gospel. How do you identify a true and faithful church of Jesus Christ? How do they handle the truth? Of the scriptures? Do they treasure the glory of the message they've received? And do they proclaim the glory of that message so that the world might hear And belief. Hebrews 3, verse 6 does something quite similar. It says, We are his house if we hold fast our confidence and our boasting and our Hope. You are a house of God if you hold up the truth of the gospel so that the world might see and believe and worship The Savior. And if these words and this image give us a test or measure of a true church, then you can almost turn the order of these three images on their head If a congregation and its officers serve as a pillar and buttress of the truth of the gospel, then they are a church of the living God. They are a house of God. They are a visible, physical manifestation of the Church of Jesus Christ. When believers look for a visible church, a body of Jesus Christ in which to be gathered, they should measure the church by this standard. Is this body a faithful pillar and buttress of the truth? And you should long and look for and search for a body who holds up the truth of the gospel in that way. And when you're joined to such a body, you should rejoice. You should participate and you should celebrate the glory of your Savior. So we have these three images. It's a house of God, a church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth. But what is the truth that we're called to uphold? Well, he tells us, doesn't he, in verse 16 He says, Great indeed we confess is the mystery of godliness. Now, usually when we think of godliness, we'd be thinking that he would follow that up by giving us commands to be obeyed. But that's not what Paul does, is it? Paul, inspired by the Holy Spirit, in describing the mystery of godliness, says this. He was manifested in the flesh. Vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory The mystery of godliness is the Lord Jesus Christ, who took on human flesh, lived a perfect life By his death and resurrection was vindicated by the Spirit, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory, and seated right now. In the heavenly places at the right hand of our Father. He stands at the heart of who the truth Church is as a house of God, a church of God, and a pillar and buttress of the truth. We have the great privilege as the Church of Jesus Jesus Christ to lift up our Savior in all of his glory revealed in the Scriptures so that the world might see and believe and walk Worship in. And we're called as a church to carry out that responsibility with the fullness of our being and all of our energy with confidence that as Christ Is proclaimed, people are saved, and Jesus is glorified. So that through our singing And through our prayers and through the Word of God, we see Christ glorified and people saved to the glory of our Savior and Of our Father. May the Lord give us strength as the Church of Jesus Christ to love our Savior in such a way that we can't help but proclaim his glory. And may we pray with expectation that as the glory of Christ is proclaimed in this place and throughout the world, that many might come to know Jesus And that he might be exalted among the nations and glorified among the people. Let's pray. Lord God, we come to you as the Church of Jesus Christ, asking that you would cause us to be faithful, for we know, Lord God, that we in our own Strength are not faithful. Would you, by the power of your Holy Spirit, make us faithful witnesses that the gospel of Christ might be proclaimed in and through Through this church and her people, that many might come to know the depths of their sin, but also the greatness of the crucified and risen Savior. That they might come to know him, to believe on him, to worship him, and to glorify him. And might you make this place grace and peace? This church, a faithful proclaimer of the gospel, that as the glory of Christ is lifted up, that many might come to know We pray this in his glorious name. Amen.