Today we've come to the Christ event of Pentecost. Jesus Christ is the one not only who died for our sins. But only the one who rose again, but only is the one who ascended into heaven, but only is the one exalted at the right hand, but he is the one who has poured out his spirit upon his church. But what is Pentecost, and I'll give you the definition I gather from scriptures, and that is that the Pentecost is the Outpouring of the promised Holy Spirit. We see that in chapter two In verse 33, being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he Jesus has poured out this. So Holy Spirit is the, or excuse me, Pentecost is the outpouring Or spirit baptism, if you want to look at it that way, Jesus said you'll be baptized in the Spirit. It is the baptism of the Spirit, or it is the outpouring of the Holy, or of the promised Holy Spirit By the risen. Peter preached that God raised him up by the risen By the ascended, David did not ascend into heaven, Peter says. Jesus did. By the risen Ascended, and I already read to you, Exalted Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. So the Pentecost is the outpouring of the Holy, the promised Holy Spirit by the risen, ascended, and exalted Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, upon the new covenant community that has been constituted by his blood. Fifty days after Pentec or excuse me, Passover, the new covenant community we generally refer to as the church. But the new covenant community, because as we are reminded every week at the table celebrating the Lord's Supper, Jesus gave his blood as the blood of the new covenant. And now we have entered into the era of new covenant worship and service and life with God. And the two main gifts of this covenant are the forgiveness of sins. and the gift of the Holy Spirit. That is how God fulfills his law being written on our hearts. That is how God fulfills that we all know him intimately, because he does dwell in us and his presence is with us. So if someone asks you, what is Pentecost? It is the outpouring of the promised Holy Spirit by the risen, ascended, and exalted Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, upon the new covenant community constituted by his blood 50 days after Passover. That's the fullest straightforward definition I can give you from the scriptures on what Pentecost is. And this will lead me into exposing for you here these verses, but the first thing to make is that Pentecost is a redemptive historical event It is unrepeatable. You cannot have another Pentecost. This is why I stress and Maybe we'll just launch into it. If you look at chapter two in that first verse, it says, When the day of Pentecost came, as I stressed last week, Christianity is made up of a lot of days Particular things that have happened on days. These are moments in history which God had foreordained for the foundation of the world to take place as he has manifested his eternal purpose in Jesus Christ to us. Pentecost happened on the day. As much as Jesus rose from the dead on the day, as much as he died on the Good Friday, as much as he had a birth Day, this is an unrepeatable event in redemptive history And it has ongoing consequences for the church today. But Pentecost itself, as much as Jesus can't be ascended again, He can't die again. He can't live another earthly life again. He can't be raised from the dead again. These are all unrepeatable events. Christ's events that have accomplished our salvation. Unrepeatable. So Pentecost is unrepeatable. But it doesn't mean that it doesn't have meaning and significance for us today as a Church of Jesus Christ. I'm going to list with you at verses uh two through thirteen now and the point I want to draw out and and show you and develop is that This Pentecostal power is given for prayer, it is given for preaching, and it is given for purity through the Spirit's filling. That this Pentecostal power is given for prayer, it is given for preaching, it is given for purity through the Spirit's filling. And that took place as we see on Pentecost. Now I already said you the day of Pentecost arrived. Pentecost is just the way they said the fiftieth of something in the Greek tongue. It just means the fiftieth. Well the fiftieth What? The fiftieth day following Passover. This is the culmination of the harvest cycle. ending Passover, the feast of the weeks, and now this was a closing ceremony and celebration as they would bring to God the day after Passover the first fruits, the first ripe grains they would offer to God. On Pentecost, after seven weeks and the whole harvest has been brought in, they would offer to God not ripe grain, but loaves of bread, two loaves of bread made from the bounty and provision of God. to celebrate and worship him as the faithful God who is merciful and has blessed them with bread for the rest of the year. Because he has given them a harvest and provided for his people. And then you can see the significance of the gospel fulfilled when Jesus said, if a grain of wheat falls into the ground, right Until it remains alone, but if it goes into the ground, right? It sprouts and makes many. Here is the beginning of the harvest of the nations taking place through the outpouring sp power of the Spirit. to promote prayer and praise and preaching of the gospel that the nations may repent and believe and come in joy and know again. This merciful and gracious God that we have sung and praise in smor uh this morning together already. They were together in one place. I really love that phrase. They were together. Together could also be translated as with one accord or in a united way. This is telling you that as we read in John, we'll look more next evening, that Jesus said, United, you'd love me, you'll obey me. Now who told them to stay together in Jerusalem? Jesus. Because he said You're going to get baptized in the Spirit. So already you see in the life of the church by the risen Lord. Not too great as much as following his word And now the risen exalted Christ whom they've met, they are following out his instructions. They are gathering together with purpose This wasn't just a happenstance meeting. These 120 individuals, according to Jesus' word, united together in prayer, waiting for that day when the Spirit would be given as Jesus said. Suddenly there came from heaven. Luke is just telling us the source of this is not an earthly wind. The source of this is from the very throne room of God, the highest heavens, the heavens of heavens in which Jesus had recently ascended to ten days before, and now here comes from heaven a sound I don't you know they were just sitting there, maybe they were praying spontaneously together, maybe their meditation, all of a sudden without any notice Imagine a room, imagine this building filling up with the sound of a mighty rushing wind. We probably all know that noise of a mighty rushing wind. What does that mean? Has God ever shown himself as a mighty rushing wind? The very first verse of Genesis, or the second verse of Genesis? The Spirit of God is hovering and moving on top of the waters. There's a significance of new creation and creative energy being unleashed upon the world in a way it never has happened before. As Paul tells us if someone's in Christ, you are a new creation. There is a the this creation winds down, doesn't it? Our batteries just drain. And we get tired and fatigued, and our strength just goes. But since Pentecost, there has been a boundless energy of God's creative power in his spirit for missions. And preaching and purity and Christian living that doesn't expire. And the source of this is God, not man, but God. Divided tongues, we read in verse 3. Another way, this is the way I favor to translate it, divided can also mean distributed. All of a sudden tongues appeared to them. They look like fire. This is meant to be a theophany. God has appeared in wind. God has appeared as fire throughout covenant history to his people He's making it very clear, right? The Holy Spirit's not something you and I can see, touch, but he makes himself known to them that God has come amongst their presence in this noise of a wind And this vision of a fire and these tongues, I think, are being distributed. You see them going and resting on each individual as they're sitting in this room upon them to signify that the words about to come out of them have not human origin or human power is about to see, but it is God in these people and it is God speaking through these people. And in verse 4 Luke tells us the result of this, that this was the Holy Spirit filling them up. And with the Holy Spirit in them and under the Spirit's influence, they began to speak in other tongues. This is Tongues that they don't know, another besides their tongue, as the context makes clear, they would speak in a Galilean tongue. And now they are speaking in other tongues, uh a known human language, as we'll look in detail here in a moment. They begin speaking in these other tongues, tongues they never learn. In tongues they more likely didn't even understand when they were saying it because if I were all of a sudden to start speaking Russian to you, I'm a cessationist, but if I were to start speaking Russian to you, I could speak fluent Russian under the Spirit's power, but I wouldn't know what it's saying. So it doesn't mean that they understood what they were saying, but the people who heard them understood what they were saying. They began speaking in other tongues. And notice it is as the Spirit gave them utterance. It is the Spirit, and so you know, Paul deals with this very largely in 1 Corinthians 14 And the way that this gift was being abused in the church, not understood, and causing a lot of confusion, which is somewhat ironic because as you know the story of Babel, right? God confused the tongues and God didn't then give a gift of tongues so we could have confusion in his church. It's a bit ironic in their use of these tongues And he regulates it. So I don't think the ideal here is everybody's clamoring over each other and nobody hears anything But maybe the Spirit moves Peter to speak in Arabian, as we said or Aramaic, Arabic or w I'll pick a tongue they know, uh Roman. That's a tongue we know there. All of a sudden Peter the apostle is speaking in fluent Latin. Perfect dialect. Have you ever learned a language right? Have you ever heard a non-native speaker speak English to you? Kids in English, but the di it's off, isn't it? You can tell the way the emphasis they do is they're saying we hear our native tongue. We're hearing a native Latin speaker From a man who's never set foot in Rome, we don't think at this point, and doesn't know any of it, speaking to him. And it may be that it goes around the room and John then will speak to them in Egyptian And uh Mark will Matthew will speak in Capodicea and whatever they spoke of there. And maybe he might come back around to Peter and he's moved again, and this time he's speaking in the Parthian tongue The Bible doesn't tell us, but the picture here is the Spirit would move these individuals, and entirely under His power would open their mouth. Utterance means give them to speak forth, to declare. Under the Spirit's moving. And by the Spirit's power, and only and solely at the Spirit's timing would they speak in some other tongue. And the Bible doesn't lead us to believe they only Peter only ever spoke in Latin and no others. We don't know exactly how it happened, but it's clear. In a wonderful way, not a confused way, God was making it abundantly clear, and they got the picture. He's speaking. It is the presence of the Spirit speaking. And I'll come back to that point and its significance in a moment. Let's go on to verse 5. Now there was knowing in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. Many see here something of it. If you know in Genesis, uh after Babel, there's a table of nations Uh we have nations today who speak different tongues because united together in sin, we're going to do a lot of horrible things. But united together in Christ and the Holy Spirit, under God's power, we can do wonderful things. And so we have a bunch, and so what you have here is many see is kind of reference to uh Genesis, all these nations, all these tongues, every nation we're told, under heaven, gathered back into Jerusalem at Pentecost And at this sound they're hearing this, or it could be report, people could be going out and spreading. Let me tell you what's happening at 59th Street North Jerusalem or whatever address they knew to gather at Let me tell you what's going on here, and eventually a giant crowd gathered around to see this spectacle, because who's ever seen something like this? Uh one time someone speaking fluent Latin and fluent Egyptian and all around the room and they're just Galilean fishermen, many of them and others. What a what a sight. What is God doing? They were bewildered. What's interesting about this word bewildered in verse 6 is In the Greek Bible, the Septuagint, the translation of the Hebrew Scriptures, the word that God uses to confuse the tongues is the word used in here. They're confused. They don't get what they're seeing. They don't understand the sight before them. This is beyond human explanation, and they are confused. What does this have to do with anything. Where did God through the prophets ever speak about doing this, right? These were Israelite men, Jewish men do the scriptures. What is going on We know God rules the universe. What is he doing here in Judea and to see this spectacle? Well they're Jews, they're devout men, they're God worshippers. They say, where's this lesson in the prophets? Of course Peter's going to speak it, and you heard it in Joel. This is how we understand God fulfilling the prophecy in Joel. Are they not all Galileans? How does it each hear one of us in our own native tongue? Parthians and Medes and on and on. And notice what they're saying. They're speaking the mighty works of God. Now let me say just real quick about a word on tons I think I stressed and gauging by your looks as I was speaking to you, I think you understood and made it clear that this happened in such a way without question besides hardened men who want to mock at what God does and say that this was people under the power of wine or new wine because it is harvest time. This is very clear this is God's doing And God's making it very clear, He is in this people. Well, who are the ones that he's in? Those who believe in Jesus. Make it very clear who who who will go on to reject the Messiah and bring judgment 40 years later in AD 70 and the Jewish people. And that's why Paul, quoting Isaiah 28, verse 11, in 1 Corinthians 14, will say that tongues are a sign not for the believing church But for unbelievers, because God said he would speak to his people by a foreign conquering tongue in the context there And Judah, who did not understand the Northern Kingdom's Exodus and what it meant when God brought them out, didn't repent, and God promised to speak to them in a foreign tongue. This is God speaking Very clearly, you could not miss God doing this in such a way that the living God is dwelling with these people, the Christian Church. The believers in Jesus Christ, as Peter will go on a moment to make clear as he preaches Christ clearly to them. And so I'm not going to say any more about tongues today. I know it's Pentecost, and I just don't want this to be a sermon taken over by tongues. If you have questions about that issue and You want to know something more about it, please come speak to me. I can point you to some good articles, resources. We can talk about it. But Tongues has fulfilled its purpose. Because God has brought judgment on Israel, and the purpose was an act of judgment because of their culpable rejection of their Messiah. Notice what the first use, and now we can get in. I told you that Pentecost is about power for prayer, it's about power for preaching, and it's about power for purity. Notice the first thing that we see them doing under the inspiration of these tongues is, and by the power of the Holy Spirit, they're praising God. If you don't know this acronym, here's a good acronym to help you understand the full breadth of scriptural prayer. It's called ACS, A-C-T-S, right? Adoration. Confession of sin, thanksgiving, and supplication. First thing we see under the power of the Spirit is these men are praying. Paul says explicitly in 1 Corinthians 14 verse 2, the speaking of tongues is not for men. Only there's an interpreter so that they can be edified by it. It's for God It's a prayer is for prayer for praising God. We don't speak the gospel in tongues. You speak Peter will go on and he'll speak in Either Hebrew or Aramaic, he'll speak in their tongue. He's not going to speak under the inspiration of the Spirit in a tongue he doesn't know. That is a totally different thing. They get so confused. Tongues is for, as we see here, as Paul explicitly says, for addressing God, because God doesn't need the gospel preached to us. You know they need to be called to repentance and faith. Man does. Man needs to hear the gospel, but God needs to get praise. And they weren't giving him praise. And look what God's doing. Bringing praise to himself by the Spirit. Praising God for the mighty works. Uh as you see the tongues Come again in Acts chapter 10. This is a significant event in the conversion of Cornelius and the expansion of the gospel to the Gentiles. And we read in verse 46, for they were hearing that, or in verse 45, and the believers from among the circumcised Who had come with Peter were amazed because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles. Christ poured out the Holy Spirit on these Gentiles, for they were hearing them speaking in tongues, and those were the doing extolling God. Praising God. That's what they're doing with these tongues. Not preaching the gospel, but praising God. God has given tongues for prayer We won't look at it, but notice what what these tongues did in God manifesting that he's with these people. In doing this in such a way that now more than 3,000 gathered, because we know in a moment 3,000 are going to be converted. So more than 3,000 gathered. Why did God have this glorious prayer session in this powerful way that made it clear he is with these people? So they could turn around and then preach. You know, I think that's a I think that maybe maybe there's a lesson there. Maybe if we were praying more, and I mean praising God more. Might lead to more opportunities for preaching more, right? Tell me about this God you're praising. Because surely we're not going to tell the person. I talked to my neighbor this week. He said, I know you're a pastor, you're gonna try to convert me, aren't you? That was like six months ago and finally getting around to trying to convert him. I told him I can't do it the Spirit House do. He said, I knew you'd be a nice guy when I met you because you're a Christian. I said, Well if you like me You should like the Christ in me. What's a Christian? We're not nice people in ourselves. Sure, by natural light we may have niceness and we'll meet many unregenerate nice people, so yes, that's fine. But if we're praising God under the power of the Spirit, what an opportunity, then someone says, why are you so joyful praising God? Let me tell you why. And preach the gospel to them. Because that's the only reason you have the Spirit in you, because Christ died and poured it out Calls you to repentance and faith in him. He said you can have it too. You can come praise God too. Turn from your sin and believe in Jesus. The fountain is open So rivers of water. Jesus himself, when he said on earth, said, Come and take it. So I think prayer should lead, and praise should lead to preaching. Maybe we should go gather publicly in Leonardtown Square and have a praise service. What are you guys doing? You're strength. We're praising God because of the gospel of Jesus Just food for thought and in your life, why praise is important. One, the spirit's been given for it, it'll be good for your soul. But it also can lead to preaching, which evidently led in this context as Praetor preached the first and foundational sermon of the Christian church. If you want to make sure you understand the gospel rightly, go home today and read Peter's sermon and listen to it and stand on those truths. And third, it's given for purity. After Peter preaches, calls them to faith and repentance in Christ, baptism, promising the Spirit, we read that what did they do They all devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching. Now, what do you think the apostles taught them? Sin? How to sin? Oh, they taught them, let me show you how Jesus lived before us as the pure and righteous one. And let me show you what he commanded and taught us how to live. And now we're going to teach you on the inspiration of the Spirit which you now have. And now possible for you to live a pure life and they live together purely, devoting themselves the apostles Teaching, devoting themselves to fellowship. Part of pure living is corporate and fellowship. Part of spiritual living is in community with the body of Christ And the breaking of bread and prayers, communion services, and again prayer. So the power of Pentecost Is given for praying and might mean the full sin think of praying as just any addressing of God Praising Him, lamenting, asking, supplicating, giving thanks. It's given to preach, and it's given for purity. But you might be asking yourself, is there a Pentecost today? What about today? I mean, you've shown me, Pastor Young, that Yeah, I can see how there was this great power of God, this divine power in these men. It's only explainable explanation. It's we're not to go with the first Naturalistic explaining away of God's working in the world that this is new wine. First, unbelieving rejection of the work of God. But I'm going to go with the truth. This is the Spirit of God. Promise. Spirit of God. And I can see how this led to Praising God, I can see how this led to preaching his gospel, I can see how this leads to pure living, but what about me today? Is there any Pentecostal power for me today? And the answer is absolutely yes for every Christian. In 1 Corinthians 12, in verse, beginning of verse 12, we read: For just as the body is one and has many members, And all the members of the body, though many are one body, so it is with Christ. And then hear what it says in verse 13: For in one spirit we were all baptized into one body. Jews are Greeks, slaves are free, and all were made to drink of the one spirit. Notice what he says there all, every Christian. Has been baptized in the one spirit in the body of Christ and does drink freely of that Holy Spirit, Paul says. Now it's interesting because He'll say down in verse 30, do all possess gifts of healing? See many when we hear Pentecost today, we think there can't be Pentecostal power without healings, right? Some of our brethren teach that. And we say, no, we think you're wrong, brethren. There can be Pentecostal power today without healing. Paul says in fact we are all baptized in this spirit. Paul even in that day says, do all possess gifts of healing? No. Do all speak in tongues? No. And so we say no to our brethren who say, after you're converted and come to faith in Christ as Lord, then you need to experience a spirit baptism and it needs to be validated in speaking of tongues. We say, sorry, brothers, we don't think that's what the scripture teaches. Because Paul says we were all baptized into one Spirit. Not as a separate event from our conversion, but taking place when you are brought to faith in Christ as Lord, risen Lord. You've been baptized with the Spirit. And even in that day, as Paul acknowledges, not everybody spoke in tongues. I'm not going to go on with why I've given you one reason its purpose has been fulfilled. It's judgmental purpose. So we don't look for The reality of the spirit being present in its power for tongues today. All right, Pastor Young, I've been a believer, I have the spirit Maybe you can show me some other places. If you want to follow along now, turn to Ephesians 5 verse 18, because not only was the Spirit Power given for prayer, preaching, and purity at Pentecost is given for prayer, preaching, and purity in the Church of Jesus Christ today for all of us here this morning. In chapter 5 of Ephesians, we read this: And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery. Excessive indulgence, but be filled with the spirit. Now, this is almost three decades after Pentecost, Paul's writing here. This is one of his louder letters that he wrote in most likely in in a Roman prison. So three decades later, Paul is telling the Christian church. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. And I've never yet heard a Christian get up and say today, yeah, the Ephesians was written for then and has no relevance for the church today. So be filled with the Spirit is something you and I as believers can and are commanded to do. He goes on to say, what will be the consequences of this? We all know what the consequences of a person who has been filled with an excess of wine is What are the consequences of someone who's come under the external power of the Spirit? I don't know if this is all of them, but these are the ones Paul mentions, and they line up with the same thing. Prayer preaching and purity. Address one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. See in Paul's church, why did you sing to each other? You sang to God, he's going to say that in a moment, but why did you sing to each other? Because there's a lot of scripture in the hymns, isn't there? So you build each other up, it's preaching. Have you ever thought of the ministry of the word? It's singing. I think our brother Seth said that in his uh ministry report the this last um congregational meeting. It's a ministry of the word, it's preaching being done in our singing as we address one another. These are scriptural truths, building us up in our faith, edifying us in the ways of the walk. So Paul said, what's the outcome of being filled with the Spirit? Preaching. Through songs, hymns, spiritual songs. Singing and making melody to the Lord. I hear this is turning to the Lord and praising Him, right? Singing. Making melody to the risen Lord with your heart. Giving thanks always and for everything. This is more of that prayer, right? Not only singing and praising him and telling him, right, first Lord Jesus, how wonderful him that is, right? Singing adoration to Jesus. It's also gratitude. So not only is the fruit here joyful praise, not only is it preaching to each other. It's also gratitude giving thanks always for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let me give you a quote from uh John Piper's yellow article on Desiring God on How to be filled with the Spirit. That was my big question this week. I see the command, but I had to go to the Google bar and say, how do you be filled with this? So I had to go search through commentaries. What are people saying on how to be filled with this fear? Because I want to be filled with it. Actually I'm getting ahead ahead of myself. That's the next point is how to be filled. Here's what John Piper says the consequence here on Thanksgiving is. He says gratitude for everything obviously eliminates grumbling. and pouting and self-pity and bitterness and scowling and murmuring and depression, and worry, and discouragement, and gloominess, and pessimism Because notice what he says here. It is it is thanksgiving always, and it is thanksgiving for everything Because if you're filled with the Spirit, you're redeemed by God, and you know all things work together for your good, and it may look like it's the worst thing happening to you, but it's the best thing And so you can give thanks always for all things. That will be the fruit. I think we could just step back right and say. Okay. If that is what it looks like being filled with the Spirit, why haven't I prayed that every day my Christian life for myself and the church that I'm a part of, right? Because that's wonderful to be around people who preach to each other in hymns and songs and spiritual songs. People who will give thanks to God always. We all know what I'm grat If you haven't thanked God for something and it's been longer than a week, I would almost say a day, thank him now, right now, for something that you're alive. is damaging to our spiritual life and souls. Obviously to be without the Spirit, to not be grateful And it's also for purity. Notice what it says in verse 21. Verse 21 is a transition to the rest of this chapter and into the sixth chapter on dealing with these relationships. Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. I like Piper's description. He's talking about humble love here Submitting being a readiness to relinquish my own will for the sake of someone else. This is something that has really surprising results. I often see it at bedtime When it becomes quite a heated conflict on whose badtime story are we going to read? And I will often ask, do one of you want to let the other one pick? And I get surprised about times I'm thinking that one is definitely entrenched and will not relinquish, and then they relinquish. And I'm left starting, must be the spirit. I was expecting that to be a child who said, Yes. It doesn't always work like that and we go to plan B, but it that's a practical outcome. That's what we're talking about. Submitting to each other humble love. Purity in the body of Christ. Alright, I thought you hear the last and final part. How do you get filled with this spirit? I've showed you what the Spirit's given. I've showed you that it's still here today because we've all been baptized into as believers. It is a power in you, not of you, but a power in you For prayer, praising God, thanking God, supplicating God, lamenting to God, pouring out your heart to God It is for preaching. It is what you need to tell people about Jesus. You need the inspiration and boldness and humility of the Spirit to tell people about Jesus. And it's also for purity. You need the Spirit to live pure lives. And I've mentioned before, if you look up holiness in the Bible It's almost synonymous with righteousness, which is synonymous with love. Purity isn't some cold abstract thing. It is burning holy kindness and dearness. that is felt and that we all understand what it is. It's what you know, it's how your God loves you. Maybe you know how dearly God loves you. Now, how do you get this spirit? Now, first and foremost, I find five things in Scripture on how you do it, or five things relating to it. But first and foremost, I also found this quote quite helpful. That when we're filled with the Spirit, it's not getting more of the Holy Spirit that we're after. But it's the Holy Spirit getting more of us. It's not getting more of the Spirit, it's the Holy Spirit getting more of us, becoming under more of its influences. If you go back and sing the rest of Psalm 401, opening hymn 401, you can see that spirit all the way on the life of Christ from birth. To grave, to risen, to returning as we sung. Jesus lives under that influence of the Spirit, totally in its power. And that is our blessed privilege as Christians to be brought under the power and influence of the Spirit to lead these praying, preaching, and pure lives. First and foremost, if I haven't already, but it just because we always need this encouragement in the Christian life, so we don't think that we have to make this come about by our own effort. It is possible. Being filled with the Spirit is possible. If you look, go back in chapter 1, if you're still in Ephesians. If you go back to chapter 1 in verse 23, we read, Which is his body, that being the church. And it is the fullness of him who fills all in all. So being filled with the Spirit of the same thing, being filled with Christ, and it's possible Paul tells us later, he's affirming it there, he tells us it's also possible in chapter four, verse ten, he who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, why that he might fill all things. It's possible not because you and I bring it about, it's possible because Christ died and rose again to do it. And he is doing it. He is filling all things by the Spirit of God. So it's possible. So just Remind yourself and encourage yourself that this kind of living is a possibility to you in Jesus Christ. It's it really ought to be right in the norm. In Jesus Christ is what is what we've been given to live in and walk in the Spirit. So how do I how do I get it? So Paul says in Ephesians 3, verse 19, you get it by prayer. In verse 14, he begins his prayer: For this reason I bow my knees before the Father. And then he starts laying out his prayer request. And in verse 19 we read, And to know the love of Christ. That surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. To be filled with the Spirit is the same as being filled with God and filled with Christ. So it should be in petition of ours that we would be filled daily with the fullness of God. And that makes a lot of sense, right? Because Jesus said, rivers of living water will not flow from you As it's commonly misunderstood, the inner being and the inner place is Jesus. He's the temple. If you go back to the Old Testament about all those prophecies about the spirit and water of life flowing out, its source is the temple. And Jesus is the one who's ascended into there, and his body's the tible. He's the source of the spirit. If you want to be poured out upon you, it's a matter of prayer as we turn to Christ and say, Fill us, Lord, with your spirit. But Paul also talks about some of its hindrances, some of the things that hinder us from being filled with the Spirit. In chapter four In uh verse verses twenty nine through thirty one, we hear Or I'll start with verse 30 to get it this way. In verse 30, we get this command, do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God. By whom you are sealed for the day of redemption. We'll focus on that next time because it's not just power in us, but presence. The one filling us is God, the Spirit. He's personal. It can be greed. But notice that it's flanked by a verse before it in verse 29, and by a verse after it in verse 31. Verse 29 is talking about how we can with our mouths grieve the spirit. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths. But only such as is good for upbuilding, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear Andrew Lincoln in his World Bible commentary series on this passage and the one following says It is by our works and by our words that disrupt the communal life of God's church that we grieve his spirit. Notice what it's saying here. You're not to say anything that doesn't build another person up. I feel this in my life. I can know. I've come to now understand when I'm at my house. Speaking inappropriately and say something that is not edifying. It's almost like I feel the spirit departing from me, the quickest way to grieve him. Is by our words and the way we speak of each other. Also by our works. In verse 31, let all bitterness And wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with malice. Drive the spirit out of your life. Live in bitterness. Live in wrath. Live in anger. Live in clamor. Live in slander. Live in malice. And you'll know nothing of the Spirit's presence. If you're harboring any of this, because beloved, we are a body. If any one of us is harboring this, it will impact our communal life. It will not just drive the Spirit from your presence, but from all our presence, and it will diminish his effectiveness in our midst. Did any of us not careful with our mouths and not careful with our words So that's how we can hinder the Spirit. It's sin, right? Obviously sin is going to drive away. It's an affront to God. He's a personal presence in our lives. If you affront him, what is the way of recovering from sin? Repentance. Hey, Holy Spirit, I'm sorry I said these things, I did these things. Please forgive me. I won't do them anymore. I was meditating on this this week. It can be so hard to repent, can't it? Afraid of the shame, afraid to be humiliated. I'm glad the Lord reminded me that if God wanted to shame and humiliate his children, he would have just hung us on the cross with Jesus. Do you sin in the Christian life? God in his grace doesn't turn it to your shame and humiliation. Jesus took our shame And we deserve our humiliation as those creatures, even the trees know to praise God, but not as image bearers. Even the heavens know how to sing to God. They're not sinners. It's a pretty shameful thing. Those closest made in his image who should know him. Jesus died. We might have God back in our lives and know his presence. how much he loves us, dwell in his fullness and his grace. The wonderful thing. It's also done by communal living together, as already emphasized. As we read those verses in chapter 5, verses 18, those are all communal exercises. We do this by getting together regularly, Sunday services through the week, when we come together. Have we ever thought Hey, we're going to a spirit-filling exercise. Do we think that way or do we think, oh man, Sunday, and our house is torn apart, and I'm tired and All the things that can be very hard about Sundays, real things we've got to deal with. Maybe to help us, right? Put us in the right frame of mind. Remember, this is a spirit-fealing exercise I'm coming to be a part of. And lastly, it is by obedience and submission. He's a person. So I'm not going to dwell on this or make it clear next time. But uh I think one of the greatest discourses in the whole Bible is John 6 on the bread of life. And you notice what Jesus says in verse 60. This is a hard saying, who can listen to it? And they were grumbling because he just told people, You have to eat my blood, drink my blood and eat my body. And he asked, Are you going to take offense to this? He said, What if you see the Son of Man ascending the way he's gone before, right? Which we've seen it now. It's the spirit who gives life. It's not the flesh. It's pretty hard to eat Jesus' body and blood in heaven, isn't it? It's not what he's talking about. It's like the Holy Spirit that he would give. But notice what he goes on and says, the words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. See, I think what we've got to equate in our minds is drinking the spirit is really the same thing as eating the bread. And both of these aren't talking about somehow magically getting the spirit out of earthly elements But when we submit ourselves to Jesus in obedience to his word, which he just told us is spirit and life. will be filled with them. So prayer, communal exercises, and going back to that word of God as the voice of Jesus And submitting ourselves to the voice of Jesus in Scripture and walking in that is how we will be filled as God's people with His Spirit. That we may pray We may preach, and we may lead pure lives. I'll close by saying, beloved, that this Pentecostal power This Pentecostal presence is an achievement of God's redemptive purposes through Christ. So that God may dwell amongst us and even in us, that we can share as we'll look next week at His Trinitarian life. In the family of God and share in his ministry in this world as he redeems it, renews it. So may God, may you continue to love your Lord Jesus, and may God fill all of you with his Holy Spirit. Amen.