Our scripture tonight is Psalm 21. Listen, this is the Word of God. O Lord, in your strength the King rejoices. And in your salvation, how greatly he exults. You have given him his heart's desire and have not withheld the request of his lips. For you meet him with rich blessings, you set a crown of fine gold upon his head. He asked life of you, you gave it To him. Length of days forever and ever. His glory is great through your salvation. Splendor and majesty you bestow on him. For you make him most blessed forever. You make him glad with the joy of your presence. For the king trusts in the Lord And through the steadfast love of the Most High, he shall not be moved. Your hand will find out all your enemies. Your right hand will find out those who hate you. You will make them as a blazing oven when you appear. The Lord will swallow them up in his wrath, and fire will consume them. You will destroy their descendants from the earth and their offspring from among the children of man. Though they plan evil against you, though they devise mischief, they will not succeed. For you will put them to flight. You will aim at their faces with your bows. Be exalted, O Lord, in your strength. We will sing. And praise your power. The Word of God. Beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ Do you know what a sequel is? A sequel is a follow-up. It continues the story of an earlier work. Psalm 21 is a sequel to Psalm 20. Psalm 20 is a prayer before battle, and Psalm 21 is praise after battle. The title tells us Psalm 21 is the Psalm of David, but as we will see, the Psalm is more about Jesus than about David. It looks forward to the victory of Jesus Christ and the judgment that falls on all his enemies. We need to rehearse just briefly the prayer of the Lord's anointed in Psalm 20, but you already heard a sermon on that last week brought by our pastor. David had many battles. Philistines and Amalekites, particularly, also Edomites and Moabites. You can read all about it in 2 Samuel 2 Samuel. Psalm 20 could refer to any one of these, but the common denominator is in every case That the name of God is David's protection. The name of God is his banner, Yahweh Nisi, the Lord our banner. David trusts in the name of Yahweh and not in his military might. His right hand, God's right hand, will give Israel victory But the greater anointed one is Jesus through his sacrifice on the was ever God's plan. And David's battles only serve to draw our attention to the final and complete victory which our Savior achieved on our Behalf. Now our text tonight, Psalm 21, praises God for that great salvation which his Son Jesus Christ and our Son. Savior achieved for us. Thus, our proposition tonight is just this: the anointed King Jesus Rejoices in the Lord's strength displayed in his deliverance through Jesus' suffering, bringing about salvation. for his people and total annihilation of all his enemies forever. So we have just two points then tonight. The first is the king's victory. That's verses 1 through 7. David, the youngest son of Jesse, who was not a warrior, but rather a keeper of his father's sheep. At Bethlehem had heard of the taunts of Goliath of Gath The uncircumcised Philistine champion, who challenged any Israelite to face him in hand to hand combat to determine which of the two nations. Philistia and Israel should serve whomever. David trusted Yahweh to deliver him from the mighty hand of this powerful Philistine. And we know that because he approached Goliath with only a sling and five smooth stones. But the battle was the Lord's, as David removed Goliath's head. After sinking only one stone in his forehead, and the men of Israel chased the Philistines and plundered them their camp. It could be that event which is in David's mind as he pens this psalm But if not his victory over Goliath and the Philistines, then it was one of the other of the many times that Yahweh heard David's prayer. And delivered his enemies into the hand of his servant. But not even those historical victories which the Lord brought about in David's experience can really meet up to the fullness of blessing and deliverance about which he speaks in this psalm, can they? Does the credit go to him? Was David smarter, faster, and stronger than Goliath, for instance? When David attacked and captured the Ammonite city of Rabbah, you can read about that in 2 Samuel 12, was it because of his cunning and strategy, though they are spoken of? The emphasis on Psalm 21, our text tonight, is that David's success over Israel's enemies comes from the Lord alone. Verse 1, O Lord, in your strength the king rejoices, and in your salvation, how greatly he exults. Verse 3, you set a crown of fine gold upon his head. And verse 5, his glory is great. Through your salvation. Splendor and majesty you bestow on him. The credit goes not to David, but to Yahweh. The Lord has saved him from the hands of the enemy. The Lord has given him the victor's wreath and the rule of the enemy. Crown. But it's even more than that. Psalm 41 looks beyond David, yes, to King Jesus And instead of hearing Psalm 21 as the words of David, hear him as the words of your Messiah. The message of the New Testament is that it is Jesus who is given the victor's wreath and the ruler's crown. He was not placed upon the throne of heaven by the favor or the vote of man. Rather, it was God who set the royal crown upon his head God the Father exalted his Son to his right hand, where Jesus Christ reigns over his kingdom and intercedes on behalf of Him. Like David's reign that began in such a lowly way, which God translated to honor and glory, so also Christ has been raised from contempt Suffering and even death to glory. Yes, your Savior was a man of sorrows And familiar with suffering. And like his forefather David, he did need to pray for deliverance before the battle. Jesus had his own Psalm 20 in Gethsemane. He did wear a crown of thorns, and he was crucified. And buried. But then he was raised on the third day, according to the scriptures. And the gospel is also a message of resurrection and joy. Christ died for our sins, but he was raised for our justification. Don't you just love the way Hebrews makes this point about the fullness of the gospel? Hebrews 12, 2. Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, scorning its shame. And sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. That's the fullness of the gospel. Humiliation and exaltation. Crucifixion and resurrection, shame and joy, a crown of thorns and a crown of Truly then, Psalms 20 and 21 declare the fullness of the gospel message. The Messiah who suffers in Psalm 20 rejoices in Psalm 21. Verse 1, O Lord, in your strength the King rejoices, and in your salvation, how greatly he exults. Not exalt. That's to lift something up. It's a U, not an A. Exalt means praises. Then again in verse 6, you make him glad with the joy of your presence. Christ is risen and has ascended into great joy. At his right hand are eternal pleasures, and he is filled with joy. Heaven is a joyful place. The King of Heaven is filled and overflowing with joy. So let me ask you once more. Do you believe these things? Do you believe in Jesus who died and arose? For there is no other way to share in the joy of Jesus Christ. There is no other way to exult in God's salvation and rejoice in God's strength. There is no other way to enter into the joy of heaven. Yes, Jesus is truly the greater David of Psalm 21. And if you don't see that clearly drawn out in tonight's Psalm You miss the whole point. It's almost as if David is up there in heaven blaring out this ringing trumpet blast. Don't look at me. I want to recede. I want you to look at the true Messiah. whom I was merely a foreshadowing of. When you sing my psalms, David would say, Please understand of whom I was singing. Because Matthew, Matthew would have been right on target. When he began his gospel with these words, the Book of the Genealogy of Jesus Christ The son of David. Yes, I was the shepherd's son of one Israelite, Jesse of Bethlehem. But he would be the good shepherd of the entirety of Yahweh's flock, the church of Jesus Christ. The Redeemer of Men. That's point one, and the second and last point is the enemy's defeat. You read about that in verses 8 through 12. The second part of our Psalm tonight emphasizes the defeat of the king's enemies. Look at verse 8 Your hand will find out all your enemies. Your right hand will find out those who hate you. And then verse 12: For you will put them to flight. You will aim at their faces with your bows. This suggests that the king has put a big bullseye on the enemies and uses them for target practice He strings his bow and sets the arrow, and when it is released, it flies straight to the target. Or look at verse 9, another analogy. You will make them as the blazing oven when you appear. The Lord will swallow them up in his wrath, and fire will consume them. This reminds me of Daniel's three friends, huh? Who refused to worship the gods and the image of gold of King Nebuchadnezzar, so the king threw them in the fiery furnace. This is what happens to the king's enemy We know David eventually was triumphed, triumphing over all his enemies. Regardless of who the enemy was, King Saul, the Philistines, the Ammonites. Trusted counselors who betrayed him, the members of his own household. He defeated them And like the first part of the psalm, this part also looks beyond David to King King Jesus. So hear these words too as the words of the Messiah. The message of the New Testament is that it is Jesus who someday will defeat all his enemies. Someday all his enemies will be a footstool for his feet, as David prophesied of the coming Messiah in Psalm 110, which God willing we will get to eventually. And as Peter said in Acts 2, 34 and 35, was fulfilled in the victorious resurrection of Jesus Christ. And further, as you confess in the Apostles' Creed, he will come someday to judge the living and the dead And I want to warn you, congregation, about the certainty of that coming judgment. The enemies of Christ will find themselves in the fire and flames of hell. Whereas Mark puts it in 948, their worm does not die. And the fire is not quenched. Yes, to go back to uh David's earlier analogy, God sets them up for target practice. Who would want to be in the crosshair? Of the Almighty. There are many who deny the certainty of judgment. They foolishly believe all will be saved. Or that death is the end. But hear this. God will string his bow Reach for his quiver and shoot his arrows straight at the bullseye. We heard just this past week an Italian Roman Catholic cleric Quote Paul Francis as saying in a personal interview that a literal hell does not exist. Now the Vatican has denied that the Pope ever said such. I don't know. But I wouldn't be surprised if he did. Catholic theology playing fast and loose with Scripture, as it often does. Actually, purgatory is nothing more than a weak substitute For the Bible's doctrine of eternal hell, and a pitiful attempt to avoid the literal fulfillment of David's word You will make them as a blazing oven, and fire will consume them. Now, just who are these enemies who will suffer total defeat and eternal judgment? They include Herod and Pontius Pilate. And the people of Jerusalem who conspired together against Jesus, according to Acts 4. 27. They include those like Isis. Who persecute the church. They include all those who do not repent of their sin and do not believe in the Lord Jesus for their salvation. They include the devil and his legion of angels. Everyone who is an enemy of the cross of Christ will someday face the certainty of judgment. Someday Jesus will destroy the devil's work. Someday, Jesus will destroy every force which reveals Someday, Jesus will destroy every conspiracy against his word. That's the message of Psalm twenty-one. But then please do not miss the force of verse ten. I leave you with this. You will destroy their descendants from the earth and their offspring from among the children of man. That, my friends, is a killing proposition. It declares that there is an opposite of the covenant of grace. An opposite. It proclaims, whether we like to hear it or not, that there is also a covenant of rebellion. The enemies of the Lord face destruction not only of themselves, but also of their children. It's, I believe, the other side of covenant theology. We could call it covenant anti-theology. Kids copy their parents as a general rule, one way or the other. Not necessarily and absolutely Course. There are graciously, graciously, exceptions. Sometimes God in mercy draws rebels back to himself But let no one suppose that the way you raise your children is without consequence. That every individual develops his or her own thoughts, beliefs or non-beliefs, entirely in a vacuum, devoid of family influence. Let no one suppose that. Not according to Psalm twenty-one That the wicked have no responsibility for the fate of their offspring. They do And God says so right here in our Psalm tonight. It's bad enough to be an enemy, enemy of the Most High God, because you face hell, but it's even worse because your children will most probably continue On the same course and suffer the same fate as you. That's what it says. That's also why we Presbyterians believe in infant baptism Not because their baptism will save them, because it won't. But because God says that he deals with his people in their family structure. He says that his children's children belong to him too. And he wants them identified. As such. It's truly a covenant of grace. It was symbolized by circumcision of old, and it is symbolized by water baptism today. So believing parents tonight, join Father David in his closing words. Verse 13. Be exalted, O Lord, in your strength. We will sing and praise your power Your time of distress and persecution is finally at an end. Why? Because all God's enemies and yours He will condemn to everlasting punishment. But you and all his chosen ones, and you have every reason to believe that that includes your children, he will take along with him into the joy and glory. of heaven. We will be cheering because the cry of the martyred souls under heaven's altar is finally answered. Remember that Their cry? They called out in a loud voice, Revelation 6:10. How long, sovereign Lord, holy and true, until you judge the inhabitants of the earth? And avenge our blood. The Lord's power is the power of the cross of Jesus Jesus. His blood was shed for us. We and ours are covered by its power to deliver us from deserved destruction. Hallelujah. And Amen. Lord, we bless you for these Psalms. Every week they turn our eyes and our hearts and our thoughts. To our blessed Redeemer. And that's what David wants. And that's what you intended to happen. We praise you for that because we need encouragement. We need the warning. We need the promise. And we need the assurance of your everlasting grace. And we thank you that it is all through the Savior. your Jesus that this comes about. Blessed be His name and that of the Holy Spirit in you, Father. For you are the triune God and our God, world without end. Amen.