Our reading this morning is from Genesis 1. We'll read the entire chapter into chapter 2, verse 3. Genesis 1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness over the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light. And there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from darkness. God called the light day and the darkness he called night. And there was evening and there was morning the first day. And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters. And God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so And God called the expanse heaven, and there was evening, and there was morning, second day. And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear. And it was so. God called the dry land earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called seas, and God saw that it was good. And God said, Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit, in which is their seed, each according to its kind on the earth. And it was so The earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed according to their own kind, and trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning, the third day. And God said, Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night. And let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years. And let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth. And it was so. And God made the two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night and the stars. And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth, to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from darkness. And God saw that it was good, and there was evening and there was morning, the fourth day. And God said, Let the water swarm with swarms of living creatures and let birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens So God created the great sea creatures, and every living creature that moves with which the waters swarm according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good, and God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters and the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth. And there was evening and there was morning, the fifth day. And God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds, livestock and creeping things, and beasts of the earth according to their kinds. And it was so And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and the livestock according to their kinds, and everything that creeps on the ground according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. Then God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens. And over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female he created them And God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves on the earth And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit. You shall have them for food, and to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food. And it was so And God saw that everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning, the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the hosts of them. And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. The word of the Lord. Our epistle reading is from Paul's letter to the Ephesians, and we'll read from chapter two, verses 11 to 22. So Ephesians chapter 2, beginning at verse 11, hear the word of the Lord. Therefore, remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision By what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hand. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ. Alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise. Having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off Have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For He Himself is our peace. Who has made us both one, and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility. By abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man And place of the two, so making peace. And might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross. Thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near. For through Him we both have access in one Spirit to the Father. So then, you are no longer strangers and aliens, for you are fellow citizens with the saints And members of the household of God, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. And the reading from the gospel comes from Matthew chapter 28, verse 16 to the end of the chapter, it's known as the Great Commission. Matthew 28, beginning at verse 16, hear the word of the Lord. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee To the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him. Some doubted And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. This is the word of the Lord. Finally, dear church, we get to celebrate Trinity Sunday. We read to you from Galatians Which sort of sums up for us from Christmas to Pentecost, or from December to May, these words will be familiar to you. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who are under the law So that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into your hearts crying, Abba, Father. So you're no longer a slave but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. All those wonderful redemptive events that God has carried out in this world, in time, in space, through the incarnation, in life in sufferings and death and resurrection and ascension and the pouring out of his Holy Spirit that we might hear these glad tidings and know that in Christ we have become his dear children So why do we celebrate Trinity Sunday? Because in the Gospel Revelation, what we saw there and we read this morning in Genesis In particular, uh the first verse about the Spirit hovering over the waters and God creating the heavens and the earth, and then in verse 26, when he came to create you and me. The pinnacle of his work. He said, Let us take counsel. We saw there was this counsel between the three persons of the Trinity to make this new creature man. That he would give as dominion over the works of his hands. And this morning, the text that I want to preach to you from And open up to you is a text that shows us in its completion the work of God again, in the Father, Son, and Spirit making this new creation. The text that I want to preach to you from is found in Ephesians chapter 2. It is in verse 18. If you wish to have a Bible and follow along, Ephesians chapter 2, verse 18, we read For through him, that is through Christ, the Son of God, we both have access in one Spirit, the third person of the Trinity. To the Father, the first person of the Trinity. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. But let me give you a church term that maybe you're familiar with and maybe you're not. If you open up books of theology and study, you might hear a term called the Economic Trinity The ring any bells is anybody the economic trinity. And it of course comes from a Greek word meaning um oikanos and um The house, uh law and house, oikos and nomos, the laws, rules for your house. We get our English word economy, what laws, what rules, how do you govern a state, who do you set up, who do you appoint, how do you keep it running, all those things that keep the world running. Economy. Well, the economic trinity is referring to how God has shown himself in his saving stewardship of his creation. And redeeming the world he made out of the hands of fallen angels, as if it was never ultimately in their hands, but From under their wicked rule and control, the tons of disobedience to rebellion, showing how the eternal Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, in time and space Through his gospel, through the works of his hand, how he has shown himself to be three distinct persons and one Godhead, the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, through His saving stewardship over the works of His hands. That's what we mean by the economic Trinity. How God has revealed Himself to you, to me, and His gospel, recorded for us in His Word, as Father, Son, and Spirit, in His saving stewardship of His Creation. And we see that in its sort of culminating statement there in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 18. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. Now in verse 17, Paul had just told us that the Lord Jesus Christ came. And he preached peace to you who are far off, Gentiles, and peace to those who were near. Now Paul doesn't mean so much that Jesus preached that necessarily in those statements that we do read in the Gospels, he will tell those whom he heals, go in peace. Your faith has made you whole, but he means the whole life and work of our Lord Jesus, in particular, as he's focusing on in these verses, his sufferings and his death It has been a word of peace to us. A word of peace to those who are far, to those who are near, Gentiles and Jews. Paul is saying then that from the cross, the sermon being preached from the cross is by the blood of Christ you've been brought near. And verse 18 is sort of the proof then that the cross was truly preaching peace to us because it's showing us what is the proof. What is the evidence for this peace that Christ preached, not just with his mouth, but with his dying body, with his sacrifice of his life? In obedience to his father's will. What is the evidence and proof that the cross was a word of peace and not just an empty word, but an efficacious word that accomplished peace? Well, it's the simplest way to state it to you is you and I here today. Because it says, for through him, through Christ. We both have access in one spirit to the Father, that if you're a Christian in Christ and draw near to God by the Holy Spirit, it is proof that the cross indeed has been a message and is a message of peace. And this gets us into what we call The Council of Peace. Maybe that's another theological term you have or have not heard. That God, in as God has decreed everything for his own glory, The more he made anything, brings it infallibly to pass, without any way being the author of sin. What we see worked out in time and accomplished is something that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit have made a pact. That after the fall of man and the broken covenant of works, the God for his glory, his wonder, would bring us peace again. And the working out of that, the accomplishment of it, as it's said here, is showing us that that counsel that the Father and Son and Spirit agreed to bring past to the Redeemer, as he would be their surety and take on them the sins of his people. Stand in their place to obey for them and light a life they can never live, to redeem them from the curse of the law That they might be adopted in Him as God's children and filled with every blessing there is in Christ forever, and would know God's peace. That's what we're looking at today. There's four things in this passage that we need to see as we open it up. Four things. Here's the first one: these words through him. I already told you Christ was preaching peace. I already told you that verse 18 Paul is marshaling as the evidence or proof that the cross preached peace by the results of it. That all these people now have access in the Spirit to the Father. Through Him is the first thing. Here is the work of peace. The work of peace. That's what these words through him or through Christ mean. It's referring that through what Jesus Christ has done. He is the worker of peace. He is the mediator. It's his job to make peace And he doesn't just do it by simply suing for terms, he does it by actually accomplishing it through his death and applying of it through his spirit to effect this union between God and his children adopted in his grace. So the word through him refers to the work of Peace. And we see that the work primarily focused on there in these verses in 15 through 16. Is the Lord's death. We read that in his flesh, that's back up in verse 14. In his flesh, referring to in the Lord's death. He has broken down this dividing law of hostility, the law of commandments, that capital L law referring to the whole mosaic institution. stood as a dividing wall of hostility between Jews and Gentiles because Jews became very proud and self-righteous and despised the pagans and the pagans who saw them utterly dissociating from them because they couldn't eat what they ate, couldn't have fellowship with them because they would have been unclean Thought they were just inhumane people and couldn't get why you couldn't just live with us and why you think you're better. So it fostered hostility Between Jews and Gentiles who were proud and despite pagans and pagans who thought you all are just a bunch of man haters and completely inhumane in the way you live and draw away from society and won't have any living with us and dealings with us. That's what happened when Jesus died on the cross. He took that law away. There's no more law. No more law No more law. Because if there was law, it would just kill us. There would be no peace. That's not the same thing as saying there's just immorality now. There's the Spirit. We'll talk more about that when we talk about the access. Christ took the law away. Through the law, I died to the law, Paul said. Through the body of Christ, I died to the law that I might be united to the risen Lord Jesus. We're not united to the law anymore. It's not there. It can't be a dividing law. There's no more don't eat this, don't drink that. Keep these days, don't keep those days. You're clean if you do this, you're unclean if you do that. It's all gone. We don't live in that anymore. And that's through the rework of Christ and to bring everybody together. Now it's a Weaker, stronger, looking after the weak. Doing things not to cause people to stumble. That's the rule. Not as if you can't eat those things, can't do those things, but let's have peace in the house of God So that is how Christ is the work of peace. He took the law away. We read the second way. That's between the nations, that's between human beings. And won't anybody that will say this is necessary to be a Christian. And God doesn't say it, because you've set up a dividing wall of hostility. It's taken that away. What else is the work of Christ, the work of peace accomplished through him? We read there and Verse 16, that he might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross. Thereby killing the hostility. Now it's hard to say who the hostility refers to, what I mean by that. Obviously, from the human side, it's not hard to say. The Bible makes it clear in our flesh we are at enmity with God. All those who love the world, desire the world's friendship, are at enmity with God, and that's who we were. And Christ, when, as Paul says, right, and boasts triumphantly, I have been crucified with Christ, my flesh has been crucified, I've been crucified to the world, the world has been crucified. So of course through that are old men dying, that hostility. towards God. But also there's got to be some sense. And this is where we have to be very, very careful how we state this. Because it is a wrong view of the atonement. If you think that God was only ever hostile and at wrath and at enity of the sons of men. Until all of a sudden Jesus came and made him propituous, made him kind, made him nice through his sufferings. If you hold that view, let me try to show you that's not the view. What really took place, that's that tension, that God both loved us when he was angry at us, and maybe you know something like that as parents You absolutely love your children, but you can be angry at them in their sin and disobedience and the way they are harming themselves to the horrible life choices they're making. The cross shows us that God is propitious. It's the manifestation of it. He has been propitious. That means Favored kindly towards his people. Ever since Adam fell and he came and gave them the word of promise. All the way, those words of cut the promises of covenants, all through his old testament people. What happens at the cross is you now see it visibly see it that God favors us as a loving heavenly father and in his love he did this for Christ he sent Christ and did this for us Thereby for sure assuring us he has no wrath for us. Any of his chastisings from his children isn't from a position of I want to destroy them in my anger. But I want to make them holy in my love for them as their father. That is the work of Jesus Christ. Hostility between the nations. All hostility between God accomplished in his sufferings and death on the cross for you For me. So the work of peace. The next thing we have here in these words, we both have access is the proof of peace. The proof of peace. We both have access. Let me start with the words we both. At one point in time, only the Jews had access to God through the way that he had made access in the law under Moses. In the temple, with the veil, with the priests, with the sacrifices, the washings, and everything. Yes, there was Gentile proselytes, but by and large, only one people drew near to God. And at the time when Christ came, a few may have been. But now, now we both do it. Isn't it a sign of great peace when people who used to be enemies now can come worship God together? Acknowledge the same God, the same mediator, meaning we all have the same need to have peace made with the same ransom for the mediator, give the ransom for all. We all have the same Infinite sacrifice for our sins, and that who those who used to hate each other can now be found in the house of God together Worshiping, singing, praising, weeping, loving, confessing sins to each other, living together. So The proof of peace is we both, Paul's saying, now what we're seeing since the gospel's gone forth and he was involved in planting them, Jews and Gentiles on equal footing and equal standing, coming and drawing near to God. Well that's the first showing of the proof, those words we both. The other way the proof is seen there is in the words access. Now, if the American states deem you to be an enemy to this nation, you do not get access to this country, do you? We don't let you in. Such were we as we're banished out of the garden and had not access to God. What has happened now with the work of Christ? That veil, which was a big statement No access. One person once a year gets access to me. Everybody else, no access. Has been torn in two. Christ, your high priest, has ascended into heaven and he's opened the heavens. You don't meet Peter at the gate of heavens, you meet Christ. Access is the word preached to the nation. Every living person in this world. Access is made. Come in. Come in. There should be no reason you're not coming in. There should be no reason nobody is not calling God Father and coming to Him. The access is made, it's open to the work of Christ. Come in. It can only be your unbelief and not believing this good news that you're not coming in. Access is given. Now I see a lot of our children here this morning. Let me see if I can illustrate this point to whoever may be giving me their ears. How many of you maybe have lived with the promise that you're going to go see grandma and grandpa on a vacation? And you're so excited to go see them because next week you're going to go get to spend four days with grandma and grandpa at their house. They're going to take you to the zoo and do all these wonderful things But then you horribly disobey your parents and do something very, very, very naughty. And they say, you can't go see grandma and grandpa anymore. But I'll give you, you can FaceTime with grandma and grandpa. You can see them on the phone, but you don't get the personal access. You can't smell them. Can't feel them. Can't embrace them. They can't be embraced by you. That's what it was living under the Old Testament. You had God on FaceTime He was truly, really there with his people and loved them. But the work of Christ had not been done to give us access. So now we can go right into his presence. So the proof of this peace, the work of priests, peace is the work of Christ on the cross. The proof of peace is that now Jews and Gentiles have access. Third thing to see in this text is in the words, in One Spirit, or it can also be translated by one spirit. Other translations give it. So in one spirit or by one spirit. And here you have the atmosphere of peace. Or if you translate it by, here you have the applier of peace. So if you translate it as in one spirit, you have the atmosphere of this peace And if you translate it by one spirit, then you have the applier of this piece. What do I mean? Well that's that's if we go in one spirit, the atmosphere of this piece By the Spirit of the Spirit of God's Son, what is what is the atmosphere to be now in God's house? But that Filial love and devotion to God, where we see our Heavenly Father as the source of every good thing to us. A loving Father who dotes on us, treats us as his favorites, treats us as if we were his own eternally begotten Son. That's the spirit we have. Now that's the atmosphere of God's house where we call God daddy And we live as his children. And we love him and honor him. And there couldn't be any higher aim in our lives to devote ourselves to him because he's our daddy. And he's invited us and called this to be a part of his work. He's raising us up so we'll no longer do the works of Satan, but to do his work. As Jesus abode in his Father's love and did all his work, then we abide in Christ and do the works that God has given us to do in his Son. But it's also because of the word we and God, since we know he has one eternal son, and we know that he's made many sons through Christ, it's also a spirit of brotherly love because it's a family. Now we love each other like siblings, and isn't that one of the deepest, realest, truest loves your siblings that seems that just lasts? I know there's horrible situations where it doesn't and it breaks But isn't the love of siblings a wonderful close thing that you can still say true real words but stay friends, stay together, speak real That's the spirit now in God. That's the atmosphere of brotherly love. How are we doing with brotherly love? Are we embracing each other as sister, brother, mother, father? Are we still just staying in earthly familial blood relation categories? Or have we really adopted one another, really owned each other as our family? are forever family, as some children's literature puts it. As it's a spirit of brotherly love is the atmosphere. And I don't necessarily think these translations have to be competing, but if you translate it as by one spirit, then we're talking about the applier of this, and obviously that is the Holy Spirit. Whose job it is to testify with our spirits that we are indeed God's children. He has not brought us in temporarily to cast us off, but has adopted us forever. Let me make a point when I was talking about then what it means not live under law. God does not put some law upon you that you have to do to please him. Paul makes it very clear: you're not under law. You're under grace. He just treats you like his favorite son because he loves you. And it's in that love that your heart is quickened and you want to please him. And you'll try and he accepts, though he knows you're weak. Though he knows you fall so short, he can see your heart and he knows that you want to serve him and want to obey him. And he accepts and loves that. He doesn't accept that to save you for your salvation, he accepts it because He's already saved you and you just has accepted because he's your father. And I see earthly fathers here today. Don't you accept even what your children do for you, even if it's not even perfect? Don't go back under the law. Live in that grace. Serve God with your heart. Know that he just loves you. Treat you as his favorites for Christ's sake. Don't hear that as a word of good, let's just have rowdy parties in God's house and do what we want. No. But if you want to live under the law, you'll live miserably. You'll always think he's a harsh father who doesn't love you, can never do enough, and that's not his view to you in Christ. He loves you with everlasting love. You're his favorite for Christ's sake. Serve them with all you have. That's the spirit of God's house. Filial, brotherly love. It's the spirit who works that in us. It's the spirit who even leads us to say, Daddy. In that simple, affectionate manner? Are you praying in that simple, affectionate manner and just saying, Daddy? Is that who God is to you? Have you seen that and know that and feel that in Christ? That's the spirit of his house. The work of peace was done by Christ on the cross. The proof of that peace is Jews and Gentiles having access, being accepted by God. being able to draw near to him in the atmosphere of peace, the Holy Spirit, and applied to them by the Spirit, the last thing to see here is in the words, his final words of this verse, to the Father. Where we see the destination of peace. The destination of peace Maybe you heard St. Augustine's maxim, my God has made us for himself until we find our rest in God, right? We're restless. Our destination, if you have not come to the Father, you have not peace. There can be no real rest for your soul. There will be anxiety and fear and worry. Because you have not come to the one who made you, you don't even yet know the purpose of your creation That God truly has made us to be his children until we are coming near to him as his children or falling short of the peace that he's worked for us. And given to us. The destination of our peace isn't the Bahamas. The destination of our peace isn't a quiet room. It's the Father. You must be going to the Father. We all have access to the Father. That is peace for man. When they know, when man knows in his soul for the work of the Spirit. That I am God's. He is my Father. And I am his child. That is what Christ died for, so don't settle for anything less. That is what the Spirit is working into you. So aim for nothing shorter than to return always to the Father. He is the destination of peace. And here's that wonderful joy, right? As God has gathered, he has many erring children, doesn't he? Many prodigals, many children. He cries out in Isaiah, I have raised disobedient children. And we see, as he works in us through his word, and by his spirit, that all his providences were to bring us back to the place of our peace and self. And to stand before him without fear. Stand before him confidently, being able to say, as Peter, yes, Lord, I do love you. Lord, you see everything. You know I love you. We can truly say in Christ in the Spirit, we love you, Father. Matthew Henry sums it up in this way. Christ purchased for us leave to come to God And the Spirit gives us a heart to come, and strength to come, even grace to serve God acceptably. So the main teaching I want to then draw out. I know I've done a lot of drawing out and applying, but one thing I want to leave us with and make a little application with. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father is teaching us amongst many things that the triune God Father, Son, and Spirit, working in Christ, has made his church a place of peace. God has made his kingdom. Right? Paul goes on to say, you're no longer strangers, but you're fellow citizens. God has made his kingdom a place of peace. You're members of his household. God has made his house a place of peace. You are the temple built up with the Lord John. God has made his sanctuary, his temple, a place of peace. It's very easy to prove this point. Obviously, the text I've been expounding has been on the whole basis at verse 18 is the proof and evidence that Christ preached peace to us. But in Colossians 3, verse 15, we hear these words from the Paul, and let peace, let the peace of Christ, the peace that Christ has made and brought. rule in your hearts. It's to be the umpire. You know an umpire sits and he calls things balls and strikes, let's put passing. You need to let the peace of Christ sit an umpire in your heart. If you're throwing strikes, stop. Only admit over the plate what is a peace. In God's house. Let it rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called. God said, You've been called to the peace of Christ where? In one body. Now, how many of you I know I'm looking at aged dear saints, uh sick and ill saints, but for the most part, when our bodies are working as they are, And our knees aren't making trouble for us, our hearts aren't making trouble for us, our heads aren't making trouble for us, our body works together and it's peaceful, right? Everything supporting, working together, and it's nice. That's what God's saying about his house Even called together in one body. Not a body fighting, warring, not because some part's not doing the job and carrying the slack, but a body that everybody's working together that can work. This is why sin has to go. You're making the body disease. You're not actively cutting out sin. You're not helping with the peace in the church. You've been caused disease. And you know what God says? He says, be thankful. Because where else are you going to find it? You're gonna find it in the world? You're really gonna find peace out there? God says, here's the place. I've given it to you as a gift. Here's the place of peace. My kingdom, my house My temple. So let me apply it this way then. Let us keep the peace. Let us be preachers of peace. How can we preach peace to each other? Well, the first thing we see that Jesus does in making peace is he breaks down any dividing laws of hostility. If you have erected secondary issues, political issues, parenting issues, anything that is secondary to what Paul says, the first things of Christ dying for our sins Being buried, raising from the dead, and appearing. If you have erected secondary issues, here's how you might know you've erected secondary issues if you stand over them and despise people on the other side who aren't on your side of the issue You need to tear it down. I don't mean to say you can't hold the secondary issues and you can't have nice peaceable social debates about it. And talk about why you think this is the proper way, candidate we should have an office, why this is the proper way to send our kids to school or not? But if you make it a primary issue and make a wall of hostility in the church when people come in and they do not feel welcome, you have erected a wall of hostility And you can't be together in Christ's church drawing near to the Father. You need to tear it down. So I pray search your hearts and know if you erected any of these. Second, The work that God has done there through Christ. God has not imputed our sins to us. Put them where? On Jesus Christ. Do not impute sins to your family members. Be forbearing. Be forgiving. Do not treat them as their sins deserve. Yeah, it's heinous. Yes, it hurts. Yeah, it's wrong. But if your heart is a vengeful heart to give them what they deserve, you are not keeping the peace. Because God did not impute your sins to you. He does not treat you as they deserve. Does he discipline and chastise you? Yes. Is there a place then where members need to be given a word of admonishment, a word of rebuke, in private, possibly public? Maybe even being put out, yes, but it's all done in the spirit of peace, not because we want to crush them under their sins, but we want them to repent. Do not impute sins to each other. And I'm preaching to my heart. One of the one of the things in my study leave and being away was reflecting on those words of Peter. That God sent a word of peace to Israel by Jesus Christ, and then he lays off his whole list of going around doing good, killing everybody, press the devil. What's God saying Clearly in Jesus Christ, I'm not treating you as your sins deserved because I'm healing your bodies, I'm teaching you the truth, I'm casting out demons from you, and I'm accepting you as my own. Let us then go in the spirit of I'm here to help. I'm not here to judge you. But live like Christ came. I'm here to do you good and to be helpful to you. That will change immensely the way because Christ did not come to treat us as our sins deserved. The word of the gospel and his grace becomes a word of salvation if you reject it It is a word of salvation. It is a word of peace. Let us be preaching peace in the very demeanor towards each other, even towards all men. God will judge them, not you. Go in peace. For the sake of Christ, make peace. Pray for the Spirit's filling. Third thing. We see that the Spirit provides the atmosphere of peace. The Spirit applies peace. How many of you are daily praying to your Father Fill me with your spirit so I can keep the peace in my home, between my relationships there, at work, between my colleagues and in his church. Jesus tells us That the Father, if your evil know how to give good gifts, your father knows how to give good gifts, the Spirit. Let me tell you another thing I learned about this If you are not praying daily for the Holy Spirit's feeling, what you are in essence doing is resting back on whatever works you think are actually pleasing to God and therefore resting on them. Because the prayer of being filled by the Spirit says a couple things. I don't have it in me, and it's wrong that I don't have it in me, because God made us in Adam to have it in us, so you're condemning yourself But you're doing it in the knowledge you know that God's never going to treat you as your sins deserve. So it's applying the gospel to yourself and saying, be loving and merciful And fill me with your spirit that I might actually do what this law says, because I'm not under the law. I don't just go to the law and the strength of my flesh, the wisdom of my mind, read it and think I can just do it. No matter how well the catechism opens it up to us. You need the Spirit to do it. And so you need to be praying daily for the Spirit to fill you, to keep peace. Otherwise, you are just resting on whatever you think you've attained. We need to constantly be growing, constantly be filled with the Spirit, leading us out to what's really pleasing and not what we think is really pleasing as a church. Pray for the peace of Zion. Do we pray for the peace of the church? David prays for the peace of Zion. Is the peace of this church a regular part of our prayers? Because this is a place of peace. Where else are you going to find a place of peace on earth? The body of Christ is a place. Are we praying? Oh God, make this house a place of peace. Make me a peacemaker. And fifth, don't foster confusion. Paul spends two chapters in Corinthians dealing with all the confusion that the Corinthians brought in, not understanding the roles of sex in the church. Not understanding the places of gifts and how they're to be used and which are the ones really to be sought, and even how to come together in a way that is not confusing Show up on time. Don't be the guy who doesn't show up and everybody's confused. What are we going to do? So-and-so's not here. Know your role and what you're to do in Christ's church. If you would do that at your workplace and if you require it of your children in your own home, elders require it of the people here You're peacekeepers. Don't let confusion reign in the church. Don't let people who don't know what they're doing keep on going because they don't show up habitually. They don't know where they're supposed to be, where they're supposed to be at. It causes confusion. It's unpeaceful for people. It's scrambling. Know if you if you signed up voluntarily for something, if you're put on a roster, know it. Know what you're supposed to do, know where you're supposed to be. Take the time to read it, you'll be condemned as a peacebreaker in Christ Church. God is not the author of confusion. He's the author of peace. And he gives you freely, fully, the Holy Spirit to do it I'll close ye with Peter's exhortation. You end not with my word, although I hope to preach nothing to you today but God's word Nevertheless, we according to God's promise look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwells righteousness. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that you may be found of him in peace. Without spot and blameless. Amen