Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the book of Genesis. Genesis chapter 2. We'll be reading verses 2 through 17. Genesis 2, verses 2 through 17. Hear now the word of God. And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done. And he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens. When no bush of the field was yet in the land, and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain on the land, and there was no man to work the ground And a mist was going up from the land and was watering the whole face of the ground. Then the Lord God formed a man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life And the man became a living creature. And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden, in the east. And there he put the man whom he had formed. And out of the ground the Lord God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. A river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and there it divided and became four rivers The name of the first is the Pishon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold. And the gold of that land is good. Medelium and Onyx stone are there. The name of the second river is Gihon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Kush. And the name of the third river is the Tigris, which flows east of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates. The Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. This is the word of the Lord. For the New Testament reading from Luke chapter 24, verses 13 through 47. This is the scene on Easter evening. Listen to the Word of God. That very day, two of them were going to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. And they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened. While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them But their eyes were kept from recognizing him. And he said to them, What is this conversation you were holding with each other as you walk? And they stood still, looking sad. Then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days? And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. And how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified him. But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened. Moreover, some of our women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning. And when they did not find his body, they came back saying that they had seen a vision of angels who said that he was alive. Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said. But him they did not see. And he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets He interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. We'll leave off there the reading of God's word. Let us pray. Almighty God, as we approach this narrative of your word, this Easter evening narrative, we pray that you'll help us to understand it. As you inspired it and intended it for us. May we be encouraged and strengthened to go forward looking toward Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. In his name we pray. Amen. Well, I want to begin by asking two questions, and then we'll come back to those in a sense at the end. The two questions are these. What is the story of your life? What is the story of your life? Is it a list of dates and events? You were born at this date, and then you graduated from high school on this date, then you graduated from college on another date, and so forth and so on. You got married perhaps on another date. And you got a job, whatever. Is it just a list of dates and events? Is it for you a list of awards and accomplishments? You earned a degree, you got a great award for doing some great thing, some athletic thing or elsewhere, or is it perhaps for you a list of trials and troubles? I was sick for six years, and then this happened, and then that happened, and then an accident, and on and on. What is the theme of your life? What is the theme of your life? Think about that as we go forward. And then the second question is: what is the message of the Old Testament? What is the message of the Old Testament, which, by the way, was the Bible of Jesus and the apostles. Isn't it just a disparate collection of interesting old stories with no apparent theme, no overarching idea? Maybe we should just take each one of these stories and draw a few moral lessons from each one. Is it The story of a failed plan A. God wanted to do this and then something happened and he had to change his plan and now he's on plan B. Well, Jesus here in this text, this marvelous text, brings perspective to both these questions, really. We see here in Luke 24, as we've already read, two men evidently walking from Jerusalem to Emmaus. And they were discussing the news of the day. What was the news of the day? Jesus' tomb was empty. And some women claimed to have seen angels who said that Jesus was alive. And these two men walking recalled what Jesus had said about rising on the third day. And still they were discouraged. They just couldn't believe it. They hadn't seen Jesus. And resurrections don't happen just every other day. Their dream, their longed-for hope was for the redemption of Israel through this Jesus of Nazareth, who did miracles and wonderful things. But that dream was dying, fading fast. Their lives had been defined by this hope, and and now that hope was gone. Jesus joined these two men walking in the evening. He caught up on their discussion, and as he asked them a few questions, he proceeded to rebuke them. For not knowing their Bible better. They should have known, he says, that Messiah had to suffer before being glorified. And Jesus there gave them an on-the-spot lesson in what we call hermeneutics, which is the science of interpretation. Now, later on that same day, as we'll see a bit more, these same men told the other disciples that Jesus had appeared to them on the road. And then, right then, when they were getting this discussion together with all the others, suddenly Jesus appeared. He arrived and gave them all together the same lesson in hermeneutics. That is, that the Messiah must suffer and rise from the dead. And then after that, redemptive blessings would flow to all the nations. Here Jesus referred to what was written about him in the law and the prophets. And the Psalms, that's what he said. The law, the prophets, and the Psalms. That is a shorthand for the three major divisions of the Old Testament Bible. And notice this, Jesus doesn't say that he fulfills a few proof texts. Isolated verses here and there where you might find a little bit of Jesus like you were searching for Waldo in the Where's Waldo puzzle or something like that. No. He fulfills everything in the Old Testament. It's all about Him. Jesus identified Himself in this discussion as the Anointed One. In Greek, that's Christ, Christos. In Hebrew, it's Messiah, Hamashiach. In the Old Testament, these offices, these three offices, prophet, priest, and kings, were all people who had to be anointed to take their office. He had to have that oil poured down on their head. In various capacities, these three offices represented God and served his people. And these passages, these places anticipate the convergence. There are various passages that anticipate the convergence of these three offices eventually in one person. I'll tell you one of them right here. In Deuteronomy 18, Moses said, he was a prophet. Moses said, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers. It is to him you shall listen, just as you desired of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, or see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the Lord God said to me, Moses is recording here, they are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. And what's that prophet going to do? I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. That's Deuteronomy 18, verses 15 through 19. A prophet was going to come, an anointed one. He's going to speak God's words, and you better listen to him. That's what Moses said. That's one of the offices. The next one would be priest. Now you may not have caught it, but we say Psalm 110. And it talks about the priesthood of Melchizedek. The Lord has said to me, I will make you a priest according to the order of Melchizedek. That's an eternal order. That's not the order of Aaron's. sons. But one that comes from sin and nowhere and never has an end. I'm going to raise up a priest like that. And then also king, a king is anointed. Then in 2 Samuel 7 And in Psalm 72, which we're going to sing a bit later under the rubric, Jesus shall reign, where eer the Son That is another picture of this third office, the office of king, a king who will rule everyone, everywhere, who will take sway over the whole world someday. And all three of these offices converge on Jesus. As prophet, Jesus declares the will of God like Moses. As priest, Jesus makes atonement for the sins of God's people. And as king, Jesus breaks the power of sin in the world. So, listen to this. As the anointed one, Jesus does not represent something completely new, does he? As the Messiah, he's not something completely new. He holds the three Old Testament offices and performs those tasks more fully than any others that came before him. He brings the offices to fulfillment. How does he do that? Here's how. First, Jesus says that the anointed one must suffer. Now the Jews may not have expected their Messiah to suffer, but the Old Testament did. Throughout the Old Testament, God's servants suffer, and a pattern begins to emerge. Think of Abraham, he suffered. Think of Moses, he suffered. Think of Joseph, who was thrown into the pit, he suffered. And David, who was chased for years. He suffered. And Jeremiah, who was thrown into a well, he suffered. And Habakkuk and Job. Isaiah spoke of the suffering servant in Isaiah 53. And Zechariah spoke of the smitten shepherd. And Lamentations chapter 3 mentions a vindicated man who identifies with the fallen and suffering Jerusalem when the Babylonians came and took it away. All these righteous individuals suffered and even interceded for others. God used the sufferings of the righteous to advance his redemptive plan. I'll just pause here to say this, by the way. When you suffer, when you suffer, it is the plan of God. It is normal. Not extraordinary. 1 Peter 4. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial, when it comes upon you, to test you as though something strange were happening to you But rejoice in so far as you share the sufferings of Christ, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed If you are insulted, it is for the name of Christ. If you are blessed, because the spirit and glory of Christ and of God rests upon you. Jesus explained his own sufferings in view of this Old Testament pattern. It wasn't some accident of history that he suffered. He wasn't unfortunate or misguided in his zeal to right wrongs. The Old Testament tells the story of suffering servants. And ultimately of the suffering servant. And that's what Jesus was telling these disciples. It wasn't unusual. It was normal. And should have been expected. Jesus, you see, is the Lamb of God. What happens to lambs? They get sacrificed. He is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. So he is the suffering one. Secondly, Jesus says that the anointed one Must be vindicated and exalted. He must suffer, but he almost also must be vindicated and exalted. Jesus' favorite title for himself was Son of man. Son of man. And where does that come from? An obscure place in Daniel chapter 7, where the son of man has to do with dominion. Dominion, that is, governing over all things. Genesis 1, by the way, begins with dominion over all the earth. God gave Adam and Eve dominion over the earth, as we heard read earlier. And then with the Psalms, we see the idealized kingship of dominion that will come in Psalm 72, which we will sing a paraphrase of a bit later. God and his king will eventually put down all evil and will restore creation. In other words, God wins at the end of history. God is vindicated. And the resurrection and ascension represent the vindication and exaltation of Jesus. The resurrection is proof of God's satisfaction with the atoning sacrifice. Christ has conquered the enemies of God by breaking the power of sin. And now, as we know from Psalm 2, he sits at God's right hand, ruling over all things for God's glory. The Old Testament indicates and anticipates the reign of God through his Messiah, his anointed one, the King. And then the third thing, Jesus says that the work of the anointed one will bring about world evangelization. World evangelization. Now, think about that in the context of the Old Testament. The Old Testament did at times narrow its focus to one man and his family, Abraham and his family, right? But never, never does it forget the nations. Even in Genesis 12 and Genesis 17. He is narrowed down and chosen and invested with authority so that he might be a blessing to all the nations. The nations are in view. Abraham and his descendants are to channel redemptive blessings to the whole world. Paul in Galatians identifies Jesus as the seed of Abraham. And we who are in Christ by faith inherit the promises to Abraham. In other words, we have become a kingdom of priests to the nations. Jesus said that repentance and forgiveness would be preached in his name. And the Old Testament's prophets called people to repentance and promised forgiveness. And they, the Old Testament prophets, announced a new covenant that would come and that would transform the heart, would take away the heart of stone and give a heart of flesh. Jesus saw the fulfillment of the prophets in his own atoning work and his own giving of the Holy Spirit. Jesus' final words in Luke pertain to the Abrahamic covenant that said that in your seed shall all the nations be blessed. And here are his final words from Luke 24. And that repentance and forgiveness of sin should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem You are my witnesses of these things, and behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you, but stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high And then what did he do after telling them that? He sent out his disciples to bear witness to what he had accomplished. And the book of Acts records the coming of the Holy Spirit to equip the disciples to proclaim this work of Jesus. And as a result of all that, the nations, all nations, will be blessed by the seed of Abraham. So Jesus said that the work of the anointed one would bring about world evangelization. Now, my dear friends, I have been preaching this to you for 15 years. And I tell you again today, in Jesus, Isaiah 60, which is what Jesus read in the synagogue in Capernaum at the beginning of his ministry Isaiah 60 has begun to come true when Jesus said, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me. I've been sent to bring the gospel to all the world. Now we could continue for hours making connections between Jesus and the Old Testament. I've tried to make a few for you here this morning. But I want to recap for a moment what I've already said. Jesus believed that the Old Testament was a book about himself. And he taught his church to read and preach the Old Testament as a Christian book, to read it and understand it as all about himself. And that's a wonderful thing. I hope that you will take that hermeneutic and understand it deeply. And ponder that question, how do I understand this portion of Scripture as pointing to our Savior Jesus, prophet, priest, and king? But I also want you to consider it in relation to your own personal story. It's your story as you were united to him. And I want to show you how that works. And there's something very interesting and obscure here. Right in the middle of this passage, we have A meal. Now we're going to have a meal here, aren't we? But right in the middle of this passage and some others, a meal. This is no accident, my friends. This is not insignificant. Let me remind you a little bit of meals in the Bible. God created man. He had daily fellowship with man. And as we read earlier in Genesis, he gave him food in abundance, including the sacramental food of the tree of life. Genesis 2, 14. Then man sinned in the garden by eating a meal with who? With Satan. Later, God made a covenant, and he brought about this mysterious priest figure, Melchizedek, to Abraham. And what did Melchizedek do? He brought out bread and wine. And later. God gave a meal of redemption to celebrate his deliverance of his people from Egypt. And it was the Passover meal. Meals are important. Before Jesus went to his suffering and death, he transformed that meal. the Passover meal into what we're going to have here in a little while. The Lord's Supper. A meal of redemption. A meal of communion with him in his body and blood, which is our salvation. His saving incarnate death and his triumph over death on the third day. Remember the story of the Old Testament, Passover? It is about Jesus, really, isn't it? Ultimately, it's about him. He is the new Moses, the deliverer who defeats the enemy and leads us to Canaan. He is the Lamb whose blood was shed to avert death. That's why John said in John 1. 21, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. That's why we regularly repeat here in our liturgy, grant us therefore, gracious Lord, so to eat the flesh of your dear Son Jesus Christ and to drink his blood. That our sinful bodies may be made clean by his body, and our souls washed through his most precious blood, and that we may evermore dwell in him, and he in us. It's all coming together at this new covenant, transformed meal. But let's go back to the meal that they had. That evening, on Easter evening, in verse 28 of Luke 24. Verse 28. So they drew near the village. I didn't read this part earlier. So they drew near the village to which they were going. He acted as if he were going farther, but they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is now far spent. So he went in to stay with them. And when he was at table with them, he took bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. And he vanished from their sight And they said to each other, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures? And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem, and they found the eleven, and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and it's appeared to Simon Then they told what had happened on the road, and listen to this, how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. So that meal and this meal is a hermeneutic of the whole Old Testament and of your life. And you see, he still makes himself known in the breaking of bread. He is with you. Your union with him is nourished and deepened week by week when you come to this table. And that is why it is a shame to miss this table. Don't miss this table for some frivolous reasons, for some foolish adventure somewhere else. Be here. Eat and drink. Your union with him is nourished and deepened, and your victory is secured at this table. Let me illustrate this another way. I'm not really good at football illustrations, but I will try this one. I check to make sure I got it right. Imagine that you're on a football team And your running game is not very good. You've just had a few first downs. Not many. And your passing game is poor. There have been many incomplete passes and fumbles. Your defense is getting crushed. Your offense is nearly always pushed back. And it's now the fourth quarter of the game. And the score is your team zero and the opposing team 42. But then But then a fantastic champion player joins your team, comes onto the field for you, he gets possession of the ball, and he runs it to go over and over He is battered and bruised by the other team, but he keeps gaining ground. And sometimes just before he crosses the goal line, he passes the ball laterally to you, and you actually score. Over and over he scores until the clock runs out and your team score is 140 to their 42. Now, what do you say in cheers at that final moment? He won? Yes, he won. But we won. We're all on the same team. We won in him, with him, by him. The story of your life may be insignificant in the eyes of the world. It may not have been played especially well. You may not make the headlines or have a biography written about you. But if your life is bound up with Christ, You win. You win. All your sufferings are sanctified and healed by his suffering. You triumph in him. All the ways you have been wronged are bound up and made right in his vindication, his crushing of your enemy. And your spirit-driven works are made effectual to bring God's kingdom to all the world. My friends, he is still made known in the breaking of the bread, which is a nickname for the whole Lord's Supper. The meal is called breaking of the bread, but it signifies and seals and remembers and nourishes you in your union with the champion. It is the feast of his suffering. You share in it. It is the feast of his vindication and exaltation in which you share. It is the feast of his dominion, feeding his new Israel and sending them out to take the world. It's a feast of victory of our God and of our people. Your victory. So Come, eat, share in the story of Jesus, who is prophet, priest, and king, victor and champion. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Lord, we pray now that you will teach us As we eat, to share in the victory of our champion Jesus. Amen.