Isaiah fifty-two, verses one through ten. Awake, awake, put on your strength, O Zion, put on your beautiful garments. O Jerusalem, the holy city, for there shall no more come into you the uncircumcised and the unclean. Shake yourselves from the dust and arise. Be seated, O Jerusalem. Loose the bonds from your neck, O captive daughter of Zion. For thus says the Lord, you were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money. For thus says the Lord God, my people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there, and the Assyrian oppressed them for nothing. Now, therefore, what have I here? declares the Lord, seeing that my people are taken away for nothing. Their rulers wail, declares the Lord, and continually all the day my name is despised. Therefore, my people shall know my name. Therefore, in that day, they shall know that it is I who speak. Here am I. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace, who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, Your God reigns. The voice of your watchmen, they lift up their voice. Together for they they sing for joy. For eye to eye they see the return of the Lord to Zion. Break forth together into singing, you waste places of Jerusalem, for the Lord has comforted his people. He has redeemed Jerusalem The Lord has barred his has bared his holy arm before the eyes of all nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. The preaching portion today is from Romans chapter 10, 12 through 21. Romans chapter 10, beginning at verse 12. Remembering that the epistle to the Romans was to be read in one hearing. And we need to keep in mind the context. We jump right into the middle of something here in verse 12. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him Of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are set? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. But I ask, have they not heard? Indeed, they have. For Their voice has gone out into all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. But I ask Did Israel not understand? First, Moses says, I will make you jealous of those who are not a nation. With a foolish nation, I will make you angry. Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, I have been found by those who did not seek me. I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me. But of Israel, he says, all day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that you will now help us to understand. The long-ago letter of the Apostle Paul, this particular portion. We ask for your help, for without your help, nothing good comes. But with your help, we have great blessing, encouragement, and great hope. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well as I uh began to look at this passage and think about it, I had to think now how can I Bring forth what the Apostle Paul has for us here today. And I came up with these three points. So the first point is about preaching. I'm preaching about preaching today. So listen carefully as you think about preachers and preaching and what happens in preaching. Is it just the speech? Is it teaching? What is it? The first point is this: the voice of Christ. Is heard in spirit-empowered Bible preaching. That's making a large claim for a preacher, isn't it? But I'm not making it for myself. I'm just trying to say what Paul says here. The voice of Christ is heard in spirit-empowered Bible preaching. But as we approach that, we begin with a clear statement of equality between Jews and Gentiles before God. Paul has already said that these are equally sinners, Jews and Gentiles, and that they are equally condemned. And he has pointed out that although Jews have much opportunity advantage due to their possession of the law They have no advantage when it comes to the gospel offer of salvation in Christ. The offer is made to Jews and Gentiles equally. He says this in verse 12. There is no distinction between Jew and Greek or Gentile. For the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For, quote, everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. This is a clear statement of the human response to gospel preaching. Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Now, if this was the only sort of description we had about the way salvation works, We might conclude that God has done all that he can, and it's up to the hearers to call upon the name of the Lord, and that's all there is to it. That's the whole picture. But it is not all that we have heard. We have already seen the teaching of the apostle about the sovereignty of God. The sovereignty of God in choosing some lost sinners. And calling them powerfully, inexorably, calling them to faith calling them to justification, adoption, and glorification. So we know that behind these words about all who call on the name of the Lord, We know behind that is the sovereign God, the sovereign God who calls people to himself, and they in response call on the name of the Lord and are saved. But how does God do this? Does He simply zap people There they are sitting doing this or that or doing nothing, and he zaps them with faith He zaps them with gospel knowledge and faith, and then they respond. Is that how it works? Does he simply impart the gift of faith and the message of the gospel to be believed during dreams or by osmosis? No. He uses messengers, heralds, and particularly the act of preaching. Outwardly, God calls people through preaching. John Piper tells us what preaching is. He's pretty good at preaching. He says, preaching is expository exaltation. Exposition is expository, the exposition of biblical truth, plus exaltation about biblical truth. And he says, the reason that preaching is to be prominent in worship is that worship is not just understanding, but it's also feeling. You should feel something in worship. It's not just seeing God, but also savoring God, he says. It's not just the response of the mind, but also of the heart. Therefore, God has ordained that the form His Word should take in corporate worship is not just reading or explanation to the mind, not just stimulation To the heart, but rather the word of God is to come teaching the mind and reaching the heart, showing the truth of Christ and savoring the glory of Christ. Expositing the Word of God and exulting in the God of the Word. Those are his words. That is preaching. But there is more. In this real preaching, which Piper has just defined for us The voice of Christ is heard. Believe it or not. Let's look at the text and see if that's a statement that you can believe. Verse 14, the apostle says, How then will they call on him in whom they had not believed? How are they going to call on him? They don't believe in him, but how are they going to call on him? How are they going to get there? And how are they to believe in him? In our text, in the ESV says, of whom they have never heard, but that's just one way to render it. It's a genitive, so it can be rendered, of whom they have never heard. But in this case, there is an immediate direct object. So the rendering should be, or may well be, or I believe it should be. How will they call on him on whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him whom they have not heard? That's what we have, by the way, in the New American Standard Bible. Let me read it for you, verse 14. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how will they believe in him whom they have not heard? And how will they hear him without a preacher? Or another translation, which is faithful in this way, says, but how are they to call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in one whose voice? More explicit. Whose voice they have never heard? That's the Weymouth Bible translation Now, that's just one verse, and you say, well, it may or may not mean what you think it does, Pastor, but are there other verses that support the very same idea? By the way, we sang our opening hymn Blessed Jesus at your word we are gathered all to hear you, Jesus. So I think they have that right in the hymn. But here's another passage of Scripture that I think undergirds this. Ephesians 4. 21 It says, Paul is talking about to the Ephesians, he says, if at least you have heard his voice, his voice, how do they hear his voice? And in him have been taught. Or the NASB puts it, indeed, you have heard him and have been taught in him just as the truth is in Jesus. So there's another example of this, hearing the voice of Christ. The Ephesians, by the way, did not meet Jesus personally or hear him preach personally in Ephesus. But they heard his voice in the preaching of the apostles who came to Ephesus, you see. Ephesians 2, 13 through 17. But now Christ Jesus, but now in Christ Jesus, who once, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, and he came and preached peace to you who were far off. Gentiles. And peace to those who were near. How did Jesus come to Ephesus and preach to those people? He came in the messengers. And his voice was heard in the preaching of the gospel in Ephesus. The voice of Christ is heard in true preaching. Now, the second Helvetic confession, written by Heinrich Bullinger, puts it this way: The preaching of the Word of God is the Word of God. That's a kind of, whoa, wait a minute. The preaching of the Word of God is the Word of God. Let me read what he says, what the confession says there. Wherefore, when this word of God is now preached in the church by preachers lawfully called, we believe that the very word of God is proclaimed and received by the faithful. And that neither any other word of God is to be invented nor is to be expected from heaven. And that Now the word of God itself, which is preached, is to be regarded not as the minister preaches, for even if he be evil and a sinner, nevertheless the word of God remains still true. And good. The word of God is preached, and it is the very voice of God. Bollinger's assertion That the preacher not only requires the Bible as the Word of God, but he also requires the Spirit. He is equally dependent upon the same Spirit to expound it truthfully and faithfully. And this is critical for understanding more fully the proposition before us that the preaching of the Word of God is the Word of God. What did Bullager mean? The preaching of the Word of God is the Word of God. He is adducing that when the Word of God is Preached by the minister of the gospel, empowered by the same Spirit who inspired the Bible to be written, the voice of Christ is heard in that preaching. The second Helvetic Confession reflects this succinctly and eloquently in this phrase: the preaching of the Word of God is the Word of God. Now, are there other confessions that say something like that? Yes. Here is the Westminster larger catechism affirming the same thing in question and answer 160. I'm going to read that question and answer, omitting some of the descriptive words, but keeping the sentence clear. What is required of those that hear the word preached? And the answer is: it is required of those that hear the word preached, that they attend upon it with diligence, receive the truth as the word of God. Now there's other words in there, but that's the key elements of that sentence. That it's required of those who hear that they Receive it, attend it with diligence, and receive the truth as the Word of God. Paul is saying this. Christ's voice is heard in the preaching. Now that's part of his general argument, but it's an important thing for us to know today that the preaching of the Word of God Is the word of God. The voice of Christ is heard in such preaching. He was keenly aware of the sovereignty of God. That's what we have here. The sovereignty of God in preaching. The preaching of the gospel might be accompanied by the life-giving, dead awakening voice of Christ, or it might fall on spiritually deaf ears. Paul has experienced both of these responses regularly in his ministry. Sometimes Paul would go into a town and preach and be invited to stay and preach with a great harvest of souls. Sometimes he was chased away with stones and barely escaped with his life. What do we make of this? I think this is the important question today. Have you heard the voice of Christ calling you to lively faith, calling you to repentance unto life? Have you heard the voice of Christ? Preaching is the primary means by which you and your family may hear the voice of Christ. So if you stay away from public worship, you stay away from the faithful preaching of the Word of God, you're missing something. Parents, do you regularly bring your children to church where they may hear the voice of Christ in preaching? This week I met a young single mother and discovered that she sends her child to a Christian school. When asked about church, she stated that she grew up in church, but then she stated emphatically that she does not do church because Sunday is her only day to relax. Well, Christian school is fine, but Jesus has not promised to speak there as he has promised to do in the preaching. If it's assembled people, the church. So if you are allowing other things to compete with the living preaching of the Word in the assembly of the Church, You are doing your children a great disservice. Sports activities are fine. Weekend getaways are nice. Or just skipping out and sleeping in. These deprive your family and yourself of the voice of Christ. You never know what you're going to miss. And you skip church. You are humanly responsible, by the way, parents, for the spiritual well-being of your family. And if they end up far from Christ, you will bear instrumental responsibility for their condition. So that's the first point. The second one is Paul defends his ministry of preaching to the Gentiles as well as to the Jews. Verse 14b through 17. Because he goes on in this discussion and says, How are they to hear without someone preaching? How are they to hear Christ? His voice without someone preaching. Verse 15, and how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, and then he quotes from Isaiah, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. Beautiful feet. Why are feet beautiful? Why don't you say how beautiful is the face or the mouth or whatever of someone who preach? Because the feet bring the preacher. They walk, they run. How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. Then he says, but they had not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us. So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. Not the word about Christ. Here it is again. Faith comes from hearing the word of Christ. And this was Paul's pattern to preach, by the way. He defends his ministry of preaching to the Gentiles as well as to the Jews. But he always started with the Jews because they were the ones most primed to receive the gospel. Look at Acts 13, verses 4 through 5. So being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus. And when they arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the Word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had John to assist them. And then chapter 13, verses 14 through 16, but they went on from Pergah and came to Antioch and Phisidia, and on the Sabbath day they went into the synagogue. and sat down. After the reading of the law and the prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent a message to them saying, Brothers, if you have any word of encouragement, For the people say it. So Paul stood up and motioning with his hand said, And he preached. He preached the gospel in that synagogue that day. And then in verses 44 through 49, the next Sabbath day almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord. But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began to contradict what was spoken by Paul, reviling him. And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you, since you thrust it aside and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life. Behold, we are turning to the Gentiles. For so the Lord commanded us, saying, I have made you a light to the Gentiles, and that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth. And then in chapter 14, now at Iconium, so this is that journey one place after another, they entered together into the Jewish synagogue. And spoke in such a way that a great number of both Jews and Greeks believed. But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brothers. Paul became not by his own choice, he became the apostle to the Gentiles, the preacher to the Gentiles. He was as Jewish as can be. Trained by the famous Rabbi Gamaliel. The Gentiles couldn't appreciate his great learning. They were pretty well ignorant of the whole thing. He was a Pharisee of Pharisees. He says of himself, circumcised the eighth day of the tribe of Benjamin. But now he was preaching among the Gentiles. To the Jewish friends and neighbors and family members of Paul. This was absolutely horrible. Unthinkable. He might even eat with those Gentiles. Gross. Why is he defending his work here? Because it is God's work. He has been called by God. The voice of Jesus spoke to him. And he is called to preach to the Gentiles. And then he says, this is our third point, the sovereign purposes of Christ make the difference in responses to preaching Again, remember in this letter, the question that's being pondered here in this section is, why have the Jews not accepted Christ? If he is such an answer to all the promises and prophecies and In the whole picture, if he is the real Jewish Messiah, why have the Jews not accepted him? Why had they said no, thank you to him? And Paul answers it in verse 18 and following. But I ask, have they not heard? Is there a problem with their hearing? He says, indeed they have, for their voice has gone out into all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world. He cites Psalm 19 there and says, Oh, everybody's heard. And the Jews too. So it's not a lack of hearing or knowledge. Then he says in verse 19, but I asked, did Israel not understand? Is that a problem with understanding? And then he says, first Moses says, I will make you, I will make you jealous of those who are not a nation. With a foolish nation, I will make you angry. What is that about? He's basically saying that what Moses said was that someday The Jews who at this point are not believing and not accepting Christ in large numbers, at some point God will use the Gentiles. the large in-gathering of the Gentiles to make the Jews jealous. The Jews will say, we're God's people. We have God's special blessing. But then God says, no, you don't. I'm giving my special blessing of the gospel to the Gentiles. I'm opening their hearts. They're believing in large numbers. And they're rejoicing, and they're happy, and they're peaceful, and they're justified by faith, and they're exulting in the Christ. that I sent and they're happy. And the Jews go, hmm, I'm jealous. I think I'll turn to Jesus Someday. We're going to get to that in chapter 11 in big time. But right now he says, I will make you foolish. By a nation. I will make you angry by a foolish nation. And then, verse 20, then Isaiah is so bold to say, I have been found by those who did not seek me. Who did not seek him The Gentiles. They weren't interested. They were going their own way. I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me. But of Israel, he says, all day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. The sovereign purposes of Christ make the difference in responses to gospel preaching And here's an historical example. We read some of those passages from Acts 13, but here's one that puts both of those things together. Acts 13, 47 through 52. Paul says, For so the Lord commanded us, saying, I have made you a light for the Gentiles that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth. And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. And listen to this, this is the sovereign work of God. And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed Now a lot of Christians these days don't take it that way. They wouldn't want to read that pat. They would say, as many as believe were appointed to eternal life. That's the way a lot of but no, that's not what it says. As many as were appointed to eternal life believe. That's the sovereign work of God. And then it says, and the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region. So you had this wonderful response of God to the Gentiles and their response to him, as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. Then in verse 50 you have the opposite side, which is the illustration of this whole point. But the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the city, stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district. But they shook off the dust from their feet against them and went to Iconium. And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. Sovereign purposes of God, even in preaching. The voice of Christ is heard. When the Holy Spirit opens the heart and mind of the hearers. So, in the purposes of God in history at this time of writing, God was calling only a few Jews to faith. He was allowing many to remain blinded by their prejudice against Jesus, who they said was just this low-life Nazarene from the far north of Galilee. They was he was allowing them to cling to their race and their culture as Fanciful fleeting substitutes. On the other hand, God was calling many Gentiles to faith. They were hearing the voice of Christ. They were responding. And this raised questions, which he's now answering. So here, Paul's apologetic, his speech in defense, he explains the sovereignty of God in history and in salvation He explained the role of preaching and hearing of salvation. And this is something that you and I need to know as well and believe as well. When our friends, our neighbors, our family Our people that we work with, when they don't respond, aren't interested in the gospel, there's a reason. There's something going on behind it. It's not a good thing. We're not happy for it. We pray for an outpouring of the Spirit. We pray for the sovereign God to open hearts and minds and allow people to trust him. And it's good for us to pray. And he may do it. He will answer prayer. He does answer prayer. Do you wonder what God is doing in these kinds of cases? Do you wonder why some people are drawn to Christ through preaching while others are unaffected? There are many human factors and cultural circumstances. But know this, dear Christian, behind all human response Is the sovereignty of God. Nevertheless, for those who are destined to believe The voice of Christ is loud and clear in the ministry of the Word of God. Those who have ears to hear, let them hear. Have you heard the voice of Christ in preaching? Have you heard him calling you from sin and unbelief to faith and love? Have you heard him say, Come to me, all that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Have you heard him? In the voice of Christ speaking in Psalm 95, if you heard him today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your heart. Lord, we thank you for the gift of preaching and preachers and messengers, heralds of the gospel. We pray that you'll give us an understanding of your sovereign purposes in the world, but also give us the heart of the Apostle Paul, who was anguished. at his family members and friends and countrymen who were not believing, who were not accepting Christ Help us also to rejoice in the labors of others, in other places and times in the world where the gospel outpouring is bringing in the great harvest. Help us to support the work of your harvest where you are pouring out your spirit most. We ask your help now in Jesus' name. Amen.