God's word from Psalm forty-two to the choirmaster, a masculine of the sons of Korah. As a deer pants for flowing streams, so pants my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my food day and night, while they say to me continually, Where is your God? These things I remember as I pour out my soul, how I would go with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of God, which glad shouts and songs of praise, a multitude keeping festival Why are you cast down, O my soul? Why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him, my salvation and my God. My soul is cast down within me, therefore I remember you from the land of the Jordan. From the land of Jordan and of Hermon from Mount Mizar. Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls. All your breakers and your waves have gone over me. By day the Lord commands his steadfast love. At night, his song is with me, a prayer to the God of my life. I say to God, my rock, why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with a deadly wound in my bones, my adversaries taunt me, while they say to me continually, Where is your God? Why are you downcast, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him, my salvation and my God. Congregation of the Lord, we were made for communion with God. When something has been designed well, it functions properly. If you think of processes or machines. If they have been designed well, they function properly and accomplish the task that they were made to accomplish. Or to perform the function that they were made to perform. We were made for communion with God When I say for communion with God, I mean that that is our primary function. That is our purpose. In God's image, we are to correspond and commune with God. That is number one. And that is what Adam and Eve had in the garden. They communed with God. God met them. Metaphorically speaking, they walked with God as the Spirit of God came through the garden. And was with them. They were in the presence of God. They were communing constantly with God. There was no barrier, nothing in between them and God. No distance. We were made for this. In life, God gives us many good things. Things that we can enjoy and we can cherish. People that we can love and enjoy and cherish and delight in. But they are never a substitute, or should never be a substitute for communion. with God. People who are apart from God, who have no real communion connection with God Has nothing but the things in life money, pleasures, food Vacations, whatever it may be. They have all these things, and that's what makes their life function or gives them some sense of goodness in life. Those things certainly may be an occasion for thankfulness to God. With whom we have communion, but never a substitute for communion with God. We see David here expressing his great need. His great desire for this communion with God In verses 1 through 3, we see a great sense of a great need for God's felt presence, a felt presence that would be described in Genesis 1 and 2 as Adam and Eve walking with God in the cool of the day. He needs this felt presence with God because he is experiencing distance from God. Particularly distance from God's house, the place where God has made his presence most palpable Where he has promised to be and meet with his people, the tent of meeting, the tabernacle, where there is the Ark of the Covenant, which is the footstool of God. And so he says, As the deer pants for water brooks, so my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. Here he gives a picture, he draws us a picture of a deer in a very dry wilderness place. Perhaps the deer has been pursued by a lion and has barely escaped after running a great distance. It has run all it can and it is now finally feeling somewhat safe out of the lion's presence. Panting, though. It has used up all its reserves and it is panting. It is probably sniffing for any sign of water, any brook, any little bit of water anywhere that could be found The deer is parched and famished, and water is wanted more than anything. This is how David describes his thirst for God. What a great revival would happen if only all who called Jesus their Lord had a great longing to be near God. Like David describes here. We sing hymns, one of them in our book, I need thee every hour, O precious Lord. Every hour. You think about the words that we sing sometimes, and you you have to say, is that really what I'm wanting, is that really my expression? Or is it more like, I need thee once a month? Oh precious Lord. Or once in a while, or when I'm in trouble, I need thee Or another one, I'm not sure if it's in our book, but sweet hour of prayer. A modern, honest version of that might be quick 15 minutes of prayer Superficial words of prayer that call me from a world of care instead of sweet hour of prayer. The gathered congregation, the place of praying in the closet alone, communing again with God as we were made to. Spurgeon says, the next best thing to living in the light of the Lord's love is to be unhappy till we have it and pant hourly after it. Let me read it again. The next best thing to living in the light of the Lord's love is to be unhappy till we have it, and to pant our That should be our desire. That is the desire expressed here by David. He also says, When shall I come and appear before God? David deeply desires to be in the place that God has ordained. The tabernacle The footstool of God, the place of atonement, the mercy seat, so that he can be reminded of the good news that God loves his people and has provided for them. He wants to be Be in that place. Now, that place is the gathered assembly of the body of Christ. Do you deeply desire to be in that place? He goes on and says, My tears have been my food day and night. You have to picture that. He's not eating food. Instead, he's eating tears. I guess the tears run down your face and that's all he's getting. While they continually say to me, Where is your God? He's living amongst people, maybe some of his own people, who are like Job's comforters. People can be cruel and cynical and judgmental of those who are suffering. Remember Job's critics said, you must have done something to deserve this situation that you're in, Job. Your God is not helping you because you don't deserve it. But that's not always the case. In fact, that's not the case. He is feeling this distance from God. He's probably on the run, away from the place where God meets with his people, not able to go there for danger. He desires to be there. Then he talks about his desires in terms of fond memories in verse 4, fond memories of sweet times past. Which only bring further discouragement. He says, These things I remember as I pour out my soul. As I pour out my soul. That's a picture again. And he's pouring out his soul in terms of tears, tears of lament, as he thinks of the past and how wonderful it was to be with God's people. And now He is far from that place, not able to go there. He says, I remember how I would go with a throng and lead them in procession to the house of God. He desires to be in a large assembly of God's people, worshiping God together. And he says, with glad shouts and songs of praise. A multitude-keeping festival. We are encouraged and supported by others when we are joined together with them in worship. When our voices are united and we agree on the truth of God's word and rejoice in His wonderful mercies, it is an encouragement to us, it is a joy to us, greater than simply being a He says, I used to go to them with the multitude. I went up with them to the house of God, and he's remembering the happier times. But these remembrances, instead of encouraging him, are all seemingly to him at that moment at least passed by. Tense. Probably never happen again. The good things of my life are past. They're over. It's not going to ever be good again. That made him even sadder. He thought of the joyful times of worship at the house of God, but he felt so distance, such distance from those better days, and doubted that they would return. He especially remembered the high times of the holidays that marked the Jewish calendar. He thought of the multitude of worshipers and the excitement, the voice of joy and praise that marked the feast of Passover. And Pentecost and Tabernacles. But then what he does next is interesting He's he's remembered something and it's should have brought joy, but it's bringing discouragement because he thinks that he'll never get back to it again. But then he counsels himself. Sometimes we need counsel of others. We need people to tell us, you know what, quit crying in your milk. Um get up and get going and believe and trust. Don't get stuck in a in a s in its dark spot. So he counsels himself. There's no one else around him. I guess the people around him are basically saying, Where's your God? Where's your God, David? So he has to counsel himself. So he says to himself, Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? And he says to his soul, Hope in God, for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. That's good counsel. Hope in God. There are good things ahead. God has not forsaken his people. There are good things ahead. But he also is real with himself. He says, my soul, he says to his soul, my soul is cast down within me. Martin Lloyd Jones says, you have to take yourself in hand. You have to address yourself, preach to yourself, question yourself. You must say to your soul, why art thou cast down? What business have you to be disquieted? Martin Lloyd-Jones David goes on in his speech to say, Therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon from Mount Mizar. Where are those places? You know your biblical geography? Do you know the geography of Palestine? You know that Jordan is in the north, the north border, and north and and east border of Israel. And then Hermon is in the north as well. And Mount Mizar is in the north. These are in the far north, about as far as you can go and still be in the Promised Land. He is feeling far away from the sanctuary. And he is geographically distant from that place. But he remembers that God is near to those who call on him, even when they feel far from him. He's counseling himself Now, he goes to a different metaphor in verse 7. Before, the metaphor at the beginning was thirsting. Now he has switched to a new metaphor and is drowning. It's kind of an opposite, isn't it? He's drowning this time in the sea of despair. Verse 7: Deep calls to deep. At the roar of your waterfalls, all your breakers and your waves have gone over me. We know from Psalm 23 that That God leads his sheep beside quiet waters. Well these are not quiet waters. And Israelites didn't like noisy waters and roaring seas and deep places they didn't care for. Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls, all your breakers and your waves have gone over me. But he remembers God's covenant and still takes comfort. The Apostle Paul says in 2 Corinthians 4, beginning at verse 7, but we have this treasure. in jars of clay, talking about the treasure of communion with God, of our relationship with God, our union with God. We have this treasure In jars of clay, jars of clay are clay pots. They're not very fancy. They are perishable. But there's a treasure inside. He says, to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down, but not destroyed. And so David likewise takes. Comfort in verse 8. He says, By day the Lord commands his steadfast love. That's his covenant love. His his merciful love. And at night his song is within me, a prayer to the God of my life. So he's counseling himself and he's remembering the right things. But you see, he goes back and forth. Do you ever go back and forth? Do you say, you know what, God is good. It's gonna be okay. I'm trusting in him. And then a few minutes later you're back to feeling like you're left behind. Again, that God has forsaken you, that your the future is all dark and you don't know what's going to happen. Does it again, verse 9? I say to God, My rock, why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of my enemy? As with a deadly wound in my bones. My adversaries taught me: what's a deadly wound in your bones? How would you like to go walking around or running around, trying to escape from enemies with a broken bone? Be pretty painful, wouldn't it? And he says, while they say to me all day long, where is your God? That's already been mentioned. People are saying to him, Where is your God? So people can be very unhelpful. When people are in trouble. But then the repeated counsel comes again. So it's going back and forth. Now we're back to the counsel again, the council of patient faith and a faithful God. In verse 11. Why are you downcast, O my soul? Back to self self-counsel. And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God. For I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. Hope in God For I shall again praise him. He is counseling himself to wait in hope. Waiting is a faithful act, and it is an act of faith. To wait. Unbelievers may choose to be stoic in the face of trouble, waiting on whatever fate may come their way. But those who know God counsel themselves not just to wait through the trouble and hope that things will get better, but it's all fate. They trust in God and wait in hope for the The glory of God, even if we die, even if our dear friends come down with the worst case and die We still have hope, do we not? And we can wait in faith, even in those circumstances, for the glory of God. We have that treasure within us You see. We have that communion that's been established by God's grace that restores us to what we were made to do, have communion with God And so the Apostle Paul in Romans 8, 24, says, For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees? So you have to wait for something that you don't see yet. That we have this hope. And we were hope, we were saved in this hope Hebrews 11:1. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not, we could add the word yet, not yet seen. They will be seen. But you have to wait for them and you have to wait in hope. Romans 5. 2. Through him we also have obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we rejoice in hope of the glory of God, even in the worst possible circumstances. Ephesians 1. 12, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In Colossians 1. 27. To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of his glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Psalm thirty-seven We have already seen, says, be still before the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices. Psalm 40, we've already studied. Verse 1, it says, I waited patiently for the Lord, he inclined to me and heard my cry. So waiting patiently for the glory of God that is promised is the right thing to do. In Hebrews 6. 15, and thus Abraham having patiently waited obtained the promise. James 5, 7. Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, being patient until it receives the early and late rains. So we wait in hope for salvation, which includes the things New Testament believers usually mean, but also It means deliverance from the troubles of this word. That word salvation in the Old Testament, in the Psalms, salvation doesn't just mean You know, being justified and being made righteous in Christ, it does mean that, but it means more. It means deliverance. We're looking for a future deliverance. of our bodies from corruption, of all the troubles of this world. We're looking for salvation which is completely deliverance. The Apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians 1. 10 says, He delivered us from such a deadly peril temporarily, and he will deliver us. On him we have set our hope that he will deliver us again. And then in Galatians 1:4, Paul says, who Jesus, who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father. So salvation is deliverance. Colossians 1. 13, he has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. And then in 1 Thessalonians 110, the Thessalonians were told to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come. So your enjoyment, dear friends, here tonight, your enjoyment of the good things in this life. Should be a cause for recollection and joyful remembrance and for longing as you look back over times in your life. But your longing should always be future focused for what God will do as you wait for Him. In 1 Corinthians 15, Paul says this: If Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile, and you are still in your sins. Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in Christ we have hope only in this life We are of most of all people most to be pitied. So it's not just for this life. It is A hope for the glory of God. It's a hope for deliverance, complete and final deliverance, a hope that will never disappoint us. So we get finally to verse 11. And he counsels himself one last time. Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? He counsels himself, Hope in God, for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. David began that way. He has come full circle and is still reminding himself of God's covenant faithfulness to his people. Again, I reiterate, we were made for communion with God. God gives us many good things and good experiences, wonderful times in worship. Many blessings in life, but they are never a substitute for the purpose for which we were made, which is communion with God. These things may be an occasion for thankfulness to God with whom we have communion, but never a substitute. I believe this is David's counsel to himself. Hope in God. For I will again praise him, my salvation and my God God, David's self counsel is good counsel indeed. Amen