Please open your Bibles to the book of the prophet Daniel, where we'll read chapters 7, verses 9 through 14. Daniel 7, verses 9 through 14. thirteen. As I looked, thrones were placed, and the ancient of days took his seat. His clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool. Its throne was fiery flames, its wheels were burning fire. A stream of fire issued and came out from before him. A thousand thousand served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court sat in judgment, and the books were opened. I looked, then because of the sound of great words that the horn was speaking, and I looked and the beast was killed, and its body destroyed, and given over to be burned with fire. As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a season. And a time. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days and was presentative before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away. And his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. So let's hear that passage of Scripture. John 17. We'll take first Verses 1 through 21. When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven. And said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you Since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. And now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you, for I have given them the words that you gave me. And they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you, and they have believed that you sent me I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine. And I am glorified in them. And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world. And I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me. That they may be one, even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in your name Which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost except the Son of Destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled. But now I am coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they also may be sanctified in the truth. I do not ask for these only But also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in. Us, so that the world may believe that you sent me. Here ends the reading of God's Word. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you for this prayer that Jesus prayed to you, Father. We thank you that he expressed these things so that they are with us today. We have them written down and can get in on what you said, Lord Jesus. To the Father on the very last days before he died on the cross. We praise you and thank you. Hear us now as we seek to hear you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I'm going to take this chapter, this awesome chapter where Jesus prays to the Father in more than one sermon. Because there are many things to cover here. But the thing I'm going to cover today, I think, will be predestination. Predestination in the prayer of Jesus. First, I want to say this. This is a unique prayer in all of Scripture. Because it is a prayer between two distinct persons of the one God. That's unique. And so, because it is a prayer between the Son and the Father, there is no confession of sin. You look at the other prayers that are recorded in Scripture in the Old Testament and Even in the prayer that Jesus gave his disciples to pray, which we call the Lord's Prayer, which is really the disciples' prayer, and it contains a forgive us our sins or debts or trespasses, doesn't it? But there's no confession of any sin. Jesus doesn't say, sorry, Father, I messed up or didn't get it all done. No. No confession of fault or sin of any kind kind or any failing whatsoever, but instead an expression of perfect obedience. I have done everything that you gave me to do. I have accomplished it. And then it contains requests rather than petitions. Not a list of do this please, do this please, do this this please, but requests. Requests. So there's a difference between those things. We petition God. Jesus says, I want you to do what you said you would do. I want yours to be with me where I am. Behold my glory and so forth. But in this prayer, and that's the focus today, that is, in this prayer, Jesus prayed concerning your predestined salvation. Predestination. It's a topic that many people say, oh, I don't know if I believe such a thing as predestination. Well, let's think about it from this aspect, from this scripture today. Here we have first the fact that salvation was planned from all eternity Predestination. Predestination is hotly debated within evangelical Protestant circles Evangelical Protestants will have those who have their verses that they've selected that speak against predestination. and speak in favor of free will and so forth. And then others will have a list of verses that favor predestination and speak about predestination. and they have uh their verses versus our verses and debating that sort of thing. That's not very helpful really because we We really need to see not a list of proof text, but we need to see the whole picture of God's Word. And we're going to take a large piece here. The prayer of Jesus. And you can tell an awful lot about something when you hear it in a prayer between the Son and the Father. What is meant by the biblical teaching expressed in this prayer? Well, this is it. Listen. Before the world was made, before there was any material before there was any planet earth, before there was any universe, God the Father chose for his own those who are now in view in Jesus' presence. He also chose all those who were going to become believers through their word, you and me today. And he knew who they were before the world was made. And each believer was a gift. This is what it says. Was a gift from God the Father to God the Son before the world was made. That is an awesome, awesome This is a clear expression of God's pretemporal, before-time choice of persons to belong to Him through Christ with reference to salvation. This is called, biblically speaking, predestination. What's the evidence for it? Well, in verse 1 of chapter 17, here's Jesus speaking He lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you. The hour has come. Things have been set up to accomplish the goal, you see. The hour has come for things to be done, completed, perfected. And so he says, glorify your son, that the son may glorify you. And the very next thing he says, since you gave him authority over all flesh, all humans To give eternal life, that's salvation. To who? To all whom you have given him. There's that gift of the Father to the Son thing. Authority over all flesh to save, to give. He gave. And then verse 6, here it is again, I have manifested your name, Jesus says to me the people you whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were before the world began, and you gave them to me. And they have kept your word. So there it is. It's predestination before the world was made. Certain people known to God were given from God the Father to God the Son to be saved, to be given eternal life. That's an amazing thing It's not only here, it's certainly in other places, and one of the most wonderful places that you find this is in Ephesians chapter 1. Where Paul, getting all excited about God's great plan, says this Blessed be God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places even as he chose us in him when before the foundation of the world In love, he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will. So these things All say the same thing. What does this mean then? What does it mean? Specific human beings were given to Jesus Christ by God the Father before creation to be saved by Him. He had authority to accomplish this for them by his atoning sacrifice and resurrection. This is an amazing thing. To contemplate. You know, there's a number of amazing things that we humans have to try to contemplate. One of them is infinity Infinity. How long is infinity? After 10,000 years, as John Newton said, when we've been there 10,000 years bright, shining as the sun, we've no less days, you see. Infinity, time, eternity. Hard to contemplate. And this is hard to contemplate. Before the world began, the other side of eternity. Pre-eternity, before the world began, God loved, knew, chose you if you're in Christ. It's an amazing thing. A songwriter from the last century named Jane Leraux wrote this song, and I remember hearing it when I was a teenager, but it says it so well, so I'm gonna re I was in his mind before the world was made. I was in his mind before earth's frame was laid. Because he knew me. Because he Loved me. I was in his thoughts the night he prayed for me. I was in his thoughts before Gethsemane because he saw me. Because he Loved me. I was in his heart when Calvary's Hill he climbed. I was in his heart when he died for all mankind. Because he loved me, because he sought me. And then the last stanza says, I am in his mind, and soon he'll come for me, and someday with him in heaven I'll be, because he wants. Me because he loves me. Hard to contemplate, but wonderful to contemplate. God's predestinating love For his own. But we also need to see one more thing related to this, and that is the second point I want to bring. This predestined salvation Is received, come to be known by you and me, it's received by faith, which is expressed here as the knowledge of God in Christ. Look at verse 3 with me. Jesus says this in prayer, and this is eternal life that they know you. The only true God. See, that's an article of faith. They know Yahweh, the Father, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. So this is the faith by which eternal life, salvation is received. And faith here is trust. Trust in this fact, this truth, reliance upon it for my salvation Jesus said that in verse 6. I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word. What does that mean? They have come to believe. They have embraced by faith. They have received this predestined salvation by faith. How does this knowledge of God come? It comes by faith, but it comes by hearing the message of the gospel. Folks, every human being has a sense of guilt before God, everyone, no matter where they are, no matter when They've lived. Every human being created in the image of God is endowed with a sense of God and therefore a sense of guilt before God. A sense of the impending judgment of God. And what sinners do with this when they have Their thoughts focused for a moment about this, they suppress the truth. They hold it down. I don't want to think about that. Down deep I know there's a God. Down deep I'm guilty, but I don't want to think about that because I have no solution for it. I don't know what to do with that. And so they suppress this truth. And it says this in Romans chapter 1, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. Hold it down. Cover it up. Get it out of way. Forget it. Covered up with noise, music, entertainment, alcohol, drugs, whatever, suppress that truth, hold that truth down so I can't have to think about it. And then Paul says, for what can be known about God is plain to them. Not hidden, not some secret. Plain. Because God has shown it to them. For, he says, his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world In the things that have been made, so that Paul says they are without excuse. But How does the salvation get received? How does this faith happen? But when the Lord, the Holy Spirit, opens their eyes Through the hearing of the good news of the Savior, and when they are delivered from deception and the darkness of unbelief, They come into the light and gain the knowledge of God. They come into the understanding of reality, the way things really are in God's universe. And they also hear that there is a way out of this terrible dilemma of being under the judgment of a holy and righteous God. There is a save that was sent. There is grace, there is love, there is salvation. And this comes by People like the disciples here and the disciples here telling the good news Telling forth to other people the good news that you're not stuck forever under the condemnation of God. You don't have to keep suppressing the truth and unrighteousness. You don't have to keep turning down the Turning up the noise and turning down the sound of the gospel, you can embrace it. The good news, the word of God, the message of salvation, should be spread, should be told by us everywhere And then it will be that the Holy Spirit will open those hearts and enlighten those minds, and people will be saved. And then they can, like you and I today, know that they were chosen Before the foundation of the world. But God in love predestined them. And the third thing I want you to see here in this prayer is that this salvation is infallible. It's not just a potentiality. God has created an opportunity for you to be saved if you will choose to do so and maybe stay saved and make it to the end or something. This is not that sort of thing. It is infallible. It will not fail. Why? Because the prayers of Christ will not fail for his chosen ones And I want you to see that prayer in verse 9 of the text. I am praying for them, that is, those that are chosen before the foundation of the world, those who are predestined. Jesus is at that time saying, I am praying for them. And if he prays for somebody, do you think God the Father is going to hear his prayer and answer it affirmatively? I do I think so. And then he says something else that's scary to us. He says, I am not praying for the world. That is, I am not praying, I'm not interceding for those who are not chosen. I'm not hoping that maybe they'll choose to be saved or something. No, it's not that. I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me. There that predestination thing is again. For they are yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. The prayers of Christ are not for The world. Jesus isn't praying in heaven today for the world, as he wasn't praying for the world then. But for those whom the Father gave him. And these prayers will not fail. So to recap, so we've come so far, predestination to salvation means specifically God's decision made in eternity before the world and its inhabitants existed Regarding the final destiny of individual sinners. Now, someone might say, what about free will? Were we not created with free will? Well, I would answer this way and hopefully support it with Scripture. No, all humans are free. In the sense of being self-determined, because of the state of man, if God did not act upon the fallen human will No one would ever be saved. No one would ever be willing. Talk about free will. No one would ever be willing to love and trust Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. In the same Gospel, John chapter 6. Jesus said, No one can come to me unless the Father has enabled him. How many can come without the enabling of the Father? None. There's your free will. Let's try it another way. The fall of all humans except Christ Can be compared to the willing decision of a person to jump off of a 400-foot cliff and crash into boulders and timbers below. They have the will to make the decision to jump off of that cliff, right? I'm exercising my free will. I'm going to jump. But once the decision has been made, that person is no longer able to reverse the decision Even supposing that the jumper did not die upon impact, he would be so physically ruined as to not be able to scale the cliff and have a do-over. Well, our father Adam jumped. And we jumped with him in him, the scripture teaches Against the command of God, he disobeyed. And so now the Bible describes the spiritual condition of fallen humans as dead. That's your free will. Dead. Not crippled or injured or sick or otherwise impaired, but dead. So how are dead people going to choose? How are they going to exercise their free will? So, what we find here next is not in the text directly, but the fourth point is that this salvation, this predestined salvation, requires a resurrection. And the Apostle Paul says it in Ephesians 2, and you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. But then in verse 4, but God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Jesus Christ. It requires a resurrection. To illustrate further, we cannot choose to have faith. That is, to trust Christ. We don't have the ability to trust Christ Because it is no longer in our nature to have this faith. Here's an illustration. A lion, big ferocious lion. Does not make a diet of grass like a cow, does it? Why doesn't a lion eat hay, bales and bales of hay? Why doesn't it do that Why not? Because it is not in the nature of a lion to eat hay. A lion chooses meat because that's what is in its nature. To want. It can choose hay, but it has no will to choose hay, because it is in its will to reject hay and to choose. Meet. Here's the point. Because of our fall in and with Adam, we have inherited a nature that chooses sin and All that goes along with it chooses rejection of God and would not choose Christ. That is our inherited, born, inborn nature And now sinners only choose Christ because God chose them and moved them to choose Him. By raising them from spiritual death and by renewing their hearts so that they are inclined to God. Then they willingly and freely choose Christ. Only when they've been raised from the dead spiritually and enabled to choose Christ. So we have a hymn in our book that says, put it puts it this way: I sought the Lord. And afterward I knew, he moved my soul to seek him seeking me. It was not I that found, O Savior, true. No, I was found of thee. It was not I that found, O Savior, true. No, I was found of thee. If you are a Christian this morning, you should therefore thank God For your resurrection, for your conversion, for your trust in Christ. No more pride in making a wise decision. No more patting yourself on the back and saying, add a boy for your spiritual competence. And fourthly, this salvation, this predestined salvation that required a resurrection, requires also the constant keeping power. Of God. Jesus prays for that here too. Faith is the instrument by which you receive salvation. Faith is a gift of God, but its exercise is also a human effort. This means your effort is also required, but is secondary and dependent upon God's grace at work in you. Your working is a sure sign of God's work in you, not of your independence, but your dependence. And you must look to him to keep you in this grace into which he has brought you. That's what Jesus prayed for in verse 11. He says, I am no longer in the world. He was about to Die on the cross and ascend to heaven and so forth. I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you, Holy Father. Keep them in your name. Which you have given me. And then in verse 15, I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one that would destroy their faith. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. So Jesus prays For your keeping, for your sustaining in the faith. Jesus' blood pleads for your keeping His prayers for you defend you every day, even every hour, even every moment. His prayers for you keep you. You, for your part, must confidently await his final triumph according to his plan. Now, someone who studies this might say, well, this was a prayer between the Son and the Father for the eleven, wasn't it? Just for the eleven disciples. They were the ones he chose, and no others beyond that, just those that he chose to be his personal disciples, learners. No. No, it is a prayer for more than just those chosen disciples, but for all who will believe. And this is an I do not ask for these only, these who are cited here, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. That they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, that the world may believe that you have sent me. It was and is a prayer for you as a believer. So to summarize these things, you, if you're a believer, were in his thoughts for the world was made. His great mind knew you. His great heart loved you. These are amazing Your salvation was planned from all eternity. Your salvation is received by faith, which is the knowledge of God in Christ, resulting in trust and reliance. Your salvation is infallible. It will not fail because Christ's prayers for you will not fail Your salvation required a spiritual resurrection so that you would then have a will to come to God. And your salvation requires the constant keeping power. Of God, Christ who prays for you, the Holy Spirit who indwells you. This indeed is a great salvation, a predestined salvation. It is Is awesome to contemplate. It gives us such an assurance, such a strong identity, and such an absolute bedrock of the love of God for us. Who have come to embrace Jesus Christ. Have you embraced Jesus Christ? Have you believed this good news? Or are you perhaps suppressing that truth in unrighteousness? In some way, holding back the truth of God. Repent and believe the good news. Amen. Lord, we pray that you will bless what has been said today from your word as we seek to Contemplate great things. Humble our hearts, humble our minds. To realize that we are creatures and you are the Creator And a great Savior. In Jesus' name, Amen