Please turn in your Bibles to Jeremiah 38. We'll read the first 13 verses. Jeremiah 38 Now Shapatiah the son of Matan, Gedali the son of Pasher, Jukal the son of Shalemiah, and Pasher the son of Malachih heard the words that Jeremiah was saying to all the people. Thus says the Lord, he who stays in the city shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, but he who goes out to the Chaldeans shall live He shall have his life as a prize of war and live. Thus says the Lord, this city shall surely be given into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon and be taken. Then the officials said to the king, Let this man be put to death, for he is weakening the hands of the soldiers who are left in the city. and the hands of all the people by speaking such words to them. For this man is not seeking the welfare of this people, but their harm. King Zedekiah said, Behold, he is in your hands, for the king can do nothing against you. So they took Jeremiah and cast him into the cistern of Malkaih, the king's son. which was in the court of the guard, letting Jeremiah down by ropes, and there was no water in the cistern, but only mud, and Jeremiah sank in the mud When Ebed Melech, the Ethiopian, a eunuch, who was in the king's house, heard that they had put Jeremiah into the cistern, the king was sitting in the And he will die there of hunger, for there is no bread left in the city. Then the king commanded Ebed Melech, the Ethiopian, Take thirty men with you from here. So Ebed Melech took the men with him and went to the house of the king, To a wardrobe in the storehouse, and took from there old rags and worn-out clothes, which he let down to Jeremiah in the cistern by ropes. Then Ebed Melech, the Ethiopian, said to Jeremiah, Put the rags and cloths between your armpits and the ropes. Jeremiah did so. Then they drew Jeremiah up with ropes and lifted him out of the cistern, and Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard. This is the word of the Lord. The New Testament reading, the book of James, we're going to take a short break to go through major parts of the book of James during Advent. James 1, 1 through 18. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. To the twelve tribes in the dispersion, greetings. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting. For the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation, and let the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass, he will pass away For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass, its flower falls, and its beauty perishes. So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. For when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown, brings forth Death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights. With whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits. of his creatures. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Oh Lord, you inspired your word to be written, and it has been faithfully transmitted in your providence so that we have it before us today. May we hear your voice and apply what you say in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, today, folks, as we enter the season of the church calendar, the first season, which is also the final season. So it's both first and final. The season is called Advent, which means coming. So it looks back to the The longing and the preparation for God's sending the Messiah, Jesus, to be the Savior of the world But it also looks forward to Christ's second coming or advent at the end of the age. And just in case any anyone is wondering whether this is a legitimate thing for Reformed churches to do I will read just briefly to you from the second Helvetic Confession, a confession of the Continental Reformed Churches, that says this If in Christian liberty the churches religiously celebrate the memory of the Lord's nativity, circumcision, passion, resurrection, and of his ascension into heaven And the sending of the Holy Spirit upon the disciples, we approve of it highly. So yes, it's legitimate for Reformed churches to celebrate. Having said that, Advent. We are now living between the Advent. This is the period of the kingdom of Christ who lived for us Who died for us, who rose from death for us, who ascended to the right hand of God's throne, where he intercedes for us. And governs all things, having been given all authority in heaven and earth. The Apostle Paul describes the final state and our present state In these words in 1 Corinthians. Listen, then comes the end. When he delivers the kingdom to God the Father, After destroying every rule and every authority and power, for he must reign right now until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. Christ is now reigning between the advents, and he must reign. Until he has put all his enemies under his feet. That's what the Apostle Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15. So we are now living in the magnificent period of the kingdom of Christ. You wouldn't know it sometimes. Would you? But we are. That's what the scriptures say. And we have great powers and fullness. We are the body of Christ. We have the fullness of the Holy Spirit. We have the Word of God in Scripture, finally And we have the gospel sacraments set before us. We have great expectations and great joy in this great kingdom period between the Advents. But this does not mean we have no troubles. Jesus said in John 16, which we haven't come to yet in John, but he said this: in the world, that is the present period. You will have tribulation. But take heart, he says. I have overcome the world. So this is what I want to present to you today. In your relationship with Christ and in his relationship with millions of other believers, he is not only saving you from eternal condemnation. He is presently displaying his glory in your weakness, your sinfulness, your frailty Paul says elsewhere: God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. And so the big picture of the world and of the time between the Advents is this. Christ is using you and all other believers for the transformation of this world. And eventually it will be obvious that this world, this kingdom, is his wonderful domain, especially when he comes again. In the meantime, he is glorified to transform fallen down things, as Pastor Tom calls them. Fallen down things. fallen down people like you and me, and to make them shining trophies of his glory. How does he do this? Through troubles. The letter of James, the little brother of Jesus, by the way, echoes this message of the Old Testament prophets who looked for the first coming of Christ. And let me remind you that James, who wrote this letter, was probably not a believer at first. He was probably envious and angry with Jesus, like Joseph's brothers were angry and Envious of him in Genesis. But eventually James came to understand the meaning and the transforming power of the life of his half-brother Jesus. James, as someone like you and me, who live between the Advents, gives us excellent insight into handling life's troubles. until Jesus comes again. He tells us what we need to know about troubles and what we need to do about troubles. That's the sermon plan. What we need to know and what we need to do about troubles about troubles. First know this. Troubles are inevitable. I don't like this. Throughout my childhood and college years, I always held out hope that troubles and hardships of being young and having to study and work part-time and having to drive old used cars that break down would eventually be in the past. Adulthood and career would smooth out into a broad road. And life would be easy and sweet all the time. James says the opposite Listen to these words. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes in the dispersion. Greetings, count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. Not if you meet trials of various kinds, but when you meet trials of various kinds. He calls them the 12 tribes. What is that about? The 12 tribes of the dispersion. What is he saying here? He's saying that Christians are like Israel when Israel was scattered out of Canaan, captured and carried away by the Assyrians in 722 BC? And captured and carried away like the Babylonians in 586. They were scattered from the land of promise. He's saying that that is the case with you and me who live between the Advents. scattered, we're dispersion, but we're also the new Israel. And this new Israel in James's time and day were Persecuted by family members, by former friends, and by the government. And even if they were still living where they always lived, right in their own neighborhood, where they grew up, he calls them strangers. And aliens. That's a trouble, isn't it? That's trouble. He tells them that these troubles that they will experience as the new Israel, as the dispersion, are normal things. They're to be expected. Psychologist Scott Peck wrote a book back in the 80s called The Road Less Traveled. I can't vouch for all his spiritual commitment. But he said some true things, and here's one of the things he said. He said, life is difficult. This is the great truth. One of the greatest truths. It is a great truth because once we truly see this truth, we transcend it. Once we truly know that life is difficult, once we truly understand and accept it, then life is no longer difficult. Because once it is accepted, the fact that life is difficult no longer matters. Most do not fully see this truth that life is difficult. Instead, they moan more or less incessantly, noisily, or subtly about the enormity of their problems, their burdens. their difficulties as if life were generally easy, as if life should be easy. They voice their belief noisily or subtly that their difficulties represent a unique kind of affliction that should not be. And that somehow has been especially visited upon them or their families or their tribe or their class or their nation, their race, or even their species, and not upon others And then he says, finally, I know about this moaning because I had done my share. And I think we all have, haven't we? Done our share. But thank God that James, writing to the Christians, does not merely leave us with the certainty of troubles. Rather, James tells us that troubles have a holy purpose. A holy purpose. Verse 3. He says, count in all joy, for you know that the testing of your faith produces Steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete and lacking in nothing. Testing here indicates the process that improves faith. Faith is a gift of God. God gives it to His people. He saves us by grace through the instrumentality of faith, which He gives us as a gift. But then he improves that faith. When I was in junior high, I took a shop class. For you young people, that's not a shopping class. But it is a workshop. We learn how to make things in shop glass. We learned how to make things with wood and metal, and we learned how to fix things that were broken. One of the projects I did was to make a chisel. First, I cut a six-inch long piece of iron alloy, which was about an inch in diameter. And then I was told to heat this with a torch until it was glowing orange hot. And then put it on an anvil and beat one end with a With a hammer until that end was flat and spread out. Then after it cooled, I was told to grind off the edges that had spread out until this thing was uh sharpened into a 45 degree angle of a new chisel. Now, I thought the project was finished. I put it on the buffer and bust it, got all the carbon off of it and everything. I wanted to take it home. But the teacher said that it was not finished. I did not understand. He wasn't much for words But he told me to heat it up again with a torch, which I did. And when it was glowing, he told me to take it right over to a bucket of oil and drop it in the bucket. And when I did, it it sizzled and it fumed and it rumbled to the bottom of the bucket. But when it was cooled, it was more than metal forged into the shape of a chisel. It was carbon-tempered. Hard enough to cut bolts. God uses trust To produce similar results in us. He formed your faith. Now he tempers it to be stronger and more enduring This is also called godliness. Paul writing to Timothy in 1 Timothy 4 says, he says to young Timothy, Train yourself for godliness. While bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come. James says in verse 4, let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect like that tempered steel. And complete and lacking in nothing. Have you, Christian, have you asked the Lord to strengthen your faith? You feel the weakness sometimes Be careful what you ask. Do you know how he will do it? He will do it through troubles. Not in peace, not in ease, not in uninterrupted tranquility. But in trials that produce steadfastness, godliness, carbon steel, and quality, he will do it. Don't fight God. Submit to his working in you for your good. So know those things. And then Do these things. Do. Verse 5. Cultivate an expected, expectant heart. He says, if any of you sufferers going through troubles, if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting. For the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. James here says that suffering is good for you. That may be hard to believe, but you need wisdom to understand that. Wisdom has been defined as the skill needed for living successfully. Wisdom from God allows you to live through troubled circumstances without becoming bitter. So there are quickly here, there's another sermon here. There are four truths about wisdom. You need it in order to understand You might lack it. You need it. Verse 5, God wants to give it. He gives generously. He doesn't reproach us when we ask him. Verse 5 and 6, you must ask for it in faith. And then verses 7 through 8, you must expect God to do it, to give it. Cultivate an expectant heart, asking for wisdom to understand troubles and trials. Secondly, Cultivate a realistic perspective on your position in life. And He says in verse 9, let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation. That doesn't sound right, does it? Let the poor, the lowly brother or sister Brag about being poor and lowly. Does that make sense? Yes, he says it does. And let the rich boast and brag about his humiliation. Because, he says, like the rich need to know this, like a flower of the grass, he will pass away. For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass, the flowers fall, and its beauty perishes, so also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits. So rich people shouldn't be proud and boasting Think that they, by their riches, are strong and will last forever. They will not. We live in a society that doesn't get this. Thinks that happiness consists in the abundance of material things. He or she who has the most stuff wins, right? Bigger house! Better automobile, finer clothes, better employment, not bad things in themselves. Enjoy them to the glory of God. But remember that true satisfaction comes not in these things, but from God alone. I'm going to paraphrase what we just read from verses 9 through 11. If you're poor, see how rich you really are. How much you really have in the Lord. And if you're rich, see how little it really means in the long run Run. There is no lasting security in riches. John Newton, who had been a slave trader Wrote the famous hymn Amazing Grace. John Newton had a name for persons who trust in riches and power and pleasure. He called them worldlings. In his great hymn, which is 345 in our hymn book, Glorious Things of Thee are spoken about the church, he says this about worldlings fading. Is the worldling's pleasure. All his boasted pomp and show Then he says, solid joys and lasting treasure. None but Zion's children need. No. Affluence may be a kind of trouble. We need to understand that. And then he says, James says Verse 12, Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him. What does that mean? It means that Zion's well-tempered children will receive a crown of life. Solid gold with jewels. If that's what you want. Royalty by adoption. Being honored by God in the final judgment. So cultivate that attitude. And then thirdly, cultivate a realistic perspective about your temptation. He's bringing all these things together. They come to mind as you think about trials and troubles, and one of them is temptations. Realistic perspective about your temptations. And to introduce that, I say this. Every one of us, every one of us has an Achilles heel, as they call it. That is a weakness, a besetting temptation. For some, as he's already mentioned, it may be the love of money and material things. For another, it may be addiction. To alcohol or drugs or food or unauthorized sex. For another, it may be gambling or movies or spectator sports Anything, friends, that draws you away from a Godward focus will eat away at your soul. But God is not to blame. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one, but each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own Achilles heel, his own desire, your personal weakness. He has an imagery that is is here in the Greek like bait, that is on a hook. Some fish like this kind of bait, some fish like that kind of bait. But it's always with a hook. He says in verse 15, then desire when it has conceived, that is, when the thought becomes compelling. Your Achilles heel, your sinful temptation. When it becomes compelling, it gives birth to sin, the act itself of transgressing the law of God. And sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death Death, meaning a tear in the relationship, an estrangement, an alienation. And if that goes on without repentance, it leads to Death. So know your Achilles heel. Know your sinful weakness. Paul says to young Timothy in 2 Timothy chapter 2 He says this to a youth who is youth are always easily derailed. That's why I focus on the youth here today Youth are easily derailed by their weakness when they're frail and young and don't know what they're doing and aren't guided as they should be. They can end up in a habit. A pattern of sin which is entrenchable, intractable, I should say And as I said before, habits eat willpower for breakfast, so you can't by your willpower easily break a habit. He says this to young Timothy, the pastor, young Timothy. Timothy. He says, now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay, some for honorable use and some for dishonorable use. Therefore, if any one cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. And then he says, so flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. Cultivate a realistic understanding of your temptations and flee youthful less Fourthly, cultivate an eternal perspective. Verse 16, do not be deceived. It's easy to be deceived It's easy to not think clearly. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights. with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. What that means is this, everything worth having is a gift from God. Everything worth living for is the will of God. Verse 18: Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth that we should be a kind of first fruits. I studied agriculture, took an associate's degree from Blackhawk College in Kewanee, Illinois. And we learned about harvest and grains and animals too. But I learned that at the time of harvest, corn would be taken to the market and graded. Um there's US number one grade corn. It's Weight is 56 pounds per bushel or greater. Then there's U. S. number two, which is 54 pounds per bushel, U. S. number three, fifty-two, all the way down to U. S. number five, which is only 46 pounds. That's 10 pounds less than the highest grade. And then there's also these other parts of the grade. Some is a percentage that's been heat damaged and a percentage that is broken or has foreign material in it. U. S. number one has only two percent uh broken or foreign material, but US number five has seven percent. God wants us through the course of life, through the troubles, to have a growing love for him and a growing holiness, so that at the end we are less damaged, more healed. With little broken or foreign material. That is God's goal for you and me. How will you fare at the time of grating? Maybe you started out in a spiritual drought in your life. You weren't raised in a Christian home. You didn't have good influences. Maybe you were damaged by troubles or sins or temptations or things. Things. As long as you live, growth is possible. God is able to restore as you submit to Him Him who is called here in James the Father of Light, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Submit to him. In conclusion, troubles are inevitable. That's a great truth Troubles have a holy purpose, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. As we live between the Advents and prepare for the second coming of Christ, let us take these things in and apply them and use them. Now I'm going to ask you to join me in a prayer at the end of the sermon here. The prayer is on the front of the worship folder. It's the prayer for the first Sunday of Advent. This will be our prayer of application. This great prayer by Thomas Cranmer puts the cap on this sermon together. Almighty God, give us grace that we may cast away the works of darkness and put upon us the armor of light now in the time of this mortal life in which thy son Jesus Christ came to visit us in great humility, that in the last day When he shall come again in his glorious majesty to judge both the quick and the dead, we may rise to the life immortal. Through him who lives and reigns with thee and the Holy Ghost, now and forever. Amen.