Please open your Bibles to the book of the Psalms, where we'll read Psalm 64. Psalm 64 to the choir master, a Psalm of David. Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint. Preserve my life from dread from dread of the enemy Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, from the throngs of evildoers, who wet their tongues like swords, who aim bitter words like arrows, shooting from ambush at the blameless shooting at him suddenly and without fear. They hold fast to their evil purpose, and they talk of laying snares secretly, thinking, Who can Can see them. They search out in justice, saying, We have accomplished a diligent search, for the inward mind and the heart of a man are deep. But God shoots his arrows at them. They are wounded suddenly. They are brought to ruin with their own tongues turned against them. All who see them will wag their heads Then all mankind fears. They tell what God has brought about and ponder what He has done. Let the righteous one rejoice in the Lord The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. James one nineteen through twenty-one and then three one through twelve 1 19 through 21, first of all. Know this, my beloved brothers. Let every person be quick to hear. Slow to speak. Slow to anger. For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls And then please turn over to James 3. This is the preaching text. Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. For we all stumble in many ways, and if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body. If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well. Look at the ships also. Though they are so large and driven by strong winds, they are guided by a very small rudder wherever the will of the pilot directs So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire! And the tongue is afire, a world, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life. And set on fire by hell. For every kind of beast and bird and reptile and sea creature can be tamed and has been tamed by mankind, but no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil full of deadly poison. With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse people who are made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessings and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so. Does a spring pour forth in the same opening both fresh and salt water? Can a fig tree produce My brothers bear olives and and or a grapevine produce figs. Neither can a salt pond yield fresh water. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. us pray. O Lord, we pray now that your voice, Lord Jesus, the true preacher, the prophet, the priest, and the king, as prophet today we pray, Lord Jesus, that you will preach. We will hear your voice and obey you. And be comforted by your grace. Amen. Well, the letter of James is where we are, and the letter of James, James is the little half-brother of Jesus. He is the son of Mary and Joseph. And this letter that he writes is very practical in focus. It deals with issues that we need to deal with And so we're using this book of James as preparation for Advent, preparation for the coming of Christ. And as we prepare to celebrate his coming, This is the fourth installment of this. We've looked at handling troubles with faith and wisdom from James. We've looked at doing justice by not allowing our fallen prejudice to rule in our hearts and minds and in our deeds. And last Sunday we were taught that true faith by which we are saved must be active and visible and in partnership with God in doing good works. And if it is, then it's not true faith. Today, yet another very practical focus for you who live between the Advents. Here's the proposition. Christ, who saves you, claims control of you, including one of the smallest parts of your body your tongue. And under the topic of tongue, we include text messages and emails, etc. Right? Here's the first point. The tongue is powerful. It can build people up and set them on a great course Here's the word. Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. That's a warning to me and elders. For we all stumble in many ways, and if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he's a perfect man, able to bridle his whole body. If you can get control of your tongue, he's saying, then you're going to be in control of your whole being. And he gives this illustration, if we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well. So he's given a Kind of a concrete illustration of that. Then he says, look at the ships also, though they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are guided by very small rudder, wherever the will of the pilot directs. See, you have a rudder in your mouth, don't you? And you're the pilot, right? So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts great things. Well, let me go back over this again. The tongue, James says, first of all, is used by teachers. The office of the teacher is mentioned. The teacher has opportunity to do great good. I don't think it's all negative here There's positive stuff. He has the opportunity to do great good. This pertains to dads and moms in the home. It pertains to pastors and elders in the church and teachers in the school. Particular focus here is on teachers in the Christian context because they stamp the imprint of their own character and spirituality on their students. So it's important, those who are leading others. It's important what you do. They stamp their own character for the better or the worse. Students tend to imitate their teachers, you see. In the past, in our country, colleges and seminaries such as Harvard and Yale and Princeton Took great care. You can look back at their records, the way they interviewed people for faculty positions. They took great care in a selection of teachers. Not not just persons who were experts in subjects, but men and women of good character, because they knew that they would be shaped by the the students would be shaped by the teacher. They knew the truth of Jesus that he says in Luke 6. 40. A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher. You see. So here, in a general way, whether you are a teacher or not, your tongue can be used to encourage with amazing results. Author and counselor Larry Crabbe. Some of you have read some of his things. Larry Crabbe as a young man, before he was a counselor, he had a stuttering problem. And in church one day, he was asked to stand up and give a few words of testimony. Reluctantly, Mary stood up and began, stuttering with each phrase. I thank the Father for dying on the cross for me, shedding his blood. I praise the Spirit who rose from the dead for my salvation. When the service was over, he says, I darted toward the door, not wishing to encounter an elder who might feel obliged to criticize me or correct my twisted theology. But I was not quick enough. An older Christian man named Jim Dunbar intercepted me, put his arm on my shoulder, and cleared his throat to speak. I remember thinking to myself, here it comes. Oh well, just endure it and then get to the car. I then listened to this godly gentleman speak words that I can speak verbatim today, more than 20 years later. Larry, he said, there is one thing I want you to know. Whatever you do for the Lord, I am behind you 1,000%. And then he walked Walked away. Larry Crab says, those words were words of life. They had power. They reached deep into my being, and my resolve never again to speak publicly weakened instantly. And since the day those words were spoken, God has led me into a ministry in which I regularly address and pray before crowds of all sizes. I love it, he says. Life lies in the power of the tongue. So the tongue can do great good, but it's also dangerous. Here's the second point. The tongue is dangerous, it can destroy lives. James likens the power of the tongue to the power of a bit in the mouth of a horse or a rudder on a ship. Now, many of you have seen the movie or heard the story of the great ship that sailed from Southampton, England, April 15, 1912. on her maiden voyage. She carried twelve hundred and ninety passengers and nine hundred and three crew. She was on track to cross the Atlantic in record time Captain E. J. Smith used the rudder to steer the great ship near Newfoundland, even though he was aware of reports of icebergs. At 11. 59 p. m. , the passengers heard a muffled crunching sound on the port side of ship. Curious passengers reached out to touch the iceberg. At 1225, it was determined that the iceberg had caused a tear on the porch side below the water line. There was no real panic, however, until 1250. A. M. , when all women and children passengers were ordered to get into the too few lifeboats and leave their men behind on the quote unsinkable ship, end quote. About 2 a. m. the great Titanic broke in half. The forward portion sank into the sea, the rear half righted itself for a moment, and then following an explosion sank into the sea. Proverbs fifteen, verse four says A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but a perverseness in it breaks the spirit Proverbs 1821 says, death and life are in the power of the tongue. So here it is. What you say can do great good or cause great harm. And James' second illustration is the comparison of a tongue to a spark. He says, How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire, verse 5. And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness, the tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body Setting on fire the entire course of our life. And then he says this, and set on fire by hell. You've heard in the news lately about the fires in Tennessee. Here's an a news line. It says as the smoke clears and authorities work to evaluate the damage done, the death toll in the historic Gatlinburg fires continues to climb. At least 14 people are now confirmed to have died during the firestorm. National Park Service spokesman's spokeswoman Dana Schoen said the disaster, as it was thought, began on November twenty-eighth when hurricane force winds topped ninety miles an hour spread embers from the chimney tops of the great smoky mountains. They thought that was what caused it. Down power lines and felled trees and started new fires. In the span of a quarter hour, the flames raced toward Gatlinburg and beyond, forcing mandatory evacuations of the resort town and parts of Pigeon Forge. Officials now estimate that 1,684 structures have been damaged or destroyed by the fires, and at least 134 people have sustained injuries But then this. During the investigation involving local and state agents, information was developed that two juveniles allegedly started the fire that roared through the Great Smoky Mountains National Park before spreading to Gatlinburg in Pigeon. Forge. Both were taken into custody last Wednesday and are being held at Sevier County Juvenile Detention Center. Yes, sparks are small Fires start small and in obscure places. They don't put out much heat or smoke. They're not even visible from a tower at first, but they can destroy so much, such as the power of the tongue. James goes on to say say. For every kind of beast and bird and reptile of the sea can be tamed and has been tamed by mankind. I think he's generalizing there, by the way. Not every kind of reptile and you know But no human being can tame the tongue, he says. It's a restless evil full of deadly poison. James here describes the natural fallen state. He likens it to wild animals and birds and reptiles and things that sometimes can be tamed or domesticated at least. Think of falcons who land on the wrists of falconers. Think of tigers that sit on stools and jump through flaming hoops. Think of dogs that do tricks Elephants that can do tricks in circuses. Think of the dolphins at SeaWorld. But he likens the tongue to a venomous snake, full of deadly poison. That reminds me of uh one Saturday night when Jeff and I arrived here at the church pretty late and caught in the church building a little snake. He was mad. little snake, wiggling and striking every which way. Now, thought project. Imagine yourself standing in front of a mirror. The James wants you to do this idea. I think. Imagine yourself standing in front of the mirror, checking your hair, making sure it all looks good, your your makeup if you're a lady. Um And you open your mouth. And out pops the snakehead. Ready to strike. Yeah, that's what James is basically saying. It's alarming, isn't it? He says about the tongue, it's boastful. It's boastful. We often find it useful in speech to boast about ourselves and put others down. So that we will be glorious and they will be less. Our shining out must mean their dimness We like to be seen in comparison, and we are better viewed if we put others down. That's boastfulness. He describes its effect as spreading out. Like a fire, right? Like a small spark from a fire. When we speak a critical word about someone to another person, that can quickly be picked up and amplified elsewhere, can't it? By others, and so a fire is fanned into blazing flames, destroying lives and reputations And then he says about this tongue, this evil, restless thing that pops out of our mouth. He says that it becomes characteristic of the whole course of our life. When someone is a abuser of speech and communications, it characterizes them Someone will say about such a person, oh, don't tell him or don't tell her because it'll spread everywhere. Have you ever heard that before? Yeah He says the tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body. That thing in there just ruins everything down there Setting on fire the entire course of our life. And then he says, where does this come from? And set on fire by hell. The devil is behind it. It's not just old innocent gossip or innocent words that, you know, whatever. No. Not. It's inspired by hell. Satan is a liar, you see, and a the father of lies. And he inspires the deadly use of the untamed tongue to spread lies. And then the third point, the tongue tells on us. You heard that in that Psalm 64. Their tongues are turned against them. The tongue tells on us, it reveals our heart. Verse 9. He says, with it we bless our Lord and Father. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. And with it we curse people made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessings and cursings. My brother, these things ought not to be so. That's putting it mildly, isn't it? This ought not to be so Does a spring, he says, he's being he's being facetious almost, does a spring pour forth from the same opening both fresh and salt water? Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives or a grapevine produce figs? Neither can a salt pond yield fresh water. He's using his tongue ironically here. Showing the irony and inconsistency of using our tongues to praise God and to curse humans all around us. Image-bearer. It's comedy almost, but it's comedy to make a point. This is about as silly as trying to get fresh water from a salt water flow or olives from a fig tree or figs from a grapevine. The way we treat people made in God's image reveals our faith or lack of faith. It reveals our heart. It tells on us. Here's how it works. concrete example. If you think other humans, and I hope none of you have a an evolutionary mindset. Maybe some of you have been infected with it, I don't know. If you think other humans are merely animals, that's the evolutionary mindset. That are here by chance and not by God's design, you will treat them like mistakes, inconveniences, rubbish. Right? And if you think people around you are here by the will of God, by the sovereign purpose and will of God And that they are gifted by God, and they are honored images of God, however flawed, you will not curse them. You will have God's perspective on them. Even if they're pretty shabby in in many ways. The divine perspective will show up in the ways described in verses 13 through 18. Here it is. Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast or be false to the truth This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, and then this final demonic. On fire from hell, right? Demonic now For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice. And then he contrasts it. But the wisdom from above is first pure. Isn't this beautiful? First, pure, peaceable, gentle, open to reason. full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. And then he says the last verse, verse 8 And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Be wise with your tongue. Use your tongue well. And you'll be making peace. You'll be making strength and encouragement. You'll use it for good things. And he mentions that wisdom can come from this source or that. Wisdom in quotes, first of all, can come from one source or another. So there's worldly wisdom and there's divine wisdom. Here's the worldly wisdom. Boasting, bitter envy, selfish ambition, denial of the truth, unspiritual of the devil, it leads to disorder and every evil practice And then there's the heavenly wisdom, the true wisdom. It's pure, peace-loving, considerate, submissive, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere. So then this is the conclusion of the section 19 and following. Know this, my beloved brothers. Let every person be quick to hear. Can I hear you? I want to hear what you have to say. I'll listen. Be quick to hear. Slow to speak. Slow to anger Anger. For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. I need this word myself, folks. Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your soul. What he's saying is you don't just hear the gospel of Jesus dying for you and say, oh, I want that, but I'm not changing anything else. It doesn't go that way folks. Receive the implanted word with meekness, the word that's able to save your souls, you see. Our fallen-down condition. Our tongues are accustomed to cursing people. It's a restless evil and it's full of deadly poison. Imagine that venomous snake ready to strike. That's the way our tongues are without being tamed by God. And realize that it really is a sin to tear people down with your tongue. And then admit that it's a habit that needs to be tamed by God. You know, you might say, well, that's just the way I've been a long time. Sorry, not a good answer. Admit that it's a habit that needs to be changed. And tamed by God. Resolve now, folks. Resolve to speak words of truth and words of blessing. 99% of the time, your words should be words of blessing. He says, let every person be quick to hear, slow to speech, slow to anger, for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. And in the 1%, when it's your duty and your place to criticize, do it in love and with gentleness. As he said in the previous reading, chapter one, let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only what is good for building up. as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear. And even Paul, the the apostle, with all kinds of apostolic authority, listen to what he says in verse chapter four, verse twenty-nine. He says, for this reason I write these things while I'm away from you. Well, this is in 2 Corinthians. That when I come, I may not have to be severe in my use of authority. He doesn't want to be severe. He doesn't want to use that 1% when I have to correct. That I may not have to be severe in my use of authority that the Lord has given me for building up and not for tearing down. The ministry of the gospel is for building up, not tearing down. Finally, we were, as it's described in Ephesians, we were called there. Bad names, children of wrath, disobedient, evildoers, condemned, outsiders But listen to these words finally. Listen to these words that God speaks over you now in Christ. People who know him. Listen to these words from 1 John 3. I'll emphasize. Some of them. See what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God. You, children of God. That's what he says about you. And so we are. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Then he says, beloved. That's another word he says over you. Beloved. We are God's children now. That's what he says over. And what we will be has not yet appeared. It's not all there yet. But we know that we shall see him as he is, and we'll be like him when we see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes In him purifies himself. We're on the way. And Paul the Apostle says this In Ephesians 5, Paul, an apostle, by the will of God, to the saints. That's what he says to you. That's what he says over you today. Saints, only ones in Christ. Grace to you, he says in verse 2, and peace to you. Those aren't just liturgical words. Hear them every Sunday as God's word over you. Grace to you, and peace to you. And then he says in verse 3, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us. Bless, bless, bless. chose us in him before the foundation of the world, predestined us for the adoption. We're adopted children. And then he says, He's blessed us in the beloved in verse 6. And in him we have redemption. We're the redeemed. The forgiveness of our trespasses. You're forgiven. He keeps saying that over you. And then chapter 5 of Ephesians, therefore be imitators of God as beloved. Beloved children, that's what he says over you. So I want you to end with that. I want you to hear those words over you, those words of blessing and encouragement, as well as the words of correction. Because in Jesus Christ, in his wonderful love for us, and his death for us, and his giving us his righteousness, and then calling us to follow him and walk with him We are the blessed ones. We are the chosen ones. We are the loved ones, the redeemed ones, the forgiven ones. All those things are true of us. May those words soak into your life and give you the strength and courage to tame the tongue. Amen. Thank you, Father, for loving us when we were unlovely, for saving us in your mercy by sending Jesus Christ at the right time when we were sinners. Thank you for speaking words of love over us, calling us beloved children, calling us saints, calling us heirs of your kingdom. As you have purchased us at great cost, and our own bodies and souls in all of life and in death, help us to give ourselves completely to you, even our restless and unruly tongues. May we bless you in all those made in your image. Amen.