New Testament reading is James 2, 1 through 13. This is the text for preaching today. My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing comes in also And you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, you sit here in a good place. While you say to the poor man, you stand over there, or sit down at my feet. Have you not then made distinctions? among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers Has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which he has promised to those who love him? But you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich ones who oppress you and the ones who drag you into court Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called? If you really fulfill the royal law according to Scripture You shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become accountable for all of it. For he who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, do not murder. If you do not commit adultery, but you do murder, you have Become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to the one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that you'll now open to our understanding by your Holy Spirit, illumine our minds to understand And apply your holy word. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, last Sunday, which was the first Sunday of Advent, uh We discussed in chapter one of James, learning to handle troubles and temptations. Today we're going to Look at preparing for Christ's coming by learning to do justice. And I begin with this. On the 28th of August, 1963, at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D. C. , Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Delivered a famous speech before a crowd of two hundred and fifty thousand. This is an excerpt of it I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed. We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal. I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their case. character. I have a dream today. I have a dream that one day down in Alabama with its vicious races, one day right there in Alabama, little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands. With little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers. I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted and every hill and mountain shall be made low The rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together. With this faith, we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith, we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. Now, keeping this in mind, I'll give you a word of personal testimony. Twenty-four years after that, I attended in 1987 the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in America. And at one of the lunch breaks, I was talking with a young minister from Alabama who told me that he had been threatened by his elders. With the loss of his job. If he ever did again what he did once, what had he done? He had invited three black persons to worship, and they had come to church Surely, we are far advanced from such attitudes now in the 21st century But maybe not. Consider this in an interview many years ago on 60 Minutes, Holocaust survivor of Auschwitz Yahil DeNuer recounted to Mike Wallace the incident of his sobbing and fainting at the Nuremberg trial. On trial was the notorious Adolf Eichmann. Eichmann and his staff were responsible for Jewish deportations to the extermination camps where the victims were gassed. Yehul Danur broke down sobbing and finally fainted after confronting Eichmann. Was Danur overcome by hatred or by fear? Or horrid memories? No, it was none of these. Rather, as De Neuer explained to Mike Wallace All at once he realized that Eichmann was not the expected godlike army officer who had sent so many to their deaths. Eichmann, Esau, was an ordinary man And then he says, I was afraid about myself. I saw that I am capable to do this. I am exactly like Like he. That's why he fainted. Could it be that we, you and I, are like those racist Presbyterian elders Could it be that you and I are not so very different from Adolf Eichmann? Could it be that you realize, like the sobbing Yehil Danur, that you are capable of great injustice? Well, the Apostle James and the Holy Spirit, who inspired this letter to the churches, the churches living between the period of the Advents He assumes that we are capable of injustice, and that we need correction and instruction about injustice. And so the proposition I have before you today is that God is just, and God's people are to be just God is just and we are to be just. James gives three reasons why we should reject injustice. The first one is in verses 1 through 4, because injustice violates the glory of God. Verse 1, my brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. No partiality. Partiality is unjust preference. That is, it's not based on the dignity of age or office, which is taught in the fifth commandment. But some other principle is at work making you do and feel and act the way you do. Literally, he says, as believers in our Lord Jesus Christ, of the glory That's the literal translation. Of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is of the glory, and glory here means, it's from the Hebrew, means weight or heaviness. It's the same word that is used to express importance and honor and majesty. And the Greek versions of the word in Hebrew are the word translated doxa, from which we get the word doxology. This is an assembly, you see, of the people of Christ. The glorious one, the heavy one, the important one. We are gathered to worship him. We're gathered to face him in worship And then he gives the example, verse 2, for if a man wearing a gold ring in fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in. And if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, you sit here in a good place, while you say to the poor man, you stand over there, or sit down at my feet. Have you not become, have you not discriminated in the NIV and made distinctions among yourselves, becoming judges with evil thoughts? Literally Discrimination, that word that's put in here in the text means to face both ways. As I just said, we come to worship the glorious one. We're to face him in worship. But discrimination is to face this way and to face that way. It's to have two faces. One face for certain people and another face for others We're supposed to be facing God in worship and not discriminating by having these kinds of actions and attitudes. To face Christ in profession on the one side and to join in facing with others in unjust racial, social, economic prejudice, and injustice is to be two-faced. And James and the Holy Spirit forbids it. We are supposed to be facing only the glorious one. And who is that glorious one? Well 2 Corinthians 4, the Apostle Paul says, For God who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts. to give the light of the knowledge of the glory, there it is again, of God, in the face of Christ Jesus. We're to be facing Him. And we're to put away all discrimination and all injustice because we face Him If the glory of God is in Christ's face, our heads should not be turned by the faint glory of those who have power or money or place in this world. That's a faint glory compared to Christ's face. He shines, and the rich and their richest, the most powerful, are dim in their glory. Now, what would you do if a very famous or wealthy person began attending our little church, Grace and Peace? For instance, children's introduction, for instance, Tim Tebow. Once a professional baseball outfielder in the New York Mets organization and a former professional football player who played three seasons in the NFL He played college football with the University of Florida winning the Heisman Trophy in 2007 and appears on the BCS National Championship winning teams during the 2006 and 2008 season. Tebow was selected by the Denver Broncos in the first round of the 2010 NFL draft and spent two seasons with the team. He also played for the New York Jets in 2012. He's single. And he's good looking. Do you think maybe he would get a little extra attention? He's a Christian, too. Maybe he would get a few more dinner invitations each Sunday. And if he were to tithe, treasurers and elders, if he were to tithe, we would build a new church wing pretty soon. Imagine, imagine how famous our church would become in the community around here if Tim Tebow joined us. And lots of single women in our area would soon be interested in becoming Presbyterians. I suppose. On the other hand, what about this? What if at the same time as Tim Tebow appeared, a homeless person who lives in the woods around here began attending our service? What kind of greeting and attention would they receive? You and I would be highly tempted to favor the famous athlete at the expense of the homeless Person, the glory of the athlete would distract us from the glory of Christ, the glorious one. We are not to engage in this in unjust discrimination. Verse 4, again, James says, Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Now there are distinctions in the world. Some of the distinctions need to be observed. We are to have respect for those who are in authority, such as governors, law enforcement officials, elders, and parents, children. This is not so much because of them, but because of God who appointed them, God being the glorious one. But any glory Other than those ordained by God, any glory that competes with the glory of God is an insult against the glory of God. So that's the first reason. The second reason is that injustice violates the grace of God. Verses 7 He says, listen, my beloved brothers. He thinks of election. He says, listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith? and heirs of the kingdom which he has promised to those who love him. James is saying that in God's electing grace, he generally favors those who are not favored by the world. Wrap your mind around that. Some folks in the church were in the habit of favoring the rich and powerful. But God Generally, not always in every case, but he generally favors the poor. That's what he says And Paul says something like that in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 26 through 31. He says to the Corinthians, Consider your calling, brothers. Not many of you were wise according to worldly standards. Not many of you were powerful. Not many of you were of noble birth, but God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are. So that no human being might boast in the presence of God. And because of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption. So that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord James reminds the believers that the rich and powerful are usually the ones who are causing them trouble. In verses 6 and 7, he says, but you In your injustice you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich ones the ones who oppress you and the ones who drag you into court? Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called? What's he saying here? He's just saying, you're tempted to face away from Christ. And face the glory of rich people, and face the glory of things that are not glorious in God's sight, and those are the people who are causing you All kinds of trouble. When they get the chance, when they get the upper hand, they're dragging you into court. They're causing you trouble. Quit favoring them. Quit trying to suck up to them. And worship the Lord. God chooses all kinds of people, all colors, all languages, all appearances, fat and thin, great-looking and homely, some rich, many poor. He chooses differing temperaments and personalities and abilities and talents and intelligence levels. God, you see, chooses by grace, not by appearances. Just think of little David when he was anointed to be the king. The great prophet came looking for Jesse's sons. One of them is going to be the king. biggest ones and the nicest looking ones and the ones that look like they should be chosen were not chosen. And then the prophet said, Don't you have one more son Somewhere? Yeah, just little David out in out in the field there. He's taking care of the sheep. He's busy. He can't come in. Nope. You bring him in. God has chosen him. So injustice violates the grace of God, the electing grace of God, who chooses people that we don't expect sometimes. And the thirdly, injustice violates the law of God. Verses eight through thirteen He says this, if you really fulfill the royal law, according to Scripture, you shall love your neighbors as yourselves, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as a transgressor. For whoever keeps the whole law No one does, but whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become guilty of all of it. For he who said do not commit adultery also said do not murder. If you do not commit adultery, but you do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. What law is this? Well it's the law of loving your neighbor as yourself. And social and racial and economic prejudice in the church violates this law of God. This is the law. And Jesus was asked about that law once, which is the greatest in Luke chapter 10. And he said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind and your neighbor as yourself. Now As we look at this section in James, Ligonier has a commentary on James. And it says, James is not saying here that salvation rests on our ability to keep the law. That's important. We are unable to keep the law perfectly and must rely upon Christ alone, who has kept the law perfectly and can alone put his people into right standing with God. Nevertheless, we who live between the Advents That's us, must be concerned with the obedience to God's commands. For when we obey, we show that we possess true, saving faith. So James finally says in verse 12: So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. Now that's a different kind of law than the one he quoted before from Leviticus The law of liberty. For judgment without mercy to the one who has shown no mercy, mercy triumphs over judgment. What is this law of liberty that he's talking about? Well, he's talking about the whole law, the whole corpus of the Old Testament law as interpreted by Jesus Because the ceremonial law and the temple and the priesthood and the clean and unclean and the Jew and Gentile has been fulfilled by Christ. So it's not that stuff. We're no longer bound to keep those prescriptions and ceremonies and rituals, but the law's sum and essence, loving God with all our hearts and loving Our neighbors as ourselves still binds us today. The freedom of this law is freedom to do not whatever you feel like doing To be prejudiced whenever you feel like being prejudiced. It's not that kind of freedom. That's not really freedom. But it's freedom to do what is Right, what is good? I'll give you one final illustration here. My sweet daughter-in-law, Elizabeth, is from Mexico. She is from the indigenous people who lived there before the Europeans came. So she looks like the indigenous people She knows what it is like to be discriminated against, both in Mexico and in the United States. While my son Isaac was in pilot school, they had a neighbor whose husband was from Saudi Arabia. He was a member of the Saudi Royal Air Force, and he was learning to fly just like Isaac was. His wife, this woman, wore a burka head-to-toe, head-to-toe covering, and had little contact with any of the other pilot's spouses. But Elizabeth reached out and became her friend. They exchanged food and recipes. So, what is this about? A very out there Christian woman was gracious to a lonely Muslim woman for the glory of Christ. That's freedom. Freedom is the power to do what is right, to overcome our first feeling of, ooh, I don't want to be close, don't want to get to know, don't want to know that person. Freedom is the power to resist the world, the flesh, and the devil, and to do what is right toward others, even those that we consider, at first at least, unacceptable, not our kind. Now, so far, I had just maybe given advice, biblical advice, but advice. But now let me preach the gospel to you. This is the gospel. We need to be just in our actions toward others because in God's grace, He is just and kind and merciful. Merciful toward us. Remember this: you and I, in and of ourselves, the way we were made here, at least in this condition, were unacceptable before God, filthy. Broken, ruined in God's sight. That is the truth about us. But he looked beyond our miserable condition and in mercy chose us to be saved. And clothed us with the righteous perfection of Jesus Christ, the perfect obedience of Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. He gave us his glory. Clothe us in it And so we are to face him and face others as we know him, out of grace and love and mercy. And be just. Come down from our high horse of who we are and what we have and all that stuff and what our people are like and things like that Come down to I was unacceptable, I was filthy, I was broken, I was ruined, but God loved me and gave himself for me. And so I need to live out of that and put away injustice. Put away partiality. Put away being two-faced and discriminating. That's the gospel. So what if someone wearing shabby clothes came into our church assembly or became your neighbor? Are there people in your life that you reject because of sinful prejudice? They're too poor. Or maybe they're too rich. That happens that way too sometimes. They're undereducated or Maybe they're overeducated. I don't want to be a part of them. They're too educated. Or they're of a different race or ethnicity. As people living in the kingdom of Christ between the two advents. Let us go to the Lord and ask him to enable us to live faithfully in obedience to his law in Christ, who is the glorious one. Amen.