Our Old Testament reading is from the book of Isaiah, where we will read chapter 58. Cry aloud, do not hold back, lift up your voice like a trumpet. Declare to my people their transgression, to the house of Jacob their sins. Yet they seek me daily, and delight to know my ways, as if they were a nation that did righteousness And did not forsake the judgment of their God. They ask of me righteous judgments. They delight to draw near to God. Why have we fasted and you see it not? Why have we humbled ourselves and you take no knowledge of it? Behold, in the day of your fast, you seek your own pleasure, and oppress all your workers. Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice be heard on high. Is such the fast that I choose, a day for a person to humble himself? Is it to bow down his head like a reed and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast and a day acceptable to the Lord? Is not this the fast that I choose? To loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke And to let the oppressed go free and to break every yoke. Is it not to share your bread with the hungry? and bring the homeless poor into your house, when you see the naked to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh. Then shall your light break forth like the dawn, and your healing shall spring up speedily, your righteousness shall go before you, the glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard, then you shall call the Lord within. And the Lord will answer. You shall cry, and he will say, Here I am. If you take away the yoke from your midst, the pointing of the finger and speaking wickedness Wickedness, if your pour yourself out for the hungry and satisfy the desire of the afflicted, then shall your light rise in the darkness, and your gloom be as noonday And the Lord will guide you continually, and satisfy your desire in scorched places, and make your bones strong, and you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water, whose waters do not Fail. And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt. You shall raise up the foundations of many generations. You shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of streets to dwell in the If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight, and the holy day of the Lord Lord honorable. If you honor it not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly, then you shall delight in the Lord. And I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. This is the word of the Lord. The text for preaching is James chapter 2, beginning at verse 14. What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works, can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them things needed for the body. What good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will say, You have faith and I have works Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one, you do well. Even the demons believe And shudder. Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless? Was not Abraham, our father, justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works. And the scripture was fulfilled, it says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. And he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. And in the same way, was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way? For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith, apart from works, is dead. This is the word of the Lord. The Danish theologian Soren Kierkegaard Tells the story of a make-believe country in which only ducks lived. One Sunday the ducks waddled into church. They waddled down the aisle. And waddled into their pews. The duck preacher took his place in the pulpit, read from the duck Bible about all the gifts and powers that have been given to ducks. Then he preached, ducks, your creator gave you wings, and with wings you can fly into the sky. You can soar and ride the thermals like Eagles. Then he said, Use your wings. All the ducks yelled, Amen! And they then waddled out of the church and waddled home. Many Christians are like these ducks. They profess to believe in the life-changing truth of the gospel. They sing about it. They say amen to it, but do a lot more waddling than flying by faith. Many have little more to show for their professed faith than their neighbors who profess no faith at all. Is such faith genuine? And I put faith in quotes, is such faith genuine? Is this the same professed faith as that is the gift of God by which we are justified, accounted righteous before God? Is that the same? Faith? James says, be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves You have heard me say that all other religions have a list of things to do to gain God's favor. Do, do, do, do. This list. And also another list, don't, don't, don't, don't. But biblical Christianity begins not with do and don't. But done. That's biblical Christianity. Done. So all of our doing, because God has done it for us, all of our doing is Is a response to God who has done it for us. And this done that we have is received by faith alone. Let me underline that. By faith alone But this faith is the kind of faith which is never alone. but produces good works, good doing and good don'ting, you see. The proposition of this sermon is that we who live between the two Advents must test and prove the genuineness of our faith by doing. And don't by putting faith to work. And the first point is this: genuine faith is active Verses 14 through 17, where James says, What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that, quote, faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. The Apostle Paul says something like that in Galatians Chapter 6, he says, So then, as we who have faith, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. The case that James is citing here is the case of real need. If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food And then he points out, it's almost hilarious, the absurdity of saying, well, you are lacking clothing and food. See you later. Try to keep warm, since it's 30 degrees outside, and try to find something to eat if you can to nourish yourself. That's ridiculous. James is saying that the evidence that this is true faith is zero. It is nil. It is not a. And John, the beloved disciple and apostle, says this. Let me read it to you from 1 John 3. By this we know love, that He did something, He laid down His life for us. He did something. He laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. And then he says, but if anyone has this world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? Little children, let us not love in word or talk only, but indeed and in truth. Same thing, isn't it? Same teaching. And that is this: that true faith, genuine faith, the faith that is implanted in us by the Holy Spirit, produces something. It produces love, it produces compassion, it produces involvement In cases that were cited, food and clothing and financial assistance and shelter produces something. Now, how are these things provided today? In our current welfare state, The government has taken over some of the functions that belong to the diaconal work of the church. This is because the state tries to be messiah. Tries to be savior in the lives of citizens. And many citizens want the state to do more and more And they're willing to give up their power and their wealth to the state, their tax money, in order to allow the state to be the Messiah that it wants to be. This is not God's design for the state. But that's for another sermon. We're not going to take that right now. But listen, the one thing that the state can never provide is love. It can dole out stuff, but it can never provide love. While I was writing this, I was thinking we used to live near Philadelphia. And the Philadelphia, the city of brotherly love. That's what Philadelphia means, right? And some years back, the uh the city fathers and mothers decided that it was in it was politically incorrect to to use city of brotherly love as a slogan. So they changed Now, city of brotherly love has a connotation that people in this city are brotherly toward one another. They love one another. See, that's the connotation was they changed the slogan of Philadelphia to the city that loves you back. Now a city can't love you. Brothers can love you, sisters can love you, but a city can't love you. And the state can't love its citizens either. It cannot give love. So the social worker who knocks on doors to check on people may be a nice person Many of them are. But she does not come in the name and spirit of Jesus. That's for the church. That's the diaconal ministry. That's the outworking of faith in the Christian life. James in 1. 27, chapter 1 verse 27 says, religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this. To visit orphans and widows and their affliction and to keep oneself unstained from the world. A do and a don't, you see. That religion that's pure and from God, that that faith-driven religion. So this active work of loving and caring and assisting. Is Christian work motivated by faith in Jesus? Done in the name of Jesus and for the glory of Jesus. Aristotles, who was an Athenian apologist in the first century, was describing the first century Christians to Hadrian, the Roman emperor, and he wrote this about About the first century Christians, he says. Christians love one another. They never fail to help widows. They save orphans from those whom would hurt them. If a man has something, he gives freely to the man who has nothing. If they see a stranger, Christians take him home and are happy as though he were a real brother They don't consider themselves brothers in the usual sense, but brothers instead through the Spirit in God. They are in jail or persecuted for professing the name of their Redeemer, they all give him what he needs. If it is possible, they bail him out If one of them is poor and there isn't enough food to go around, they fast several days to give him the food he needs. This is really a new kind of person. There is something divine in them, says Aristrates. So faith, real faith. The second point is that genuine faith is visible. Verses 18 and following James says, but someone will say, You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith. He says, apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one, you do well, even the demons believe, and shudder. And so what he's saying is this: genuine faith cannot be hidden. Now, he cites this demon thing. Demons believe and shudder. Demons have something we would call intellectual faith. Not a heart-changing faith. Demons don't change their hearts. This doesn't happen. But they have an intellectual faith. They know facts. They know the facts about God's existence. That's the creed of Israel, that God is one. He cites that. Let me give you a contemporary illustration of intellectual faith. One that you'll probably all relate to. Intellectual faith is knowing the fact that the Governor Thomas Johnson Bridge is a bridge over the Patuxet River built in 19 That's intellectual faith. It's a bridge over the river to carry traffic over the river, right? Now here's active faith. Believing that the Governor Thomas Johnson Bridge, which is now 40 years old and carries daily far more load than it was designed to carry, will carry you Over the Patuxent River. And then actually getting in a car and driving across. That's faith, isn't it? Active faith. Well, excuse my homely illustration, but Genuine faith believes in a reliable God. The bridge may not be reliable, but God is. Genuine faith believes in a reliable God who has done great things to save. A reliable God who has promised grace and mercy and peace, and who has been kind and generous when we made ourselves his enemies. Genuine faith believes in a reliable God who therefore calls us to imitate his generous nature. a response. The Apostle Paul gives the fruit of the Spirit, the working of the Spirit in faith in our lives. In Galatians 5. He says, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentle Gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified. Don't, don't, don't. There's the don't They have crucified the flesh with its passions, its over-passions in its own heart and desires. And then he says, if we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. That's genuine faith. So genuine faith, true faith is visible, you see In your lifestyle, your daily routine of reading, the way you talk, your prayers, and many other ways. And it's also visible in your business dealings, in the integrity with which you conduct yourself as a citizen. And in your treatment of other human beings, love. And love here is a verb, not just an idea. Genuine faith gives and serves and loves and is active and visible to those who are watching you. And make no mistake about it. Are you watching you? Thirdly, genuine faith is in partnership with God. Verse 20 and following. Here it is: Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the walt on the altar? You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works. And the scripture was fulfilled that says Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness, and he was called a friend of God. You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. And in the same way was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out another way. For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. This is where we're going to spend some time, concentration, and thinking here, very careful thinking. Improving, here it is, improving the apostolic teaching about being declared righteous by faith alone The apostle Paul in Romans chapter 4 quotes from Genesis 15. Here's what he says. And he brought him outside. God brought Abraham outside and said, Look toward the heaven and number the stars if you're able to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your children be, so shall your offspring be. Now remember, Abraham had no kids, and his wife was barren, and he was old, and she was old. And God said, So shall your offspring look at the sky, Abraham, so shall your offspring be And then verse 6, Paul cites this, and he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. Abraham was justified by faith alone, by believing God's promise and doing nothing. That's important. Now, what do we have here in James? Some people in past church history have thought maybe there was a contradiction between Paul and James. No. Here's what we have in James. James is Jesus' little half-brother, by the way, just remember that. He shows how we know that Abraham actually believed, that his faith was real. How do we know that he actually believed? He says in verse 21, Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar? You see that faith was active along with his works, and the faith was completed by his works, and the scripture was fulfilled that says Abraham believed God. There's that from Genesis. 15. Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness. And then he says, and he was called the friend of God. Notice, notice this, very important. Notice that Abraham believed God many years earlier. Without any evidence except God's word of promise. Then and there, God declared Abraham righteous by faith. Alone. No doing, no don'ting. Just done by faith alone. Much later now, as James saw It much later, on the altar at Mount Moriah, he obeyed God's promises and God's word with a raised knife. And we who read the story and who see his deeds now declare him righteous. His faith shows in his work. His deeds then, much later, were in partnership with his faith, which was much earlier, by which he was Justified. You see that? We're not justified by works. We're not justified by doing or don'ting. We're justified by faith. But that faith works itself out in doing and don't. The other example he gives, Rahab, the prostitute, this is a pagan Canaanite woman. And she's by the way in the family tree of Jesus, according to Matthew. Verse 25. In the same way was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works? when she received the messengers and sent them out another way. Now, James recalls the story from Joshua chapter 2. Joshua, the son of Nun, had sent two men secretly as spies into the land of Canaan. And he told them to go view the land, especially Jericho And when they came into the house of this Rahab, and they lodged there, and it was told to the king of Jericho: Behold, men of Israel have come here tonight to search out the land. Then the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, Bring out the men who have come to you and entered your house, for they have come to search out the land. We're going to get 'em. But the woman had taken the two men and hidden them. And she said, true, the men came to me, but I did not know where they were from. Now that's not exactly true, but I guess it's okay. In this case. And when the gate was about to be closed at dark, the men went out. I do not know where the men went. Pursue them quickly, for you will overtake them. She's not telling the truth. says she. But she had brought them up to her roof and had hid them with stalks of flax that she had laid in order on the roof. So the men pursued after them on the way to the Jordan as far as the fords And the gate was shut as soon as the pursuers had gone out. Now listen to this next part. This shows Rahab's faith Before the men lay down, she came up to them on the roof, and she said to the men, Here's what she said: I know that the Lord, Yahweh, the God of Israel, Has given you the land, and that the fear of you has fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you For we have heard how Yahweh dried up the water of the Red Sea before you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Sihon and Og, whom you devoted to destruction. And as soon as we heard it, she says, our hearts melted, and there was no spirit left in any man because of you, for Yahweh your God. He is God in the heavens above and on the earth beneath. And then she says, now then please swear to me by Yahweh that As I have dealt kindly with you, you will also deal kindly with my father's house, and give me a sure sign that you will save alive my father and mother, and brothers and sisters, and all who belong to them, and deliver our lives from death. And the men, the two spies, said to her, Our life for yours, even to death, if you do not if you do not tell this business of ours, then when the Lord or Yahweh gives us the land we will deal kindly and faithfully with you. You see, she had faith in the God of Israel. She had faith, and so she did something. What did she do? She risked her life. She hid the spies. And she even told fibs. To the officials of Jericho. This pagan, this Canaanite, believed the reports about God, and she believed that they were the true people of God and that The land was to be given to them. And so she risked her life to be in partnership with God. Moved, you see, by the Holy Spirit, she hid the Israelite spot. And saved them. Let me emphasize this one more time. True faith is the alone instrument of justification. But it leads to good works, to doing and don'ting, that are commended by God and now by others, as we read Read the stories. True faith is a gift of God. Now, pause for a second You may say, Pastor, there are good people all around who do good things. They give to the poor. They're kind and generous and helpful, and they claim no faith at all. They are, as the latest atheist campaign says, trying to be good without God. That's been put on buses in the UK and in our in our cities as well. Good without God. My answer to this to them is this. Now first of all, where do they get the very idea of good and bad? Where do they get that. Without an objective standard of good and evil, for example, I might think it a positive good to kill you and your race. And an evil to allow you to live. So it just kind of shifts around, doesn't it? Hitler thought it was a good idea to kill a lot of people. And Stalin thought it was a good idea to kill a lot of people. And there are many other examples in history. Good and evil are really slippery concepts unless you have an objective standard. And that standard can only come from God. I will grant that most people out there operate with some true ideas of good and evil, but those ideas are borrowed from God's truth. And since God is not acknowledged by such persons, their standards of good and evil are subject to change like the weather. God's word is the only objective standard of good and evil. Here's the profound truth. Even when such people do some truly good things, this does not please God. When people who give no glory to God, no credit to God, who don't believe in God, do good things, it does not please God. Because their deeds only cause them to have even more faith in themselves and glorify themselves. Our confession of faith says this Listen carefully. Works done by unregenerate persons, although for the matter of them they may be things which God commands and of good use both to themselves and others, but Yet, because they proceed not from an heart purified by faith, nor are done in a right manner according to the word, nor to a right end, the glory of God. They are therefore sinful and cannot please God or make a man meet to receive grace from God, and yet their neglect of them is even more sinful and displeasing. To God. No one is saved by works. The good that people do will not save them. Never. We're only saved by faith in Christ the Savior. No one is saved by faith plus works. That's not what James is teaching here. But as James teaches, we are saved by faith which does work. You see, we are saved by faith which is no mere mental assent to some facts, but a faith which acts because it is alive in us. And the final things James says here in this passage is, dead people do not take action. They do not perform deeds. He says in verse 26, as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works. is dead. What do you believe? I ask that question sometimes here, and you respond By beginning to say the Apostles' Creed or the Nicene Creed. That's great. Are you alive in this faith? Does your faith show? Is your faith acting in partnership with God, curbing sin and producing love? Your Christian faith promises you forgiveness of all your sins. It's a marvelous thing Peace with God and everlasting joy, strength for living, eternal life in a sinless, deathless, yet human future in the presence of God. wonderful. Your Christian faith calls you to action, to deeds of love, generosity, selfless service, forgiveness of others. To bring a little of heaven to earth. Your Christian faith calls you to be in partnership with God Not just waiting for heaven, but applying truth here and now. Our supreme example. Is Jesus. Jesus was and is human. And there were times, as you know from the Gospels, there are times when he was tempted to take an easy way. The devil offered him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory if he would bow down and worship him and forgo his mission to save us. Jesus worked so hard praying in Gethsemane that he sweat drops of blood. He worked hard enduring the scourging and the thorns. He worked hard by faith, carrying that crossbeam to Calvary where he was nailed to it by cruel soldiers. He worked hard, the hardest ever, enduring the wrath and separation of the Father as he humbled On the cross, bearing your sin and shame. His faith, his faithful service, saved you and me And now, as the duck preacher said, you have been given great gifts, brothers and sisters, great powers. You can soar on the wings of Faith and do great things. Do not waddle home today. Amen Lord, we thank you for this writing of the Apostle James, the little brother of Jesus, the little half-brother. We thank you that your word harmonizes each book, each portion with the other. And that the whole of Scripture teaches that we are saved by grace through faith alone, but a faith which is never alone, but works in love. We pray that you will apply this to our hearts and lives and help us to soar with the wings of faith, to say no to sin, and to say yes to obedience. In Jesus' name. Name, Amen