Please turn in your Bibles to Zechariah three. Zechariah three. We'll read the entire chapter. Then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord has chosen Jerusalem. Rebuke you. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. Is this not a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments. And the angel said to those who were standing before him, Remove the filthy garments from him. And to him he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you And I said, Let them put a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord was standing by. And the angel of the Lord solemnly assured Joshua, Thus says the Lord of hosts. If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are assigned. Behold, I will bring my servant the branch. For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription declares the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day. In that day, declares the Lord of hosts Every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Our New Testament reading is Hebrews chapter 10. We're going to be reading verses 1 through 4 and then 11 through 14. Hebrews chapter ten beginning in verse one. For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come, instead of the true form of these realities. It can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered? Since the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins. But in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sins every year. To take away sins. And now down to verse eleven. And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices which can never take away sin. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for him. for his feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. This is the word of God. Let's pray. Father, we come before you in the name of your Son, Jesus Christ, and we thank you, Lord, for the opportunity to hear your word. I pray that you will open our ears to hear the things that you have for us today. I pray that you will allow me to speak clearly and to rightly interpret your word so that that you can strengthen your people by it. In Christ's name we pray these things. Amen. So this morning's message is going to be from Zechariah chapter 3. the entire chapter. But before we get deep into the text, I want to give a little historical context for what's happening here. That'll help set the stage for it. In this text, the time of Judah's exile is about to come to an end. The Persians who have recently conquered the Babylonian Empire have already allowed some of the exiles to return back to the land. The walls around Jerusalem have been rebuilt, and reconstruction of the temple has begun. Joshua, the character in the text, is the high priest of Israel, or of Judah. And he's going to reinstate the sacrificial system as prescribed in the law of Moses. Zechariah is a prophet during this time period, uh, living in Judah, along with the prophet Haggai, whose book comes right before Zechariah's, and they are encouraging the process of rebuilding the temple. And the text this morning is a vision that Zechariah has as the completion of the temple nears. And in it, God is about to move in a marvelous way. And this passage is one of the clearest expressions of the gospel in the Old Testament. So we're going to look at this text, and I'm going to kind of break it down into three main sections. Which I'll outline for you here so you can write that down. First, you have in verses 1 through 5 the problem of impurity. Second, in verses six through seven, you have the guarantee of a priestly office. And then third, in verses eight through seven 10, you have a prophecy of a future atonement. So let's look at verses 1 through 5 again, and I'm going to reread them just so it's fresh in our minds. And then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments. And the angel said to those who were standing before him, Remove the filthy garments from him. And to him he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments. And I said, Let them put clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head, and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord was standing by. Now, in the Old Testament, ritual purity was a large part of the religious life of Israel, ceremonial and ritual purity. Even as far back as the time of Noah, when the animals were being brought onto the Ark, there were different rules for, you know, bring two by two of unclean animals, but bring seven of clean animals because they were needed for sacrifice. So there were animals even back then that were considered ceremonially clean and unclean. And this clean and unclean distinction was not merely for animals. In the Mosaic law, there were a number of ceremonial laws that signified the purity required for the people to worship God. The high priest himself was required to follow a number of strict rules of purification before he could enter into the holy place to make sacrifices for the sins of the nation. And so as the exiles are returning to Jerusalem here and preparing to reinstate temple worship, they run into a problem. The Libical priesthood is ritually unclean. It's impure. They've broken the ceremonies and they're unclean. But not only this, the high priest himself is unclean. And he's representing all of the people And so do you see where the problem lies? How can you rebuild and establish re-establish temple worship? If all of your priests are unclean. And how can you purify your priests when there is no temple? at which to make any sacrifices. So in the vision that Zechariah sees here today, we have something like a courtroom. Where this problem is being addressed. Satan is standing on one side accusing Joshua, who's representing really the entire Levitical priesthood here. And on the other side you have the angel of the Lord. who is standing as the advocate for Joshua. And you have God Himself sitting as judge. And to be clear, the charges that the accuser is making against Joshua are not false charges here. They're not unfair charges. Jerusalem has been rejected by God for their sins, for their centuries of sinful disobedience. They've been condemned to exile for seventy years, and they've been cut off from temple worship and have become unclean. So all of the accusations are true. Israel has really messed up in this situation. Um Israel didn't listen to God when he told them to follow these ritually the ceremonial laws to be pure and they were now in trouble because the how having returned to the land and wanting to jump start, restart their worship, they can no longer do that because of their disobedience. And so the question remains, how can Israel get clean clean again and re-establish their temple worship. Look again at verse number two. In the midst of uh Judah's sin and ritual impurity, and faced with the accusations of Satan, the only thing that can save the people And the city from total destruction is the divine favor of the Lord who has chosen her as one who pulls a brand from the fire. And now, this isn't to say that Joshua's impurity or Israel's impurity is unimportant to God, that he's just going to dismiss it, but rather That because of God's covenant love for his people, he's willing to count the impure as pure. Based solely on God's promise of election, which was first made to Abraham as he left the city of Ur, God is now remembering and upholding the promise. which he has made. While Israel is still sinful and richly impure, he again extends grace. to them after having disciplined them in exile for 70 years. And so the instruction is given to remove the filthy rags Which Joshua wears, and instead to give him pure and clean robes, which represent the righteousness and ritual purity the people require for temple worship to be re-established And notice that it's not just that the filthy rags are removed and a clean slate is given and Joshua and Israel are now asked to try again. But rather, when the unrighteousness is taken away, they are given pure, or he is given pure, clean robes of righteousness. Similarly, when God justifies sinners, he doesn't simply take away our sin and ask us to, as it were, go back to the garden and try again. Like Adam. But when he takes away our sin, the righteousness of Christ and his obedience, Is given to us like those clean, pure robes, so that we can be confident when God justifies us. He looks on us and sees the righteousness of Christ. If you were here two Sunday evenings ago, I exhorted from Psalm 32 and we talked about how that passage teaches that God is not willing to impute the s the sins of his people to their account. But rather when we confess and repent of our sins, Christ takes them upon himself and gives us his righteousness. In this text in Zechariah, something very similar is happening. There's this exchange that's taking place. by which Joshua is now being removed from the filthy garments that are rightfully his, and being given pure robes graciously. So because of that exchange, you can be confident of your salvation. Because if you have been justified by faith The only way, the only way for you to be condemned is for God to condemn his own Son. And I say all of this to be an encouragement to you. When we're faced with accusations of Satan And you hear the the cries of guilt against you, even the cries of the guilt of the sins you actually have committed. That say this man or this This passage can serve as a reminder that yes, those charges may be accurate, and we are indeed sinful people, and yet our salvation is not in jeopardy because Because it was never accomplished by our own obedience, cleanliness, or righteousness. Not only this, but because Christ is the one who ultimately fulfills the ceremonial law He has granted to his people by their union with him his purity. If you are in Christ, the old covenant types and shadows of external ceremonial cleanliness no longer bind you. Not because God no longer cares about purity. But rather because the substance, the fulfillment of those laws is in Christ, and Christ is yours if you trust in him. And so in Christ we have been granted clean robes of righteous purity. The external purity signified in the old covenant laws has been made real In Christ and has been made an internal spiritual reality for you in Christ. Just as Joshua's filthy robes have been removed and replaced with clean, pure robes. So also your uncleanness, your sin, your impurity has been removed and replaced with the righteousness and purity of Christ. So after this rebuke of the accusations of Satan Having given Joshua clean robes, the angel of the Lord now gives Joshua an assurance. He says that he will not be removed from from his priestly office, even though he had previously been condemned. But on the basis of God's justifying work, now Joshua will be o will be allowed to remain as the high priest So long as he remains faithful in observing all of his duties. Listen again to verses six and seven. And the angel of the Lord solemnly assured Joshua, Thus says the Lord of hosts: if you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house. and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. So this is a guarantee that the priestly office will be renewed. If you remember your Old Testament very well, you'll remember that many of the problems in Israel had to do with a corrupt priestly office. Uh you had Eli's children who committed sexual immorality with the women who worked near the temple and near the tabernacle. And they also stole from the people who were worshiping. You had the priests during the divided kingdom who allowed false gods to be worshipped in the temple along with the true God. Or probably the most blatant example is when the people of Israel come to the foot of Mount Sinai and Aaron, who is acting as their high priest, makes a golden calf for them to worship while Moses is up on the mountain receiving So this practice of idolatry and corruption is a consistent theme throughout Israel's history. And yet here in Zechariah three, God is graciously renewing that priestly office, even though part of the reason for their exile had been its corruption. It might be hard, I I think, to understand the gravity of the situation here for Judah. Because i i we we don't live in exactly the same situation anymore in Israel as Israel did. But I want to try and give a parallel so you can sort of get a sense for what what is actually at stake for Israel. Israel here, or for Judah here, I should say. Imagine and obviously this example isn't going to parallel perfectly. But imagine that there were no ministers of the gospel in the country in which you lived. No one could be baptized. No one could administer the Lord's Supper. There's no one who could lead worship. And no churches in which worship could rightly be done. The entirety of the institution of the Christian religion was wiped out. And now imagine that it was because of you that this happened. It was your fault. For seventy years Israel had no represent no representative who could go before God and make sacrifices for the atonement of sin. For seventy years Israel was cut off from worship, and their place of worship was destroyed. For seventy years they were an exiled people from their God, and it was their By their continued practice of idolatry, by continually breaking God's law and his covenant, Israel had so tried the patience of God. That God had cut them off from the Promised Land and exiled them to be ruled over by pagan nations. He destroyed their institutions And even abandoned the very place where he dwelt among them to show the totality of their judgment. And yet, after all of this In Zechariah 3, the angel of the Lord assures Joshua that God has not cut them off forever, and that he will be reinstated as a high priest, so that when the people return to the land, they will have access through him to the worship of God in the temple. brings us to our third section here of the text, verses eight through ten, this prophecy that's given. So after declaring the righteousness and purity of Joshua, and by extension the righteousness Righteousness and purity of the priestly system, after reaffirming his commitment to Jerusalem as his chosen city and the home of his elect people. After reaffirming the legitimacy of the high priestly office, in the final few verses of this passage, the angel of the Lord prophesies to Joshua, and he said. says, Hear now, O Joshua the High Priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are a sign. Behold, I will bring my servant the branch, for behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription, declares the Lord of hosts. And I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day. In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree. So the angel of the Lord here speaks again of an imminent renewal of the sacrificial system, and most importantly, the day of atonement, during which the sins of all of Israel are removed. In a single day. However, as we know from the book of Hebrews, the passage we read just earlier, the blood of bulls and goats could never remove sin. And so we still have this problem of justice in the passage. While it's true that God cleansed Joshua and re-established Joshua as a high priest. And again chose Jerusalem as his people, the question of justice hasn't been answered. And what's the question? How can God forgive sins? Can he Can he just speak and the sins are gone? Can he forgive sins by divine fiat? Wouldn't it be unjust to forgive the sins of Israel without a sacrifice? The scripture makes it clear that without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sins. So even if temple worship could be reinstituted, would those sacrifices ever truly be able to remove the sins of the land? I'm going to read again the passage we read earlier from Hebrews chapter 10, verses 1 through 4. For since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come, Instead of the true form of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins But in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sins every year, for it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. So, if the blood of bulls and goats can't take away sins, how can the justice of God be satisfied? If there's a continual need for sacrifice for the forgiveness of sins, how can we find the peace offered at the end of this passage? Listen again to the words of Hebrews. Verses eleven through fourteen, chapter ten. Every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices which can never take away sin. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. So the rituals of the old covenant, the sacrifices of the old covenant All of the worship of the old covenant, the types and shadows, pointed forwards like a sign. And the text itself tells us that even the high priest System. The men who were sitting around Joshua, the priests, were a sign of something greater. And what does that sign point to? to the branch, as the text tells us, which if you are familiar with that terminology, you know from other passages that Jesus is referred to as the root of Jesse, the branch. The stone that the builders rejected, who's become the chief cornerstone to the greater high priest, that is to Jesus Christ. Consider the reference in the passage to a single stone with seven eyes. One of the garments that the high priest wore was An Ephod, which had twelve gemstones, twelve cut gemstones on it, which represented the twelve tribes of Israel. Here in this passage, God speaks of another gemstone. One with seven facets on it, and on each one of those facets of the gemstone is an engraving. And what's interesting about the passage is that in the Hebrew text, the very next sentence, and I will remove the sin of the land in a single day, the sin of this land in a single day, is made up of seven Hebrew words. So y and you can almost hear the echoes of those seven words in the passage in Hebrews that we've read. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. So here in the Old Testament, in the Old Covenant, as God is renewing the Levitical system, and allowing the people to worship in the temple again, he's not just giving them back what they once had, but he's making a promise of something Infinitely greater. The Levitical system could never take away your sins. But now I'm promising to you that in a single day I will remove the sins of this land. And he does that through the work of Jesus Christ. So in a relatively unknown and sadly unread often Book of the Old Testament, the gospel promise is clearly offered and clearly promised to you. Worship is a prophecy of the coming Christ, who will in a final way, which the Levitical priests could never do. Once and for all time, by the sacrifice of his own death, removes the sin of God's people in a single Day. On that day the need for endless sacrifices ceases. Christ, the great high priest, rather than needing his filthy rags removed and pure robes put on him, offers himself as a sacrifice for sins, so that each of you might have pure robes to wear in God's presence, so that you might have And what better image of that peace that Christ offers than in verse ten? In that day declares the Lord of hosts. Every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree. Now I don't know about you, but to me this is a this is a I can't think of a better image of pe peace that is offered when there's no fear. Remember, just recently Israel has had to rebuild the temple wall or rebuild the city walls so that they can safely live in Jerusalem. So they've rebuilt the walls, and as they're re-rebuilding the walls, they're facing these attacks from outside to the point where at one point they're told to hold in one hand a sword and the other hand the trowel for for making the wall. But now God is telling them, in the day that I remove the sins of this land, every man will be able to invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree to sit and relax in peace and security. Because of Christ's perfect sacrifice, because of his perfect fulfillment of the Old Testament ceremonies Because of his perfect righteousness applied to our accounts, there's no need for us to fear that God will ever exile his people. He will never cut us off from access to his presence. presence and nor will there ever be a crisis of ritual purity for God's people because the perfect fulfillment of all the old covenant types, all the shadows, has come come. Jesus Christ, the righteous one, is the ultimate source for the rest and peace of God's people. And all those who have been baptized into Christ and draw near to him by faith are granted eternal access to God and peace and rest through Christ. So as we come to the end of this passage, I want to give three applications for how you might consider these things. First, trust in Christ's forgiveness. When you face death that seek to uh you know, bury your soul in despair to to throw guilt upon you when you hear the accusations of Satan. And though you really may have sinned Remember that your God is the God who offers clean robes and a clear conscience to those who trust in him. There's a quote from Martin Luther in which he says that whenever he hears the accusations of Satan I can't remember word for word, but he says whenever he hears the accusations of Satan, he would thank Satan for reminding him that he is a sinner and that Christ came to save sinners. Now, uh I'm not going to suggest that you try to have conversations with Satan, but I think the sentiment is a good one. Only the sick and dying need a doctor. Only the sinful need a savior. So when faced with your sins, look to Christ and remember that Christ is a savior for sinners Remember that he has purified you through the washing of baptism and invites you into his presence to eat and drink his body and blood as part of the covenant meal. By which he further strengthens and spiritually nourishes you. In Pilgrim's Progress, Apollyon accuses Christian of failing to serve his Lord properly. And I'm going to read a short passage here from it because I think it's very good and very relevant to our text. Apollyon says to Christian, you almost fainted when you first set out, when you almost choked in the swamp of Despond. You also attempted to get rid of your burden in the wrong way instead of patiently waiting for the prince to take it off. You sinfully slept and lost your scroll. You were almost persuaded to go back at the sight of the lions. And when you talk of your journey and of what you have heard and seen, you inwardly desire your own glory in all you do and say. Just as Satan's accusations against Joshua were true. So too are many of the accusations which Satan makes against us and which your own conscience will make against you. But listen to the Christian's response to the Pollyon from Pilgrim's Progress. Christian says, All this is true and much more that you have failed to mention. But the Prince whom I now serve and honor is merciful and ready to forgive. Besides, these infirmity these infirmities possessed me while I was in your country, for there I allowed them to come in, but I have groaned under them, have been sorry for them, and have have obtained pardon from my people Prince. Your Prince, the Lord Jesus Christ, has granted you pardon from your sins. When you turn to Him in repentance and faith, He is merciful and ready to forgive. And remove all the guilt, shame, and filth of your sin. He will remove the filthy clothes of your uncleanliness and unrighteousness. and replace them with the pure white robes of his righteousness. Second application Trust in God's promises. In the beginning of this passage, God rebuked Satan for his accusations, not because they were false. Not because Joshua was actually righteous and Satan was just falsely accusing him. And not because Jerusalem had gotten their act together. But rather, God rebuked Satan because God had chosen Jerusalem. So don't fear that God will ever abandon you, his people. When you face trials or persecution in this world, know that it is because they hated Christ that they hate us now. Now, when we face discipline from God in this world as a result of our sin, be hopeful, because God chastens the one whom He loves. There may be times when we turn from him to our sinful passions, but he is always ready to remember his covenant and complete the good work that was begun in So when you fall, confess your sin, repent, turn from them, turn to Christ, who's the only sure access to God's presence and his peace. Finally, a third application. Rest in God's peace. By his work of salvation. God has granted to us eternal rest from our labors in the new creation. And while we don't yet enjoy that rest, we have a foretaste of it that has been granted to us. One day in seven, in which we come together, feed on Christ by His Word and the sacraments, praise Him in His presence and commune with one another. So I wanted to encourage you to take advantage of that blessing. Don't consider the Lord's day and the opportunity, the call to worship him as a burden, a day in which you aren't allowed to do things. But rather consider it a gift, a day on which you are free to rest from all of the labors of this world, and instead to invite your neighbor to come and sit under your fig tree. And enjoy the eternal rest offered to us in Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are a God who is ready to forgive. We are a sinful people and we We wear filthy rags, and yet you have given us the pure righteousness of your Son, Jesus Christ. And we are forever grateful. and thankful for the access to you that that has granted us, for the peace and rest that you have granted us in Christ. Thank you, Lord. Amen.