Our epistle reading this morning comes from the book of Acts in chapter 10. And we're going to read beginning at verse 34 through the end of the chapter. I selected this reading because Here is an example of the Apostle Peter's missionary preaching as we examine the Great Commission today, and many of the truths we find in our gospel reading can be found here in this preaching. So hear the word of the Lord, Acts chapter 10, beginning at verse 34. So Peter opened his mouth and said Truly I understand that God shows no partiality, but in every nation, anyone who fears him and does what is right. Is acceptable to him. As for the word that he sent to Israel, preaching good news of peace through Jesus Christ, he is Lord of all. You yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good. and healing all who were oppressed by the devil. For God was with him And we are witnesses of all that he did, both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They put him to death by hanging him on a tree. But God raised him on the third day and made him to appear. Not to all the people, but to us who had been chosen by God as witnesses, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. And he commanded us to preach to the people and testify that he is the one appointed by God to be judge of the living and the dead. To him all the prophets bear witness that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name. While Peter was still saying these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word, and the believers from among the circumcised who had come with Peter were amazed Because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out even on the Gentiles. For they were hearing them speak in tongues and extolling God. Then Peter declared, Can anyone withhold water for baptizing these people who have received the Holy Spirit just as we have? And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain for some days. And our gospel reading comes from the gospel according as Mark wrote it in chapter 16. And we're going to read beginning at verse 9 through verse 20. So Mark 16, beginning at verse 9. Through the word of the Lord. Now when he rose early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons. She went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept. When they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they would not believe it. After these things he appeared in another form to two of them, as they were walking in the country, and they went back and told the rest, but they did not believe them Afterward, he appeared to the eleven themselves, as they were reclining at table, and he rebuked them for their unbelief and hardness of heart Because they had not believed those who saw him after he had risen. And he said to them Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned. And these signs will accompany those who believe. In my name they will cast out demons, they will speak in new tongues. They will pick up serpents with their hands, and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not hurt them. They will lay their hands on the sick, and they will recover So then the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. And they went out and preached everywhere, while the Lord worked with them and confirmed the message by accompanying signs. This is the word of the Lord. We have reached the final verses of the gospel as Mark wrote it, which I read to you this morning or just now. And in these verses, the truths contained in them, I know, will be familiar to many of you. They tell us of Jesus' resurrection appearances after he was raised from the dead, three of them. They tell us about the great commission that he gave to his apostles. And tell us about the signs that accompany the preaching of it, signifying that God's kingdom has come. I'm not going to say a lot to those about today, but no, we should not handle snakes to see if we genuinely have faith Those signs are done away with. I'm not going to deal with that, but I just don't want us going away wondering what about those? And then we see uh them going out. And Jesus' ascension, his seating at the right hand of God, and they're going out preaching, and the Lord Jesus working with them. And we see what Mark is doing in these verses is that he is showing how these disciples went from unbelief To belief, to service in the kingdom of God with the risen Lord Jesus Christ. And it ends on quite a beautiful picture. Of man in God, man and God working together again in evangelism. You know, what a proof That what Jesus just accomplished on the cross, his atoning death, and followed by his resurrection, truly brought man and God again together. Forever. And so we see God and man as fellow workers again in his great kingdom. Now I mentioned all these truths to you and walked through them because as you look at your ESV Bible, if you have your ESV Bible open to you, You'll see that the editors of it have put in brackets after verse 8 and before verse 9, telling you that some of the earliest manuscripts, that is, Greek manuscripts, do not include these verses. So what are we to make of that? Well, I pointed out to you all these truths can be found elsewhere in Scripture. John and Luke tell us about these appearances. Matthew gives us this commission. And if you read the book of Acts, it's going to tell you about Jesus' ascension, Jesus' reigning at God's right hand, and it's going to tell you about all of these signs actually happening come to pass except for one There's no biblical record that any apostle or any missionary and evangelist drank a cup of poison and was protected from it There is extra biblical evidence by the early church and testimonies of some of the martyrs being given cups of poison to drink and being preserved from them, but not recorded for us in the book of Acts. Now I'm not going to say to you everything about this, but I will tell you this. Personally as your pastor, take it for what it means. I am convinced that these verses are original, 9 through 20. This is how Mark intended this gospel to be end, and that this is the word of God in Scripture inspired by the Holy Spirit. And I'm going to just say one thing about that And I'm just going to dwell on the textual evidence for it for one moment. All of the Greek manuscripts that we have, except for two. I'm going to give you their names. They're going to mean nothing to you. Just scholars give them names so they know as they're talking about it what manuscript you're talking about. Every extant Greek manuscript except for Aleph and Beta have these verses in them. Every Latin manuscript has these verses in them except for one, and there is evidence that there is heretical tampering with that text. Probably explains one of the reasons they've dropped out. Every Syriac version has these verses in them except for one And every Moharic or Coptic, which is a group of languages in Egypt. I'm getting at these are the God was worshipped in Coptic in Syriac before he was worshipped in English is the point All these early manuscripts have these verses in them. They are quoted as scripture by the early church fathers who lived 150 years before Aleph and Beta were ever discovered. So I'm just gonna leave it at that, they're just on the weight of the textual evidence themselves. I'm convinced that These are scripture. They ought to be read in God's church. And this is how Mark wanted his gospel to end. And I know that tells you nothing about, well, how did they come out? If you want to know that answer You come find me in Fellowship Hour, and I will be happy to tell you uh the very plausible explanation on how these verses then did not end up in descriptions. But I just wanted you to hear Every Greek version except 2, every Latin version except 1, every Syriac version, every early Coptic version has these verses. You can trust that they are God's word. Well, what are they saying to us? That's what we're going to look at I'm going to start this morning a sermon series on the Great Commission. So this is going to be the first sermon of I have four plans so far for this Great Commission. So this will be Sermon 1 This will be a good headway into the book of Hebrews, where we plan to study next, because the whole message of Hebrews is an exhortation to hold fast to this gospel. So let's look at the Great Commission and understand its gospel and its importance. So this will hedge us into Hebrews Before we get there, let's spend time making sure we all know what the gospel is, what is its importance and relevance in this time before we go to Hebrews, which is going to tell us in so many ways, hold fast to it. So this the topic this morning is the importance of evangelism I'm sure if I asked by a show of hands who thinks evangelism is important, right, everybody would raise their hand, right? Yes, somebody did So you all know what we're talking about this morning. We're talking about the importance of evangelism. The purpose of this sermon this morning is that we will all go away and understand. why evangelism is so important. So this is aimed at understanding. So I'm going to lay out a case. This is aimed at understanding and knowing why evangelism is important. You see, I think understanding is important for us. My time in the Marines as a sergeant, I could go tell Marines go do this, dig that hole. Oh I grumbly do it If I gave him a little bit of understanding, that's gonna be your latrine for the next two weeks. You dig the hole a little bit better, right? And you build it to specs and everything. Understanding is important. So I want us to understand why the gospel, why evangelism is so essential. To the life of the church in this age. And to get at this topic of the importance of evangelism, I want to ask this question. Why now? Jesus has just risen, or he died as atoning death, he just rose from the grave and he appeared. Why? Now, right? Why now in the in the history of these events, why now is Jesus giving this great commission to his apostles? What is the significance of this moment, right? Why now, why after his resurrection is he telling them to go to the nations Proclaim this gospel. Tell every creature about it. Why? Now. And the answer is because it is the next phase of the kingdom of God. Namely, right, seed time. It is seed time for the nations. The gospel seed is going to be sown out into the nation. That is the next phase, and even the present phase. In God's kingdom, as He has promised to bring that kingdom to earth and consummate it when the Lord returns. So the importance, or when we ask the question, why now The answer is, the Bible gives, I'll show you in just a moment, is it's the next phase in God's purposes or his kingdom here on earth. It is seed time. If you go back a little bit earlier in the Gospel of Mark, back to chapter 3, you'll read about, which we did now a while ago, how Jesus picked 12 men. called them to himself, and he appointed them, whom he also named apostles, that they might be with him, and he might send them out to preach, and have authority to cast out demons. So why now? Because Jesus had already Pick these men to do this work. And they're going to do the same work he's been doing. That's the uh if you go then into Mark 4, Jesus tells you he says the most important kingdom parable. Do you remember which one is the most important? Kingdom parable. Which, if you don't understand this parable, you won't understand any other parable of the kingdom. It's the parable of the sower. Because Jesus has been sowing the gospel message in his own preaching. And people weren't getting it, but he was sowing the seed. He says, this sowing is what's going to be going on to the end of the age. I've come and I've sowed. Now we know he came for other reasons than just sowing. But he says, I came to preach. I came to call sinners to repentance. I came to give my life a ransom. So Jesus is the first gospel sower, and he sowed, he evangelized in his own day, but he wanted this work to go beyond Galilee, beyond Judea, right to the ends of the earth. And he picked these apostles, and now it is time to send them. This is the next phase of God's kingdom. It is seed time for the nations, right? And really everything I'm about to say and here I'll speak a word to the children. Children Everything that I'm about to say is I'll spend some more time dwelling on the importance of evangelism and open it up in a little more detail Jesus already taught you everything about when he told you about how the kingdom comes. Somebody sows seed Then he goes about his day and that seed comes up and you get a crop, right? How many of you children have ever planted a seed? Have you ever planted a flower seed, a tomato seed? Right, you know what happens. You sow the seed in the ground and you wonder, is anything happening? And all of a sudden, it is happening. There's something here. I can see the fruit. And that Parable alone tells you everything you need to know about God's kingdom. There is something happening. The gospel seeds being sown. People If you know the secret of the kingdom, right, you know who Jesus is. You know that God's kingdom's come, but you also know there's many people who in this world don't know the kingdom's come, and they're looking at that field going Is anything happening? Is anything here? And Jesus says, one day it will be shining like a bright harvest. The kingdom of God and glory, there'll be no doubt Whose kingdom it is on earth, even though now many people doubt that the kingdom belongs to Jesus So everything I'm about to open up, Jesus has already taught us in the gospel in this parable of Son. So why is evangelism important? Why now? It's the next phase for God's kingdom. You see this also in the Gospel of Luke, as Luke wrote it in the end of the book, in chapter 24. In verse 36, Luke begins a narrative of a conversation that Jesus has with his disciples after his resurrection. And here in verse 44, hear what he says to them. Then he said to them, These are my words, and I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures, and he said to them, Thus it is written, here's what the scriptures wrote, that the Christ should suffer and on the third day rise from the dead. We've seen that happen And that repentance for forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. Did you know that? That the scriptures wrote that Christ should suffer And rise. The scriptures also wrote, then we should go proclaim that message to the nation. So Jesus is saying, this is the next phase in God's kingdom. I've done this work of suffering and dying. It is now time to go proclaim the gospel In um Acts chapter 1, right there before Jesus had ascended bodily when he was appearing and talking to his disciples. We read in verse 3, Jesus presented himself alive to them after his sufferings by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about what was he speaking about? The kingdom of God. What do you think he was saying about the kingdom of God? It's now time. Well, we don't have to question what he was saying. Just jump down to verse 6 So when they had come together they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? Are we going to be sitting in power in Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know the times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. Remember the last time Jesus said that? When they asked him when the end comes? He said, You'll have the kingdom on earth, and everybody will know the saints of God reign on earth according to Daniel 7 when the end comes That's not the time. What does he say the time is? But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses or my evangelists in Jerusalem Jerusalem in Judea, Samaria, to the ends of the earth. So Jesus talks to them about the kingdom of God, talks to them about what phase of the kingdom of God we're in, and that is Seed time, that is, evangelism, that is proclaiming the good news to the nation. So I just want to sum that up and then dive in just a little bit deeper on it, but I want to make sure everybody's still with me this morning. We're talking about the importance of evangel Do you understand and see why it's so important? Because it is God's present kingdom purposes. We even see that in the Gospel of Mark, right? We see that Christ ascended We see that he reigns at God's right hand, and we see that he was working with the evangelists as they were going out and sowing the seed, right? King Jesus is reigning from heaven to uphold, he's doing many things, but one of the things is to uphold this work of evangelism. He reigns so that there will always be some faithful man, some faithful church preaching repentance There will be some faithful gospel herit, some faithful church proclaiming the forgiveness of sins, because that is the time. Now is the time to sow this seed. So the importance, the importance of evangelism, that is the present phase in the kingdom of God. Let me draw out a teaching for you then. If evangelism is important, or let me draw out a doctrine. If the present phase is now, then evangelism this is teaching us that evangelism is important because it fulfills God's present Kingdom purposes in the world. Everybody would say evangelist is important. But I bet, prior to me just telling you, if I were to go around and say, Reverend Tyson, Mr. Alvarado. Yeah, I'm picking on names. Josiah. This is Moses. I didn't say, why is Evandism important? Do you think we all would have said the same thing? We all would say it's important, but do you think we all would understand equally why it's important? The answer is, beloved, it's because it's how God is presently fulfilling his kingdom purposes. And I'm going to demonstrate that to you The answer to why evangelism is important is because it presently, it's how God is presently fulfilling his kingdom purposes. Let me show you that. I got six little steps to build that case for you, right? What I want you to take away, I know this is going to seem information, but if you can just remember, right? Seed time. Jesus has already told us. The kingdom is sowing seed right now. It's really here. It's really present. A seed is a real thing. There's a real kingdom of God on earth. There's a real seed. You can really be in it. But it's not harvest yet where everybody's going, God reigns, and there's no opposition to God reigns, and the saints are shining in resurrection glory like King Jesus is. That's not happened in the kingdom yet. But we're sowing seed. There's real life in the kingdom be enjoyed. That is brought through evangelism. So this is presently how God is fulfilling his kingdom purposes in the world. Or to say it another way, to use this seed time parable, which is how Jesus taught us to think about it, it's how God is getting his abiding crop If you're going to rise from the dead one day, it's because you heard the evangel and you believed it and you stand in it. This is how God we read in Isaiah 40, right? That imperishable word, right? The glory of the Lord endures forever Peter tells us that word is the gospel in 1 Peter chapter 1. This is how God is getting his abiding crop. Through sowing the seed of the gospel. So you cannot overstate the importance of evangelism. It is how God is presently fulfilling his kingdom purposes In the world. Now, how do we know that? Well, in Daniel chapter 2, verse 44, God says this: and in the days of those kings. Babylonians, followed by the Medes and Persians, followed by the Greeks, followed by the Romans, which was the days of Jesus Himself. In the days of those kings. The God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an end, and it shall stand forever. You have heard God's purpose To create on this earth an everlasting kingdom, thou shalt destroy every other kingdom and last forever. He told that to Daniel. Daniel 7 gives us the visions of the Son of Man. We've seen Jesus talk a lot about the Son of Man in Jesus identifying Himself as the Son of Man. It is the Son of Man who at the end of the age appears in the clouds of glory who brings judgment to the saints. And gives them the kingdom because right now that little horn, that anti-Christian activity, is warring against them. You can all tell and know Yes, God reigns, but not everybody acknowledges that. His kingdom is warred against. Satan is making war against his kingdom. War against the saints. And the Son of Man, King Jesus, comes to bring it in its final form. But the form we're in now is the form he left, and we're going to talk more about that. But the kingdom comes. God has given us Promised us as a purpose to set up an everlasting kingdom on earth that will destroy all their kingdoms. That's salvation. You don't want to be in those kingdoms that are going to be destroyed. You want to be in God's kingdom, coming into God's kingdom through faith in Christ is salvation. As God freely reconciles us to Himself The gift of forgiveness, which Jesus worked on the cross, adopting us as his children, right? So you come into God's kingdom by faith in Christ. So God has his purpose to set up a kingdom. Jesus announced the now of that kingdom after his own baptism and anointing. After Jesus' own baptism and anointing in Mark 1, he announced the now of that kingdom. Jesus came into Galilee, Mark 1:14, proclaiming the good news of God and saying, The time's fulfilled. Guess what? It's here. And the kingdom of God is at hand. Who's the king in God's kingdom? God? Who is Jesus? God in the flesh? God's Son? You can't get the more kingdom of God than to have God here on earth. Dwelling with you. That's the secret people didn't get, but that's the impetus behind repentance. You need to get in line with me. Many people can talk about, oh, I want to be in heaven someday, I want to be with King Jesus. Oh, you do? Well, you know he came to earth once, and many people didn't want to follow him. If you don't want to make Jesus king now, don't hope of being in his kingdom later. The call is now entering the kingdom Because that kingdom is here. Jesus reigns. You can come into God's kingdom now. By believing in Jesus Christ. Anybody can come into God's kingdom now by believing in Jesus Christ. So Jesus preached, then now that kingdom God promised has come with my coming. Has it come in its final and perfect form? No, Jesus told us it comes when he returns. Because what happens when Jesus returns? Every knee is going to bow and acknowledge him as king. You'll know. He's king. You will not be able to dispute. He's king. And he will set up the perfect form and he makes the new heavens and new earth. But Jesus is saying right now. God's final, eternal, everlasting kingdom that He purposes to bring in this world has come in this gospel seed way, and you can enter into So God has a purpose to set up the kingdom. Daniel 2 showed us that. Jesus preached it in his own preaching. Jesus says in Mark 4:11: to you has been given the secret of the kingdom The kingdom's really here, but not everybody gets it. But the kingdom is really here. I'm God in the flesh. I'm your king, your gracious, loving, forgiving, helping King, believe in me. That's what it means to be in the kingdom. Make me your king. Everybody who makes Jesus their king and believes in him is in God's Kingdom. The only Jesus to believe in is one who died on the cross and rose again three days later for our forgiveness, for our justification. So Jesus announced announced The present mode of God's kingdom? How is God's kingdom presently here? Well, it was here when Jesus was on earth by his presence, but Jesus has ascended Jesus has then poured out the Holy Spirit. So if the present mode of the kingdom of God on earth is life in the Holy Spirit. Remember what I'm building here is a case to you how God is presently fulfilling his kingdom purposes by preaching the gospel And I've started that case by saying God had a purpose to bring a kingdom. I say that case that God Jesus has that said in his own preaching, that kingdom's come now. Well What is the motive that kingdom's come now? How do I know I'm in it? What does it mean to be in God's kingdom? And Paul says in Romans 14, verse 17. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy, and here's the key words, in the Holy Spirit. If by faith you become a member of Christ's body and have been received the Holy Spirit, you are in God's kingdom. That is the present mode of God's kingdom in this world, is life And the Holy Spirit. So God has promised an everlasting kingdom on earth. Jesus said it's now, and you can be in it and are in that kingdom right now if you have the Holy Spirit Now, here's where we get to that part about evangelism. How does one get the Holy Spirit? The Holy Spirit is mediated through proclaiming the good News. But we saw that in Acts 10. Peter's missionary preaching. What happened? They believed it. The Holy Spirit fell on them. In Acts chapter 15 at the Jerusalem Council Peter says these words. And God who knows the heart, God can see our hearts, right? He bore witness to them, right? He bore witness to these Gentiles by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as he did to us. And he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed our hearts by faith. I missed, I I missed over these words. Brothers, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you that by my mouth the Gentile should hear the word of the gospel and believe. What's he saying? I went and preached the gospel to Cornelius and his family And God who sees the heart saw, these people believe it. And God bore witness that these people really believe my gospel. And so he gave them the Holy Spirit, attesting. They have the same faith, Peter, as you guys have. They believe the key message of Jesus Christ. And on those grounds alone, is anybody cleansed by me, is anybody accepted by me? Faith in Jesus Christ. So, how does that spirit come to us? Through faith in the gospel. Paul says the same thing in Galatians chapter 3 as he's having to deal with the problem there. They're leaving the gospel and justification by faith. But he says, O foolish Galatians, who's bewitched you is before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Let me ask you only this: Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law? Did somebody come preaching Moses to you, telling you to be circumcised to stop eating this food and God gave you the Spirit? No. Or by hearing with faith. Did the man who came and preached Christ crucified to you? And when you believe the message of Christ crucified to you, by hearing that with faith, God gave you the Holy Spirit. Many people hear the preaching. It's the people who hear that preaching with faith and believe it, God seals and attests to that faith by giving them the Holy Spirit. Again, what's the case we're building here, right? I'm building the case that evangelism is so important. Because it is how God is fulfilling his kingdom purposes in this world. He's promised it. Jesus says it's now. You can be in the kingdom. The present mode of that kingdom is life in the spirit. And you get that spirit one way. By believing the gospel message as it is preached. But is it clear then how God is fulfilling those kingdom purposes to bring his people into his kingdom? It's through evangelism, through the sowing of this seed. Fifthly, to make my point Those who have the Spirit of Christ are the sons of the kingdom, sown by the Son of Man. To abide forever in this kingdom. Jesus taught us this, you'll recognize this as the parable of the tares, right? Of the wheat and of the tares. For Jesus tells us, here's what's happening in this age. I'm sowing good seed. I only buy good seed, I only have good seed. But then you realize, why is there tares going up in my kingdom? Because my enemy is also sowing seed. And Jesus says, the Son of Man, the coming judge, I am sowing the gospel in this world. Those who believe that gospel are the sons of the kingdom. And they will abide in it forever. But the devil is also sowing his seed. So from now to the end of the age, from now until Jesus comes back The Son of Man, through his missionaries, through his church, is sowing this gospel seed. And if you believe the message of the gospel, you have been sown into the kingdom of God And you will abide in it forever. Jesus says, then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their father. What does he talk about? It's sowing time right now. Jesus said, I'm sowing. But he says that I come back just like crop. Have you ever seen a the sun shining on a field of crop? It's glorious. It's so bright. And Jesus is saying, the righteous, those who believe this gospel, those who repent and believe, will one day be shining in the Father's kingdom when he comes back. And finally, evangelism is performed in obedience to a risen king. We saw that in our text. Jesus says, go, we read in the last verse of Mark 6. 20, they went, and Jesus worked with them. What is the importance of evangelism? It is how God is presently until Christ comes back, fulfilling his purpose Of bringing an everlasting kingdom to this earth. God promised it. I showed you that in Daniel 2. Christ said it's right now when he began his preaching in Galilee. Life in His kingdom is living in the Holy Spirit. That's the present mode of God's kingdom. If you are in God's kingdom, if you are dwelt by the Holy Spirit, And you're in it everlastingly. And you get this Holy Spirit. How? By the preaching of the gospel, by hearing that gospel and believing it. Because you are sown by the Son of Man. And evangelism is something done to the King. It's a royal act. Preaching the gospel is fulfilling King Jesus' purposes, as he has said, go do it. Let me apply this real quick as we wrap up. Evangelism is so important because it is how God is fulfilling his present kingdom purposes in this world And if that's true, then the church, Capital C, the whole church, and every local church should evangelize. But if this is how God is bringing his kingdom purposes, If we are in service to King Jesus, then the church should evangelize. The church should proclaim the good news. Now, Let me put you at ease. I'm not going to talk about all these ways you and I aren't evangelizing. We all go away going, uh I'm going to tell you some ways you're already evangelizing. One, praying to the Father in the name of Jesus. That is something God has revealed in his gospel, hasn't he? Or not his children by nature, but children of wrath, sons of disobedience. And God has adopted us by his grace The redeeming work of Jesus Christ. If you pray to the Heavenly Father, through the risen Jesus Christ, you're proclaiming the gospel. God's kingdom's come and He's daddy. It's life with Daddy. It's life with God the Father as his children. So I know we do that in our homes. How many of you have stopped because culture has gotten so rotten you don't pray out in public anymore in the name of Jesus? You're evangelizing when you pray in the name of Jesus You're letting everybody know who's the authority? Jiva. So you're already doing evangelism. By praying in God to the Father in the name of Jesus Christ. You're letting everybody know God's kingdom's come. I'm a child of it. I live in it. Get in it too. Why are you staying out? Believe in Jesus. Is that is that clear? If it's really here, then act like it, right? If the kingdom's really here and you're God's children to faith in Christ, then live like it, because that's what Jesus did. He'd live like God was kingdom. He called people to get in the kingdom because the kingdom's here and he can really be in it. No matter what you ever did, that past life doesn't matter. Get in the kingdom now. So that's one way you're already evangelizing by praying to God the Father in the name of Jesus Christ. There's another way by your Christian conduct. 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 1 and 2. Peter tells is talking about how wives should conduct themselves. I'll read it for you because I don't want to butcher it. But in 1 Peter, in chapter 3, Peter's addressing wives, Christian wives. And he says, likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word. What's that word, right? The gospel. The time's fulfilled. God's fulfilled it. He's brought the Messiah. His kingdom's come near to us. If they don't obey that, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. Did you know you're sowing gospel seed by living a Christian life by your own very conduct that they may very well save your spouse? Making no promises, simply saying, Peter has said, they may be won by this without a word. He's saying wives don't berate your husbands because they don't believe the gospel and beat them up with it But live Christianly. Live your life in service to the King Jesus. Be filled with His graces Be as humble and meek and gentle as kind and loving as patient as tenderhearted as he is, and see if they don't like this gospel. Because it's made my wife wonderful. Is this what it means to be in God's kingdom? I may want to get in there myself. You're already evangelized in how you pray, beloved. You're already evangelizing by your Christian conduct. Beloved, you're already evangelizing by holding two public worship services every Lord's Day with any special services. Has the gospel not been preached here today? It's evangelism that creates worship. You and I used to bow down to rocks and stones. How did that stop? God sent Jesus and turned us from darkness. to light and taught us how to worship. And even worship is something that takes place in God's kingdom, not outside of it. You can't worship God if you're outside of His kingdom. You can't worship God if you don't have the Holy Spirit. You can't worship God that's not through Christ. Evangelism creates worship. Maybe you remember um Pastor Piper's wonderful remark. Why does evangelism exist? Because worship doesn't. Go tell the creation who their God is. Behold, your God's come. Behold, He died on the cross. Yes, that's really truly your God. He did it to redeem you, and he's going to bring his kingdom in glory one day. Come into it. There's forgiveness for anybody who believes. That's good news. That's wonderful news. That's the news. Jesus was filling the world. So your public worship service, your attendance in it by holding this, you're already evangelized Community choirs. We do community choirs. Bring in the community and teach them the songs of Zion. Teach them King Jesus who's reigning now. We do summer music camps. Patricia runs those and you help out those summer music camps. These are ways that you're already doing as a church evangelism. Finally, I think the fifth way, how many of you have spoken to your children about Jesus? Are you already evangelizing by doing home worship? Home Bible studies, talking to, bringing your children to the worship services or being evangelized, right? You're already evangelizing your children by your Christian conduct, by how you pray By bringing in the worship services and by your own catechizing instruction and teaching them. Isn't it wonderful to know five ways you're already evangelizing? Did you know you're evangelizing those five ways? Most of us, right as Christians, think I'm a terrible evangelist, I'm not doing any evangelism. No! If you're in God's kingdom filled with the Spirit and living Christian, you're evangelizing Just tell people the news that makes you so happy. Tell people the good news that you believe. That's evangelism. Okay? So we're going to talk a little bit more about that. I just wanted you to know some ways you're already evangelizing. And beloved, if it's true that God is presently fulfilling his kingdom purposes through evangelism, then don't tamper with the evangel. Don't tamper with it. Don't change it. I'm saying that as a very light, slight admonition, not because I think anybody's done it. But to maybe perk our ears up in the coming weeks when we're going to talk about what's the message evangel and ask ourselves, do I really know it, right? Because I'm certain if I also sent a sheet around and said, What's the evangel, what's the gospel, I'm not going to get one answer. We're going to get multiple ones. You might get parts of it, right? So if it's true that God is fulfilling His kingdom purposes right now, then don't tamper with this evangel, right? Don't change the message. But know that message. And share it. Beloved, we looked at the importance of evangelism this morning. And evangelism is important because it is the present phase of God's kingdom By it, God fulfills his present kingdom purposes in the world. By it, God is sowing his imperishable crop. No, we are in seed time in the kingdom of God. So, beloved, keep on sowing. May God give you his grace. Amen.