Please open your Bibles to the book of Genesis, chapter 21, where we will read the entire chapter, verses 1 through 34. The Lord visited Sarah, as he had said, and the Lord did to Sarah as he had promised. And Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the time of which God had spoken to him. Abraham called the name of his son, who was born to him, whom Sarah bore to him, Isaac. And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him. Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him. And Sarah said, God has made laughter for me. Everyone who hears will laugh over me. And she said, Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age. And the child grew and was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on that day, on the day that Isaac was weaned. When Sarah saw that the son of Hagar, the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, laughing, so she said to Abraham, Cast out this slave woman with her son, for the son of this slave woman shall not be heir with my son Isaac. And the thing was very displeasing to Abraham on account of his son. But God said to Abraham, Be not displeased because of the boy and because of your slave woman. Whatever Sarah says to you Do as she tells you, for through Isaac shall your offspring be named. And I will make a nation of the son of the slave woman also, because he is your offspring. So Abraham rose early in the morning, and took bread and a skin of water, and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, along with the child, and sent her away. And she departed and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba. When the water in the skin was gone, she put the child under one of the bushes. Then she went and sat down opposite of him a good way off, about the distance of a bow shot. For she said, Let me not look upon the death of the child. And as she sat opposite him, she lifted up her voice and wept. And God heard the voice of the boy, and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, What troubles you, Hagar? Fear not. For God has heard the voice of the boy where he is. Uh, lift up the boy and hold him fast with your hand, for I will make him into a great nation. Then God opened her eyes and she saw a well of water. And she went and filled the skin with the water and gave the boy a drink. And God was with the boy. And he grew up. He lived in the wilderness and became an expert with a bow. He lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took a wife from him from the land of Egypt. At that time, Abimelech and Phikal, the commander of his army, said to Abraham, God is with you in all that you do. Now therefore swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me, but with my descendants or with my posterity. But as I have dealt kindly with you, so will you deal with me and with the land where you have sojourned And Abraham said, I will swear. When Abraham reproved Abimelech about the well of the water that Abimelech's servant had seized, Abimelech said, I do not know who has done this thing. You did not tell me, and I have not heard of it until today. So Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech, and the two men made a covenant. Abraham said, set seven ewes of the flock apart. And Abimelech said to Abraham, What is the meaning of these seven ew lambs that you have set apart? He said, These seven ew lambs you will take from my hand, that this may be the witness for me that I dug this well. Therefore that place was called Bersheba. Because they're both of them sworn out. So they made a covenant at Rersheba. Then Abimelech and Fakal, the commander of his army, rose up and returned to the land of the Philistines. Abraham planted a temarous tree in Beersheba and called there on the name of the Lord, the everlasting God. And Abraham sojourned many days in the land of the Philistines. This is the word of the Lord. And now we read a portion from Galatians where Paul comments on the on the narrative of Genesis that was read earlier. Galatians 4, beginning at verse 21 Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman and one by a free woman But the son of the slave was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise Now this may be interpreted allegorically. These women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem, where she is in slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. For it is written Rejoice, O barren one, who does not bear. Break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor, for the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband. Now you brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise. But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit. So also it is now. But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free woman. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Lord, we pray now that as we approach this narrative of your word, that we will understand it. According to the meaning that was given by the Holy Spirit when it was inspired and written down and preserved for us, illumine this word of yours, Lord, that we might understand and apply it. In Jesus' name. Amen. So I told you last week that it's important to keep the big picture in mind. In each one of these little stories. They all lead to the big story, the great story of redemption So we see here in the early chapters of Genesis the creation, and then the rebellion, and then the alienation, and then in chapter 3, the promise. That is the big story, and this is a subset of that big story that is being expanded and told over and over. The big promise that I just mentioned in Genesis 3 of the Savior who would come, the seed of the woman, the big promise is dependent on this series of smaller promises that God makes and keeps. These teach people that God can be trusted to do what He says. God had been promising lately, he had been promising Abraham and Sarah great things for many years. But he waited until they were absolutely helpless to keep his word. And then he came through. And so we see, first of all, the promise fulfilled in verses 1 through 7. The Lord visited Sarah as he had said. And the Lord did to Sarah as he had promised. And Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the time of which God had spoken to him. The point being stressed here in these verses is the fulfillment of the promise, the reliability of the Word of God. Three times this point is stated to qualify that the birth was just as he had said. As he had spoken, and at the time set of which God had spoken to him. So precisely the fulfillment that God had said The first verb in the section also calls for some consideration. The verb is translated here, visited. The Lord visited Sarah. This describes divine intervention in someone's life that shapes and alters destiny. The survey of its ranges of uses will show that it can describe appointments to new positions. The mustering of troops, intervening for blessing or for judgment, and a number of other activities as well. It is significant in the book of Genesis that this verb used here to announce the fulfillment of the promise of the seed, and then again in chapter 50. Verse 24 to announce the future fulfillment of the promised deliverance from Egypt. God will visit his people after they are in Egypt for 400 years. So that's very important. The fulfillment then in verses 3 through 5 provides an opportunity for Abraham To respond by obeying. When God does something, you obey Verse 3, Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore to him Isaac. Why? Because that's what God said to do. So he obeyed. He didn't call him Abraham Jr. He called him Isaac. And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old as God commanded him. So, this is an opportunity for Abraham to respond to God's fulfillment by obeying. And it says that Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him. So think about the name Isaac for a moment. The name is repeated three times in these three verses. Note that that is in conjunction with the repetition of this name, his son. Isaac his son, Isaac his son, Isaac his son, also appears three times. Both the meaning of the name of the son and the performance of the rite of circumcision were acts of obedience to the Lord's previous commands. This is just as God had commanded him. And then please note also in verses 6 through 7. The fulfillment of the promise prompts great rejoicing. The psalm we just sang was full of great rejoicing. There are lots of them. I could have chosen a number of psalms to sing. This one was one. But here we have it, the great rejoicing in verses six and seven. And Sarah said, and you have to imagine her, this old lady. God has made laughter for me. Everyone who hears will laugh over me. And she said, Who would have said? I think she's laughing when she says this. Who would have said? To Abraham, that Sarah would nurse children. Yet I have borne him a son in his old age. It is laughter indeed. These two verses display how those who wait in great expectation for the fulfillment of the Lord's promise rejoice when the time finally arrives. Here again the theme of laughter. But with a new turn. Remember Sarah had had said earlier when she heard that she was going to have a son, she had laughed it off like this can't have it. No way. And God said, yes, you did laugh. Remember that? But now it's a different kind of laughter. It's the laughter of fulfillment, the laughter of God's faithfulness. So instead of the name Isaac being a reminder of mocking laughter, disbelief laughter, it's now a reminder of the joy of laughter. We named our son, our first son, Isaac. And part of the reason for that was it was really a joyful thing. When he was born, and we don't know what our kids are going to be before they're born. born. We don't find out. And he was born and it was a son. I started laughing. And uh so we talked it over and said just let's call him Isaac. The word plays here are important to show that God fulfills His word and people have cause to rejoice. Because God does what he says and he reminds them of this forever. The New Testament writers tell us that the coming promise seed Jesus Christ is the the most important parallel of the birth of Isaac here With the long-awaited supernatural birth of Jesus, the greater seed, came a greater visitation from God on high As it is told in Luke chapter 1, verse 68, God has visited us from on high. So it is a wonderful thing, isn't it? That's the first half of the sermon. The first third, I should say. But now we have a dilemma, a problem that arises in the next verses, verses 8 through 21. It's a crisis. The threat from Ishmael involves some careful consideration. The motive of laughter has already been introduced in the jubilation of Sarah over the birth That laughter was the display of gratitude and astonishment at how God kept his word, providing the promised heir. But now in verse 9, the text reports that Ishmael was Laughing. But this is a mocking laughter. The participle is from the same root as to laugh. Verse 9, Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, laughing. What exactly Ishmael was doing is not clear. The commentaries follow either the traditional view that Ishmael was mocking the young child. Or the view that Ishmael was simply playing with Isaac on an equal footing that Sarah perceived as a threat. The meaning may lie somewhere in between these two interpretations. The usage of the word mock in Genesis proves helpful. In chapter 19, 4, it is Used to describe Lot as he attempted to warn his family. And it says there, he seemed to be a mocker. He seemed to be a laugher, a jester. It occurs also in 26. 8 later on to describe Isaac's laughing playing with his wife. And it also appears much later in chapter 39, where Potiphar's wife accuses Joseph of being one who laughs, or trifles, or mocked her After he wouldn't do what she wanted him to do. In each case, the verb describes an activity that has been misinterpreted. I also note that the verb is used in Exodus 32 about what happened when the people of Israel were down and Moses was up on the mountain. And they were having a party around a golden calf, and it says they were laughing, they were playing, they were gooping off in a bad, bad way. In all these uses, there is the idea of trifling with someone or something, possibly a deceptive play that could prove harmful. So here in the use of the word laughing, this is more than just children's playing together. On the surface, the activity may have seemed harmless, but Ishmael probably did not take Isaac and the promise that God had made seriously. And so the English word mock is translated laughing. Mock probably suits the context better. And Paul clears it up for us. He uses a stronger word in Galatians 4. 29. He says that he persecuted. Isaac, that Ishmael persecuted Isaac. Just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. As we read. So Paul here uses the biblical record analogically to make his point about the Judaizers who were trying to undermine the truth of the gospel. His choice of words to describe what Ishmael was doing is interpretive. It attempts to express what Sarah perceived as a threat to Isaac Ishmael may have been just playing with Isaac, but if it was permitted to continue, his real effort would have been to supplant this new heir. That couldn't happen So, in summary, in Genesis 21, laughter was the response of faith at first, faith in the promise of God, but mockery signified the response of unbelief, both from the same root word. The story illustrates the truth that faith and unbelief are not compatible That which trifles with God's work must be removed so that the faith can prosper under God's blessing. So what happened? What's the rest of the story? Well, Sarah's plan was to expel Hagar and Ishmael. So Sarah first lowered the status of Hagar from handmaid to slave. She demoted her. And then she distinguished Ishmael as her son, that is Hagar's son, from Isaac as my son, even Isaac, as she says. Abraham was grieved over this. Because of his son Ishmael, he was grieved. But God approved Sarah's plan. Referring only to Ishmael as the lad, and referring to Isaac as the heir. The tension over sonship is there, but the Word of God resolves the issue by identifying the true son as Isaac. The story should never, by the way, never, and you may have heard some preacher do this, this story should never be preached as a lesson about mistakes in parenting or in child rearing. It's not about that at all. That is not its purpose. The third idea of evil surfaces here again as a result of this crisis. It says it was very grievous in Abraham's sight. But God said, let it not be grievous in your sight. Crisis was a serious problem, but God alleviated its impact for Abraham through the wisdom of sending them away. With the promise that He would protect and provide for them. And so that's what we have in the next verses, verses 14 through 21. Let me read it again. So Abraham rose early in the morning and took bread and a skin of water and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder along with the child, and sent her away. And she departed and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba. When the water in the skin was gone, she put the child under one of the bushes. Then she went and sat down opposite him a good way off, about the distance of a bow-shot, for she said, Let me not look on the death of the child. And as she sat opposite him, she lifted up her voice and wept. And God heard the voice of the boy. And the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, What troubles you, Hagar? Fear not, for God has heard the voice of the boy where he is. Up, lift up the boy, and hold him fast with your hand, for I will make him into a great nation. And then he opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water, and she went and filled the skin with water and gave the boy a drink. And God was with the boy, and he grew up. He lived in the wilderness and became an expert with the bow. He lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt. You see what happened here. God approved of sending away Hagar and Ishmael. But this was a sign not of divine abandonment of Ishmael, but of protection for Isaac. How do we know this? Twice in this chapter, God declares that he will make Ishmael into a great nation. Once when he's comforting Abraham, and once when he's comforting Hagar. God had not abandoned Ishmael. He had provided for the resolution of this tension that could have no other resolution. In the wilderness, therefore, God heard the voice of the lad and directed the woman and her son to water, and renewed his promise of a great future for his son Abraham. So I want to remind you here, this is not a racist Israelite text It was not concocted to make the Israelites look superior and the Ishmaelites look unworthy. It's not that at all. The plight of Hagar draws sympathy from us because God is the God of the outcast, the God of the rejected, the God of the abused and the dying When God provides the fulfillment of the promise, one that evokes the jubilation that we've already read about The people of God must therefore remove anything that poses a threat to his word of blessing. We know that because Paul's spiritual lesson based on this narrative helps us to see the predominant New Testament principle that corresponds to this point. Paul uses the story to illustrate this point. Ishmael was born according to the flesh through the slave wife, but Isaac was born according to the promise and was the heir. What's the application? The Christian gospel is the promise of God concerning salvation from our natural rebellion and alienation from God. This salvation is by grace alone, a miraculous gift, through faith alone Not through our efforts. In Christ alone, the promised seed. And anything that competes with that must be shoved aside, cast out. What competes? What competes? Well, sometimes religion competes. Any human religion that competes with God's way, whether it is thousands of years old, with very elaborate rituals. Or the latest spiritualist fad, make it up as you go, spirituality. Whatever it is, if it competes with this gospel, it must be rejected. Only the true religion is the religion revealed by God in the history which is recorded in the Bible. All others are deficit and fail and must be cast out. So some religion can be a substitute for the gospel Paul was concerned about that in Galatians, wasn't he? I can also think of another application, competitive Entanglements. And I want you to think carefully about this in your own life situation. Competitive entanglements. Because you see, Christ calls me and you to find deep joy in himself. As creator, redeemer, Lord of the universe, fulfillment of my destiny. But I tend to seek joy in some other way I tend to gratify and pacify and indulge in something other than the joy of God that would make me laugh hilariously These things threaten to displace and compete with Christ in my life and yours. When these things take hold in my life, they scoff at the promises of God and say, not enough, not enough They must be removed. They must be removed like like baggy swimming trunks on Michael Phelps, which would have prevented him from winning eight gold medals in the Olympics years ago. Paul says it in another way, but similar analogy. He says, Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight And sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. So competing ideas must go. Self-exalting ambitions and stubborn sins that are cherished that compete with your life in Christ. must go. In your Christian experience, the flesh struggles against the spirit, making a mockery of it at times. Unbelief attacks belief. Paul says in Galatians 5, I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit. And the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do. God therefore commands us to cast out those things of the flesh. That undermine and threaten and mock the promise of salvation in Christ. And we say that when we receive new members, they take vows, and one of those vows is, will you put to death your sinful deeds and desires? And the answer should always be yes. By God's grace, I will. So that's the second part of this And it is mainly the story that we've already explored. But we come to this little pericope at the end, verses 22 through 34. We read a story of how Abraham moves on and sojourns in another area. and uh encounters this Abimelech. Um well he has already encountered him actually. So he's now living in this area and he's dealing with this king, Abimelech. And they have this situation over a well, and they resolve it, and they make friends, and they make a covenant. And verse 32 says, so they made a covenant at Beersheba. Then Abemelech and Phikal, the commander of his army, rose up and returned to the land of the Philistines. And then in verse 33, and I'm just going to spend a little time on this. Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba, and called there on the name of the Lord the everlasting God, and Abraham sojourned many days in the land of the Philistine. So what we see here is after having received this promised son and having put away the other son who would be in the way. Now he continues his life, Abraham, our patriarch, and he makes peace with this pagan king. Which he had earlier treated so disgracefully, if you remember. And you can see the beginning that he is now becoming a blessing to others. He is supposed to be a blessing to all nations, you see, and now he's becoming a blessing to others And notice that he planted a tamarisk tree. What is that? A tamarisk tree is a slow-growing tree. Increasing only about an inch per year and taking close to, get this, 400 bears to grow to its full height of about 59 feet. The tamarisk tree has evergreen leaves that collect water vapor from the moisture in the air during the night. And when the sun radiates its heat, the droplets evaporate and produce a cooling system, which benefits man and beasts that take shelter in its shade. It thrives in arid, alkaline, and salty regions, needing no care. So why did he plant this kind of tree? Because he wants it to last. It would last. And it would be a gospel memorial to this peace treaty between these two men, these two kings. Abraham is becoming a blessing by teaching the truth to this king and to all the people around, as he is a witness of the promise of Yahweh. in the seed that he has promised, even his son Isaac. Remember what God had said when he first spoke to Isaac in Genesis 12 And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So you see, the mission has begun. He is becoming a blessing. And I would apply it this way: your life and mine are another act in the unfolding story of God's purposes God's word of promise to you in Christ is reliable. He wants you to have real joy in his promises and real joy in obedience. And to do what he commands and to cast aside everything that competes. He wants you to be a blessing to all those around. So, in final word to you, my friends, today I say, as Paul says in Galatians 6, and let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap if we do not. Give up. So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. May God give us the grace to live in His gospel, in the joy of His gospel, to cast aside whatever hinders, and to be a blessing. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this yet another narrative of the great story of your salvation. We pray that you'll help us to live according to it. In Jesus' name. Amen.