Now let us turn to Romans thirteen, eight through fourteen. Romans thirteen, eight through fourteen. Owe no one anything except to love each other. For the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet, and any other commandment are summed up in this word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law Besides this, you know the time that the hour has come for you to wake from your sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed. The night is far gone. The day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality. And sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires And then please turn to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 19. Luke 19, 1 through 10. He entered Jericho and was passing through, and there was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich. And he was seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not, because he was small of stature. So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way. And when Jesus came to to the place he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at your house to day. So he hurried and came down, and received him joyfully And when they saw it, they all grumbled, He has gone in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house. Since he also is the son of Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, we have heard your word. We have sung your word. Now help us to understand The teaching, the import, the meaning of this passage from Exodus 22 in particular helps us to understand it rightly and apply it. We thank you, but your word never is obsolete. It never Has no meaning. It always is alive and sharp and more powerful than a double-edged sword, and it cuts down into our bones and marrow and discerns the thoughts and intents of our heart So help us now to understand your word by your spirit. Amen. Well, we are continuing in our series at Exodus. And we are at this place in the Book of the Covenant. And a lot of preachers, I think, would pass over it. because it seems rather obscure. And I was tempted to do that too. But then I found some really good material and I thought, hey, um There is something really wonderful here that we need to focus upon. So here we go. All things must be put right. That is basically what This law about restitution means. You could summarize it with that very simple statement: all things must be put right. All that's gone wrong in the whole world, all the evil, all the sin, all the disease, all the destruction, everything must be put right. That's the principle of rest. Restitution. But let's look at specifics here of this passage in Exodus 22, 1 through 15. First we'll see a single fold restitution. A simple single-fold restitution. That is, something was lost, something has been restored. Period. And there's an example of that. It's where there's unintentional loss, no evil intent. To the owner, and no one is getting an advantage. So you get single-fold, simple restitution. Here it is in verse 5. So If a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed over, or lets his beast loose, and it feeds in another man's field, So there's been some wrong done. A field has been grazed that shouldn't have been. Beasts got out somehow. And what happens? He shall make restitution. How does he do it? From the best in his own field and in his own vineyard. So if the cows ate the grapes, then the cows get to come over here and eat your grapes. No, the grapes are going to be restored, right? And if it's a grazing, well then the grazing has to be reciprocal. So there's single-fold, simple restitution. Here's another example in verse 6 of this. If fire breaks out, it's an accident, right? Breaks out. And catches into thorns so that the stacked grain, that's the shocks of wheat that have been harvested. Didn't just you know, those you see those things in Thanksgiving cards. Uh or standing grain unharvested in the field is consumed, he who started the fire by mistake. Shall make full restitution. Simple, single-fold restitution. He has to pay back what was lost in the accidental. fire. And then there's a case here, a couple of cases, where there's no restitution required. Okay, that's verses 10 and 11. So let's look at that right quick If a man gives to his neighbor a donkey or an ox or a sheep or any beast to keep safe, So he's saying, would you take care of my ox or my donkey or my sheep, please, for me while I'm away on some business trip or something? And while he's got it, it dies, or is injured, or is driven away. Without anyone seeing it, an oath by the Lord shall be between them both to see whether or not he has put his hand to his neighbor's property. He's got to swear The person who had the beast or the animal in safekeeping has to swear, I didn't kill your animal, I didn't steal your animal, I swear it to the Lord. And the owner shall accept the oath, and he shall not make restitution. So no harm was done. Something happened, but it wasn't anybody's fault. And there wasn't any anything that went wrong here except that no mistakes happen or the animals get out or whatever. So that's no restitution required Now, there's another kind of restitution that we're going to look at. And it starts with chapter 22, verse 1. It's double fold restitution. Let's look at that quickly. In double fold restitution, you have to pay twice as much as was lost. Because The intention was lost to the owner. I intended to ruin your thing, damage, and I intended to gain for myself advantage To the one that I did this to. So what needs to happen is not just a payment back, but a reversal is required. That is not merely restoration, but advantage to the victim. The victim has to come out on top in this case. And so what we see here is that the punishment And God's law matches the crime. Here it is in verse 1. Here's an example of this double-fold restitution. If a man steals an ox or a sheep and kills it or sells it, so he is taking someone else's stuff and then he's going to gain from it. He shall repay five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep. If a thief is found breaking in and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no blood guilt for him But if the sun has risen on him, there shall be blood guilt for him. Now that's kind of stuck in here in the middle, and I'm going to explain that right quick, just so we know what we're talking about. People used to break into houses by digging through the wall of a house So houses were made of dirt and rocks and mud and stuff like that. And so a thief breaking in is breaking in in the middle of the night in the dark. There were no streetlights, right? Right? And he is digging into this wall, and the people inside uh see him breaking into the wall and they hit him on the head and he dies. It was in the dark. They didn't know if he was going to come in and kill them, if he was just going to try to steal a loaf of bread. They didn't know. So they hit him on the head and killed him. No restitution required. No fault on the part of of the person who hit him on the head. But it says, if um verse 3, but if the sun has risen on him If if the sun is risen you can see why he came in, what he's trying to do, who it is. It's maybe it's a kid. You know, maybe it's a thirteen year old kid digging through the wall and he's hungry. You can see who it is. You don't you don't have to hit him on the head And if you do, then you're guilty. He shall surely pay. And if the person who did this has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft. He'll become an indentured servant because of what he's done. Now, uh if the stolen beast is found alive in his possession, whether it's an ox or a donkey or a sheep, he shall pay double. So there's that double restitution. the the the thing breaking in is kind of stuck in the middle here, but what we have is a double restitution. He shall pay double. He meant evil and harm to the one that he did this to. He meant gain for himself. And so not only do you repay The evil, you also repay the thing that's double restitution. Restitution of loss and punishment for the evil intention. Is what we have here. So I know this is kind of hard, and I wanted to help us all. So I'm going to give an illustration for kids particularly, okay? Kids. Let's say you borrowed someone's bicycle. You just borrowed someone's bicycle. You didn't steal it. You left it outside, and you parked it next to the trash pickup spot where the trash cans are out and it's trash day. And the trash collectors thought it was to be taken, so they threw it into the truck and it was crushed. What do you owe, according to God's law? Law. Singlefold restitution is required. You need to give back a good bike for the one that you borrowed And got crushed. Okay? Single-fold restitution. But then, here's the other side of this that would be double fold if you stole someone's bike and left it outside next to the track. Then the trash collectors thought it was to be taken, so they threw it into the truck and it was crushed. Then double fold restitution is required. Because your intention was the loss to the bike owner and advantage to you. You wanted to have a bike. So, because of this evil, a complete reversal is required. Not merely restoration, but advantage to the victim. You must replace the bike and add the price. of another bike in addition. That's devilfold, right? These are still relevant things, are they not? There are laws about restoring things, about restitution. Now, there's also examples of more than doublefold restitution, and we read this in verse one. More than doublefold restitution. If a man steals an ox or sheep and it kills and then kills it or sells it, he shall repay, it says, five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep. What's this about? Well, what we have here is that the penalty, which would be double restitution, is doubled because of the doubling of the evil. How is the evil doubled? Because sheep and oxen are vital. They're vital to life. Especially oxen. That's why you get five times if it's an oxen. They're so vital that the evil that was intended when this was stolen could impoverish and could destroy the economic life. Of those who were the victims. So we double the restitution from doublefold to now fourfold, or in an ox case, fivefold. God wants all things to be put right. And that's what this part of the Book of the Covenant is teaching. Equitable restitution of what was done. Now we see a New Testament example of this whole thing in Luke chapter 9. 19. We read the story of Zacchaeus, who was a tax collector, and who was defrauding people. He was taking their stuff. It was evil, and he was gaining for himself. So what kind of restitution should Zacchaeus give? No restitution? Just get off the hook with it? Or should he have single fold restitution, he just pays back what he took? Or should he have double fold restitution and he pays back? double or because of the evil intent, because of the depriving of others of their life The loss of their wealth and the loss of their livelihood he offers to pay back for times. Look at it. And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, verses 8 and 9, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. He's trying to make things right. He's been defrauding the poor. I will give half of everything I have to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. Double restitution. Because Zacchaeus, meeting Jesus, the Lord of the covenant, realized his sin against God and his neighbor. He realized that there was this was no accident. He didn't make any excuses for himself. And he was willing to obey the law of God in this respect. Regard to make things right. And Jesus said to him, Today, salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son. of Abraham. Now salvation here in this connection means much more than just eternal life, a ticket to Salvation means restoration to fellowship in the people of God, which was his birthright as a Jew. It meant for Zacchaeus real acceptance and belonging in the community of faith. And if he was married and had a family, it meant restoration of all those in his household. It means restoration to fellowship in the community of faith. He had made himself an outcast by his sins against other people and against God. By his sinful choices, Zacchaeus had become lost from the fold. But now he had demonstrated in these actions that he was saved and returned to the fold. Because God could see his restoration, his restitution of all things. You and I, and all around us, need to be increasingly Restored to the fellowship of God, who came from heaven and to the fellowship of his people on earth. He made us for this fellowship. And salvation in terms of our sanctification, our wholeness, will not be complete in any of us unless we are restored to the fellowship of God's people. Sin breaks fellowship. Sin puts us in debt. Sin makes a mess of life. But God is in the business of restoring all things. As I said before, if Zacchaeus was married and had a family, his family would have also been adversely affected by all these sins. But now his family would be restored to the fellowship of God's people. They would no longer be outcasts. They would also come to believe in the Son of David, Jesus, and be forgiven. This is often the way God works his salvation through family heads who repent and lead their families to faith in Jesus. Christ. And salvation here also meant reconciliation between Zacchaeus and those wronged by him. Those who were sick of seeing him, who hated his guts because of his defrauding them, now would say, we love you, Zacchaeus. We accept you. We forgive you. Restoration, because he said, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have defrauded anyone anything, I restore it fourfold. You see what Jesus does You see, he brings God's law into focus, and it brings salvation. The poor were his ver worst victims, but now they will be his friends. God's grace. And the salvation that has been purchased by Christ must work itself out in practical deeds of love and reconciliation In your life too. Zacchaeus here, after meeting Jesus. We don't know what the Spirit of God was doing, but Zacchaeus was so tender to this love encounter with Jesus. That he did not resist, he did not make excuses, he did not hold back. And even before Jesus pronounced salvation on this happen, Zacchaeus was ready to make things right. That reminds me of what Paul said to the Corinthians. He said in 2 Corinthians 7, godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation and leaves no regret. It makes restitution. It does what is right. But worldly sorrow brings death. Worldly sorrow is just, I'm sorry I got caught. I'm in trouble, but godly sorrow leads to restitution. And then he says, see what this godly sorrow has produced in you, Corinthians What earnestness, what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what alarm, what longing, what concern, what readiness to see justice done. At every point you have proved yourselves to be innocent and disci matter as the re as the Corinthians repented. Now how is this salvation possible? Does it occur? Does it occur because God knew that Zacchaeus would give up money in payment for it? Is that how Zacchaeus was saved? By by paying back, by making right? Is that How it happened? You know, he did this, and then God said, Okay, I'll save you now. Never in a million years. Never in a million years. This salvation Which brings forgiveness and eternal life and reconciliation to fellowship and restitution between sinner and those sinned against cannot be accomplished by human effort. Never. thousand years. This salvation, which is willing to face persecution, is only possible because of what Jesus was going to do For us, what Jesus was going to do for us. We'll get to that in a moment. Sin Is intentional disobedience. We have sinned against God and our neighbor. Indeed, every sin is against God, and what is required because of it Vern Poithrus says this. In restoration for sin, we must first repair or restore the damage done to others and to God's honor in punishment. for sin, we must, secondly, in addition, bear damage in ourselves corresponding to our evil intent. Two things. We must repair or restore the damage done to others, and we must bear damage in ourselves corresponding to our evil intent. Both of these two sides to our obligation are fulfilled in Christ. How? Christ's sufferings and death were God's punishment for sin. And Christ's earthly life of righteousness and his resurrection are his restoration of righteousness to God. In the promise of new creation, based on Christ's work, we have hope for full restoration of the universe from the damage of all sin. Civil and ecclesial justice is short of perfect. Someone steals your stuff and defrauds you and you're damaged, you can take them to court. And you might get some measure of justice, but it will be short of perfect justice. Because it is As theologians say, pre-eschatological. It's before the final judgment, before the perfect judgment. And it is partial. But even when we do go to court, it reflects God's judgment in some measure if it is faithful to his law. That is why Romans 13 teaches us obedience to civil authority And Hebrews 13 teaches us obedience to church authorities. But there will be, brothers and sisters, there will be a setting right of all things. There will be a final and complete eschatological judgment. And Isaiah 65 tells how that will come It says in Isaiah 65, verse 17 and following, For behold, I create new heavens and new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind. But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create. For behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness. I will rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. No more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress. It comes from in Justice, you see. No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out all his days. For the young man shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner, a hundred years old, shall be accursed. They shall build houses and inhabit them, they shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit. They shall not build up and another inhabit, they shall not plant, and another eat, for like the days of the tree shall be the days of my people, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hand They shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity, for they shall be the offspring of the blessed of the Lord and their descendants with them. See what he's saying here. All the things that cause us distress and trouble and anguish and sorrow and wrong in this world will be undone. And he says at the end of this, the wolf and the lamb shall graze together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And the dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, says the Lord. And this very same picture in I Isaiah 65 is echoed loudly in Revelation 21, where a new heaven and a new earth is described. We're told in Colossians by the Apostle Paul that Christ has come to restore all things. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities. All things were created by him and for him. And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. That's the description of the fact that God has created everything. Everything and everything consists in him. He's in control. He's sovereign over history. But then it says he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead Death is the curse. Death has come because of sin and injustice. He's the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be pre-eminent. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and then listen, and through him to reconcile to himself all things. Whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. That's how God Is going to restore all things. That's how He's going to undo all wrongs. In the present day, civil justice is often short of perfect. It is pre-eschatological and partial. But with faith in Christ, who made perfect atonement and restitution, we have an infallible Salvation. I will end with this. Wayne Gudham says: if Christ had only earned forgiveness of our sins, then we would not merit. For this reason, Christ had to live a life of perfect obedience to God in order to earn righteousness. Righteousness for us, restitution of our ruin. He had to obey the law for his whole life on our behalf, so that the positive merits of his perfect obedience would be Counted for us. What is that saying? It's saying what I said at the very beginning: all things must be put right. All things must be put right. They can be put right and are being put right when we trust in Jesus Christ. Are you trusting Christ to restore the broken things? in your life? Are you trusting in Jesus Christ and in the final judgment to restore all things in heaven and on earth and to put all the broken things back together and to make just Are you trusting in Christ to restore these things? That is the gospel. That is the truth. Jesus Christ came to bring salvation, restoration, restitution. Let us praise and thank him and obey him. Amen. Lord, as we have looked at this complicated portion of your law, we thank you that we can see. In it a just and righteous God. And as we see our Savior Jesus Christ, we thank you that He paid for our sins And gives us his righteous life, so that double restitution has been made, and all things are restored to their proper place. Help us to trust in him and to live out of this truth. We pray in Christ. Amen.