Psalm one nineteen Yod. So that begins at verse seventy-three. Where David says, Your hands have made and fashioned me. Give me understanding that I may learn your commandments. Those who fear you shall see me and rejoice, because I have hoped in your word. I know, O Lord, that your rules are righteous, and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me. Let your steadfast love comfort me according to your promise to your servant. Let your mercy come to me that I may live, for your law is my delight Let the insolent be put to shame, because they have wronged me with falsehood. As for me, I will meditate on your precepts. Let those who fear you turn to me, that they may know your testimonies. May my heart be blameless in your statutes, that I may not be put to shame. I don't have a grouping introduction. I simply didn't prepare such. tonight, but I do have three points that I believe we can discern here in the Psalm. The first one is The psalmist here proclaims God as creator. In verse 73, he says, your hands Have made and fashioned me. The psalmist proclaims God as creator and understood certain obligations to God because He was fashioned by the hands of God. The reference to God forming him is a deliberate echo of Genesis chapter 2, according to James Boyce. Which says there, God formed man from the dust of the ground. So the psalmist is very familiar with those words at the creation. In our times, with its widespread denial of a creator God There is a much lower sense of obligation to God as creator, or no sense of obligation to God as creator. As a result, life is cheap and is snuffed out for mere convenience. Whether of unborn children or of frail persons. People can talk all they want about freedom to change. Choose, but it is freedom to murder. And it denies that God has the right to decide about life. Not individuals, and certainly never for convenience, whether of unborn children or of frail persons Your hands have made and fashioned me means you're in charge. Not just the fact that I was made. Your hands, the God who orders life and has made life for a purpose, that God is confessed here as someone who is made and fashioned me. We could go into Psalm 139 with all of its beautiful discourse. about the way we were formed in the womb and how God knew every day of our life before one of them was. And it would be the same thing. Just a much more beautiful and elaborate exposition of that same idea. Despite this deeply seated rejection of God as creator Our obligation to our Maker remains. Whether people believe it or not, they will give an answer. They are obligated to God. The law of God does not go away because people disbelieve in it I've said this before when people have said, I don't believe in God, and I say back sometimes when I'm clever, God believes in you. To say that God is our creator is to recognize that we are obligated to Him as the one who gives life And that He is our designer and knows what's best for us. And that since our beginning is connected to the invisible world, so will our end be. And we better get that straight. Charles Horne says: the consideration that God made us is here urged as an argument why he should not forsake and reject us. Since every artist hath a value for his own work proportioned to its excellence It is at the same time an acknowledgement of the service we owe him, founded on the relation which the creature beareth to his Creator. So both those things. We are valuable to God. When he made us, he said, very good. So he highly esteems us and cares for us. At the same time, we owe him service, founded on that very same relation. This is similar to what is said in Psalm 100. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Serve him the Lord with gladness. Come into his presence with singing. And then verse 3. Know that the Lord, he is God. It is he who made us. And we are his. Isn't that what the psalmist is saying in verse 73? Yes. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture, not the other way around. So first. The psalmist proclaims God as creator, and we can draw many lessons from that very simple proclamation. Then he goes on to say, give me understanding that I may learn your commandments. Now, obviously, this psalmist, David, has a great deal of understanding. He can go back in his mind to Genesis 2 and draw that in and put it in that first sentence Can't he? He has a great deal of biblical knowledge, as most Hebrew people did. But he says still, give me understanding that I may learn your commandments. Just because we know a lot or have a lot of stuff cataloged in our minds does not mean we have complete understanding of anything. And if you are a Bible student, you will know very well that when you read a passage again and later pick it up again and read it, you will sometimes learn something new. Or the context, or things you have learned since then, will suddenly bring it together in a way that you did not understand before. So the psalmist here is praying, I believe, for that sort of thing. He's praying for a heightened understanding of God's truth that he already knows much of. He recognizes also that God's commandments are often misunderstood. And he wants to get it right. Help me not to mistake what you have told me, but get it right and understand it as you have intended it to be understand. The understanding of God and man as creator and creature should lead to this humble relationship where man admits his need to learn. To learn God's word, God's commandments. That's what commandments here is. It's not just the ten commandments, it's the whole word of God. And to receive his word as commands from a wise, loving, and righteous Creator Secondly, the gladness of those who fear God. The gladness of those who fear God. Verse 74 and 75. Those who fear you shall see me and rejoice, because I have hoped in your word. David here considered that his life would be an encouragement to others who also feared God. Right? This is an additional reason to hear and obey God so that others will be encouraged and helped By your fear of God, and your understanding of the fear of God. Spurgeon says: when a man of God obtains grace for himself, he becomes a blessing to others. Then he says, there are professors whose presence scatters sadness, and the godly quietly steal out of their company. May this never be the case with us. Mere professors who sow sadness everywhere we go Like we've been sucking lemons, always down about everything, always critical. May it never be. Those who fear you shall see me, David says, and rejoice. Because I have hoped in your word. The word of God should shape people. into people that are glad to be seen, glad to be heard, rejoicing. Then he says in verse 75, I know, O Lord, that your rules are righteous, and that in faithfulness you're not going to be able to do. have afflicted me. This is very clearly a reminder of something that was said recently when Pastor Tyson preached. God afflicts us sometimes. And it's for our good. And that's what he's now saying here. Oh Lord, your rules are righteous, and in faithfulness you have afflicted me. We see the same thing in the book of Hebrews, that God chastens every son whom he receives. If you don't want to be chastened, maybe you're not a son. So it's good to thank God for his faithfulness in afflicting us. One commentator says that it's one thing to say, God has the right to do with me as he pleases. It is a greater thing to say that his judgments are right and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me. Charles Bridges said, David not only acknowledges God's right to deal with him as he saw fit, and even his wisdom in dealing with him as he actually had done, but his faithfulness in afflicting. Not his faithfulness though he afflicted, but in afflicting him. Not as if it were consistent with his love, but as the very fruit of his love. Not just consistent with, but the fruit of his love. Just like we heard in a moment ago from the Hebrews. David says something very similar to that which I mentioned this morning in our call to confessing our sins. David says, When I have been converted to God, when I have been forgiven my sins, he says in Psalm 51, 13 and following, then I will teach transgressors your ways. And sinners will return to you. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise. Those who fear God are naturally glad when they see and converse with others who are like themselves. But more especially when it is one whose faith and patience have carried him through troubles and afflictions and rendered him victorious. One who has hoped in God's word and has not been disappointed. That is a faithful person. Don't you just love to speak to people who have gone through a great deal and have come out praising and thanking God. That is the way it should be. And then the ground of prayer, the third Third point that I discern here, the ground of prayer. We see in verses 75 through 80 Solid ground, asking on the basis of the promises that God has made in his word. The psalmist is simply asking God to do what he's already promised to do. So we see there, verses seventy-five. I don't have seventy-five in front of me But I'll begin at 76. Let your steadfast love comfort me according, and in accord with your promise to your servant. Do what you said you would do, Lord. Let your mercy come to me, that I may live, for your law is my delight. Let the insolent be put to shame, because they have wronged me with falsehood. As for me, I will meditate on your precepts Let those who fear you turn to me, that they may know your testimonies. And then verse 80, may my heart be blameless in your statutes, that I may not be put to shame. Shame. The ground of all this prayer is that God has promised these things. One of the prayers that I like best is this simple colic that says, Almighty God, who has promised to hear the petitions of those who ask in thy son's name. We beseech thee mercifully to incline thine ear to us who have now made our prayers and supplications unto thee, and grant that those things which we have faithfully asked according to thy will We may effectually obtain to the relief of our necessity. We pray for what God has promised. We pray in accord with what God has promised. promised. Spurgeon says, our prayers are according to the mind of God when they are according to the word of God. And that's the basis on which this psalmist, David, makes all these prayer petitions, requests. Similar to the prayer of Augustine's mother, Monica, when she prayed this way. Lord, these promises were made to be made good to some, and why not me? I hunger, I need, I thirst, I wait. Here is thy handwriting in thy word. I am resolved to be as importunate, that means persistent to the point of annoyance, till I have obtained, and as thankful afterwards. As by thy grace shall be enabled. Thy promises are the discoveries of thy purpose, and thou safed, that means graciously given. as materials for our prayers. And in my supplications I am resolved every day to present and tender them back to thee. See what she's saying? Saying, give me what you promised to give me. I'm going to stay with it until you do. And then I'll give you all the thanks that I owe to you So that phrase then is the bound, is the ground, I should say, for this, all these petitions, according to your promise to your servant. David rightly received the Word of God as something personal to himself in this portion. It was not only a word to mankind in general, or even to the covenant people. It was something personal to David himself. He says, your servant, and he's talking about himself He prayed with the understanding that God's tender mercies came to him through the word that is the law of God By staying close to God's word and letting it fill his life, he also received God's tender mercies and knew what to pray for. Without the gift of these tender mercies, we find ourselves lost and discouraged. Bridges says about this, all the candles in the world in the absence of the sun can never make the day. The whole earth, in its brightest visions of fancy, destitute of the Lord's love, can never cheer nor revive the soul. You know the disclaimer. Don't try this at home. Have you seen that before where there's some somebody doing some trick or trying something that's hazardous and then there's the This is a disclaimer. Don't try this at home. It won't work for you, is the point. You might hurt yourself. Well, this is the exact opposite. Try this at home. Try this now and again and again at home and everywhere. Ask God for what He's promised to give you. And do not let up. These things asked in faith are for you. So pray. John Newton In seventeen seventy-nine wrote a hymn, which we will sing, as well as the psalm portion. It is in, this hymn is in 660 hymnals. That's a lot, according to hymnery. org. 660 hymnals And listen to the words of the first stanza. There's more to it, but I'll just read the first stanza, then we'll sing it. Come, my soul, thy suit prepare. Jesus loves to answer prayer. He himself has bid thee pray. Rise and ask without delay. Amen. Lord, we pray that you will teach us in these words from This portion, Yod of the Psalm, teach us to know you as a Creator and to And to be glad and be gladness to those who know us, because we have feared you and served you and know your word. And then help us to pray according to your word in all truth. In Jesus' name. Amen.