So let us read scripture now, reading Psalm 81. Psalm 81, as we continue our journey through the Psalms. This is the Word of God. Sing aloud to God our strength. Shout for joy to the God of Jacob Raise a song, sound the tambourine, the sweet lyre with the harp, blow the trumpet at the new moon, at the full moon on our feast day For it is a statute for Israel, a rule of the God of Jacob. He made a decree in Joseph when he went out over the land of Egypt. I hear a language I had not known. I relieved your shoulder of the burden. Your hands were freed from the basket. In distress you called, and I delivered you. I answered you in the secret place of thunder. I tested you at the waters of Meribah. Hear, O my people, while I admonish you. O Israel, if you would but listen to me, there shall be no strange God among you. You shall not bow down to a foreign God. I am the Lord your God who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it. But my people did not listen to my voice. Israel would not submit to me, so I gave them over to their stubborn hearts to follow their own counsels. Oh, that my people would listen to me, that Israel would walk in my ways. I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes. Those who hate the Lord would cringe toward him, and their fate would last forever. But he would feed you with the finest of wheat. With the honey from the rock I would satisfy you. This powerful psalm leaves no doubt as to its Festal character. According to Derek Kidner, Old Testament scholar, he says there's little doubt of the particular feast it was designed to serve, although there is some discussion about which feast He believes it is the Feast of Tabernacles, which is commemorating the wilderness journey Because it included the public reading of the law, and that is what is being done here, listen to my word. He's reading the word of God. God is law is being read in this festival Look at verses 1 through 3 with me, and we see first a call to praise God in song. That's why I said it's not optional. I can't imagine why a church would design a service where there is no singing. It really would not be fitting according to this. Because it says, sing aloud to God our strength, shout for joy to the God of Jacob, raise a song, sound the tambourine, the sweet lyre with the harp. Asaph knew that it was good for God's people to hear the exhortation to sing aloud. I remember the pastor I served with in Wilmington, Delaware, he himself was not a very good singer. He had a very monotone uh way of singing. But he believed in singing. And so if the congregation was not singing very loud, he would stop the organ playing. and would say, you are commanded to sing. Now sing. And then they would really r pep up quite a bit. Well we are commanded to sing, to sing aloud. Our songs to God honor Him. And if we sing, we are to sing. loud. Now uh I guess that's why it's also we're told otherwise make a joyful noise because some people, uh like Dr. Lutham, my former colleague, uh doesn't particularly sing beautifully, but he can sing loud. So we're to make a joyful noise to the Lord. Spurgeon says about his own congregation. For our part, we delight in full bursts of praise, and had rather discover the ruggedness of a want of musical training than miss the heartiness of universal congregational song. What does he mean by that? He says, sing loud, even if you can't sing good. We'd rather hear it loud than only those who can sing well. So I think he's underlining what uh my former colleague says. He says then, the gentility which which lisps The tune in well-bred whispers, or leaves the singing altogether to the choir, is very like a mockery of worship. So that's Spurgeon's opinion. We are to sing aloud. The psalmist goes on, shout for joy to the God of Jacob. There is a place for songs rich with awe and reverence and even contrition But never to the exclusion of songs that make a joyful shout to the God of Jacob. I hope you notice that In our services of worship on Sunday morning in particular, we begin with a loud song of praise. And we end with some vibrant song that Cast it all off with praise and commitment again to God. There may be some quieter song, some more devotional song in the midst, but we want to begin and end with with a vibrant praise. The psalmist says in verse 2, Raise a song, sound the tambourine, the sweet lyre with the harp. The song is to be raised, but so should skillful music from instruments be raised. The instruments are listed here. So that there's no doubt that instruments should be used to praise God. Um when I was contemplating planting a church One of the things that I asked of the group that was thinking of planting this church is what are the musical Abilities, what are the musical gifts that are available for the praise of God in this particular congregation? And we had musical gifts right from the beginning. But after I got here, or by the time I got here actually, we had also added Jeff Dronenberg to the congregation And then some time after that, we added Patricia Blancher to the congregation. And then we've had a number of youth come along that are able to praise God with instrumental gifts. So um instrumental gifts are a tremendous benefit in health to the growth of God's people spiritually. to our spiritual health, to our ability to sing these hymns which are really creeds. When we are singing good, solid hymnity We are credizing. We're saying, I believe this and this and this and this. We're going down and covering many important doctrines and rehearsing them again and again. And that's why God's people are to praise him. And the instrumentation augments that praise and supports that praise and makes it beautiful. So it's really, really important and to be uh commended. This particular congregation, I believe, is rich in these things, and we should be thankful to God and hope that it never changes. But then verse 3 isn't just about the various instruments for accompanying praise, but verse 3 says, blow the trumpet. At the new moon, at the full moon on our feast day. The word for trumpet here is shofar. It is a trumpet made of a ram's horn, which was used to sound the attack at Jericho, and sound the attack at the battle where Gideon led the battle. And it is also used to announce certain festal days. According to James Boyce, Franz Dailich says In one of the greatest commentators, he points out that the summons in verse one is to the whole congregation The summons in verse 2 is to the Levites, and this is a pretty interesting uh point he's making, who were the appointed temple singers and the musicians And the summons in verse 3 is to the priests who had the specific task of blowing trumpets. So the whole congregation is to worship God. The Levites are to do their part. They those who are temple singers are to add to the congregation. And the priests had this specific bla uh uh task of blowing the trumpets, announcing the feast. Calling the people together. Now we come to verses 3 through 5. The call to assemble the people of God. Since it is a festival day, We are told that they are to blow the trumpet to at the full moon on our feast day. This is when you're supposed to hear this call to worship and start gathering He says, you must do this, verse 4, for it is a statute for Israel, a rule for the God of Jacob. A rule of the God of Jacob. He made it a decree in Joseph when he went out over the land of Egypt. Well, what's that a reference to? It's a reference to the fact that God first called his people to assemble in Egypt. Before they were set free. And he adds this phrase that God is actually saying, and this is a quote of God, I hear a language I had not known. Now, of course, God knows all languages. But when God sent out his angel to the land of Egypt, the angel heard a foreign language, not the language of his Hebrew people. But he heard this foreign language, the Egyptian language. And so it's a way of of designating that it was a land where God's people were in a language place that they did not know. The reference to the full moon points to the seventh month, which was the climax of the festival year, which ushered in the sound, was the ushered in with the sound of the horn. And this is uh the beginning of the fall festivals of Israel. There's a number of them. We'll see that in a second. In September, the new moon, the first day of the seventh month, was the celebration of the Feast of Trumpets. That's recorded in Leviticus 22 and Numbers 29. And that's possibly what's being referred to here about blow the trumpet. On the tenth day of the same month was the great day of atonement, and on the 15th was celebrated the Feast of Tabernacle. So all those are the fall feasts of Israel. They are announced with trumpets and with the assembly of God's people. And he said this first happened, at least this first assembly happened when God called his people together to be ready for the Exodus event. It's a statute for Israel, a rule for the God of Jacob. It's not optional. Come if you feel like it. Come if you're available. It's not optional. This stresses the importance. Of gathering God's people together. It is a statute, a rule. It is an established thing as a testimony among God's people. One such statute written down is found in Numbers chapter 10, verse 10, where it says this In the day of your gladness, in your appointed feasts, at the beginning of your months, you shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings and over all the sacrifices of your peace offerings. And they shall be a memorial for you before your God. I am the Lord your God. So this is a gathering for these particular festivals that God has commanded for his people. Matthew Henry says, no time is wrong for praising God, but some times are appointed. Not for God to meet us, because He's always present and ready, but for us to meet one another that we may join together in praising God. End of quote. And as I said before, the first great assembly that Asaph is recalling here is the assembly of God's people as they came together to leave their slavery in Egypt. We're going to see how that is being depicted here in the next few phrases. They gathered together for that initial deliverance, and it became the basis of their future assemblies and feasts, which are commanded here. Again, that phrase, I hear a language I had not known, refers to the Egyptian language, which was very unknown to the Israelites. And God is personifying himself as he sends his angel out, saying, their language is not a language I know. I know your language. You are my people. So gather for this great event. The Egyptians were segregated from the Israelites, and so the Israelites were strangers in many ways to the Egyptian language. Now God goes on to describe the situation where he first gathered his people in verses six through seven. Where it says this, I relieved your shoulder of the burden. Your hands were freed from the basket. What burden? What basket? What is this a reference to? Oh, you remember the Israelites in Egypt were put to work to make bricks. And so they had to go down to the river and get baskets full of mud. They had to get straw to To bind the mud together, to cut it into squares and set it out to dry, to make bricks. And then eventually the um The um Egyptians said you have to get your own straw. We they provided it at first for a while, but now Uh we're gonna make it even heavier for you because you're multiplying, you're gaining strength. There are more of you, so we're going to uh make it harder for you. You've got to get your own straw. So how did they do that? They did this by carrying the mud and the straw and the various things. In baskets. Well, God says your hands were freed from the basket. It's a remembrance that they were once slaves. And now God has set them free. As you gather to assemble before me and to praise me and to hear my word and all these things. Remember that I freed your hand from the basket. I guess uh slaves in this country, uh looking back to the days when we had slaves in this country, they could say the same thing. I freed your hand, God freed their hand through the laws of this land. He freed them from the the the cotton ticking bad. The big bags of cotton that they had to pick in the fields of the South. And I think that's the kind of reference we have here. And then verse 7, in distress you called, and I delivered you. I answered you in the secret place of thunder. I tested you at the waters of Meribah. Sila. So now that God has gathered his people and begins to remind them of this great deliverance that he gave them by setting them free. He tells them, I just in distress you called, and I delivered you. Where do we have that? Well, it's in Exodus chapter 2, verses 22 23 and 24 and so forth. God says he heard the groaning of Israel under their burden of slavery in Egypt. And so he appointed Moses to be their deliverer. He brought deliverance through them, uh to them, through the wonders and leaders of people like Moses and the great signs that he did to free them. Then he makes the reference to the the secret place of thunder. What do you think that is? Well, it's very likely Mount Sinai, after they were delivered from Egypt, taken out into the wilderness, he met them there and sent Moses up into the mountain. And there was thunderings and lightnings and thick clouds of smoke on the mountain, and the Israelites were not to draw near. Moses alone was allowed to go up. Because the the mountain was shrouded in smoke and it was terrible with the voice of God. It's recorded in Exodus 19 and 20. The next phrase, I tested you at the waters of Meribah. What happened there? Well, God not only delivered Israel, but he also trained them. That's what this event is being referred to here. When they were out in the wilderness, they ran out of water. And God put them to the test to see whether they would trust him. to provide for them. He had delivered them through the sea. He had given them his law. And you think they will now believe that he will actually take care of them? No. At Meribah, God miraculously provided water for a complaining and unbelieving Israel, as it's recorded in Exodus chapter 17. He's reminding them of these things at this gathering, this assembly where he's called them to be And he finally then tells what has happened since then, verses 8 through 12. Hear, O my people, while I admonish you. O Israel, if you would but listen to me. There shall be no strange God among you. You shall not bow down to a foreign God. That's from the Ten Commandments. I am the Lord your God who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. That's from the Ten Commandments. That's the preface. He says, open your mouth wide and I will fill it. Just believe me. I will take care of you. But verse 11 says, But my people did not listen to my voice. Israel would not submit to me. So I gave them over to their stubborn hearts to follow their own counsels. Four hundred years of slavery in Egypt exposed Israel to many pagan gods, the gods of Egypt. God took the command given to Israel when they came up out of Egypt and applied it to them in the days of this psalm, where Asaph is writing Coming from Egypt, Israel was commanded not to worship any foreign God. And the same command was being given here in this assembly and in all assemblies where God's people are gathered to hear his law. Do not worship false gods. Again and again and again. I am the Lord your God. God's command to put away every foreign God was quite reasonable Because he was the Lord, Yahweh, their deliverer from Egypt, the covenant God who had brought them up. Why would they turn to foreign gods, the gods of Egypt, or the gods of the land, or the gods of Canaan? Why would they do that? He says, Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it God made a promise to his faithful people that if they would in faith anticipate his provision, that he would provide. What do we do when we're lacking? Do we believe that God will provide? Do we anticipate? That he's going to provide? Or do we doubt and fear that somehow now we are going to be left without? Open your mouth wide and I will fill it. God will not fill the closed mouth The one with no anticipation of faith, but he will fill the open mouth. And what is the picture here? When a mother bird brings food, she never has to ask the little ones to open their mouths wide. Her only difficulty is to fill the great wide open mouths. And God is saying, open your mouths, and I will fill it. Spurgeon says about this, you may easily overexpect from mere man, but you cannot overexpect from God. Open thy mouth wide and I will fill it. Widen and dilate the desires and expectations of your souls, and God is able to fill every chink to the vastest capacity. So if you feel that you're lacking something, open, wide, the mouth of your faith To trust God that you will be given every good and perfect gift, everything that you really need, as we just sung, all that I have needed, thy hand hath provided. Great is thy faith. McLaren says that phrase, Open wide thy mouth and I will fill it, also teaches that God's bestowals are practically Measured by men's capacity and desire. The ultimate limit of them is his own limitless grace, but the working limit in each individual is the individual's receptivity Of which is expectancy and desire are the determining factors. God will provide for you according to your faith But too often verse 11 is the case. But my people did not listen to my voice. Israel would not submit to me. This is the great tragedy. God is ready to fill the faith-filled open mouths of his people, but they would not obey him. So God in sorrow says, Israel would not submit to me. Rebellious Israel rejected God who had done so much for them and would have done so much more. So verse 12 says, God is saying, so I gave them over to their own stubborn hearts That's a judgment. To be given over, to be given up on to your own stubborn heart. This was God's judgment against his unbelieving people. To give them over To follow their own counsels. Oh, I'll just figure it out myself. I'll just take care of myself. I'll sort out a way to get what I need. I won't trust God to provide for me. Now we are to make plans, but when we can't do what we want to be done When it is beyond our capacity and beyond our ingenuity as human beings, we are to trust God completely. And God is sorrowful over stubborn Israel. Verses 13 through 16, oh, that my people would listen to me, that Israel would walk in my ways. I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes. Those who hate the Lord would cringe toward him, and their fate would last forever. But he would feed you with the finest of wheat, and with the honey from the rock I would satisfy you. Tragedy here is great. God could say to his people, Israel, my people. He's talking to his own people. They belonged to him. He had claimed them, and yet my people will not listen. They would not walk in his ways. And there is a sense here of longing and God's desire for good and blessing for his people. Kidner says the affectionate tone of these verses is also worth noting in the context of judgment. It is something of an Old Testament counterpart, he says, to the lament for Jerusalem recorded in Matthew 23, verse 37, where Jesus Just before he's crucified, on his way into Jerusalem, says, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I have longed to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were not willing. God saying, I really, really want to bless you. I really want to fill your open mouth. I really want to give you the things that you really need. If you'll just trust me, if you'll just submit to me, if you'll just be my people. I would soon subdue their enemies. That was always a problem for Israel. They always had enemies all around. There was very little peaceful times, but this unclaimed blessing God wanted to give to his believing, his obedient people. If God's people would only listen, He would come and subdue their enemies and fight against their adversaries. Spurgeon applies it this way. He says, Our enemies find the sharpest weapons against us in the armory of our transgressions. They could never overthrow us if it did not if it was not that we first overthrew ourselves. Sin strips a man of his armor and leaves him naked to his enemies. So we are our own worst enemy as God is constantly willing and able to provide for us and to defend us, to strengthen us, if we would only come to Him in faith. And Psalm 81 ends on this sad note. There's no great doxology at the end of it. It's filled with the tragedy of missed opportunities and unfulfilled potential. God would richly provide for them and satisfy them. If his people would only listen and obey. Now, how do we apply this teaching, this song? Well, first, we are to praise God in song. We are to sing the songs of Zion. We are to praise our God Full of doctrine, full of the truth, we are to praise God. We are to assemble to praise God The Lord's Day is now our feast day. We are called to be His people in assembly And we are to rehearse and hear the story of his deliverance again and again and again. Never let it get old. There's a hymn that's not in our new hymnal, but it reminded was reminded to me as I was studying Tell me the old, old story of unseen things above. Of Jesus and his glory, of Jesus and his love. Tell me the story simply as to a little child. For I am weak and weary and helpless and defiled. Tell me the story slowly, that I may take it in, that wonderful redemption, God's remedy for sin. Tell me the story often, for I forget so soon. The early dew of morning has passed away at noon You so easily forget. Tell me the same old story when you have cause to fear that this world's empty glory is costing me too dear. Tell me the story always, if you would truly be in any time of trouble, a comforter to me. So tell the story. Never grow old of the story. Never grow old. of the Lord's Supper, which is the most graphic depictation of the story of redemption. Let us remember that we have been eased of far heavier burdens, delivered from severer taskmasters, and freed from a baser drudgery Than the Egyptians ever imposed upon the Israelites. We have been freed from the cruel tyranny of Satan And the vile service and bitter bondage of our sins. We have been freed from these things. And that is the old, old story that we must not forget. Spurgeon says the story of Israel is only our own history in another shape. God has heard us, delivered us, liberated us. And too often our unbelief makes the wretched return of mistrust and murmuring and rebellion. Boyce says, this is the last quote. The problem is that the people of God do not know God, or at least they do not act like they do. Instead of worshiping the Lord and Him only Christians seem to be worshiping the gods of the secular culture, gods of wealth, pleasure, fame, status, and self-absorption. So let us assemble and praise God and rehearse the story of redemption, telling the old, old story. And let us remember that we have been eased of a far heavier burden than the Egyptians ever imposed. We have been freed from death and hell and sin and the tyranny of Satan and our own weaknesses. We have been freed. And let us open wide our mouths to sing, and let us open wide our mouths to receive, and God will fill. That's what he says. And I believe him. Amen