Congregation, hear the reading of God's Holy Word. Tonight, the 114th Psalm. When Israel went out from Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language, Judah became his sanctuary. Israel his dominion. The sea looked and fled. Jordan turned back. The mountains skipped like rams, the hills like lambs. What ails you, O sea, that you flee? O Jordan, that you turn back O mountains, that you skip like rams, O hills, like lambs Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob, who turns the rock into a pool of water. The flint into a spring of water. The Word of God. Beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. The central event of the Bible's story of salvation during the period of the Old Testament was the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt. That is the story of God's covenant of grace in selecting one people from out of the entirety of the human race to be his chosen possession. From Israel, God would one day send a redeemer for the peoples of planet Earth to deliver them from slavery to sin, death, and eternal destruction. Yahweh set his unmerited love and favor upon that special folk, that church of the living God. And he marked his choice by a unique event, the exodus from Egypt. Here was a slave nation of some millions, utterly weak and incapable of doing anything about their plight. But Yahweh, through a series of miraculous visitations, beginning with a fiery bush that was not consumed And concluding with a stopped up Jordan River, brought this rag tag near eastern horde of poor, bedraggled peasants. From bondage to slave labor into the freedom of a land flowing with milk and honey. In between, there were plagues upon the Egyptians, their would-be enslavers That made Hollywood's best efforts seem like cartoon imitations. Thousands of firstborn sons dead in their beds. A wall of water when there should have been a sea And breakfast served up free and delicious every morning. Except one day each week In the desert of all places. Now the story recounted in this one hundred and fourteenth Psalm is one of a unique series of events, to be sure, unparalleled in the history of ancient races. At the same time, you who read the entirety of the Bible, and who additionally experience in your own lives your deliverance from sin and death by Jesus Christ. Find that Psalm 11 is but a paradigm, a pattern. Of one grand scheme of salvation for millions and millions of unworthy sinners through the grace of God. The Exodus from Egypt is one slide in the whole show of what God has done. And it is a beautiful one indeed, is it not? No wonder that when the descendants of those Israelites, after centuries of unconscionable disobedience, especially on the part of their erstwhile kings Faced with a loss of their national identity and cast into bondage once again, this time by the Babylonians. wondered if God still cared a whit about them. Well amazingly And no doubt, as a result of Yahweh's continued covenant faithfulness, we find in our psalm this evening a brilliant display of confident faith. That had not deteriorated in spite of Israel's failing prospects Here, dear Kirk Congregation, in our psalm tonight is a poem. A poem of striking Emotional power, expressing unflinching faith in the Lord by people who, for all the world, would have been considered totally beaten. But these Yahweh folk don't give up. They don't give up on their divine deliverer. And not so much to their credit. As to the praise of him whose persevering power kept them in the hollow of his compassionate hand Now, the psalmist, writing either during the Babylonian exile or immediately after, apparently. When even then Israel was still extremely weak from a human perspective, completely dependent upon the kind ministrations of Cyrus The Persian, remember him? Who, unbeknownst to him, was merely that he was God's lackey. The psalmist pens this powerful but down to earth pion of praise Psalm one fourteen is a recitation in four verses of uncommon clarity An unflinching faith of the unique event What God did and what that should mean for a downtrodden people kicked from pillar to post. Listen up, Jews, cries the psalmist, and remember your history. Something has to be said about seas and rivers that cannot obey the laws of gravity. About mountains that skip like lambs, and flinty rock that produces fresh, cold, drinking water. Something has to be said. What you need to do, Jews, is tremble at the presence of your divine Lord, who made all these things happen. And if he can do so, and he did, then you here tonight with the Jews Have to do here with the God, who is not only God over all that is, but especially God of Jacob. His covenant block. And you're God, whatever occurs And this is so, you see, not only for covenant of promise believers, that's the Jews, but also for you, covenant of fulfillment believers. Because Psalm 114 is for both. If anything, it is a messianic psalm. Once more, tonight we will observe the deliverer of the church of the ages Jesus Christ, right in the very words of this ancient piece of poetic piety. So now listen up, here's your proposition, the summary of what the psalm says. Israel's exodus from Egypt. Together with its accompanying events is the crowning illustration of Yahweh's redeeming work. Culminating in the divine deliverance wrought by his Son Jesus Christ, our Savior, and calling forth fear and reverence on your part. God's grateful people. That's what it's about. Now we're going to take the psalm stanza by stanza, four of them. Each consisting of two verses in order. Standa 1, verses 1 and 2. When Israel went out from Egypt to house of Jacob from a people of strange language, Judah became his sanctuary. Israel his dominion. That means that whom the Lord redeems, he also indwells. Salvation, you see, is not for people alone, but it is also for God Himself. Isn't that wonderful? That is a stupendous thought, I think. Heaven is not only where we will be with God, but where God will be with us. In a new and wonderful way. Redemption involves separation from the world and separation unto the Lord. Remember Moses' words to Pharaoh in Exodus 10, 25, and 26? I love this. You must also let us have sacrifices and burnt offerings, says Moses to Pharaoh. But that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. Our livestock must also go with us. Not a hoof. Will be left behind. God deserves it all. Every hoof of every animal. God desired this people for himself, Judah, where later on Mount Zion He will cause his name to dwell, and he will live. With them. God redeems, you see, people of the Lord, because He loves. He loves. Jacob have I loved. Esau have I hated. That, my friends, is clearly sovereign election of grace. Whether Democratic Americans like it or not Especially note the selection of Jacob of all people. Remember some of the things he did and didn't do Not a particularly upstanding and outstanding figure was Jacob. But all this to highlight the grace of God's choice. Now, this Exodus, to say more, was out from Egypt. Bringing to mind the words of Matthew 2, 14 and 15, when the gospel writer chronicles the event of Jesus Christ's infancy There we read, Joseph took the child and his mother by night and departed to Egypt and remained there until the death of Herod This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Out of Egypt I called my son. Here Matthew refers apparently not to our Psalm, Psalm 114, but actually to Hosea 11:1. Where the prophet there, speaking for Yahweh, proclaims, When Israel was a child, I loved him. And out of Egypt I called my son. You see? Now Hosea predates the writing of Psalm 114. So we find its poet leaning on the Bible while writing the Bible himself. Isn't that great? Hosea says, God called Israel out of Egypt, and our psalmist agrees. And Matthew says, in case we missed it. That it all points to Jesus. So covenant of fulfillment believer. When you read Psalm 114, You see your Savior, don't you? Not because of any preacher's invention, but on the basis of the Bible's own explanation. And let me tell you, that is wonderful, and it's safe. Standa 2, verses 3 and 4. The sea looked and fled. Jordan turned back. The mountains skipped like rams, the hills like lambs. Here we have those natural wonders. Attendant upon the Exodus, not only out of Egypt, but into Canaan, with Sinai in the middle. That's probably the reference to mountains skipping like rams and hills like lambs. Because we remember that when God gave his law, Sinai trembled. Then water behaving unnaturally more than once. Both the Red Sea and the Jordan River They must give way. Poetically, they looked and fled. They turn back, as though fearful in any way to oppose or stand in the way of Yahweh's determined course of deliverance. Don't you love it? Notice that what Yahweh starts, he completes. Not just an Exodus. But also a complete deliverance from Pharaoh's army in the sea. Then later, no bridge needed over the Jordan. Nothing can stand in his way. Not the sea, not the mountains, not the river. All this is just to say that salvation for God's church is complete. In the covenant of fulfillment, we hear Jesus affirm as follows: the gates of hell will not prevail against my church. Justification is followed by sanctification, and sanctification by glorification. Hallelujah. God's church will make it. It will make it all the way through, even the final judgment. And into eternity with the Lord. Then we come to Stanza 3, verses 5 and 6. The psalmist still has some water on his mind. What ails you, O sea, that you flee? O Jordan, that you turn back. O mountains, that you skip like rams, O hills, like lambs. A little bit of divine sarcasm, huh? Here is poetry at its best. Our psalmist has a few questions for the sea, the mountains, and the river. Just this. He wants to know what ails them You are behaving in such a strange fashion. Whatever happened to hydraulics Don't you know that water is supposed to find its own level? Don't you know that mountains are supposed to stand still and not hop around in such an agitated fashion? Oh yeah, I know. We know about volcanoes. But the Matterhorn skipping like a ram, or Mount Everest bouncing like a lamb? Imagery? To be sure. But he makes his point with amazing force, doesn't he? Let the natural order sit up and pay attention. Something strange and wonderful is going on here Something for which the geologist, and for that matter, every physical scientist, is totally unprepared. Things that boggle the mind happened. So, Church of Jesus Christ Keep this in mind when you wonder whether anyone is minding the store. When you doubt that there is order and meaning to events, like right now in these few months. Yes, there are times when you ask the question, why are things happening the way that they are, not only in my life, but in the whole world? Well, it's at times like that, you can read and be fully comforted by our song tonight. Because you will then be prompted to ask another question. Why did unexplained things happen in Israel's history long ago? Why did the Red Sea heap up in a wall? Why did Mount Sinai quake like a fearful newborn lamb And why did the Jordan River forget to flow downstream? And that will put your tiny consternations into perspective. And you will be less prone to doubt that someone is, after all, in charge here. Even in charge of viral pandemics Now, lastly, Stanza Four, verses five and six. What ails you, O See, that you flee, O Jordan, that you turn back. O mountains that you skip like rams, O hills, like lambs. Actually, I read them already. Sorry. We read ne you need to read seven and eight. Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob. Who turns the rock into a pool of water, the flint into a spring of water. That's the stanza for Now, here we have the answer to the poet's whimsical questions: What's wrong with you, O sea, O river, O mountain? Tremble, O earth. That's everybody, to be sure, but particularly Israel, who is ready for the answer and who will be blessed by it. Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob. The reason, you see, for these seemingly startling violations of physical laws is that the God of creation and providence Is present. And he is present particularly for covenant blessing upon his redeemed flock. In the words of Francis Schaefer, he is here, and he is not silent. He is here, and he is not silent in the midst of your needs today Will you too, with the Jews, not tremble before him, congregation? For here, my dear Christian brothers and sisters, you have to do with the Lord Jesus Christ, who is even now incarnate. The second person of the Blessed Trinity has come among us for our salvation. God in flesh, abiding, even though now he is ascended on high. He's still God in flesh. God and flesh abiding. Yes, we have, as the Heidelberg Catechism affirms it correctly, our flesh in heaven. Yet at the same time, he is print present among us now. Right now. And that same Lord Jesus Christ was present then too, at the time celebrated. By our psalmist. For listen, as he goes on with his praiseful history lesson, who turns the rock into a pool of water, the flint into a spring of water. Now who does that? You say the Lord God, of course. What do you think? But wait a moment. The New Testament covenant of fulfillment has a word on this matter, too. Jesus' disciples certainly learned that on the day when they with the Savior were caught in danger of perishing from a storm. On the Sea of Galilee. The account in Matthew 8 records how the frightened men cried out to Jesus, who was asleep. Save us, Lord! We are perishing! And he awaking said to them, Why are you afraid, O you of little faith? And he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. Kind of sounds a little bit like the Red Sea and the Jordan, don't you think? Here we have the third act. Of God's divine intervention into the regular hydraulics of earth science, my friends For the sake of the welfare of his beloved church, God Almighty blows back like a wall the waters of the Red Sea Then later stops for gravitational flow of the Jordan River, and now thirdly rebukes the winds and waves of Galilee's sea. And I can't help but notice the parallel irony represented by the psalmist's sarcastic question addressed to Israel's watery obstacles. In our Psalm tonight. And the disciples wide-eyed and open cry. What sort of man is this that even winds and sea obey him? Yes, indeed, we have before us this evening, dear congregation, all three acts of the grand opera. of Almighty and ever-blessed God's deliverance of His church of the ages, wrought by Jesus Christ. And calling forth fear and reverence on the part of God's grateful people. Listen finally to the Apostle Paul as he carefully explains it to the Corinthian church. First Epistle, chapter 10. I want you to know, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea. And all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. I shouldn't interrupt here because in the middle of a Bible reading, but it's sort of like they had a dry baptism. And all ate the same spiritual food, manna. And all drank the same spiritual drink. The water of life. For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. So compassionate is our Savior that towards that sinful lot, remember they're complaining in the wilderness. He supplied every need they had of pure mercy. And he supplies every need you have, believer, today. Tremble before this God, this Jesus, this Lord Yes, this brilliant, beautiful song of old, Psalm 114, encourages you along your way, congregation. Have no fear, but fear him who is worthy of all your praise. Take this psalm and make it your own chronicle of redemption that you too have received. Yes, nothing can stand in the way of your Lord's determination to deliver you out of bondage to sin and evil. And to bring you at last into his heavenly home. You're no better. And probably no worse than those Israelites and even those disciples of old congregation. You too face temptations to resist, obstacles to overcome, sins to forsake, and dangers to escape in your Christian walk It's not a piece of cake, is it? For every one of those perplexing occasions, you need a prescription for peace. A capsule for confidence and a help for hope. And let me assure you, you have all three Right here in Psalm 114. It's another good one to memorize. Put it up by a magnet on your refrigerator, along with that other psalm that I suggested some months ago. Ours is still on our refrigerator. This one's still to go up there. Arm yourself against Satan's attacks to lure you into giving up and giving in. Sola Dei Gloria Amen