Turn to the psalm for the evening, which is Psalm 108. I'm going to read um just a bit of introduction before I read the psalm This psalm is entitled A Song, A Psalm of David. But interestingly, and I didn't know this until I studied it, it's actually a compilation of Two sections of other psalms. It's a compilation of Psalm 57, 7 through 11, which is very similar to verses 1 through 5 of our Psalm. And of Psalm 60, 5 through 12, which is almost identical to Psalm 108, 6 through 13. These are David's words from these earlier Psalms put together, applied to a present challenge. as we have it here in Psalm 108. The enemies at this time specified are Moab, Edom, and Philistia, with emphasis on Edom. So with that, let us read the psalm and then hear the word of God as it is broken and preached. My heart is steadfast, O God. I will sing and make melody with all my being. Awake, O harp and lyre. I will awake the dawn. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations, for your steadfast love is great above the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth, that your beloved ones may be delivered. Give salvation by your right hand and answer me God has promised in his holiness with exaltation, I will divide up Shechem and portion out the valley of Sukoth Gilead is mine, Manasseh is mine, Ephraim is my helmet, Judah my scepter, Moab my wash basin. Upon Edom I cast my shoe Over Philistia I shout in triumph. Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out, O God, with your with our armies. Oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man. With God we shall do valiantly. It is He who will tread down our foes. So the first part is, of course, an amazing, beautiful praise. My heart is steadfast, O God. I will sing and make melody with all my being. Awake, O harp and lyre. I will awake the dawn. David sang from the strength of his heart. In God. His steadfast confidence in God gave him a fixed point from which he could and would sing and give praise. And then he says, awake, lyre, and harp. David was a musician. We know that. His music comforted King Saul earlier in his career. David was a skilled musician. It's told to us in 1 Samuel 16, 18. So he offered this in praise to God, the music of the lyre and the harp. And he was willing to get up at the crack of dawn. Awake, he says, the dawn. He's waking up the day with his songs. He's up early to praise God with these instruments. I hope that everybody in the house appreciated that. But whether they did or not, he did it. Then the second section, verses three through four, the wide audience of this praise, I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. And here's a parallel phrase. I will sing praises to you among the nations. Here we see that the covenant of grace Doesn't just embrace Israelites. It embraces the whole world. And so he's praising God, and he's praising God with a view to that praise going out to the whole world, to all the nations. For the salvation of the world that was promised through Abraham. He says in verse 4: For your steadfast love is great above the heavens, and then in parallel fashion, your faithfulness reaches the clouds. In other words, it's it's more than you can measure. It reaches the heavens, it reaches the clouds, it's above the heavens, you just can't you can't measure it. And God's praise is that way. It's more than can be measured. He deserves more than we could ever offer to him. And David sees the mercy of God as being so great that if it could be measured, it would extend above the heavens. And in parallel fashion, his truth would reach to the clouds. The goal of history is that God will be known and honored throughout creation. And we see it in passages, there's several in the Old Testament, but like Habakkuk 2, verse 14, which says, in prophecy, the earth will be filled. with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as how much as the waters cover the sea. So In prophecy, we see that the earth will be filled with the knowledge. The whole world will know God at some point in history. And that's what he's thanking God for and looking forward to and singing about and singing toward as he praises God. Verse 5 and 6: The exalted O God above the heavens, let your glory be over all the earth, that your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand, and answer me. If the measure of God's mercy and truth are high above the heavens and the clouds, then the honor and recognition of God should also be beyond measure. And that's what we see here. And then he says that your beloved ones may be delivered. Now there is a circumstance in view here. There's a problem, and he's praying for that too. It's part of the picture that your beloved ones may be delivered. David's praise became a prayer, asking that he would be delivered from his present distress. At the beginning of the song, we don't even know that there's any trouble. He only mentions his trouble after first setting his heart and mind right with praise from his entire being. Maybe that's something that we should consider. Before we bring our petitions for all of our wants and needs to God, maybe we should first take a little time just to extol God, just to praise God, just to thank God for all that He is and all that He has done. He deserves it. That's what we'll do for all eternity. So let's do some of that. And then after a while we can bring our our petitions, our concerns to the throne of grace, which is appropriate as well. By the way, I want you to notice that in the morning prayer, we always do that. Because it's the right pattern. We begin by extoling God as the creator of all things and the redeemer and the promise maker and the promise keeper. Then we move finally down into our petitions And that is the appropriate. Someone said prayer should be A C T S. Acts, A-C T S. Adoration. Then confession. Then thanksgivings. And then supplications. So supplications come last. You begin with adoration. And then one more interesting thing here, he says, your beloved David understood that God loved him, and so he applied to God on that basis. Your beloved, he's looking for deliverance for himself. And he calls himself beloved. And it's an interesting thing in Hebrew that the Hebrew beloved is Yadid. Yadid, Y-A-D-I-D. It's a cognate with the meaning of David's name, which is Daweed. D-A-W-I-D, which means also beloved. So it's an interesting thing. Let your beloved, your David, you know, be delivered. The Hebrew word belongs to the language of love and poetry. It appeals to the strongest bonds, the most ardent relationships. And you should be able to say that too. I am the Yadid of God. He has loved me with an everlasting love. What wondrous love is this, as we say just a few minutes ago And it's for you and me, his beloved ones, his yadid. So when you're feeling down and maybe other people aren't treating you like they should, Just remember that God loves you and you are his beloved. And then we come to The next part, the declaration of God's victory. He's got a need in mind, and he will now bring that need out in the psalm. God's dominion over Israel and its land is first in verses seven and eight. God has promised in his holiness, with exaltation, I will divide up Shechem and portion out the valley of Sukkoth. Gilead is mine, Manasseh is mine, Ephraim is my helmet, Judah my scepter. And we'll stop there for a moment. God has promised, and he gives this prophecy that he is the Lord over the land, the land of Israel first. I will divide Shechem and portion out the valley of Sukkoth. These verses refer to both a city and a region in Israel. God declared his sovereignty over the land, and he will do as he pleases in these regions. Then he says geographically, Gilead and Manasseh, those are the tribes on the east side. So the other ones were on the west side of the Jordan. Now these are on the east side of the Jordan. And then he says also Judah and Ephraim. That's the central portions. He says, these are all mine. They're under my dominion. You may be concerned about this, King David. There's trouble, but I have it all under control. East and west, central and north and south, it's all mine. And he says, Ephraim is my helmet. That's the northern side. So you just geographically, east and west. Central, South, North, it's all God's. Ephraim is mine. And then Judah is my scepter. Of course that's Judah is the tribe from which the king comes, King David, and King Jesus, Judah. And it's also where the central power of of the government of Israel is in Jerusalem too. And then he's he's okay it's not just Israel, which I've now geographically outlined for you. I'm going to go further. He says Moab is my wash basin. Yahweh is the God of all the nations, and David recognized this by mentioning the neighboring kingdoms. And he says, God would use Moab as he pleased, even for the humble service like a basin for washing feet. That's not a a dish that you want to use to make your casserole in, is it? This is nasty, dirty, because feet were really dirty back in those days People had to walk on dirty roads that animals had deposited on, shall we say, and their feet were dirty And so to wash your feet was a slave's job and using a filthy basin wasn't a very nice thing. Hey, Moab is my basin, my wash basin, my foot washing place And uh one commentator says, both Moab and Edom were noted for their pride. It's described in Isaiah 16 and in Obadiah 3. Here God gives them places of humble service instead of their pride. Van Gemran says the picture of Moab coming with a wash basin for the warrior to wash his feet represents her subjugation to servant status. And then this one's an interesting one too. Upon Edom I cast my shoe. In a day when roads and paths were dirty and covered with refuge of all kinds. A person's shoes are regarded with contempt. And you might remember that this happened in our time period to President George W. Bush. Uh and December 14, 2008, during an Iraqi press conference, an Iraqi journalist named Muntadar Al Zaw al-Zayadi threw both of his shoes at the president. Did you remember that? Remember that, yeah? Um Bush ducked, avoiding being hit by either of the shoes. The second shoe hit the uh US flag And Al-Zahidi was subsequently grabbed, kicked, and hurried out of the room by guards. And in the Middle East, effigies of many United States presidents had long appeared with shoes on them all over the Middle East. But it was not until this event that shoeing had received widespread notability And since then, there have been many other shooing incidents on the international scale. Al-Zahidi, incidentally, received three-year prison sentence, which was later reduced to two years The point is this. If God wants to throw dirty shoes on Edom as an expression of his contempt, he has the power and the right to do so. And that's what David is saying. And then finally, over Philistia I will shout in triumph. God's dominion was also to be celebrated over these long, bitter enemies of his people. people, the Philistines. We come finally to verses 10 through 13. Trust in God and in the help that He will bring. Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out, O God, with our enemies. O grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man. With God, and this is the final ending, with God we shall do valiantly. It is He who will tread down our foes. Okay, what's this fortified city? Well, people who would read this would know that it's very likely the fortified city among the Edomites, which was the famous Petra. built high up in the mountains out of a cliff, this famous city, very, very hard to get to. The passages to get up to the city were wide enough for only one man at a time, so a swarm of soldiers could not invade Petra quickly and they could easily be picked off one at the time We have no record of David ever attacking or conquering the city, if the fortified city here refers to Petra. Perhaps David did conquer it, but It is not in the biblical record. Or David may mean Petra simply as an example of what seemed to be an unconquerable city that could not resist God's power if he willed. And yet we know that eventually it did fall and it became a wasteland and a desolate place. Uh Boyce says there were a number of well fortified cities in Edom, not just Petra, the source of the country's strength and great pride. But when the psalm speaks of the fortified city, it may mean Petra The inaccessible, legendary place, the stronghold of Edom. The main message is this: that God is able to conquer what seems unconquerable. And then this phrase, have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out with our enemies. David prays a prayer Because of the recent defeats, recognizing that those defeats came because God's favor did not shine upon Israel's armies. And that God did not go out with Israel's armies. And if he didn't go out with them, there was no hope for victory, because, as he says, the help of man is useless. The help of man is vain. And David, over the course of his life, had seen many brave warriors do great things on the battlefields, but he came to know for certain and understand completely. That the help of man was never enough. It was vain. Spurgeon says We ought to pray with all the more confidence in God when our confidence in man is altogether gone. When the help of man is vain, we shall not find it in vain to seek our help from God. That's a beautiful thing. Listen to it again. When the help of man is vain, we shall not find it vain to seek the help of God. And then this last phrase, and we're done. With God we will do valiantly. David's formula was simple: without God, they could do nothing. Remember, Jesus would later say, apart from me ye can do nothing. John 15, 5. I am the vine, you are the branches. Apart from me, you can do nothing. Paul would say in Philippians 4, 13, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. With and through God, they could win great victories and accomplish great things. And this was the purpose of this psalm. We will do valiantly. Spurgeon says, divine working is not an argument for human inaction, but rather it is the best excitement for courageous effort. Then finally, it is he we will do valiantly, it is he who will tread down our foes. And that reminds me of the little benediction not very frequently used, the little benediction which I will use tonight from Romans 16. 20. You know what that little benediction is? It is the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. It is he who will tread down our foes. And that should be our confidence, our faith, that God will tread down our foes. The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet as you trust in Christ, as you believe and trust and act in faith. And with God we can do valiantly. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you and praise you for this beautiful song of David. We thank you that you are in charge of the lands that you promised to give to your people. The tribes on the east side and the west side in the center and the south and in the north. You're also in charge of the nations that are enemies that surround and plague your people. You're in charge, and you're able to conquer all of our foes. The ones inside us and the ones outside us. We are weak, but you are strong. Help us to come to the end of ourselves and our abilities. And then trust in you to use us and do in us and for us what we need done. With God, we will do valiantly. He will crush down our enemies. Amen.