Please open your Bibles. The prophet Ezekiel chapter 34, where we'll read verses 11 through 16. For thus says the Lord God, Behold, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so will I seek out my sheep, and I will rescue them from all places where they have been scattered on the day of clouds and dark and thick darkness. And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries, and will bring them into their own land And I will feed them on the mountain of Israel, by the ravines and in all the inhabited places of the country. I will feed them with good pasture, and on the mountain heights of Israel shall be their grazing land. There they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on rich pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep. And I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord God. I will seek the lost, and I will bring back the strayed, and I will bind up the injured, and I will strengthen the weak. And the fat and the strong I will destroy. I will feed them injustice. The word of the Lord. First Peter five, one through eleven. First Peter five, one through eleven So I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed. Shepherd the flock of God that is among you. Exercising oversight Not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you, not for shameful gain, but eagerly Not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd appears, You will receive the unfading crown of glory. Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves All of you with humility toward one another. For God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. Casting all your cares and anxieties. On him because he cares for you. Be sober-minded, be watchful Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him. Firm in your faith Knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little while, The God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen. And then the gospel, which is the preaching text. The very end of the Gospel, chapter 21 of the Gospel of John, beginning at verse 15. When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. This he said to show by what kind of death he was going to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to him, Follow me. Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them, the one who had been reclining at table close to him and had said, Lord, who is is it that's going to betray you? When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man? Jesus said to him, If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me. So the saying spread abroad among the brothers that this disciple was not to die. That Jesus did not say to him that he was He was not to die, but if it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? This is the disciple who is bearing witness about these things and who has written these things. and we know that his testimony is true. Now there are many other things that Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books. That would be written. This is the word of the Lord. We all fail in many ways. Some of you have failed exams in schools, or you have failed an examination for competency in a particular skill. I suppose there are a few people who have never failed one of these, but most of us have failed some sort of test like that. Some have failed at starting a business or a different career and had to reverse course and start over again. Some have failed in keeping commitments, promises made to a spouse in marriage, or before the church as members Or to keep a thing secret that you promise to keep secret, or to make known the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ as He has commanded you. It's no great shame to try a business venture or a course of study or to set a goal for yourself to achieve some bodily improvement and then to fail. It can be costly and depressing. But it is not a great thing. A little advice on those sorts of things from the Rear Admiral. Well, no, not at Rear Admiral, he's the Admiral, William McRaven. He says, if you want to change the world, you should start by making your bed. He said this at a commencement speak at the University of Texas. He said, if you make your bed, it will give you a small sense of pride, and it will encourage you to do another task and another and another, and by the end of the day, that one task completed will have turned into many tasks completed. That's good advice. Alright? It's not biblical, but it's good advice. It might be biblical if we find it in the Proverbs. Like whatever your hand finds to do, do it with all your might. Do your best, that sort of thing. But the things that will make you truly morally ashamed are the failures to keep sacred commitments to God. As a Christian disciple, you must certainly make promises to God and others before God's eyes. But it would be far better for you to make firm promises and keep them. than to break your promises and fail in that way. Ecclesiastes 5. 5 says it is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay. No doubt, many vows to God and before others have failed because of human sin and weakness. But God is the God of second chances, and third chances, and more. And I'm so glad that God is the God of second chances. Think with me for a moment of the great people of the Bible, some of them, Abraham, the man of faith, you know. He believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. Yet he fearfully passed his wife off as his sister because he was afraid of Pharaoh, who wanted Sarai as wife. God gave him a second chance and a third chance and more. Samson, in the time of the judges, Samson, who was brought up in a religious, biblical home, who was a Nazarite from his mother's womb. He failed. He rejected his heritage. He married a pagan and colluded with the enemy. He lost his great strength He lost his eyes, his freedom, but God gave him a second chance to defeat Israel's enemies. And he did defeat Israel's enemies. And he's listed in chapter 11 of Hebrews at Hebrews Hall of Faith. And Jonah. Jonah, when called to go and preach to Nineveh, went the opposite way. Then God arranged a storm and a fish. And a second chance and more for Jonah. And of course, David. Great King David committed adultery and murder, and heard the searing words of Nathan the prophet: Thou art the man The thief, the adulterer, the murderer. But God gave him a second chance, too. Grace that is greater than all our sins, that is what we sing. Failure does not have to be the last word with God. Mercy triumphs over judgment. God gives second chances. This is where we find Peter. Peter has failed Jesus. Though he was warned by Jesus in John chapter 13. Let me just read that for you. 13, 36 through 38. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered him, Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow after Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. And Jesus answered, You will lay down your life for me. Truly, truly. I say to you, the rooster will not crow three times until you have denied me three times. Excuse me. The rooster will not crow until you have denied me three times. Remember Peter's boast. It's recorded in Matthew 26. Jesus said to them You will all fall away because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered, but after I am raised up I will go before you to Galilee Peter answered, Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away. Jesus said to him, Truly, I tell you, this very night before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. Peter said to him, Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you. And then it's recorded in John chapter 18, which we've studied, but let me refresh it for you. This is the night Jesus is arrested. Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. Since the disciple was known to the high priest, he entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest, but Peter stood outside the door. So the other disciple who was known to the high priest went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door and brought Peter in, a servant girl. Brought Peter in. And verse 17, the servant girl at the door said to Peter, You also are not one of this man's disciples, are you? He said, I am not. Then verse 18, now the servants and officers had made a charcoal fire, this is important, because it was cold, they were standing and warming themselves. Peter also was with him, standing and warming himself. Annas, verse 24, sent him bound, that's Jesus bound to Caiaphas the high priest Verse 25. Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself, so they said to him, You also are not one of his disciples, are you? He denied it and said, I am not. One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, asked, Did I not see you in the garden with him? Peter again denied it, and at once. A rooster crowed. Three times denied. And the other gospel writers tell us that he denied knowing Jesus with an oath. He swore. Remember also from a few verses earlier, Peter had been the one, a few verses earlier in our text today, at the Sea of Galilee, Peter had been the one who jumped out of the boat. And headed to shore first, to be the first to arrive there to see Jesus. Maybe he wanted to get there first and beg forgiveness. We're not told that there's been any real exchange, any real clearing up of this matter of Peter's denying Jesus. So maybe he wanted to be there to ask for forgiveness. Maybe he had already sensed the gracious nature of Jesus in the previous two resurrection appearances, but perhaps had not spoken of the grievous failure. Sometimes we just don't want to talk about it, you know. We let it sit there. And then we get to our text. When they had finished breakfast, Verse 15, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said, Tend my sheep. And he said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you were old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to him, Follow me. Where are they when this happens? Where did Jesus where did Peter excuse me deny Jesus? Beside a fire, Caiaphas's court, his yard. Where does this take place? Beside the fire Three questions. And as the questions begin, Jesus gets very formal here. He says, Simon, son of John. He didn't just say Simon. Simon, son of John. That recalls the way Jesus spoke to him when he first met him back in John 1 It's recorded there, John 1. 40. One of the two heard John speak and followed Jesus was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. And he found his own brother Simon and said to him, We have found the Messiah, which means Christ. And he brought him to Jesus, and Jesus looked at him, this is back in John 1, and said, You are Simon, the son of John. You shall be called Cephas, which means Peter. And so even just bringing that formal address reminds him of Jesus calling him. And then he asked the question, do you love me more than these? Now remember what Peter had said? Though they all fall away, those other disciples, I will never fall away Do you love me more than these? You think you do? You thought you did. And so he answers, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. That was the original commission, by the way. Just clearer here. And he said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? There's that son of John thing again. He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Third time. He said, Tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said the third time, Do you love me? This is the recommissioning of Peter, is it not? Peter as a shepherd of the church, the flock of God. Which God had promised that he would shepherd himself, but he uses under-shepherds, you see. Jesus is the great shepherd, but he uses under-shepherds. God had promised that back in Ezekiel and other places like that. Peter is recommissioned here as that shepherd of the flock. Not the only one, by the way, not the Pope, but as a shepherd of the flock, an important shepherd of the flock. The three denials that happened beside the charcoal fire at Caiaphas's court are now recapitulated with three affirmations of love. And willingness to follow Jesus, and commandment to feed his flock, shepherd his sheep, care for his people. Sometimes people try to make a lot out of variations in the questions and the words they are used for love and shepherd and sheep and so forth. I don't think there's much to that. Beside the point, the point is that Jesus publicly restores Peter. Everybody that's around knows that's what's going on and sets him again to the task. And one more thing. Remember why Peter denied Jesus? Remember why? What was it that motivated him to deny Jesus that night? Fear. He was afraid for his skin. He was afraid for his life. Fear, fear, fear. Someone won't like me, or someone will string me up in Peter's case. Fear. So what does Jesus do about the fear thing? Here's what he does. Amen, amen. Truly, truly. I say to you, when you were young, Peter, you impetuous Peter, you guy that does what exactly he wants to do, doesn't think about it twice, just goes right ahead. When you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted to go. But when you're old, Peter, you will stretch out your hands. And another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go, where you're afraid of most, I think it means. The cross. This is going to happen to you, Peter. Face the fear. Follow me. Shepherd my sheep. Face the fear. And John tells us this is to show what kind of death he was to glorify God, stretched out hands, taken where he didn't want to go. And then he said, after that, he said, follow me. Peter is now told very clearly by Jesus that he will in fact die like Jesus did. In his youth, he did what he wanted to, but when he's old, he will be restrained by the weakness of his age and restrained by the powers that ruled Rome. And he would die. Eusebius, early church father, says that Peter was crucified head down. He asked to be crucified head down Because he didn't feel worthy to die in exactly the same fashion as Jesus. And this probably happened in Rome around 64 A. D. And there's one more bit here that Peter gets some correction on, some direction on, and that is Jesus teaching Peter to mind his own business, to mind his mission. Verse 20, Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them. The one who would also lean back against him during the supper. That's John. We know John speaking of himself in the third person here. And he said, Lord, who is going to betray you? So it's identifying who this is. Verse 21, when Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man? What about him? Jesus said, if it's my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? Mind your own business. Do your work. You follow me. So the saying spread abroad among the brothers that this disciple was not going to die. That's not what Jesus said. Yet Jesus did not say to him he was not going to die. But if it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? It seems that Peter had a problem comparing himself to others. He was a very impetuous and bold man. It's very clear that he often was concerned with his place. Recently, he had cultivated a very good opinion of himself, but more recently had come down several notches, as we've just heard. He is still obsessed with himself. Jesus has indicated a bad end for Peter at the close of his life, but he's still interested in other people and what's going to happen to them. Jesus steers him away from this and says, mind your own business, you follow me. So Peter's been recommissioned and he's been corrected in certain ways, set to the task. Told to face the fears and get on with the business of leading God's flock. And as we conclude this last bit, we have a true record. This is the disciple who was bearing witness about these things and who was written these things. And we know that his testimony is true. John is saying, I'm telling you the truth. And then finally, verse 25, now there are also many other things that Jesus did. Were every one of them to be written, I suppose that the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. Yes. Believe. Believe. John is telling the truth. I'm going to end with a story that Haddon Robinson told. And here's the story. On New Year's Day, 1929, Georgia Tech Played University of California in the Rose Bowl. In that game, a man named Roy Riggles recovered a fumble for California. Somehow he became confused and started running 65 yards in the wrong direction. One of his teammates, Benny Lam, outdistanced him and downed him just before he scored for the opposing team. When California attempted to punt, Tech blocked the kick and scored a safety, which was the ultimate margin of victory. That strange play came in the first half. And everyone who was watching the game was asking the same question. What will Coach Price do with Roy Riggles in the second half? The men filed off the field. They went into the dressing room. They sat down on the benches and on the floor, all but Rigels. He put his blanket around his shoulders, sat in a corner, put his face in his hands, and cried like a baby. If you know much about football, you know that the coach usually has a great deal to say to the team during the second half break. That day, Coach Price was quiet. No doubt he was trying to decide what to do with Rigels. Then the timekeeper came in and announced that there were three minutes before playing time. Coach Price Looked at the team and said simply, men, the same team that played the first half will start the second. Players got up and started out, all but Riggels. He did not budge. The coach looked back and called to him again. Still, he did not move. Coach Price went over to where Rigels sat and said, Roy, didn't you hear me? Same team that played the first half will start the second. Then Roy Riggles looked up. His cheeks were wet with a strong man's tears. Coach, he said, I can't do it to save my life I've ruined you. I've ruined the University of California. I've ruined myself. I couldn't face that crowd in the stadium to save my life Then Coach Price reached out and put his hand on Rygel's shoulder and said to him, Roy, get up and go on back. The game is only half over. And Roy Riggles went back. And the tech men said that they have never seen a man play football as Roy Riggles played that second half. John's message is that God is the God of second chances. It's not over yet. It's never too late. To walk with Christ, never too late, to do the work that God has given you to do. And John's message to all of us, no matter what we do, is believe me, I am telling you the truth. Believe in Jesus, the Word who became flesh, who lived a perfect life and died for sinners, taking their sins and giving them his perfect record. Believe in Jesus who gives second chances to people like Peter and me and you. Amen. Lord, we praise you and thank you, but you are the God who knows our weakness, our frailty, our fears, and you are the God of grace. We pray that you will set us on the high road of life's path with faith and determination and love and joy. To serve you all the days of our life. In Jesus' name, Amen