Please turn to Genesis 1, we'll read verses 26 through 31. Then God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. And have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit. You shall have them for food. And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creeps on the earth. Everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food. And it was so. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning the sixth day. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. We're going to read from 2 Corinthians 9, 6 through 12, and then the gospel reading, which is the preaching text, 2 Corinthians 9. 6 through 12. The point is this whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly Whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must give as he has decided in his own heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work. As it is written, He has distributed freely, He has given to the poor, His righteousness endures forever. He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in every way, to be generous in every way, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God. For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God. And then the Gospel John 21, as we draw near the end of this book, John 21, 1 through 14. After this, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberias, and he revealed himself in this way. Simon Peter, Thomas, called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. They said to him, We will go with you. They went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing. Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore. Yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to them, Children, do you have any fish? They answered him, No. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul in, to haul it in because of the quantity of fish. That disciple, whom Jesus loved, therefore said to Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and threw himself into the sea. The other disciples came into the boat, came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish for they were not far off from the land, but about a hundred yards off. When they got out on land they saw a charcoal fire in place, with fish laid out on it and bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just caught. So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore full of large fish. one hundred and fifty three of them. And although there were so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. Now none of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord. Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish. This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, now we pray that you will attend the preaching of this your holy word as we have read it. We thank you for it, and we ask that we will benefit greatly from it because your Spirit will bring it home to our hearts. We'll teach us how to live for you. Amen. This is First of all, a recommissioning. A recommissioning. The first commissioning was back in Luke chapter 5. Verses 1 through 11 as it is recorded. The one we just read is very much like that one, but that one was much earlier. That one was at the beginning of the disciples' ministry. That was when he called them and commissioned them. Let me read it to you because we didn't read that. Luke chapter 5, 1 through 11. On one occasion, while the crowd was pressing in on him to hear the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret, and he saw two boats by the lake But the fishermen had gone out of them and were washing their nets. Getting into the one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to put it out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the people from the boat And let me just comment. The water would reflect his voice off to the people. It was a very good conduit. And it and yet it kept them from crowding so close to him that that he couldn't get his words out, you know, uh for all the people standing in front of him or sitting in front of him. So he was using this um Speaker system, this public address system going out a little bit into the lake and using the water to reflect a sound Have you ever been out on a water like that? You can hear a fisher fisherman, someone off, you know, way off. You can hear them really well. Because the water bounces the sound around really well. Anyway, that's what's going on. Verse 4 And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch. And Simon answered, Master, we toiled all night and took nothing. But at your word I will let down the nets. And when they had done this, they enclosed a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking. They signaled to their partners in other boat to come and help them. And they asked, and they came and filled both boats, so that they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish that they had taken. And so also were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, do not be afraid. From now on you will be catching men. And then listen to this. And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him. That's the first commissioning, the beginning of their commissioning, their their commissioning to follow Jesus, to be his disciples. To catch men for God's kingdom. Now, three years have passed. They have lived with Jesus. They have heard his words. They have seen his life up close and personal. They have seen his consistency, his truthfulness, his graciousness His miracle-working powers. They have seen him so up close and personal that if there were flaws, if there were things that were sinful about him, they would know it. It's impossible to hide yourselves when you're living with people that closely, as husbands and wife often know. They had hoped that he would redeem Israel To set Israel free from the Romans and set up a theocratic reign in Palestine. But instead, what happened to him? He was arrested. He set his face toward Jerusalem like a flat. He wouldn't get off course no matter what they said. He kept going toward Jerusalem, and so he was arrested there And he was tried. Silly mock trials, horrible, illegal trials, but he was tried. And then he was crucified to death. And buried. Then on the third day, he was alive again. He was raised up and he appeared to them. All these things have happened. And they stayed there for a bit. At least another week where they saw him again. But now what? They probably thought to themselves, we've been here in Jerusalem for weeks, both before and after Jesus' death and resurrection. When we saw our risen Lord the second time he breathed on us and said that we had the authority to proclaim forgiveness of sins to those who believe, and the opposite, for those who reject Jesus as the Messiah. Now what? Now what? We can't stay here. We don't have jobs here. We're in danger here. As Jesus' disciples, his associates, we're in danger of being arrested. Let's go home. Let's go home to Galilee. Let's go back to familiar surroundings. to safety, to jobs that we know how to perform. Let's go home. And so they did. They went back to Galilee, where they had first been called to follow Jesus. And then we get to this chapter 21, verse 1. After this, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberius. It's the same one from Luke chapter 5, just called a different name. And he revealed himself in this way. Simon Peter. Remember it was Simon's boat back in Luke 5? Simon Peter, Thomas called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana and Galilee, the sons of Zebedee and two others of his disciples were together. And Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. Now some commentators will say, you know, he was just throwing off all discipleship and going back to being a fisherman. He wasn't going to be. Doing what Jesus had called him to do anymore at all. That's not necessarily the case. That's not necessarily the case. He's being practical. And the practical thing is when you don't know what to do in the long term, first just take care of short-term needs. Fishing was their occupation. They knew the lake. So this was not outlandish or bad at all that Simon said, I'm going fishing. And so what did they do? They said to him, We will go with you. And so they went out, got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing. That's kind of a defeating thing, isn't it? Catching nothing. I mean that's a lot of work And catching nothing. I think we could say from that, sometimes God prevents us. He frustrates our plans, our hopes, our dreams But it's often in order to direct our attention to his greater plan. What is God's big plan What is God's big plan? His plan has always been for a blessing to the whole world, to all nations. Just go back to the very beginning of God calling someone to follow him. Abram, Abram's great adventure. Abram, who became Abraham, had a great adventure. There were many twists and turns and delays, seemingly delays God had said to him back in Genesis 12, and the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great so that you will be a blessing. See, God's purpose has always been to bless. And I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. That was Abram's call to discipleship, to be a blessing, for God to bless through him. And again, there were many twists and turns and false starts and so forth. We can also look much later on in Israel's history at Isaiah 49. There, Judah, Judah, which was the most faithful bunch left over from the ten tribes, Judah had a great adventure. Following God, but they also failed, and they finally were led unto exile. And this is Isaiah 49, a time when Isaiah is telling about the exile that's coming. And he tells them in no uncertain terms that his purposes have not failed, even though they have failed. Listen to it, Isaiah 49, 5. And now says the Lord. who formed me from the womb to be his servant, that's mission, that's discipleship. To bring Jacob back to him and that Israel might be gathered to him, for I am honored in the eyes of the Lord, and my God has become my strength. He says, Is it too like a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob? And to bring back the preserved of Israel. Paraphrasing that. Do you consider it a small thing, an abandoned promise that I've given you? A mission that I've given you? You think it's a small thing, no big deal? And God basically then underlines all this and says, no, the promise has not been withdrawn because of your failure. Judah did fail. He says finally, I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach the ends of the earth. This he said to them who were going into exile for their sins. I will still use you. You'll see, I'll make you a light to the nations, that my salvation may reach The ends of the earth. This is vocation. This is calling. God's ways are amazing. Vocation is to serve God's purpose. And it was in effect, and it is still in effect. I remember when I was a student back at Moody Bible Institute, I was a theology major I was going to study theology. I was going to maybe be a pastor, but one thing I didn't really want to do was be a missionary. But they made us all take a missions course anyway as part of the curriculum. And so there was this book they made us read. I remember the title. I remember hating that book at first. The book was called Give Up Your Small Ambitions. And just the title got me a little bit upset. I perceived it as a book that would be pushing guilt trips on me and others who were not preparing to become foreign missionaries. To make us all feel guilty for not being committed enough to go to foreign missions. But as I read the book, I realized that foreign missions was just one facet of what it means to follow and serve God's mission In that book, small ambitions were defined differently than I thought. They were defined as the American dream The American dream to make a lot of money and buy a lot of things and live at ease and if possible die rich. That's the American dream, is it not? The Christian life is a great adventure that might include some very ordinary things like raising a family. Like conducting business, like taking vacations, and these sorts of things. But if it is the will of God and if you serve God in these things, He will make your life productive and challenging and joyful and ultimately a blessing to the world. We all are called to give up our small ambitions. and be a blessing to the world in whatever it is God calls us to do. Your vocation. You have a vocation before God. It may change at times and seasons in your life, but you always have the vocation to be a blessing. You're always called to make to catch men for God. Vocation, you see, isn't just for nuns and monks and priests, as the Roman Catholics use the term vocation. Vocation is calling to serve God's kingdom in many different walks of life The Protestant Reformation rescued vocation from the Roman Catholic Church and made it clear that every believer is called to serve. Jesus had chosen a bunch of ordinary Galilean fishermen And some others too, like Matthew the tax collector, and James and John, the political activist, Jewish terrorists. And he had taught them many things and showed them many things which were still percolating in their hearts. And so we find them, with all that going on in their hearts, we find them out in their boat at dawn after fishing all night. Three years after they were commissioned to follow Jesus to be fishers of men, they have been fishing all night and caught nothing. Verse 4, just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore, yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus, and Jesus said to them, as some of the commentators say, he says, Hey boys And our ESV says children. But I'm going to say, Jesus said to them, hey boys, do you have any fish? They answered him, no. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul it in because of the quantity of You will find some. That's the understatement of forever. So what we have here is the miracle of recommissioning. The miracle of underlining the original commission and saying, it is not over. I still have work for you to do. Verse 7. That disciple whom Jesus loved therefore said to Peter, It is the Lord! We know who that disciple was. It's John, right? And when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, threw himself into the sea, he jumped out of the boat, put his clothes on so he could have clothes on when he got there. jumped out and made his way to shore. He's gonna go see Jesus. The other disciples came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from land, but about a hundred yards off Now, it's impossible to think of these same disciples as having forgotten the miracle that happened three years earlier. So let's draw the lessons that they probably needed to draw from this as well. The first lesson. Fishing for men and the sovereignty of God in the catch. The first lesson. Every time someone truly confesses Christ, it is a miracle. Sovereign grace. This is true whether the person was raised in a Christian home, baptized as a child, catechized as a youth, and taught all the traditions of biblical Christianity. It's still a miracle when they believe. I remember when Aaron Cathy was a senior at King's Christian Academy. And uh at the end of the year, his senior year, they had a senior chapel. And a senior chapel contained a testimony time for seniors who wanted to tell their testimony, and some of them did get up and tell how they had become saved and and so forth. And Eric did not offer his testimony. And I had asked him about this. I said, why didn't you offer your testimony? He said, I didn't have a dramatic conversion story to tell, Dad. All I could have said was that I grew up being taught to love and trust Jesus. And I do love and trust Jesus as my Savior. That's all. That wouldn't make a very dramatic testimony in a chapel, would it? But that's a miracle too, you see. It's always a miracle. The context of covenant nurture is a miracle, a miracle of providence The Holy Spirit must regenerate covenant children too, or they will become covenant apostates. And it's also a miracle when those outside the church are caught in the gospel net. and drawn into the covenant. It's more dramatic, yes, but not more miraculous. And so these disciples will be fishing for men in their recommissioning, but is God Who draws people into the net, men and women and girls and boys into the gospel faith net. He's the one who does it. The second thing to point out is the commissioning to catch men is on to the end of the age. They didn't know what to do, so they went back to Galilee, and Jesus is basically saying the plan is still in effect. I'll tell you more before I ascend. We'll get there. But the plan is still in effect. You're going to be fishers of men. You're going to catch men for God. It's on to the end of the age. Another lesson is that the gospel net does not break. Do you know the first instance? The gospel, the net there was breaking. The net was breaking and they couldn't haul them in and they put the fish in the boats and the boats were sinking. Remember that? This time the net doesn't break, it says so. Big fish, 153. The gospel net does not break. That's the sovereignty of God again. We can rely upon that. Successful evangelism is Getting lots of people to raise their hands and to sign the card and to say yes, right? Is that it? No. Successful evangelism is telling the good news of the kingdom of God established by the finished work of Jesus Christ. In light of the bad news of sin and condemnation, and then leaving the results to God. God will not fail. His word will not fail. The gospel net will never break. We get something like that in Isaiah 55. Where God says, For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. For as the rain and snow come down from heaven and do not return there but water the earth making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, so shall my word be that goes out of my mouth, it shall not return to me empty But it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it That's successful evangelism. God is in charge. He will do it. You just need to be faithful Another thing to point out here, another lesson they needed to learn as they were being recommissioned, is that Jesus is risen from the dead. They'd seen him before. There were two other times when he appeared to them as a group, but now this is the third time. He is really risen and very real. He made breakfast for them. There was a fire. Those don't just happen spontaneously, you know. And bread and fish. And he ate with them. He called them breakfast time. Do you believe Jesus is real and risen? There is no Christianity without it. There is no salvation without him, a gentleman with whom I'm acquainted recently Told me that he gets more out of being out in the fields and forests on Sunday morning than sitting in a building. Well, I love the beauty of creation too. But the beautiful creation cannot offer me a Savior. The risen and ascended Jesus Christ really does speak in the reading and preaching of the Bible. And Christ really does give himself the substance of his salvation, his body and blood to those gathered on the Lord's day And Jesus is real, risen, and ascended. His church is a real gathered body to which he gives himself. He really will return bodily to judge the world. This is all real. Not a fantasy, not make-believe. Jesus is real. And the fall in creation, my friend enjoys so much, is pretty, yes it is, but it is full, if you look closely, it is full of death and disease, and it is abnormal. It preaches a past glory, but you need the church ordained by Jesus Christ. It meets in buildings these days. You need the church ordained by Jesus to hear about your Redeemer, your Savior. You don't get that in the fields and forests. Jesus is real, risen from the dead, and they needed to know that very, very clearly. And another thing they could learn from this is that Jesus provides for his own as they do his work. That in verse 9, they got out on land, they saw the charcoal fire in place with fish laid out on it and bread. Jesus is providing for them, he's serving them. It's a grace thing, it's gift. Jesus did it all for them. He provides for his own as they serve him. Philippians chapter 4, the Apostle Paul says this, and my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. The Apostle Paul. And then one more thing that's kind of related to that. It's all grace, yes, it is all grace. Jesus provides for his own, yes, he does. But the next thing to note is your contributions matter. Your contributions matter. Verse 10, Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just caught. In his great little book, Evangelism and the Sovereignty of God, James Packer points out that God is absolutely sovereign on the one hand. It's absolutely sovereign in salvation. And on the other hand, we are responsible to bring the message of salvation in partnership with God. And those who hear are responsible to believe. So there's the sovereignty of God and there's the responsibility of man. And on the back cover of that little book has a picture of an empty rocking chair. And the question being posed there is: if God is sovereign, why pray? If God is sovereign, why go? Why tell? Why not just sit in our rocking chair and let God do all his holy will? Well, we see that God's sovereignty and man's responsibility always working together in ways that we can't quite fathom. But here it is, just one example in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, 7 through 9. God's sovereignty and man's service are put right in the same place together where Paul says, so neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything. But only God who gives the growth. That's the sovereignty of God. Neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything. Then verse 8, he who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his wages according to his labor. And then he says, For we are God's fellow workers. There's a partnership. God is sovereign, but we are We have responsibilities. We have work to do too. We are God's fellow workers, and he says to the to the Corinthians, you are God's field, God's building. And there's something going on between God and man here. So the question: why not just sit in our rocking chair and let God do all his holy will is the wrong question. Since God is sovereign, We pray. Pray to a sovereign God. We can ask him for things because he's actually able to do them. Not wish he could, but people get in his way. But he can actually do them. He is sovereign. So we can pray to him and ask for what we want. That is also why we go and tell, when we tell the gospel, when we gossip the gospel, when we Proclaim the gospel in any way, shape, or form, God is sovereign in it. And we have the assurance that He will use us as His ambassadors, His messengers These men who were commissioned at the start of Jesus' ministry, it says there that they left everything and followed him. They did for three years. Here and now they're being recommissioned to follow, to serve, to live, to give and die in the service of Christ. What are you doing? Now I'm going to use a personal illustration. Many of you know that in a period from 2010 to 2015, I struggled through some rough times in the work of the church. Thank God I was not alone. God gave me wonderful helpers. But when it was all over, I just wanted to quit. I just wanted to retire. Throw in the towel, as they say. So maybe I'm preaching to myself this morning in this recommissioning thing. I'm a baby boomer, and we baby boomers have been taught to retire. That's the golden egg at the end of the rainbow or whatever. I'm using my metaphors mixed here. The pot, the gold pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. That's it. We we can do that. This can be great. The retired members of Emmanuel OPC that I served in Wilmington, Delaware, were from a different generation. They were from what's called the greatest generation. That's the generation that served in World War II and Vietnam and the Korean conflict. That was a great generation. Those retired guys and women did more work in God's kingdom than the rest of the congregation combined. That's good retirement. In his book, Rethinking Retirement, that's the title, John Piper, challenges fellow baby boomers. to forego the American dream of retirement and live out their golden years with a far greater purpose in mind. Quote, many say it's a person's reward for all those years of labor. Turn in your time card, trading your IRAs, travel plans, golf course, let those things lead your life. But then he says, but is retirement really the ideal? Or is it a series of poor options that ignore a greater purpose and will kill a person far more quickly than old age? And then Piper says, Lord, spare me this curse. And in his resounding message, he says that there's far more to the golden years than accumulating comforts. He encourages baby boomers, readers, to finish better than they started, to persevere for the right reasons. to experience true security, to value what lies beyond their cravings, and to live dangerously, and listen to this to live dangerously for the one who gave his life in his prime. Like Jesus' disciples, whether you're younger or older. Give up your small ambitions. Get with the plan. Cast your nets on the other side. And see what God does. Amen. Lord, we thank you for your getting these men ready to continue on. We thank you for showing them that you're alive and very real. And that you can provide all their needs, that you can give them real meaning and purpose in their life. We thank you that you're the one who gave your life for us in the prime of your life. Amen