This is a repeat of something that happened earlier. It's a very poignant repeat of something that happened earlier. After Jesus had been tempted in the wilderness for 40 days and 40 nights Prior to that, he was baptized, and the father said, This is my beloved son, listen to him. Then temptation happened, 40 days in the wilderness. After that, Jesus called his disciples to be his disciples. It's recorded in Luke chapter 5. I'm going to read that because it is the first instance of this event. Of which today we have a second instance. Luke 5, 1 through 11. On one occasion, while the crowd was pressing in on him to hear the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret And he saw two boats by the lake, but the fishermen had gone out of them and were washing their nets. Getting into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to put it out a little from the land He sat down and talked to people from the boat. When they had finished speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch. And Simon answered, Master, we toiled all night and took nothing. Sound familiar? But at your word I will let the nets down. When they had done this, they enclosed a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking. Sound familiar? They signaled to their partners in other boats to come and help them, and they came and filled both the boats so that they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish that they had taken. And so were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon And Jesus said to Simon, do not be afraid. From now on you will be catching men. When they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him. They became disciples. A disciple is someone who follows a teacher. Wherever the teacher goes, wherever the teacher sleeps, whatever the teacher's doing, they follow the teacher, they listen to the teacher, and they observe the teacher. This was their first commission, their first calling. Their vocation had changed from being fishermen to being fishers of men. To follow Jesus and to catch men for God's kingdom. Now, in the stage of our present-day reading from John 19, or 21, that is. Three years have passed. Three years have passed. And a lot of things have happened. They have lived with Jesus. They have heard his words. They have seen his life up close and personal. Can you imagine that? Living with Jesus all the time. Seeing the way he does things, seeing the way he deals with inconveniences and troubles and Difficulties that happen in normal life. Itches, mosquitoes, who knows what, bugs He dealt with all these things and they saw it. They were right there up close and personal. And they have also seen his consistency. His truthfulness when he's talking with everybody, even those who are trying to trip him up, his graciousness, and they have seen his miracle working powers. And they, as they put all these things together and saw him going around preaching and teaching and doing these miracles, they had, as it says later, they had hoped that he would be the one to redeem Israel. What does that mean? Set Israel, the nation of Israel, the people of Israel, free from the Romans that occupied the place And that he would be the one who would set up a theocratic reign. But instead of that, what happened He was arrested. He was tried in a mock trial in the middle of the night. He was crucified Horribly, died, and was buried in a borrowed tomb. But then he was raised up alive on the third day And he appeared to them. And now this is the third instance of his appearing to them since his resurrection. So the disciples are pondering all these things as amazing things, really, but now Um they're still here in Jerusalem. It's been weeks since the initial resurrection appearance. And they have seen the risen Lord the second time, and he breathed on them, and he said to them, You have the authority to proclaim forgiveness of sins to those who believe And the opposite to those who reject Jesus as the Christ. That was the second appearance. But now what? Now what? And I think what happened is that they said, we can't stay here in Jerusalem any longer. We've stayed a while, but we don't know what to do. We're in danger. As disciples, as associates of Jesus, the Jews are after us, the Romans are probably coming after us too. Let's go home to Galilee. Let's go back to the place that we're familiar with, familiar surroundings, safety, and jobs that we know how to perform. being fishermen. That's where we find them here in John 21. It says there after this Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples by the Sea of Tiberius. It's the same place. It's the Sea of Galilee. Same place. And he revealed himself in this way. Simon Peter Thomas called the twin, Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together And Simon Peter, Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. Back to what I'm familiar with. Maybe there's something good in that, a possible lesson. When you don't know what to do in the long term, take care of short-term needs. I don't know if that's what the Bible is teaching us here, but it's probably good advice. But that's all it might be, is good advice. Fishing was their occupation, and they knew the lake very well. Peter probably also thought that he was finished as a disciple. You know what happened, you know, on the night when Jesus was betrayed, the night when he was arrested and all that, you know, what happened to Peter? He denied Jesus three times. He probably thought that as a servant of Jesus, as a follower of Jesus, he was over for him. So now the others said to him, We will go with you fishing. They went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing. Sounds familiar, doesn't it, from the Luke 5 passage. Sometimes God prevents and frustrates our plans, our hopes, our dreams, in order to direct us to attend to His big plan. And his big plan, his big plan, the biggest plan of all, is to be a blessing to the whole world. That is the mission of the Christian church. That is the mission of Jesus Christ. That is the mission of the whole scripture is that God is going to be and make his people a blessing to the whole world. All nations shall be blessed in you. That was what God had said to Abram in Genesis 12. I'll read it. Genesis 12, 1 through 3. Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred And your father's house to the land that I will show you, and I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. There it is I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth Not just Jews, there aren't any Jews yet, but not just Jews, all the families of the earth will be blessed. That was the great mission announced there in Genesis 12. You want to mark that in your Bible? That is one of the most pivotal things that's stated in the whole scripture to make God's people a blessing to the whole world. We see it also later on with Judah, who's the uh the the The main patriarch later on, Judah's great calling, it's in Isaiah 49. I'm going to read a few verses there. And now says the Lord, he who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him, and that Israel might be gathered to him. For I am honored in the eyes of the Lord, and my God has become my strength. He says, listen to this Is it too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and bring back the preserved of Israel? In other words, do you think consider it a small thing that I'm going to bring back the tribes from exile? This abandoned promise? You think that that's enough? Just if we get back to the land, that'll be enough? He says, No. I will make you as a light for the nations. That's the same thing that was said to Abraham, right? That my salvation may reach to all the ends of the earth. That's the big plan again. And the vocation of Abram, the vocation of Judah, vocation is still in effect today. You see, the Christian life is a great adventure, and it includes some very ordinary things like fishing and Getting up and going to bed and raising a family and conducting business, taking vacations. But If it is the will of God and you serve God in all those ordinary things, he will make your life productive. Make it challenging and make it joyful so that even you, in some degree, are contributing to being a blessing to the world. You And me, in our stuff that we do, in our giving of money, giving of time and talent, we're a blessing to the world. You see, my friends, vocation, the thing we call calling, vocation isn't just for nuns and monks and priests, as the Roman Catholics use the term. Vocation is the calling to serve God's kingdom, God's mission in many different walks of life The Protestant Reformation rescued the idea of vocation from the Roman Catholic Church and made it clear that every believer is called to serve. Called to serve. Gene Edward Vith says this. Medieval Catholicism taught that spiritual perfection is to be found in celibacy. Poverty, the monastic withdrawal from the world, where a higher spiritual life is found. But the reformers emphasized the spiritual dimension of family life, productive labor, cultural engagement Vocation is simply the word for calling. And according to Luther, God calls each of us to various tasks and relationships. We have vocations in the family, marriage, and parenthood. In the workplace, as those who are bosses and those who are workers, we have the ability to use our different talents in the way that God gives us to make a living And in culture, as those who are providing and preparing and making beautiful things and contributing to the welfare of society We have vocation in the church as pastors and elders and organists and pianists and congregants. But the spiritual life is to be lived out mainly in the church and in not mainly I say it again. The spiritual life is not mainly to be lived out in the church And in other church activities. Rather, we come to church, we hear the preaching of the forgiveness of sins, and we commit ourselves again to our vocations. Then through word and sacrament, we are strengthened to live out our vocation, which isn't just to sit in church. It's to serve God's kingdom. Then our faith bears fruit when we are sent back to our vocations in our families, our work, and our culture. I'm paraphrasing Gene Edward V here. So let's go back now. Jesus had chosen a bunch of ordinary Galilean fishermen. And some others, like Matthew the tax collector, and James and John, who were political activists, you might say Jewish terrorists. The Romans would think so. And he had taken these ordinary guys, he had taught them many things in the course of these three years, and showed them many things which were still percolating in their hearts. And we find them out in their boat at dawn after fishing all night in the passage of John chapter 21. Here it is again. I want to read it again. Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore, yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. And Jesus said to them, Children, do you have any fish? They answered him, no. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. That's exasperating, isn't it? When some wise guy, you know, tells you to do something very simple that doesn't seem to have any correlation to reality, how would that make any difference at all? We've been We've been casting our nets all night. Just switch sides. Come on. But they did it. You will find some. That's an understatement of the year. So they cast it in, and now they were not able to haul it in because of the quantity of fish. That's amazing. What's going on here, my friends? Let's put it some things together. Is this the miracle? The second miracle. The first miracle was when they caught those fish three years earlier. The second miracle is now that they are being recommissioned. He's using the same kind of miracle to show them their vocation isn't over. It hasn't evaporated. They haven't been disqualified, even though they fled the night he was betrayed. Even though they slept in the Garden of Gethsemane He hasn't thrown them away. He's recommissioning them now to serve the kingdom of God. So, verse 7. The disciple whom Jesus loved, therefore, said to Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he was stripped for work, and so forth. It's impossible to think that these disciples had forgotten the miracle from three years earlier. And so let's draw a few lessons from that, and then we're going to go on to something just a little more deep. The first lesson: fishing for men and the sovereignty of God. Fishing for men and the sovereignty of God. I'm going to say it this way. Every time, every time somebody truly confesses Christ It is a miracle of sovereign grace. You can't do it on your own. You don't have it in you You simply don't have it in you. You are depraved. I am depraved. We are turned away from God. We have no interest in God. In and of ourselves, we would never come to God. Even though we're outwardly called to come to God. It's a miracle of sovereign grace. And this is true whether you were raised in a Christian home And baptized as a child and catechized as a youth and taught all the traditions of the biblical faith, it's still a miracle that has to be done in order for you to come to God. But my son Aaron was a senior at King's Christian Academy down here in Great Mills There was a senior testimony chapel, they called it. Senior testimony chapel. And so the seniors would stand up at KCA and they would Tell the the whole student body of how they became a Christian, how they were converted, how they, you know Someday they heard the message, somebody led them through a prayer, and they prayed, and then they had the lights came on and they became a Christian. But Aaron, Aaron wasn't chosen to give one of those testimonies. And I asked him, hey, Aaron, why didn't you get asked to do a testimony? And he said, well, Dad, I don't have a dramatic conversion story to tell All I could have said was that I grew up being taught to love and trust Jesus, and that I do love and trust Jesus as my Savior. And that wouldn't be a very good conversion story. Well, my friends, it is a true conversion story. It is a miracle when any of us, any children of the church, confess their faith in Christ. Just as it's a miracle when someone outside the church comes into Christ. and receives the message and turns to Jesus. It's a miracle both times. The context of covenant nurture is a miracle. The Holy Spirit must regenerate covenant children, or they will not be saved. They will become a covenant apostate, in fact. And it's a miracle when those outside the church are caught in the gospel net and hauled ashore. It's a miracle. More dramatic, yes, but not more of a miracle. So the disciples will be fishing for men, but God is the one who draws men and women and girls and boys into the gospel net. The commission to catch men is still on until the end of the age, my friends. That is why we will soon see Peter and the others boldly preaching the gospel on the day of Pentecost. The message will be that everyone needs to repent and turn to Jesus Christ and be baptized for the forgiveness of their sins and receive eternal life and receive the Holy Spirit. And we see here in this beautiful picture, I think there's maybe an analogy here. The gospel net doesn't break. The gospel in that doesn't break. God never fails to do what he plans to do. Successful evangelism is telling the good news of the kingdom. In light of the bad news of our sin and condemnation, and leaving the results to God, God who will not fail. God who says in Isaiah 55 So shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. Jesus Christ is risen from the dead. He is very real, my friends. He's very real. They ate with him that day. He's real. He's alive. Do you believe this? Do you believe this? Or is he a religious idea in your mind somehow? A religious idea He is alive. There's no Christianity without believing that. There is no salvation without him Jesus Christ is risen and ascended, and he really does speak in the reading and preaching of the Bible today. Christ really does give himself in the substance of salvation, his body and blood to those who are gathered on the Lord's Day and eat this covenant meal. There's one final lesson that comes up in the text, maybe the most poignant one of all, maybe the one that touches my heart and maybe will touch yours as well. And that is beginning at verse nine of the text. When they got out on land. They saw a charcoal fire. That's not an ordinary fire. You can make a fire out of uh sticks and twigs and pieces of wood and so forth, but this is a Special kind of fire. It doesn't appear very many places. A charcoal fire in place with fish laid out on it. And bread, how did that happen? Charcoal fires don't appear quickly. They burn down the coals, and then you've got the left The leftover part. And how did you get this fish? How did you make this bread? Jesus is working a miracle here. But the charcoal fire. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish that you have just caught. I'm going to tell you about the charcoal fires that happened earlier. You will remember them. John chapter 18. The band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound him. First they led him to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year. This is the night of the arrest. It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die for the people Simon Peter, remember that, followed Jesus and so did another disciple. That disciple was known to the high priest. He entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest But Peter stood outside at the door, so the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the servant girl who had kept watch at the door, a servant, a slave girl. The servant girl at the door said to Peter, Now why would he be afraid of a servant girl? The servant girl at the door said to Peter, You are not one of this man's disciples, are you? He said, I am not. First time. Now the servants and officers had made a charcoal fire. There it is. Because it was coal. And they were standing and warming themselves. Peter was also with them standing and warming himself by this charcoal fire. Verse 19, the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching, and Jesus answered, I have spoken openly to the world, I have always taught in synagogues and in the temple where all the Jews come together. I have said nothing in secret. Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard of me what I said to them. They know what I said. When he had said these things, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, Is that how you answer the high priest? Jesus answered him, If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong, but if what I said is right, why do you strike me? Anas then sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest. Verse 25. Now Simon Peter, there he is again, was standing and warming himself by that charcoal fire. So he said to him, are you all, you also are not one of the disciples, are you? He denied it, number two, and said, I am not. Verse twenty six, one of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man, whose ear Peter had cut off, asked him Did I not see you in the garden with him? Peter again denied it, and at once the rooster crowed. So now here we are At another charcoal fire. And Jesus is dealing gently but firmly with Peter. John 21, 15. When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. And then he gave this other thing at the end. He tells the future. Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted. But when you are old you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. By this he sh he said he showed that the kind of death by which he was to glorify God. And after that he said to him, Follow me. What did he say the first time after they had done the first miracle, the fish, follow me? What does he say now to Peter? Follow me. How do you think Peter felt when he came ashore and saw the charcoal fire kindled by Jesus? I'm sure he felt shame and guilt and fear of rejection. How do you think Peter felt when Jesus asked him three times, Do you love me? This is truly more than a recommissioning. This is reconciliation. This is mercy. This is restoration. But also with the hard road ahead that's being foretold. My friends, maybe you have denied Jesus sometime. Maybe you've turned away. Ashamed of him. Maybe you've kept silent when witness was called for. Maybe you have loved the approval of friends Or colleagues or family members more than the praise of God, and you have disowned him. Or perhaps you have disgraced yourself and ruined your testimony by your sins. If that's the case, the enemy, the enemy, the enemy of your soul wants to make you believe that your past must define your future. The enemy of your soul wants you to believe that when you betrayed Jesus in the past, when you had that affair When you did that abortion, when you committed that crime, when you engaged in substance abuse When you had that bankruptcy, he wants you to believe that your past determines your future. Jesus doesn't have it that way. Jesus restores and recommissions Peter, who denied him three times. Jesus has not forsaken Peter. Jesus has not forsaken you or me, no matter what we've done Someday we'll appear before the judgment to give an account of what's been done in the body. 2 Corinthians 5. 10. And Jesus knows it all right now. And he still loves you. He still loves you. And he's ready to receive you and recommission you and put you back into service in his kingdom. So, my dear friends, from Matthew 11, these beautiful words, which I love, come to me, Jesus says, all who labor And are heavy laden. I'm sure that Peter had been laboring under that guilt, that shame of what he did. Heavy laden, heart heavy, he says, I will give you rest. Then he says, take my yoke upon you. That's vocation. My yoke is vocation. And learn from me. That's discipleship, my friends. For I am gentle and lowly in heart, Jesus is gentle and lowly, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke, my discipleship, even if it ends in your death, like Peter would My yoke is easy compared to the guilt, the shame, the burdens. My yoke is easy, and my burden is light. It's a beautiful thing. It's for you as well as for me today. Jesus is ready to restore you and recommission you to serve the rest of your life For the work of his kingdom. Amen.