Our first scripture tonight is Romans 3, verses 21 to 31. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by His grace as a gift. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No. But by the law of faith For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles as well? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one He will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. Then secondly, we turn to Ephesians chapter 1, verses 7 through 12. Speaking of Jesus Christ, the apostle writes, In him we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ. As a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. so that we also, who were the first to hope in Christ, might be to the praise of his glory. But what you have just heard now from these passages in Romans and Ephesians is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. As I prepared this sermon for tonight, I recalled quite vividly an occasion where some years ago I was traveling by air from Philadelphia to Kalamazoo, Michigan, to attend an annual Church Planters Training Conference sponsored by our denominations committee on home missions and church extension. In that plane I was seated next to someone whom I didn't know, as often happens. Who didn't know me. But we talked, and he asked me where I was going and about my business. I told him, of course, and when he heard that I was a minister of the gospel, and particularly a planter of churches. He didn't ask, why ever would anyone want to do that? But I would have liked it very much if he had asked such a question. It would have given me an opportunity to present the gospel to the man. And he was caught because he asked the question. Still, if he had asked it, what should I have said? Why plant a church? Could you put an answer into a few words for me? To put it another way, can you give me a few words, maybe about two or three minutes, to explain the gospel in full from beginning to end? Well, that's not an easy question to answer, especially during the short time it takes to fly from Philadelphia to Kalamazoo. In fact, it cannot really be done in a few words, can it? The gospel is much too big for that. To be sure, you can state the basic truth of the church as the new covenant community of believers in Christ in a sentence or two. But not the whole truth of it. Jesus himself took three years to do that in his ministry. And since that time, millions of sermons have been preached and thousands of books have been written to expound what he said in those three years. It would be impossible to summarize all of that in just a few words. However, it can be reduced to certain fundamental principles. I asked P Pastor Damon when we were talking about what we were going to preach this week, what uh he would how he would answer that question. How how can you g can you give me some sort of an outline of those fundamental principles? And he gave me, fortunately, something that's not easy to remember because it doesn't have any vows. He said, creation, sin Redemption, glory. How do you say that? Well, we're not going to do it that way in this sermon, but we're going to rather follow the book of Ephesians, just as we've been doing. Because we're seeking to explore during this sermon series on the book of Ephesians just that very thing. In these six chapters, I should say, Paul basically tells us the whole story We're seeking to focus on those cardinal verities upon which anyone must center attention who is concerned to answer My airline companion's question, if he had asked it, why seek to start a church? And for that matter, what is a church anyway? One month ago, we began this series on Paul's letter with a consideration of God's wonderful greeting to that church. And indeed to you, as members of the same church, as he speaks and spoke to you tonight when Damon first stood up before us Grace and Peace. Not to tell you the name of this church, but to pronounce Grace and Peace for God upon you. Then two weeks ago we considered the first of those blessings as set forth in verses 3 through 6. That you have been chosen for such, for grace and peace, by the electing love of God, the Father. Now, tonight we come to the succeeding verses 7 through 12 that should be some of the most precious to us in all of Holy Scripture. For they point us to our blessed position in Christ, the second person of the Divine Trinity. The second of God's gracious blessings, which He has bestowed upon you, His new covenant people, the Church, is this That you enjoy redemption in His Son, Jesus Christ, by His grace alone. That it might be to the praise of his glory. And the first thing we need to note about this blessing Is that your redemption is in Christ? It's in Christ Redemption means the purchase or the buying back of something by the payment of a ransom price. Here the apostle informs you by inspiration of the Holy Spirit that there is a covenant of redemption forged in eternity past between the Father and the Son. By which God determined to have people for Himself. Verse 4. He chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world. It was in him, according to verse 11, that we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him. Who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So all this blessing takes place according to the Word of God. About which Psalm 33, verse 11 speaks in these words. The plans of the Lord Stand firm forever. The purposes of his heart through all generations. Then picking up the same thought, Isaiah says in 25, 1 O Lord, you are my God. I will exalt you and praise your name, for in perfect faithfulness you have done marvelous things. Things planned long ago. And again in verse 10 of chapter 46 of his same prophecy Isaiah writes, For God, I make known the end from the beginning, from ancient times, what is still to come I say, my purpose will stand, and I will do all that I please. Now there is a close connection, friends, between predestination and redemption. For those whom the Father has elected from eternity past, Jesus Christ has redeemed by his atoning work. His suffering and death on the cross and his glorious resurrection. This connection was clearly brought out to you in our text last time, verse 4. He chose us In him, that is, in Christ. And now in our text tonight, in verse 7, we read: In him we have redemption through his blood. It is through his blood that we have redemption. Because the Bible makes crystal clear: without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. The entire Old Testament Levitical system of animal sacrifices prepared the way for this. Jesus did not only die He was slain. His blood was let. He poured out his life and death for you. As for the entirety of God's elect church. As John puts it in Revelation 1, verses 5 and 6. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood, to him be glory and power forever and ever. Now, dear friends, Christ's atonement was of infinite value and would have been sufficient for the redemption of every human being that ever has lived or will live, if such had been its intended purpose It was enough. But the Bible teaches that its intended purpose was the redemption of the church. That gets us close to the answer to our airline passenger's question, if he'd ask it, why start a church? A church whom God had chosen. That's why Reformed Christians confess definite, not indefinite, atonement. That's why. How could it be otherwise? And the result of Jesus' death on the cross is that your sins are forgiven. The penalty has been paid, and thus may not in strict justice be further exacted from you. Do you know what forgiveness of sins means? Let the Bible say it. He has cast all your sins. Into the depth of the sea. That's the Japan trench, I guess. Out of the picture. Gone. And everything depends on Christ. In him we have redemption through his blood. All this Is in Jesus Christ. You will find this phrase in Christ or a version of it, sometimes in him, fully six times in the short span of these six verses. Yes. It's almost as though the writer was so overcome with awe for his Lord Jesus that he seems to have lost control of his pen. But we know that the Holy Spirit is in complete control of what He pens, what Paul pens, and that purpose is not lost on us. For everything does depend on it. In Christ. The point you see is not so much that Jesus did some things for us, or even that we believe stuff. About him doing things for us. The point you see is not that, but in believing these things, we are united to that actor, Jesus. Jesus Christ and what he did. Oftentimes, at least sometimes, the question is asked: have you accepted Jesus as your Savior? There's nothing really wrong with that, of course, but I would like to propose another question, another variety of it. It would be this Has Jesus accepted you into himself? Are you in him By God's electing grace and through faith with which the Holy Spirit has gifted you and enabled you to exercise. There's one other point that must be made here, as we consider that our redemption is in Christ. Something that is sometimes sadly missed I think, even among reformed Christians. And it's this. Are you with me? And please don't forget it. Your faith by which you receive salvation is not faith in your having been elected by God. It's not that. It's not faith in your election. It's faith in your Savior, Jesus Christ. There is a subtle but absolutely important distinction here, my dear folks. that if missed could result in sad conclusions. That God has chosen Certain people to salvation is indisputable. It's everywhere clearly set forth in the Bible. It is a foundational principle of scriptural doctrine, and you need to confess it, but it is not revealed to you as the basis of your salvation. The basis of your salvation is Jesus Christ Himself and his atoning work on your behalf. The blessing, to put it another way, is Him and what He has done for you. And that means your faith is not in your election by God, but in your Savior, Jesus sent. For you by God. Thank God that you've been chosen by Him, but always remember that your redemption is in Jesus. That's the first point. Now to the second point, it's this. Your redemption is of grace. No saving gift of God is apart from Jesus, the second Adam. All people are born in a lost condition because of Adam and what he did. So how is it that some of them are redeemed? The answer is By grace, God grants eternal life to all who are in Christ, the second Adam, through faith. That the Holy Spirit enables them to exercise. That, my dear friends, brings us to the third point that Damon said when he summarized the gospel. We remember he had creation, fall. Redemption. That, my friends, is the gospel. Christ Jesus is not the potential gift to all people for them to decide whether or not to accept it. It's not true. Yes, the gospel is offered. It is offered, but it is more than an offer. It is the power of the Holy Spirit who takes hold of dead sinners and brings them back to life by uniting them to the second Adam, Jesus Christ. To put it another way, the gospel not only asks men to believe in Jesus, it compels them To believe when the Holy Spirit works in their hearts and unites them savingly to the only Redeemer. Notice the words of verse 7. In accordance with the riches of God's grace. Grace is unmerited favor. Grace found the way. Grace doesn't wait for something to intervene to save the day. Grace gives what men do not have And it gives to unworthy sinners to us. Its force cannot be more clearly explained than it is in verses 8 through 10 Of Ephesians chapter 2. Very familiar words. For by grace you have been saved Through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. Now notice further that it isn't just grace that we have received, but the riches of God's grace. The riches. There's nothing stingy about God's grace. He doesn't save only a precious few. That are somewhat authorized or qualified to receive it. He doesn't save only certain pets Even if there were such, which there aren't. He doesn't save people from only a particular ethnic group or race, gender, or intelligence level. Aren't you glad for that? His grace is rich. It is rich also in that it saves to the uttermost, as the Bible tells us. That is, it actually brings about its desired end. God's grace doesn't mean that he does a lot and then leaves the rest up to us. It doesn't mean that he moves most of the way toward us. With the hope that we will make up the gap with a little bit of movement on our own. Redemption is in accordance with the riches of God's grace. It's all. Of, by, and to him. That's why he gets all the glory for it. But there's still more. The text tells us that he lavished on us his grace. Do you know what it means to lavish something? It means to completely drench it with water. Kind of like the trouble Mickey Mouse got into in The Sorcerer's Apprentice. Remember that? He got drenched. He got lavished. That's what God's grace affects. It's not stingy. It's not stingy with what? Let the text tell you. He lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. That means that we are drenched with a perfect redemption that only could have been devised by an all-wise and all-loving God. Look at verse 9, dear believers. Here, Paul describes the riches of God's grace, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ. The mystery of his will. What in the world is the apostle talking about when he uses that language? For an answer, I ask you to turn with me, in which doxology, Paul concludes his letter to the Church of Rome in chapter 16. Verses 25 through 27. I'll let you turn to that. I want you to see it. Romans 16, 25 through 27. Now, to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ. According to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages. But has now been disclosed and through the prophetic writings has been made known to all nations. According to the command of the eternal God to bring about the obedience of faith. To the only wise God, be glory forevermore, through Jesus Christ Here you will find a fuller explanation of what he means in our text tonight by the mystery of God's will. Although a word which I'm about to use doesn't appear in this doxology, you ought to know about it. You ought to know this word because it captures the apostle's thought And that word is, you ready? Imputation. Imputation refers to the life record of Jesus Christ by which He kept perfectly the law of God put to the account of you believers in him. That's imputation Do you see it? This next sentence I have in bold print in my notes. Jesus not only died for your sins. He lived for your righteousness. That's the mystery that was kept secret for long ages. Who would have thought it? But now has been disclosed, and through the prophetic writings, Jeremiah didn't even catch it, but he wrote about it. Now you know about it. It has been known to all nations. And what is that mystery? Paul puts it into four words that you must never forget whenever you seek to describe the gospel: the obedience of faith. Whose obedience? Yours? We just had a point of grace. The truth is that the only wise God has brought about The obedience of faith. That is, a human person, capital P has actually appeared on the scene of human history. And that person has perfectly obeyed God's law throughout his life. Perfectly. His name is Jesus Christ. Through him, God had already revealed by the prophet Jeremiah. The coming Messiah's name. Listen with wondering hearts to those mind-boggling words of Jeremiah 23, 6. This is the name by which he will be called. The Lord is our righteousness. That's the name of your Savior Jesus. His name is the Lord is our righteousness. You, congregation, need to hear that name in the Hebrew language. Will you listen? Yahweh Sidakenu, not Yahweh Tadiq Yawe Sadiq means the Lord is righteous. We already knew that. But the name of Jesus, your Savior, is. The Lord is our righteousness. Yahweh Siddhakenu. Don't ever forget that. You have been blessed with eternal salvation, not by Jesus' death only, but by his life, by his obedience. Imputed To your account, and received not by your works, but by grace through faith. It's the obedience of Jesus received by faith Now I can almost stop there, except the text doesn't. It still has a third point. Our redemption is in Christ and it's received by grace. But thirdly, it is for the praise of God's glory. You cannot understand it otherwise. The whole purpose of redemption is not even finally to redeem people, although that happens. But it's to make God look good. You see, God draws a boundary around his possessions that he has created and has redeemed, as we read in verse 9 and 10, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ. As a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. And that boundary, my friends, describes, in the case of those so blessed by God's election in Christ, by his redeeming work on their behalf, received by grace through faith, that couldn't be clearer. Then it is described in this rich passage on the grace of God's gospel, here in the first paragraph of Paul's letter to the Ephesians. And I trust that you are filled with gratitude and thanksgiving for all that you have received in obtaining through no worth on your part But by grace alone, an eternal inheritance through your Redeemer, Yahweh Tivekanu. You have been surrounded entirely by God's gracious boundary. Still believers in Jesus, that boundary is around those who not only get incalculable blessings It is around those. Are you ready for this? Whom God gets. Whom God gets. That sounds rather proud, doesn't it? But it isn't really, it just gives him all the glory. That's because of the way by which he redeems them, by which he gets them back for himself By becoming himself their substitute. That's why one translation renders verse 11: In Christ we too have been claimed as God's Oh possession. Now that's a bit free with the Greek. And includes some words that are not actually there, but as such And it certainly is not a literal translation, but it does capture the meaning. God has, in his sovereign electing grace, put a boundary around his redeemed ones because he is determined. To have them for himself. Again, that's why we are for the praise of his glory. Never forget that. You know I don't think it's wrong even to put it this way. We don't get saved mainly so that we might be with God. Wonderful and true, though that is. We are so saved. Dare I say it? So that God might have us with him. Now I know that sounds rather bold. But actually, I'm merely trying to reflect what I read in this in this text. God gets his Brethren, your redemption is the praise of God's glory, first and foremost. Only secondly, and as a result, is it your blessed salvation through Jesus Christ. Go in peace tonight and think on these things.