Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Now, you keep the Sabbath day congregation holy when you remember it. I want you to remember that. You keep the Sabbath day holy when you remember it. By remembering it, that's how you keep it holy. That's what the Lord says here. You remember the Sabbath day. Why? To keep it holy. If you forget it, you won't keep it holy. If you remember it, You'll keep it holy. So remembering is the crucial thing to hallowing the Lord's day That is why God includes here with this precept, this commandment to remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, directives for it. And there in verses Nine and ten, six days your labor, another your work, the seventh, the Sabbath to the Lord, you won't do any work, but also an explanation for it to help us to remember it, because in six days the Lord made heaven and earth to see you So God helps us to remember this Sabbath day to keep it holy, even in the commandment, when He includes with the directives on how to do it and an explanation in how to do it. So remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Now, why do we need to be told to remember the Sabbath day? Why do we need to be told just in general to remember things, right? Because we forget. Life gets very busy. Especially if you're about to have twins tomorrow. It's busy. Or the spring and the things come on in tax season. It's busy. Things come up. You get distracted. And we need to tell ourselves to remember, and we also need others to tell us to remember. And I have like eight alarms on my phone telling me to remember things But here God is the one telling us to remember. He also is telling us in his commandment parents need to tell children to remember. Pastors and elders need to tell people to remember. We need to be told to remember because we're prone to forget things. Well what does our God want us to remember here? He says very clearly, I want you to remember the Sabbath day. That kind of raises that question, doesn't it? Has man forgotten the Sabbath day? I think man in America certainly has. I think man in Europe certainly has. And I think as you read the Testimony of Scripture and still today since the fall Primitive or pagan man has certainly forgotten what the Sabbath day is, and sadly as well, very many Christian men and women are forgetting what the Sabbath day is today too. Somewhat interesting, I guess. I read a piece this week. Secular man is remembering the Sabbath day. But he is not remembering it for its religious significance, but for its utility. It is not for him a feast day of the soul, as our Puritan forefathers called it but a fasting merely from social media. The Sabbath is so well forgotten today that Satan has nearly set up his perfect sports and shopping center empire to reign over it. Six days are no longer enough for sports and shopping, but the whole Sabbath day must be claimed by these things too. God's own day. And I think that's why our larger catechism is not mistaken when it states, Satan with his instruments, much labor to blot out the glory, even the memory of it. to bring in all irreligion and impiety. How many today know what we sung in our opening hymn this morning, the glory of the Sabbath? The first day of the week, the Christians set. The day, right, God created light upon how many children amongst us, human beings amongst us, even no doubt. How many know that this is the day that life and immortality was brought to light when the Lord Jesus, our Savior, rose from the dead after suffering for our sin? How many know this is the day in which, having ascended to the Father, he has poured out upon us this bestowment of the Holy Spirit, sealing his work of redemption in us, giving us a foretaste of the world to come Unfortunately, today Satan's instruments include even the Christian church. There are some churches that no longer teach a Christian Sabbath. And that, beloved, can only aid in bringing in all irreligion and impiety. And God knows this, and that's why He tells us to remember it Because I'm sure you know Israel didn't remember it. And because she didn't remember it, she became just as religious, or excuse me, irreligious and impious as the nations around her, so that God abhorred even his own inheritance, and finally, after much long suffering, centuries of it, cast her into exile. for her sins. Seventy years of it because the seventy Sabbaths they failed to keep. Is there really such a link between a week and even apostate Christian church in remembering the Sabbath day? And the answer is emphatically yes. Where the Sabbath declines, so does religion. And that means you and I, beloved, need to take remembering the Sabbath day seriously. We must instruct our young children, new Christians, on what it means, because you can only remember something if you know what it is. We need to remember it and we need to teach it. So what I want to do, my plan for this morning is to just remember the Sabbath day together with you. What we're going to do for the rest of the sermon is remember what the Sabbath day is. And to do that, let's start by remembering, well, what did God do on the first Sabbath? Well, on the first Sabbath day, as we read, God rested. He worked six and he rested on the seventh. He had just finished the amazing work of creating this universe. Now he was going to enjoy it and be fresh by it. You've ever finished a project. Like a bathroom remodel or a car remodel, right? You are looking forward to finishes so you can enjoy it. The the work to be done now is enjoying it and using it. And that's what God did He also on that day blessed it and he made it holy. And he did that for man's benefit, his covenant partner's benefit. We read that the Sabbath was made for man, the Lord Jesus. God told the people through Moses, this is a sign between me and you of the covenant and promise that we have. The hope that you have in me as your creator, and now what we have in him by his grace is our savior, deemer. You heard there in Hebrews, therefore, why the promise of entering his rest still stand. Well that promise congregation stood first for Adam And us in him, in the covenant of works, that he would work and through his obedience, he would achieve that promise of rest and be eternal life and be confirmed in it forever. And now by God's grace, the Sabbath day stands for us in Christ, in the covenant of grace Jesus came as our Redeemer and restored us to this hope by his work of redeeming us. And now God gives us right that promise of eternal life through faith. And the Lord Jesus Christ. And this whole day is about remembering that promise and celebrating the Savior. So the Sabbath day is the day that God rested And the day that he rested, man, in the hope of entering his eternal rest. It's the day that God rested. It's also the day that he rested man in the hope of entering his eternal. And every six-week cycle or seven-day cycle. Six days of work, one day of rest would be a reminder of that as it came back around, that Adam had this promise. And he continued faithful to his God. God would continue faithful to him and he'd enter that. And so it is for us As we continue according to our covenant by faith in the Lord Jesus, we shall enter that way. The Sabbath then was both a foretaste Giving us something already of the rest to come in this day, but also a pledge of the full entering into God's wrath. So that's what God first did on the Sabbath day. But let's next remember, well, what day are we supposed to, as Christians, to rest on? As Christians, what day are we supposed to rest on today? Well, before Christ came and the new covenant with him Man was to rest on Saturday or the last day of the week or the seventh day of the week, because that's the day God had rested from his work of creation. But since our Lord's Passion and Resurrection as our Redeemer, man is now to rest on Sunday or the first day of the week, what we call the Lord's Day. Revelation 110. Now this congregation is the only Sabbath there still is. Well I mean when the Old Testament ceased upon Christ's death, so did its Sabbath day. To rest on any other day but Sunday is a denial of the gospel. That Christ rose from the dead on the third day after dying for our sins. And do you still keep a seventh-day Saturday rest? It must be maybe because you just don't know better, because there are bad Christian traditions, or because you just don't believe Jesus is the Messiah who rose on the first day and have a hope in him. It matters what day we rest on. It says something about us. It says we believe in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Sabbath day and keeping the Sabbath, beloved, is very evangelistic. On this day, resurrection day, the Lord rested from redeeming us. And so he instituted for us a day of solemn rest, as we heard him say there in the gospel, that he is the Lord. of the Sabbath. As the Son of Man, he is the Lord of the Sabbath. He took up the Sabbath day as God had promised it at creation, as God had re-given it to Israel at Mount Sinai, He took that day up that God had made for man, and He made it a part of His kingdom Son of man means everlasting king. It's Daniel seven. I saw one like a son of man ascending on the clouds of heaven before the ancients of days where he received glory and honor and a kingdom that all peoples and nations and tongues should serve him. His kingdom is without end. His dominion is everlasting. Well, when Jesus says, I'm the Son of Man and Lord of the Sabbath, he's claiming that Sabbath day for his kingdom. He's not abolishing it, he's giving it to his people As the Lord of it, and as the Lord of it, he has the prerogative to change the day, which he did, from the last day of the week to the first day Repeatedly we read uh in the Gospel of John that the Lord visited his disciples bodily on this day after rising from the dead and before he ascended into heaven and now which he comes to us as people of this day in the Spirit to be present with us. When as we uh or as he says there, when he has made known to us in the breaking of the That's what we hope for and pray for as we ourselves pray and prepare for this Sabbath day. In Christ, then we have gone from old covenant, Mount Sinai, to new covenant. We have gone from Saturday to Sunday as as man's day of rest. We have gone from Sinai and its fire to Zion and its festivity We have gone from a heavy burden, as we read again there in Exodus, even threatening death upon it, to an easy yoke. Don't don't think that means God doesn't still take Sabbath breaking serious But it is now done in Christ. We've gone from a spirit of bondage to fear to a spirit of adoption, right? Which we cry out, Abba Father, that's the manner and mode in which we receive this Sabbath day from the Lord Jesus and in which we as people are to keep it. And ever since the very first Easter Sunday, very first Resurrection Sunday, the church of the risen Lord Jesus Christ has been gathering on the first day of the Sunday Of the week. Unbreakable. So the Christian Sabbath is the day Christ rested. And now rest his people in the hope of his finished work. He has achieved for us glory. He has redeemed us and now he rests us in his finished work. and calls us to hope in it, receiving his righteousness for us. But like his father as he had to debate with the Pharisees, he is still at work. He is done with the work of redeeming us, but he is still at work, and we hope and pray especially on this day when we use his ordinances of applying that redemption to us. people. Converting the unconverted amongst us, strengthening and building us up in faith The Sabbath day then is not a day of idleness for both God or for man, but it is a day of resting from one type of work to another type of work. God rested from creating to sustaining. Jesus rested from redeeming to applying. And for us, right, we rest from toil to to worship. That's our work today, is worship. And we do this every week, right, until also we finally, as as it's wonderfully said in the 14th 14th chapter of Revelation. Let it be said, right? The Spirit says, Blessed are those who've died in the Lord. Why? Because they have ceased from their works, and their deeds followed them. There will be an ending to your good works, congregation. There will be an ending to your serving the Lord here, and he will say to you, well done, my good and faithful servant, and enter into his joy. is rats because we're told plainly in Galatians that we have to be warned as a congregation, let us not grow wary and doing good, because it's easy to grow wary and doing good. Because when you're seeking to doing good, you're just it costs a lot Time, effort, money, labor, attention, and life's already busy and you add cell phones to it and it's crazy, right? But there is rest There's an end to. There's a goal to. You will finish and accomplish something, congregation. You will finish your profession of the Lord Jesus Christ and you will enter glory. This week is a reminder of this day is a reminder of a promise. So as Christians then we of course rest in our Creation's hope. God created and rested, but we now rest in this hope of entering God's rest because Jesus has secured it for us. And given this day as a pledge. And so for us, we should be thinking, what a day. We should be thinking, right, what a savior. And what a God, who's given man this day, and when we sinned till he lost it all, in his grace has given back man, redeemed man this day. As a joy, as a pledge. Well, next, let's remember what we're to do and not to do on the Sabbath day. I know this is the part you've been waiting for. Several of you came up to me last week and said, well there goes half of my vocabulary as we talked about the third commandment. And I wonder what you're thinking now. They're gonna go half my day? We'll see. Well, what do we need to do on this day? Rest. You can imagine if your boss said, take the day off and rest, you wouldn't even think twice of it. God says, take the day off. Because remember we ultimately work for Him. So it's benevolence, right? Paul says God's law is holy, just, and good. How good. It doesn't work us around the clock. How many laborers worked their people around the clock? Israel worked around the clock in Egypt. God freed him from that, liberated from that. He calls them, that's what he says, and when you come in the land, why does he say the sojourner and stranger amongst you? Because you were strangers. Don't treat your strangers like you were treated. You are brought to liberty. Now those under you, make sure they get rest too. Make sure they have liberty. So rest That means no work. Now, you know, is that really that difficult, right? Are you married to your work? I know. I've We all face the temptation, we all deal with it, but God says no work. It's very plain Call the day the light. That's what he says there in Isaiah 58. He says, call it a delight. Because right, what would you call a day when two lovers get together? A delight. What's the day to be called when God and His people get together? A delight. Created them. You can almost see him waiting every week for that joy to come back when it paused from his work to praise. Had the whole day to him. And now the Lord Jesus clothing himself in our flesh and redeeming us. I think he's waiting to He's waiting to meet you on this thing. The key word I think is really holy rest. If you can remember, holy rest. We read there in Exodus 31, the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation. This Hebrew phrase Sabbath of solemn rest is a Shabbat Shabbatone or a Sabbath Sabbathismos. What does that mean? Well it means something like a Sabbath with its own special Sabbath celebrations. And God then defines it with the next word or phrase he puts next to it, a holy convocation, right? Which is a holy assembling. God's people are to be assembled together, right, for holy purposes, and that purpose to be worship Public and private worship. That's the duties that we're called to display as we rest. But we're to worship God publicly in the assemblies and Pitherly in our homes. And I and I would definitely encourage you, congregation, as a practice, especially make time for the Lord on this day. Husbands, give your wives a break and say, go to your closet and pray, right? Make sure children give give people time. This is a day I know our work weeks are busy and here I can say with Paul, I have no command of the Lord here, but let me just commend you what I think is good. I will never want to tell Christians don't do daily devotions. But if you're one of those people that's like don't doesn't keep the Sabbath, please cut out all daily devotions and keep the Sabbath If you're struggling with time and you're weak because you're busy and you've got kids and you gotta get to work and you gotta get up early and you come back late and you're writing and you're falling asleep in your Bible, is that the best time to read the Bible? You know, God gets it. He says work six days. And if you can find time to read it and pray, that's great. Not saying don't say keep the Sabbath. Put your devotions in that day. Take those 15 minutes and pile them together into an hour or something. And go be with the Lord on the Sabbath day. I just try it. This means of course, as our as the catechism points out, we go to church on the Lord's Day We want to hear the gospel proclaimed and preached. That's the whole reason for this day. For the whole gospel we would have had this day. If Jesus had arisen and redeemed us, we'd have no hope and we certainly wouldn't be gathering together We want to hear what he has to say to us as he instructs us and helps us and encourages us. We come together to pray, we come together to partake in the sacraments, which is God's confirmation of his covenant with us and his promises to us in the Lord Jesus. And we come to give alms. All these things are if you just do a word search on the on the first day of the week in the New Testament and what the church did, these are all the things they did They got together, they prayed, they brought together for the poor, a relief for them. Probably keeping in the day with the Sabbath and the idea of freeing them, bringing them liberty and resting them and helping to care for their needs. So the Sabbath is a day of rejoicing. It's a day of resting and in the works of God's hands as as our Creator and our now our Redeemer. It's a day of hoping and of entering into God's promised rest. Remembering there is a hope and a rest to come. It's a day to enjoy a foretaste of it as we put aside these works and enter into the worship of God in communion with him And it's a day for resting in Christ. And as the catechism points out right, that that's something we should be doing every day, resting from our sinful works. I think Christ by His Spirit work in us. But here's a helpful quote I found so we don't think, well, I just need to rest in Jesus every day. That's my Sabbath, and I don't need to keep a Christian Sabbath. Here's a good quote I think that helps us say, let's do both in. The spiritual uh essence of this day does not lie somewhere beyond physical rest, right? We need physical rest But within it. Resting from your daily work and generously allowing your employees to rest as you do is already putting to death your own will and allowing God to work in you. Your will wants to work. Put it to death. God's will is you don't work and you worship and you rest. There's another quote I found helpful. Everything God made as recorded in Genesis, he called good. Only the Sabbath, however, he sanctified, indicating perhaps And I think, yes, that the climax of creation was not the creation of man, as is often stated, but the day of rest. The seventh day The Sabbath is thus an invitation to rejoice in God's creation and recognize God's sovereignty over our time. Sovereignty means supreme ruler. It gets the final say in our time. Because it limits our natural freedom God gives you six days freely to work and play and recreate, but He puts a limit, you don't get seven. And we're apt to say, well, I kind of want to forget that part and do what I want. But this day reminds us to recognize that God is the one sovereign over our time. He has ordered your days, congregation. He has told you what days to work on. He has told you what days to rest on. That's his word This is a day for doing some work, works of mercy, rides. Our Lord says, do good. If you see someone in need, please help. Don't think twice. If you're gonna be late to church or have to miss it, 'cause someone's car broke down the side of the road, please be the person that stays with them and gets them help, right? Works of mercy are good Works of piety, uh Jesus talked about, don't you remember those guys who did circumcision and offered temple sacrifices? I get a bye in preaching to you, Arcusiachus. These are works that need to be done. Our Lord understands that on the Lord's day Uh works of necessity, right? You all need to eat, y'all need to prepare food, you need to do other things that have to be done. And that's a helpful word as you think to your earthly callings, right? If it doesn't have to be done today, if it could be done tomorrow, don't do it, right? But there is a principle too that if some work has to be done Because it will alleviate even more work, like I one example I heard this week was um if you've got to take fifteen minutes to fix the car because it's gonna save you two hours of walking, the total reduction of work is taking fifteen minutes to fix the car So just again, we don't we're not under a spirit of bondage with this, but we're not under libertinism either, where we do what we want, but we want to keep this in a mature, Christ-like way. Remember God put his people under the do's and don'ts as his children, right? You tell children very plainly, don't do this and do this. But you don't expect your children to grow up and forget everything they learned, right, when they're young and forget the principles. God doesn't mature us in Christ's face that we forget his Sabbath day. He's mature us in Christ because we ought to know the joy of this day and to keep it and to enter into. A Sabbath is unto the Lord, the Lord says. This is a key word to keeping the Sabbath day. It is unto the Lord. Families being together on the Sabbath day is vital and important, and much harm is done because families don't get together on the Sabbath day. Yet more important, however, is each of us getting together to be with the Lord. It is a Sabbath to the Lord. Everybody's to be resting to the Lord and with the Lord. That's what the day says. This is the reason God rested us from our labors and from our recreations. We need him. He wants us and he delights in us, works of his hands. So corporately and individually is a Sabbath to the Lord What if you're sorrowful on the Sabbath day? Remember, joy comes in the morning, but also bring your lament to God. Bring your lament before your covenant Lord and let him know that you wish he could be more joyful this day, but your heart's broken for whatever reasons. But don't skip the day thinking I'm not joyful, I can't enter it. Joy comes in the morning. Bring even the sorrows to the Lord. Sabbath is a day of peacemaking, right? And we remember at the table every day, God has made peace with us. Or do we reconcile the hymn into one another? So if you've got grievances, settle them on the Sabbath day. Make them right. Online church is a poor substitute, if that, for keeping the Sabbath. Again, here's the I don't have a command, but my personal practice is if for whatever reason I'm sick and I can't make it, I'll do family stuff, but I don't like checking online on something. I would rather Miss that day and and eagerly wait for the next, remembering there's still an element of curse in this world and things give in the way. Because I just think it's a poor substitute of that. is online church worship. Heads of the households, you are especially in charge of making sure it's a Sabbath to the Lord for the members of it. So make sure you're resting and teaching it and encouraging that Those under you do that? But help them to do that? Let's remember now what's promised to us if we keep this day. A blessing. The Lord blessed the day. He blessed it by sanctifying it. We set it apart from other days. That's what it means, that it's holy. And it will be blessed to us if we keep it holy. So that tells us we should come to this day expecting a blessing. Come today expecting to meet with the Lord and hear from him. You know some people I I mean they they stay away from church. They have all these things going on in their life and and they talk and whatever, but then they don't even go to church. Do you not think God's gonna speak to you? You don't think he knows all that's happening is your life as you're going? Think he can work? How many pastors preach sermons and they can later and someone says that was just the word I needed. No idea, right? I'm not I just expect a blessing from the Lord. Let me share this bit of a story with you. And I'm getting near the end. The Reverend J. Scott of Hull in his funeral sermon For the distinguished William Wilberforce. We all know William Wilberforce, the man who helped end slavery in Britain, observes in speaking of his high veneration for the Sabbath On each returning Sabbath, his feelings seemed to rise in proportion to the sanctity of the day, to a higher degree of spirituality and holy joy. which diffused a sacred cheerfulness to all around him. I have often heard him assert that he never could have sustained the labor and stretch of mind required in his early political life. if it had not been for the rest of the Sabbath. And that he could name several of his contemporaries in the vortex of political cares, whose minds had actually given way under the stress of intellectual labor so as to bring on a premature death, or the still more dreadful catastrophe of insanity and suicide, who humanly speaking, might have been preserved in health if they would have but conscientiously observed the sample. God has truly blessed it. And He has truly given us some promised of blessing in it if we will but keep it holy. Students, just so you know, I never worked on the Sabbath, an undergrad or grad, and I got mostly A's, and I think you could do that too, right? You don't need to work on the Sabbath day. Honor the Lord. Rest. Two things left. Next, we need to remember that word to remember Gotta remember that we're called to remember the day. The Lord says remember, but we gotta remember that we are to remember it. That means preparation for the day. I'll just be brief here. I think passion and resurrection narratives of the Lord should be read in families on Saturday night if that works out. Or I know Sunday mornings are really busy, that's why I offer Saturday night, but if you can get together Sunday mornings and and read it. I don't know when's the last time you read together John 20 and 21 on the resurrection. I think those chapters are put in the Bible especially to put you in a frame of mind for the Sabbath. I cannot read those, especially on the Sabbath morning, and not be rejoicing at the joy of the risen Lord and all that he is for his people in doing. So I'd commend reading those before you come to church and prepare your heart. themselves to meet with them. Psalms 95 and to 100 are very good for that. Psalm 92 is a Psalm of the Sabbath because they call us to remember the sheer benevolence of our God. Creation and redemption. Lastly, let's remember why we remembered all this. God says, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. That's why we just remembered all this. So that we would know what this day is and therefore keep it holy. Because we have to remember it's not our day. It's God's day. It's holy. He rested on it, so must we. He finished his work, so must we. And as I said, we will. We have a work to finish. Remember as well that we lost our rest by our sin in the out of it. God has graciously given it to us in Christ. That's the frame that we're to come and meet with Him on this day. So let us, congregation, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Let us do nothing to augment Satan's instruments to blot out the glory and memory of this blessed and holy day. And let us keep it together holy to the Lord and with the Lord. Amen.