Remember your word to your servant This is my comfort in my affliction, that your promise gives me life. The insolent utterly deride me, but I do not turn away from your law. When I think of your rules from of old, I take comfort, O Lord. Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked who forsake your law. Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourning. I remember your name in the night, O Lord. And keep your law. This blessing has fallen to me, but I have kept your precepts. Then now Acts sixteen, verses twenty five through thirty-four. About midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's barns were unfastened. When the jailer awoke and saw that the prison doors were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped. But Paul cried out with a loud voice, Do not harm yourself, for we are all here. And the jailer called for lights and rushed in, and trembling with fear, he fell down before Paul and Silas. Then he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved. You and your household. And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all that were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds. And he was baptized at once, he and all his family. Then he brought them up into his house and set food before them. And he rejoiced, along with his entire household, that he had believed in God. This is the word of the Lord. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Some of our national holidays are clearly days of remembrance. The 4th of July, Veterans Day, and especially Memorial Day. The Church of Jesus Christ remembers his atoning death on the cross for sinners at every observance of the Lord's Supper. And his glorious resurrection from the dead every Sunday of every year. We remember birthdays, lots of them, and weddings too. They are good things, those times of remembrance, both of blessing. And in some cases, like Memorial Day of Sacrifice. God remembers That's why we have moments and even days of remembrance. Because we are creatures made in his image. The animals, as well, remember. But they don't celebrate, at least as far as we know. But we do And we ought to do so, especially when acting in obedience to his command regarding the first day of the week and Holy Communion. Other national, local, and family days of remembrance, not divinely required commands set forth in the Bible, may surely be freely observed. Thanksgiving Day, soon to be upon us this week, is a little tricky. Millions of our countrymen think of it as a day off A family day, a day of turkey andor ham. Whereas biblical Christians think of it as a day of thanksgiving to God for those historic blessings of freedom which our forefathers enjoyed when they came to the new world from across the sea. And you are free to celebrate that Thanksgiving if you so choose. I must point out, however, that days of remembrance associated with pagan religions. Should not be observed by biblical Christians. Doing so would not be honoring to the true and living God. You come tonight to the Zion stanza of Psalm 119 and are based with this initial word. Remember. So immediately ask this complex question: who is to remember? When? Why? And how? Answer and here's our proposition for tonight's message. Suffer A time in which you are called upon by God to endure is actually an opportunity for you to appreciate ever more deeply the character of God. Who promises you hopeful comfort, for you to grow in sanctification by keeping his word, and for you to be blessed With remembrance of God's covenant name by way of songs of joy First thing, when remembrance is needed. When you are afflicted, verse 50 You need comfort to support you and enable you to endure. Everybody goes through times of suffering. It's part of life. People, even believers, contract an illness, did I tell you? Perhaps a serious life-threatening illness. They are forsaken, perhaps by a close relative, even the S They are abused, derided, falsely accused by workmates, even fired from their job They suffer in a car wreck or other serious accidents Believers are not immune from suffering, and when these things become your lot, you cannot help but seek comfort. David says in verse 52, When I think of your rules from of old, I say comfort, O Lord. He means that there is something in the past, the memory of which will be of comfort to him when he suffers affliction. And he said something quite amazing. Did you think about it? We would think that he would pray for deliverance, wouldn't we? Deliverance in the present time, in the midst of his suffering. But you will observe that he doesn't ask God to take away The affliction. Solve the problem. Remove the suffering. In fact, he doesn't request anything from the Lord He says rather that remembrance is needed by him. Something must not be forgotten. And remembering it will be his conquering. I ask you, congregation, do you see it? It's a little tricky, but crucial. Let me put it another way. David doesn't ask God to deliver him from his suffering. He knows that suffering is common for human beings, and it will come this way irrevocably. And when it does, he needs comfort to endure, hope to make it through the trial. But the key point that we're stressing here is that he simply doesn't ask God to deal with his present trouble by taking it away. He constantly affirms that the way to deal with the present is through recollection of the past. David is saying that he is not able to avoid present suffering. What is important is not escaping it, even with God's help. But continuing to trust God and prove Him a genuine source of comfort even while He is going through the And for that to take place, remembrance is needed. Because, my friends, the past casts a shadow on the present. There's always the temptation to think when I suffer that something new and strange is happening Why me? Why this? And especially, how do I get out of it? I need help right away and soon, please. But that's not David's frame of thought. He makes it very clear in his poem about remembrance. He says pointedly that memory of the past will give him comfort and hope in his present misery. And will be the key to his seeing a whole dreadful happening as actually a blessing and not a curse. This critical thought is, I believe, underlined particularly by the Apostle Peter in his first letter, chapter 4, verses 12 through 14. Beloved, do not be surprised at the biery trial when it comes upon you. To test you as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice, insofar as you share Christ's suffering. That you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed. Because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. Now David didn't read that letter of Peter, but he knew his point ahead of time. And he embraced it heartily. He knew that something outside his present distress impacted that present distress powerfully. He believed that God had done something for him and that memory comforted him. David says that he remembers God's covenant promise of a coming Messiah. And Peter says that believing Christians now remember that Messiah who has come. But both David and Peter believe that such a remembrance is the source of comfort in their affliction Because that suffering servant of God shares his affliction with them, to the end that they are blessed forever. In such comfort, all God's redeemed children rejoice in the midst of every and all sufferings in their life. Now, secondly, what is to be remembered But before we ask that question, what is to be remembered, we need to understand exactly who it is that is to do the remembering. Is it David or is it God? The answer both. Notice that David affirms in verse 55 that he remembers God's name. And then in verse 49, or before that, in verse 49, ask God to remember your word. Both the divine creator and the preacher capture the past in their respective memories. This truth led Dr. Cornelius Van Till, my politics professor at Leson's Theological Seminary. To say that the believer, quote, thinks God's thoughts accurately. Unquote. To put it another way, you who believe in the triune God, remember that He has preordained whatsoever comes to pass, and you know that, what that is. When it happens, the sovereign God remembers his eternal decrees and never in the future goes back on them. And you remember this: all that happens takes place because it has been ordained by God. So David can rightly say both things. God, you remember your word, and I remember your name. He thinks God thought that for him. What God thinks, David comes. But now we come to the question, what is it that both God and you remember? Well, you know by experience that it is not this, that all God's children will be delivered from every affliction, abuse, and suffering that ever comes their way. That certainly is not God's eternal purpose. And thus it is not true to fact. God did not keep Adam and Eve free. From failing to obey God and falling for Satan's temptation to disobey his command. And he did not keep his only begotten son free from succumbing to the ordeal of Calvary. Neither does he keep you, who are saved people, free from all sickness, disappointment. Disgrace and loss in your lives today. What then is remembered? The answer key to this targeted question is found in verse 55, and it is as clear as day. I remember your name in the night, O Lord, and keep your laws. There are really two thoughts in that sentence. Number one, David remembers who God is. And number two, David remembers that he is responsible to keep God's word, what God has commanded. Now apply both of these thoughts for David's situation in which remembrance is needed, namely when he suffers opposition and affliction. He thinks God's thoughts after him. He remembers that God is not of God, small g, among many, even most powerful among others Is Yahweh, the one who is, who has decreed certain good and gracious things for David, things that he has not kept secret. From his servant. Remembering those promises, especially the one about a coming Messiah. Who would save David from eternal carbonation gives David comfort, hope, and really life. But I said that there are two thoughts pertinent here, and there are. The second one is that God remembers who he is. He is not like the pagan idols who flip-flop from occasion to occasion and time to time and cannot be counted upon to keep their word. The very nature of God Himself is that He will and does not go back on what He has decreed. Verse 49. It's not a prayer that God would remember his word. It's an affirmation that he would do his word. David is thinking God's thought after him about David's current condition and exclaiming that he is very comfortable. In that position. He worships Yahweh because of who he is. And what that means to him when he is tempted to wonder whether there is anybody up there who cares and can do something about his need. So I ask you here tonight, believer in Christ, does that message ring true in your heart? If it doesn't, then you need to ask the Holy Spirit to so work within you, to bring to pass what he did for his servant David. Silver remains the unanswered question What is to be remembered? Both by God and by you. Well, it's not that God will take away the suffering and affliction, the derision. Maybe it's his will that such will continue for a time, but still for your good and for his glory. What is to be remembered brings us to what we find, as we have said, in past sermons on Psalm 119. In almost every one of the 175 verses of this psalm, the Word of God, and especially his word of command. So when you suffer, think about what God has said he wants you to do, and he wants you not to do. Don't ask for deliverance. Ask for obedience. There's the route of true comfort. Now, thirdly and lastly, how the remembrance is to be observed. Verses fifty-four and fifty-five are we answer this question Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourn. I remember your name in the night, O Lord, and keep your law. David sleeps not on his bed, but on the name of God. We could call it his daily remembrance night. Do you have any trouble sleeping? If you do, try David's remedy and note that it's not a medication. It's a meditation. He goes over in his mind the Ten Commandments. Given the church by the hand of Moses on Mount Sinai, and considers how blessed those laws are and how remembering them enables him to sleep. In fact, he might fall asleep somewhere between four and five of the commandments. Yes, to sleep. Not because those commandments are boring, but because they are bountiful. They provide him with the opportunity to meditate on the very character of God. Every one of those commandments displays something of the nature of the divine creator. sustainer and savior of his covenant people. Did you think that the Ten Commandments are calculated merely to condemn you? Yes, they do that. And when you think about them, the memory of your own failure to keep them, and instances of the very past day, when you have broken them. Comes immediately to your mind. But I say that the Ten Commandments are bountiful because they guide you to the blessing of the gospel. Of the Lord Jesus Christ, who kept those laws perfectly for you David says that the remembrance of the law of God, yes, the law of the one whose name is Yahweh, is such that he can say, I keep it. That is a mind-boggling affirmation considering David's moral history, don't you think? But it is true because David is pre-announcing the bountable blessing of the active obedience Of the law of God by Messiah Jesus for him. Ikea. Thus those laws have become songs. For this particular saved man indeed. They become, according to the scriptural account, songs for others, too. Such as Paul and Silence in Philippi's jail. Those two saved men, instead of lying awake at night suffering from insomnia, mourning over their illegal and painful incarceration, use the time to pray and sing hymns of praise to God. And what they did, little might would think of it as a typical evangelistic moment. It was. Because it brought about salvation for the eavesdropping jailer and his whole family. Songs of the Night for David and for the missionary duo as well. That's how remembrance is to be observed. And God used it for his own glory and for the advancement of his beloved church. You just might try it yourself. Better than sleeping films, I assure you. Now you probably won't want to sing out loud For the sake of others, like your wife or your husband, but you can sing mentally, can't you? Use your favorite hymns, whole verses of which you have memorized, even though you don't realize that you have it. Such knights of remembrance work for David, and they worked for Paul and Silas, and they are guaranteed to work For you too. Yes, sing for joy in the night, believer, and you will find comfort. To enable you to conquer the distress, the distress, the disappointment, and even the suffering of the day David, by inspiration of the Holy Spirit, provides in architect, I believe, the key to joyful hope. Still that said, ask this question. Are there particular days of remembrance of God's name his character and his providential doings that you would do well to place on your calendars Well, this answer might readily be offered. Yes. Obviously, Good Friday at Easter. Right? Wrong. There are no directions found anywhere in the Bible that certain Fridays and Sundays in April for that matter are to be marked each year as God ordained days of remembrance. of the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now get me well. You may choose to observe such celebrations if you want. But you don't do so in obedience of God's word. However, that doesn't mean that God has not identified certain other days than those. As days of remembrance of those two cardinal earth-shadowing events in Jesus' incarnate light on earth He has indeed done so, and he's done so in the Bible. The first takes place every time that the church observes Holy Communion. And the second happens fifty-two times a year. Yes, the Lord's Supper and Jesus said to his disciples about the first, do this in remembrance of me. And he clearly meant that the eating of bread he broke for them, and the drinking of wine he poured out for them is meant by him to be means by which they would remember his death. On across. Additionally, the earthly church, by instigation of the Holy Spirit, would soon remember Jesus' resurrection from the dead by setting apart the first day of every week instead of the seventh. And the God ordained day of rest Grounded upon the crowning act of redemption, Jesus risen from the dead. This change is clearly observed also in the epistles of the New Testament, inspired by the same Holy Spirit of God: Holy Communion and Son. These are the days of remembrance of Jesus' passion and of his resurrection from the dead. And they must strictly and faithfully be kept by Christians. You need them because God says that you are to do that. And because your keeping of them, according to David, is the means by which God is determined to provide comfort and hope in the midst of any affliction. that may come your way. Now I want to end this sermon, and it's a little bit scary for me to say this, but I'm going to say it. If you don't agree, you can come here. At this point, something should be said about Christmas. The 25th of December is not set apart in the Bible as the God-ordained day of remembrance of the birth of Jesus. Actually that date, December 25, has its historical roots in the pagan Roman festival in honor of the god Saturn But fear not. There is something approaching a day of remembrance of Jesus' birth. And it is found in the context of the account of the incarnation. I refer to Luke 2, 17 and 18. Speaking of the shepherds who had witnessed the supreme event of the birth of Jesus. In these words. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child. And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. Is it too far out for me to suggest that every time you make witness to the gospel? You are remembering Jesus' birth. No Every moment of evangelism is another day of remembrance that the Messiah has come. There you have Christmas with biblical content and a day that truly deserves to be remembered for and by all. Memory is an important faculty of our minds and spirits. We remember because God remembers. This way we glorify him by thinking his thoughts after him. And what we particularly remember is his law. And his plan of redemption. We do that on particular days that he has designated. For his own glory, through Jesus Christ, our blessed Savior. Amen.