From the Mount of Olives two miles away as you to see it crested and shining, and you would think in all the earth But now are they coming to Jesus as honest men, wanting an honest answer, and glad that they have found an honest teacher Well they think then good, that's going to alienate him from the popular vote and popular opinion. And it would be horrible if the Gentiles continue to reign over the Jews. You can go route them out to the church leadership or whatever. And he superintends them for the purpose of his kingdom and spreading the gospel. and get it down that way. And that we might be made wise to salvation through faith and you. We ask that you would fulfill them now through the preaching of this word and by your spirit, and that you would come now by your spirit and be our teacher. And the last thing we read, which is where we pick up this morning, is Jesus spoke to them that parable of the wicked tenets. Through to his crucifixion, what we are seeing in the gospel is the fulfillment of this parable, as the wicked tenants seek to destroy God's Son, whom he sent to him To rid his land of some varmint, maybe a beaver who's damming up his creek and those crops can get irrigated, that's what the word means there to catch by fishing or hunting. Now they come to Jesus in there in verse 14, and they say a bunch of wonderful true things about Jesus. And A. uh, etc. So the head side is the obverse, and on this coin was an image of Tiberius Caesar and his inscription which read Now that's very offensive to Jews to have a coin like that in circulation and in use. To pay to Caesar, the governing authorities. How ready you're going to be able to listen to the gospel when you're fleeing from your life from ravaging hordes of mongrels. And saying you have no right to raise up a sword and rebel against him. or religious or political authority. And not trying to find yourself and make yourself in your own image, but to come to understand who you are because whom God has made you to be. and even persecutions of your Christ and his people. And we ask that you would please uphold those rulers who are seeking to do your will. That she may be a light to the nations, the glory of your name. And we praise you for all fruitful seeds that are sown. You above all peoples, as you are this day. You shall fear the Lord your God. Paul chapter 13, beginning at verse 1, we'll read through to verse 7, hear the word of the Lord. And we continue this morning our study of the gospel as Mark wrote it. And announcing to those with ears to hear and eyes to see, which really wasn't anybody Here is where God has put his name, and surely a wary traveller looking for spiritual food could be hungered, and he saw there an emptiness, and no spiritual life. And then went to his father's house, not in the fear of man, but in the zeal of the Lord, to cleanse it and to call the people to repentance and to call the people to pay their dues, but they set their heart against them and Caesar's kingdom, how do they relate? to God. At least the application in driving at home is this teaching of the Lord Jesus about paying our dues. And united in a common purpose of seeing Jesus Christ disappear because his authority and his presence and his word, as one commentator said it Your existence isn't about you primarily, but it is about the Son of God. And namely that God has put us in debt to Caesar and himself, and therefore we owe him and must pay him our dues. Jesus doesn't care about their opinions. Making it impossible for him to deny to answer their question. That's what he preached to the people. And ultimately that's the path Israel chose, and that led to their destruction in A. Or no. They think he's just going to give the Romans more money. silver Roman coin. And you know what the other side, the tail side is? As we know, the first one to come and tempt Jesus was Satan, who was very glad to not see him suffer and die according to the Father's will. So he asked them, Why do you put me to the test? And they who dwell therein. And until 86, uh southern Israel or Jerusalem was sort of a semi-tributary state to Israel, but much more freedom. That you and I, beloved, as Christians today in Christ's kingdom, as the people to whom the vineyards pass, who serve and worship the exalted King Jesus, are just as much have a debt It is I, the Lord, who by my great power and my outstretched arm have made the earth, with the men and animals that are on the earth If you rebel against them and don't pay your dues, it's also for conscience sake because God's told you they're my servant. And for conscience sake, because now you know they're his servants, and this is why you pay taxes. Likewise with God. And withdraw into the circle of family and friends, with this little society formed to his taste Renewing America's social contract in the age of individualism, and this gets more into our issue of expressive individualism. This is what has taken over. We ask that you would give grace to our office-bearers. and all peoples to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth. For adopting us as your children in Jesus Christ, through whose death on the cross we have redemption and the forgiveness of our sins. What you require of us in fear and love and in service, that you would increase our love, O God, that we may be found blameless at the day of Christ We ask that you would keep us to be one flesh with our spouses, and that you would continue to give us our daily bread and all others. For the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who is not partial and takes no bribe. To serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and to keep the commandments and statutes of the Lord, which I am commending to you today for your good. Your fathers went down to Egypt seventy persons, and now the Lord your God has made you numerous as the stars of heaven. Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. For you are not swayed by appearances, but truly teach the way of God. Should we pay them, or should we not? the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And that we may be trained in righteousness, and that your mighty deeds would be proclaimed And illumine our minds and hearts, that we may hear and receive this wonderful word. But went to the temple, went to his father's house, and stood there gazing and expecting it because it looked so beautiful. But God's, and I say it to you, dear beloved, his suffering is long, but it's not forever. And they did provoke him to wrath in the treatment of his son. And what it means for you and I today, particular, as you sit here and listen to this word, you remember how Jesus ended that parable. We have dues to pay, beloved. You now have taken place of Israel in the Old Testament to fulfill God's holy purposes of being a light to the nations And uh we see them joined here this morning with the Herodians. Well we see beginning in verse 13 and going down through verse 17 is a delegation of Pharisees and Herodians will always stand against self-centered living. centered, sinful existence, but declares to us, Jesus Christ is your Lord. Jesus is a nuisance to them, like deer who eat all your crop, and they want to get rid of him. If you know anything of God, it is from the office of Christ who has taught you the truth. And you don't say what you should say or hold back things because you respect more their person than God. trying to kind of corral him if you've ever snared um if you've ever gone out and tried to snare an animal, it doesn't really do to just place it out in the middle of the field. Wrote to Caesar and said he's doing horrible and he's not following your commandments and Caesar came in and got rid of him. Because Arkalaus, one of the sons of Herod the Great, one of his three sons, who he divided his kingdom of two, did a miserable job of reigning there in Jerusalem, that both the people of Jerusalem and the Samaritans, just north of them, uh territory to Syria, the governor was Corinius, who instituted a census that we read every Christmas from Luke's Gospel. So, this question had only been debated for 25 or 30 years: that southern Jerusalem had become a part of Syria and was under a procurator or a governor report heaven to the governing authorities, and now Rome can deal with getting rid of Jesus. Because it's hard to start a kingdom without subjects in your kingdom, right? Christ in some sense that He owns it and He owns the whole world, but your citizenship is in heaven. He sees the act that they're playing and sees through it and knows they're not true men, and he asks them the question, Why put me to the test? The deification of Caesar took place. Save up for your vacation, whatever you're doing. And therefore, Jesus says render, which means to return, which means to pay back as something that is owed. So by their own admission, they acknowledge: well, that's Caesar's coin. This coin has Caesar's image on it, but whose image do you have on you, beloved? And still be free in your heart to serve God because you belong to God. Walking to the tune of Caesar. Is you can serve God under the most oppressive regime wherever, freely in your heart. To be committed is free and allows you to I'm quoting here and I don't remember the author's name and allows you to freely and steadfastly be and do what calls to your heart and be And I give it to whomever it seems right to me. The kings of this earth are in subjection to Christ, whether they acknowledge it or not When the Roman governing authorities got involved, when a flash mob grew up around his preaching and he was being persecuted for no reason schools to bring people to hear the gospel when war and pillaging is driving you out of the land. You deal with a difficult situation at work or the church or a person? And when you begin to love him, the fruit of that love is you begin to serve him. We all understand that in our earthly relationships, and God is saying, well, what about me? He gladly leaves the greater society to look after itself. Well, God has established more than just friends and family in your life. This is what individualism is about. Is increasingly equated with liberty and with the meaning of some of our basic rights. expressivism of the late eighteenth century, that each one of us has his or her own way of realizing our humanity And that it is important to find and live out one's own as against surrendering to conformity with a model imposed on us from outside by society or the previous generation. Beloved, our culture says to you, you be you. It will only be found in paying back what God has indebted you to, giving him back your life and your heart and living up to the relationships he's established. in this church, in this society, and you have a debt to your neighbors. To do everything for the outward and inward man of the beloved saints here. Should I or should I help out? To do everything? It's out of debt that we pay. We thank you, dear Father, for your desire that there be a people on earth to offer you the spiritual sacrifice of their lives our nations and all nations to govern themselves according to the light of your word, that we may live quiet and peaceable lives in your service And for your sealing us for the day of redemption by the gift of your Spirit. We thank you, dear Father, for the communion of saints and all the love and support we daily receive from our brethren here at Grace and Peace. We thank you, dear Lord, for your desire to fill this earth with good things and giving us marriage and all foods to enjoy. We praise you, Almighty God, for your purpose that there be a remembrance of your name in every generation. That you would uphold us in our efforts to proclaim your mighty deeds to our children, and to teach them your holy ways, and that you would grant them saving faith and repentance, O Lord, for your mercy's sake. Evermore give us this bread that he may live in us and we in him. Behold, to the Lord your God belong heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth with all that is in it. And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and some of the Herodians to trap him in his talk. And give you a meaningful existence and a purpose to be his child forever and to share in the riches of his kindness and his inheritance So maybe it's the authority with which he speaks about. And this is where I want to speak to you in these last few minutes this morning. So let us pray for law and order. to him by the relationships he has freely made with us and established with us. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities, resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. Respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. Bring me a denarius and let me look at it. They said to him, Caesars. that by it we may be taught the truth, our minds may be recovered from error, that our sinful and wicked deeds and habits may be corrected We're going to be looking this morning, beloved, at these verses in Mark. Last time in the Gospel we saw that Jesus had arrived at Jerusalem on a donkey in fulfillment of the Father's will, as he stated it in Zechariah. And he went home that night and prayed, and then he cursed the fig tree, and a demonstration to his disciples of the coming judgment upon the Jewish people Reminding them of God's amazing patience towards them for about a thousand years of their history, and sending prophet after prophet to his people and to be your Lord. So that's a word for us to remember that as Christ is treated, you very well may have been treated, and Christians throughout history have been treated in the same way, these unholy alliances That's essentially what they're doing. assessing their property with a view to then taxing them is just one step from slavery That's just a little bit of the history of the question, because it it mattered, because if Jesus says yes, it's lawful to pay tribute It's not in silver coins, it's not in property. So Jesus, so they put this question to Jesus, so we read there in verse 15 that the Lord, he knows their hypocrisy. of Tiberius Caesar, the son of the divine Augustus Also, to the extent that that coin was valid, so it could be used to buy your daily bread, buy those exotic imports that you like, pay your down payment on your new house. Isn't the obvious thing to give back, isn't it? You know, they came and asked the question, should we give? They spoke in should we or should we not do this and debated it. Who's wrote on you, made in my image? Herod Anthopas was the king in Galilee. That is life in the Holy Spirit, because Jesus Christ has accomplished our salvation and redemption in the cross We should pray for all of God's servants like we do every week in 1 Timothy 2. But notice that where the debt arises, beloved. It says, no, we Protestants don't believe that. You will suffer under them if they happen to act like that. Do you think that way, beloved? And you'll never begin to comprehend his mercy, that he has dealt with your sins in Jesus Christ. Because God brought a very stiff-necked and stubborn people, and he still brings a very stiff-necked and stubborn people into his kingdom. But he's very gracious to them. The servant fears the Lord. To be your heavenly father, Micah or Malachi 1. Or authenticity against now authenticity is a good thing against hypocrisy like we see here. And God in His grace has made you His by purchasing you by Jesus Christ. And whom you are in Christ, that God has remade you to be. In his wonderful hymn, O Love That Will Not Let Me Go, when he writes, I give thee back the life I owe Right, that's the Pharisee question. Because of who you are in Christ, because of what God's done and given you. We praise you for the many ways we are blessed by their rule. And we groan under them, and we ask of your relief, and we thank you that your grace is sufficient in all of our weakness. We ask, dear Father, that our distressed, discouraged, depressed, sorrowing brothers and sisters be helped and relieved by you. For there is no authority except from God. And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you? Therefore, one must be in subjection not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. And they came and said to him, Teacher, we know that you are true and do not care about anyone's opinion. That he truly was their king and messiah and anointed one. Can you live, or those who are in the kingdom of God, can you also live in the kingdom of Caesar? Two groups you wouldn't expect to come together but united for by a higher authority, the Sanhedrin who sent them Pharisees were the pious protectors of the Jewish tradition, not only holding to the written law, but also the oral law. They're not saying that Jesus doesn't care about anyone's opinion as if he's one of those people that just, I'm gonna do my thing and that's it, and I don't care about any of you They mean as far as something like what Paul would say, It matters very little to me, beloved, if you judge me because God's going to judge me and I care about his judgment and not your judgment. Jesus is not swayed about appearances. Now, the answer to this question, and if they would have obeyed what Jesus was saying here, would have saved them the destruction of their temple Because it's the teaching of a Judas of Galilee in Jesus' boyhood who set Jerusalem and the people and the citizens on their path of destruction. And political power in cloud and reigning in Jerusalem, they're still seeing the world in terms of Jew and Gentile So they'll be discredited before the people. And they said to him, Caesar. The money was owned by whose ever images on it. But notice how Jesus answers it. I Googled, well I Googled expressive individuals this week, and I Googled the duties of love to see If these go hand in hand, and the world says, no way. Let me I don't want to get ahead of myself. And now under today, these governing authorities are gods, and he is seen fit to give to the rule those whom he has given rule to. No. No, we draw the line. So God has put us in debt to the state because the state is for our benefit. Because surely he has indebted me by his grace. Individualism is a calm and considered feeling which disposes each citizen to isolate himself from the mass of his fellows Expressive individualism, that term suggests not only a desire to pursue one's own path, and we should all be searching our hearts here. You will define and articulate, and through defining who you are to others and articulating who you are to others, you're going to find your fillment in that. Is very against the culture. Which then is going to set the terms on which you live by others. You are not your own. Turn to chapter 26 in your confession of faith later on the communion of saints. That in thine ocean depths its flow may richer, fuller be May you do that, beloved. What you owe him. To show forth your praises and to put their trust in your Son. We praise you, dear Father, that you have put in us a spirit greater than the one in the world, and by that spirit uphold our brothers and sisters around the world who are suffering in bonds for their professions of faith. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain We have two readings this morning, one from Paul's letter to the Romans, and then our gospel reading, which will be our sermon text. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. For because of this you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them. Good morning, beloved. Not the vineyard, or we might say the kingdom, will go to another people. You who profess faith in King Jesus and believe in Him as your resurrected Lord, who purchased you by the blood of His life from your sins and ransomed you? And through you, through your lives and words, to see God call a people out of darkness. And what we're going to be reminded and where it comes home to us this morning is Has indebted us to him, God in the riches of his grace, in sending Christ to redeem you from the pit You might say has further indebted you to himself in establishing these wonderful relationships with you to be your father and supported him in his innovations of allowing Greek and Roman culture to influence Jews in a sort of compromised way. United to read the world of Christ and his gospel. But Jesus sees through this trap, in a marvelous manner, then he teaches his own enemies the way of God. By that a genuine teacher? That's respecting their persons rather than doing the right thing. To say yes or no, so we can get rid of him. Jesus was a young boy, probably about six or seven years of age. D. It's how many of you want you know would be happy for the politician who wants the government to take more of your wealth and do more with uh your money Uh under the Caesars, which had only been now well I don't remember I don't know my Roman history perfectly, but there's been only I think two or three Caesars. Because that would solidify his power. And Jesus then says to them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. I'm going to answer you in a way that you're really not going to like. Be in this relationship as long as it makes you happy, then get out. And it's the same message that Paul says here in Romans 13. I'm certain they liked the national security and peace that the Romans brought them because there wasn't much stability if you read the Old Testament in that area until the Roman Empire came and crushed everybody. To have a church service, to catechize and bring up a people, to open up But to serve the Lord Jesus Christ, who does allow us to get fat and happy because He's very good to us and gives us good things. You being subject to the governing authorities. God is alone Lord of the conscience. Disobedience. A holy God has invited and drawn to him an unholy people. Alexis de Tocqueville, the Frenchman who visited our country when it was founding and wrote Democracy in America, noticed this even 200 years ago. Now that was the fear of individualism 200 years ago. But also a yearning for fulfillment through the definition and articulation of one's own identity. The capacity of individuals to define the terms of their own existence by defining their personal identities And the Roman Catholic writer Charles Taylor gives a definition of today's meaning of, maybe you've heard of authentic living But authenticity against any idea of conformity, like you have a debt to pay, and God has established relationships, and you're only going to find fulfillment in living those as God says Be true to yourself. Gracious Father, whose blessed Son Jesus Christ came down from heaven to be the true bread which gives life to the world Dear Father, all of our sicknesses in body and in spirit are grievous to us And treason to God, because no Jew who is God's people and God's kingdom living in God's land can acknowledge the sovereignty of Caesar by paying tribute to him. But let me also, and then the second point, beloved, is we have a debt to God. This morning was reading will be Deuteronomy 10 verses 12 through 22. Dear Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for appointing in your church the reading of your gospel. I don't know exactly because it doesn't tell us why or what exactly led them to marvel at it. Or to be obliged to love somebody is to wear shackles. The culture, the American culture, I don't know about every culture, but our culture is centered on individualism. When you seek God and His grace and ask Him to help you be whom He has made you to be. Is this question, is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? They were on one end of the spectrum of the way of Jewish life. To test him, uh to rid him like a a farmer would set a trap 70, because Judas the Galilean rose up and said, A census enrolling Israel in a census. But if he says no, obviously if he says no, it's not lawful for you to pay Caesar, well then it'd be very easy to just And what this phrase means is when you intentionally, maybe you have done it, or maybe you've seen it done, when you intentionally put somebody in a situation that they fail. Beginning at verse 13 and on through to verse 17, hear the word of the Lord. One was near it was near enough by for them to bring to him. And so you can understand they think and they ask the question in such a way that they're trying to force a yes Does this mean you can't run and vote for people in office that are going to have a better sense of what good taxation is and are going to ensure law and orders then? Let's begin. Hear again what God has done to put us in his debt. No. It seems as if they're painting Jesus up as a very honest man and an honest teacher who doesn't respect people, sort of ensuring that they're going to get an answer from it I learned some terminology this week. Now this is against what used to be understood, a term called conformity. They don't care if they think he doesn't preach very well. One of the first acts that a conquering king would do was to mint new money We read that in Romans 13. You shall serve him and hold fast to him, and by his name you shall swear. We're going to begin here and look over this text briefly, and that's where we're going to spend I said, What good reason can you give? May God give you his grace. It's not an act of let's start an army and overthrow them and set up a Christian king. Maybe you have felt that and know what that's like. And he's arguing from the relationships that he has freely established with you. Should I or should I not pick up the phone and encourage the saint? To do something? You will find a richness and depth and fullness to your existence if you give back to God in Christ. I rejoice to be back here again and to address you in God's name from God's Word. Taxation leads to slavery and you need to resist it Now it cost him everything, doesn't it? It is a drive both to be more like whatever you already are, and also to live in society by fully asserting who you are. And what's your relationship to both of them? That's the reverse side. I'm going to come back, but I do want to establish this just a little bit for you real quick. Should I or should I come to church? You're not teaching for public opinion. They're sort of maybe trying to put Jesus off his guard, but also maybe So by their own admission, they acknowledged, this is Caesar's coin. Wherever that coin was valid, so was the extent of his rule valid. Let us pray that the nations would smile favorably upon the church and God's people, that we can conduct, because it is very hard The true anxiety, beloved, comes from trying to make you, you, and make everything work in your life according to you. So that's where we're going at and looking at. Because when they contravene, when Caesar asks what doesn't belong to Caesar, you, Caesar doesn't own you God in his grace has indebted you to him forever by stamping his image upon you. And Jesus is making very clear. The Eighth Commandment required us not to steal? I just want to briefly drive home that point. If I am your father, where's my honor? Authenticity is, what he means by it, is the understanding of life which emerges with the romantic Taxes to whom taxes are owed. Is that how you are wired when you walk out your door and wake up in the morning? Your citizenship is in heaven. Maybe it's the wisdom in which they what they saw by paying Caesar was subjection. So they think they got, and because they beloved, they don't understand the nature of God's kingdom. God, through his kindness in creating you and me and everything And we ask, oh Lord Jesus, and we thank you for the love you show to your enemies, and ask that you would fill us with that same love Circumcise, therefore, the foreskin of your heart, and be no longer stubborn Do you know what the head side of a coin is called? Caesar was not only the head of the state, he was head of the cult. Because they know their Bibles, like you know their your Bibles. Or if you've ever had to go speak to a friend or maybe a boss or whoever. It was owned by the kings. Now he's speaking there in the context of Jeremiah, the king of Babylon, and has put every nation under an iron yoke to serve Babylon. Maybe you've heard these sayings before. Follow your heart. Jesus said to them, Render to Caesar We don't know who brought it or where they got it from. Or you will not raise up a sword or rebel against them. Yes. And they don't understand the nature of God and his kingdom and his purposes to make one nation in Jesus Christ and the new people God will deal with his servants, he'll deal with the state, he'll deal and bring judgment upon them. Now I imagine many of you, you might not even have a concept of a greater society, and you think that's the most natural thing. Jesus asking, why are you opposing me and standing in my way like Satan? When Caesar asks you to give him what's due to God alone, divine honors and praise, you say, No, I can't. And the world will always unite against Christians and Christ and the gospel which decries and shouts down self-centered You belong to a commonwealth. The vineyard's yours, the kingdom's yours, Christ is yours, it's all yours. Many are seeing that as foundational to liberty and the basic rights as American citizens But Jesus Christ your Lord says to you, you pay your dues. The providence there or southern Jerusalem was annexed to Syria. So you can go write a letter to their superiors And written on the tail side was the inscription, Pontifex Maximus, or High Priest. 6, the Son honors the Father Amen. Dear Father in heaven, we thank you for indebting us to your grace. But knowing their hypocrisy, he said to them, Why put me to the test? So having that coinage would be a sign of his power and authority. And they brought one. Do you say, I'll go deal with this how I would like to deal with it? We ask that you would open new doors and keep open all old doors for your servants to speak the word of Christ to the nations I already spoke to you of Herod broke his area up in three regions Through Jesus Christ, your Son, we pray. Should we pay them or should we not? Because, beloved, do you like to be told you're not your own? It's got his face on it, and it's got his inscription on it that says, belonging to Caesar. And Jesus uses the word render. All these holy ends and purposes that you have appointed, Lord Jesus. You don't get a point to one place on the globe and say that's You've got to be freely committed. And God says absolutely no to that. And we all enjoy the privileges and amenities of the state, so let us take part of the responsibilities of it He asked the question: Have you ever asked this question of yourself? What does God require? We are also saddened and grieved by their many injustices. And they were the followers and servants of whoever was the reigning Herod Now let me ask you a question, beloved. And Jesus spoke this parable, what they would do to him. Because it is very much the teaching today that you are your own. God will deal with his servants. But you truly teach the way of God. It was the king's currency. But to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways, to love him? Or what they think about the truth. You know, they might have chafed at having to pay this, but I'm certain they like their exotic imports And those that exist have been instituted by God. We praise you, Holy Father, for your desire that the gospel be preached to all nations We thank you, dear Father, for indebting us to the governing authorities of this age. And let's seek now together the Lord's help. And if they're still thinking in nationalistic terms, where is Jesus going to get his army to overthrow Romans if nobody's going to follow him because You are obligated. We ask for your mercy's sake, Lord Jesus, that you would grant Another question which comes up here is If I am your Lord, where's my fear? And understand, God has put you in this world, And I've already stated it to you, one of subjection and debt. But let's look at the text and hear God's word together. You have imperishable riches. Maybe the reverse of you says, like Psalm 24, verse 1 says, The earth is the Lord's and all that is in it It's not just for wrath's sake, because you're going to be resisting God's servant, the state. 4. An absolute subjection You are obliged and obligated to pay a debt because of the union and communion with Christ and the saints you have in this body and the gifts and graces you share in. We ask that you would ever uphold and defend this people, your holy church, and that you would bless her So they lay some trout for him. You can serve whatever the Caesar he is, no matter how much of a despot he is But one of the good the good news of Christ's spiritual kingdom Because how many of you love when people campaign on higher taxes? He asked them or says to them, Bring me a denarius. Here is what Yuvo Lebin, who wrote, The Fractured Republic And we saw that the Lord Jesus did not spend any time going to a throne and raising up a standard to kick out Romans. What's the relationship between God's kingdom? You're not teaching to get yourself in the limelight and you'll say what the people want to hear. Parents, right, as you see your children, maybe sometimes you're swayed by their appearances if they're upset or angry and you're gonna do everything you can just so they won't be upset again. Should I or should I not attend to the ministries of the church? Pray for kings. Because, beloved, and this is why I press upon you. He is the most central being in all of existence. Your fulfillment, I plead with you, beloved, to know this. Should I or should I not get involved and serve? We ask that you would ever fill us with your Spirit that we may give you They were thought to be right, these were the conservatives holding forth the true way of God But Jesus asked for this coin, that's what's written on the coin, and they bring him one Let us pray. You saw him do that last week when he said, You answer my question. And I read it to you from Deuteronomy. Find yourself So this delegation of Pharisees and Herodians come to Jesus to trap him in his talk. He is the Son of God. D. Gave his It is coercion to speak of an ideal that you are indebted and owe somebody love. Because he has surely indebted us Paul says it's called love. And it's not a, will I serve the church? It's the same question asked twice. Should we really be debating whether we are to give back what belongs to somebody else? Martin Luther preached vehemently against this because that's what the Roman Church taught I'll just quickly remind you how we got here. You tell me how how You're citizens of the nation, United States. Revenue to whom revenue is owed. Now I learned also a little bit this week about coinage in the ancient world Now does this mean they do it perfectly? Fear him Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. And he said to them, Whose likeness and inscription is this? 70. Jesus is speaking in the terms, uh thinking in the terms here of Jeremiah 27:5. He is your praise. The obverse Yet the Lord set his heart in love on your fathers and chose their offspring after them So I don't know what they were marveling at. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Through Jesus Christ we pray. So they're hoping Jesus would get rid of himself So let us have peace and law and order on earth, not to get fat and happy in an earthly kingdom. Go home this afternoon and read Deuteronomy 9. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? He can be provoked to wrath. We know that you are a true, or we know that you are true Jesus is committed to teach the truth of God. And he asked them the question, whose likeness and inscription is this? Whose stamp do you wear? You be you And they marveled at him. And it's when you begin to comprehend his mercy that you begin to love him. The Apostle Paul became very thankful Love the sojourner, therefore, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. And Jesus, is he not the living example of this? We ask that you would keep us and our children in the faith. And in some sense, in which Jesus is capitalizing on here Because, beloved It's passive obedience. And if there is no fear and trembling in that He was the intermediary between God and the people. But the kingdoms of this earth are in subjection to Christ and His kingdom. You have an inheritance that's not going to fade away. This is a different word than the word they use. They use the term committed instead of obligation. Jesus is thinking along the lines of Jeremiah 27 here in verse 5. He'll judge them And now our gospel reading. If you have somebody's property, is it right to debate whether you should give it back or not? These are true things about Jesus. You go to your workplace, you see your wife and kids It ain't of this world Deuteronomy 10 verses 12 through 22. Maybe it was again the authority with which he speaks Or do you say, what does God require of me in this situation? If you have not returned love to everybody you meet, you have not paid your debt. Now, the question they ask of Jesus is Now they're under governor, and yet Jesus is in no way He is your God who has done for you these great and terrifying things that your eyes have seen. He has purchased you this blood. Let us now be hypocrites Amen The word of the Lord What does the Lord your God require of you? No, it's that you are obligated. And that's you, beloved. A denarius was the coin that you had to pay your taxes in, a little small Let us pray. So by you, by defining your own identity. And they're saying Jesus doesn't do that, which is very true. Maybe the fact that Jesus says, I know what you're trying to do to me, but watch this. We ask that you would make us all to be more one You know, this question only came up even in Jesus' lifetime. And now from our this morning's reading Amen. You've got to ensure it's gonna pass by that way. This is the word of the Lord. Let me go back there to Deuteronomy chapter 10. So maybe they went away and learned something and thought, no, we've got to get him. Um I leave you with these words from George Matheson. One, he's a teacher But they're so stuck Listen to what he said about it The Gospel as Mark wrote it, chapter 12. You have a debt due to Caesar, and you have a debt due Yes, it's not saying that they're going to do it perfect. Just I've got my friends and I got my family, that's it. The Son of God. He lived under Roman rule You owe him to live for him. That's essentially what they're saying to Jesus. Peace comes. Hear this That's what it means when they say that But it's a passive passive. So you've got to make a lane And they marvelled at him. You've got to be free.