I want to read two passages. First, before we read the Psalm 51. I'm going to read 2 Samuel, so you might want to turn there. 2 Samuel beginning, 2 Samuel 11, beginning at verse 26. This provides the background to David's famous Psalm fifty-one Which has its first line is, Have mercy upon me, O God So second Samuel eleven beginning at verse twenty six and going on into chapter twelve. When the wife of Uriah now I want to pause there, uh when the scriptures are singling out uh uh by naming Uriah, this calling great attention to the fact that David has committed a great sin So he puts it this way, the scripture does, when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah, her husband, was dead, she lamented over her husband. And when the mourning was over, David sent and brought her to his house, and she became his wife, and bore him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased the Lord. And the Lord sent Nathan to David. He came to him and said to him, There were two men in a certain city, the one rich and the other poor. The rich man had very many flocks and herds. But the poor man had nothing but one little yew lamb, which he had bought, and he brought it up, and it grew up with him and with his children. It used to eat of morsel and drink from his cup and lie in his arms. It was like a daughter to him. Now there came a traveler to the rich man, and he was unwilling to take one of his own flock or herd to prepare for the guests who had come to him. But he took the poor man's lamb and prepared it for the man who had come to him. Then David's anger was greatly kindled against the man And he said to Nathan, as the Lord lives, the man who has done this deserves to die. He shall restore the lamb fourfold because he did this thing, and because he had no pity. Nathan said to David, You are the man Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul. And I gave you your master's house and your master's wives into your arms, and gave you the house of Israel and Judah. And if this were too little, I would add to you as much more. Why have you despised the word of the Lord to do what is evil in his sight? You have struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife. and have killed him with the sword of the Ammonites. Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house Because you have despised me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife. Thus says the Lord. Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house. And I will take your wives before your eyes and give them to your neighbor, and he shall lie with your wives in the sight of this sun, for you did it in secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said to David The Lord also has put away your sin. You shall not die. Nevertheless, because by this deed you have utterly scorned the Lord, the child who is born to you shall die. Then Nathan went to his house. And the Lord afflicted the child that Uriah's wife bore to David, and he became sick. And let us turn to Psalm fifty one. And this is part of the scripture, the preface, to the choir master, a psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet went to him after he had gone into Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love. According to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. So that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice. Hide your face from my sins, and blot out my iniquities Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit. Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise. For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. You will not be pleased with a burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. Do good to Zion in your good pleasure. Build up the walls of Jerusalem. Then you will delight in right sacrifices, in burnt offerings, and whole burnt offerings. Then bulls will be offered on your altar. So we're going to consider this under these three headings. Repentance, restoration, and service. It's a very simple outline, and it's very clear in the text Repentance first begins at verse 1. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love. And we've said this many times when it says steadfast love, that is that Hebrew word, Hesed, which means covenant love, according to your covenanted, promised love. The covenant you made with your people, to promise to forgive them their sins, to make them your own, according to your covenant love, according to your abundant mercy, which is covenant love. And then he says, blot out my transgressions. What does that mean? Blot out my transgressions. The Cambridge Dictionary says it is to cause something to disappear. Something that's been written down. You need to imagine it. Something that's been written down in ink. And it's very visible, and then it's made to disappear by blotting. And I think that's usually accomplished by putting more ink on. Until it can't be read anymore. It's completely un illegible, I should say, not unlegible, illegible, by the blotting of more ink to cover up what was written It also means, according to the Cambridge Dictionary, to remove something unpleasant from your thoughts. You blot something out of your memory. You forget it. You cover it up so that you don't think of it anymore. And we see the first mention of that in, well maybe not the first mention, but a very famous mention in Exodus 32, verse 32. Where the Lord is discussing with Moses how angry he is with God's people Because they have foolishly sinned against him, and he is so angry he's ready to destroy them. And Moses acting as priest says, Lord, please don't do it. He says, but now if you will forgive their sin, if you will forgive their sin. But if not, Moses says, please blot me out of your book that you have written. Moses had clearly in mind that God in his covenant mercy had written a book, a book filled with names, the names of his people And Moses is saying, please forgive this people. He's interceding for them. Please forgive them. But if you will not, then please, I want to be with them. Blot me out of your book that you have written. Take my name away too. I don't think Moses is wishing that his name would be blotted out, but he is he is being like Christ here in a way. In saying, I want to be so identified with your people that if you won't forgive them, please don't forgive me either And Christ is in a moment blotted out of God's book so that we would be forever remembered in God's book, so that our names would be written on his hands. And never forgotten. In verse 33, but the Lord said to Moses, Whoever has sinned against me, I will blot out of my book. God's threat is real. He will blot out all sinners. But those whom he justifies Those whom he gives a perpetual name because of his mercy, because of his saving work in Christ, their names will not be blotted out of the book. We see this again in Deuteronomy 9, 14, where again Moses is interacting with the Lord and he says, Let me alone! That I may destroy them and blot out their name from under heaven, and I will make of you a nation mightier and greater than they. And again, Moses acts as a great intercessor, doesn't want uh God's people's names to be blotted out. David, I think even with that in mind, knowing those things from Exodus and from Deuteronomy, he says, blot out my transgressions, not my name, but blot out my transgressions. And then in parallel form, he says in verse 2, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. That's what he wants. He doesn't want to be destroyed. He doesn't want to be removed from God's covenant mercies. But he wants his sins to be forgotten. He says in verse 3, 4, I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. If you remember what we read from Samuel, David had rationalized what had happened. This happened, then that happened, and who knows what's going to happen in war. People die and Uriah's out there and I can't make him be slain even though I may give the order for him to be sent forward where he will probably be slain. But I didn't do it myself. I it's rationalizing, you see. He's rationalizing his sins away and thinking somehow that he has escaped. God's gaze. But now, since Nathan has said, Thou art the man in King James language, you are the one who did this thing. He has become very acutely conscious of his sin. And then he says I think this is showing the acuteness of the consciousness of his sins. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. Now, does that mean that there was no other person sinned against? Certainly there was. Jariah was sinned against, wasn't he? He was cheated and then he was murdered. He was lied to. But what is going on here is that God is the primary offended in all sin. We may sin against someone, we may tell them a lie, but God is the primary offended. Against you, you only, primarily in that sense, have I sinned. All sin is first against God. He says, I am confessing this, and I'm confessing that you are right. That's what confession is, by the way. It means to say the same. When you confess the faith, you're saying the same as all other Christians have said before. When you confess your sin, you're saying the same thing God says about your sin. That it's sin, that it's evil, that it's justly deserving damnation So he says, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. You are right, Lord, about me and what I have done. I rationalized it for a while, but now it's so clear to my consciousness that I cannot escape it. It's always before me. And then he goes even deeper to the very nature of who we are and how we are as the sons and daughters of Adam and Eve. He says in verse 5, probably thinking back to what happened in the Garden of Eden, behold, I was brought forth in iniquity. And in sin did my mother conceive me. This does not mean that his biological mother conceived him out of some sinful act, but simply it means that in sin we are all conceived. Our mothers brought us forth, they conceived us in sin. It's not the mother's fault, it's Adam and Eve's condition that we're born into. Sin indwells the very nature of fallen human beings. It is not something acquired. We don't become sinners. It's there from the very beginning. You don't have to teach a toddler how to sin. They know it by nature, don't they? In the fourth century, there was a teacher named Pelagius, a British monk. named Pelagius. And he didn't like this old doctrine of by Adam's fall we sinned all. He didn't like that idea, and so he was teaching something contrary. He was teaching that we are all born innocent. Every one of us is completely innocent. We're a blank piece of paper with nothing written on it at all. No stain, nothing wrong. We're all innocent. And we only become sinners by by imitation. We see others sinning and then we we learn to follow their their deeds, their acts. Well old Pelagius was condemned. He was an opponent of Augustine, and he was condemned by the Synod of Orange, which took his doctrine piece by piece and showed that it was wrong. That indeed we are conceived sinners. Sin flows from our very human nature. Then he says in verse 6, Behold, you delight in truth, in the inward being. That's what you delight in. When God said man was very good, he was delighting in In the inward nature of Adam before he fell into sin, Adam and Eve. You teach me wisdom in the secret heart. That is what I am destined to be. That's what I should have been. That's what I need to be. Full of wisdom in the secret heart. So that shows us repentance. He is confessing all these things, all this wonderful doctrine, as well as his own deeds, he's confessing. As he says, repentance. The second part is restoration. Restoration. Verse 7: Purge me with hyssop. And I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. What does this mean? Purge me with hyssop. Hyssop is a plant How can a plant purge someone? Well hyssop is a brushy little plant, and it was prescribed in the law as the thing used by the priest for sprinkling blood. The priest would take this brushy little plant, sort of like a whisk broom, I suppose, dip it in the blood, and sprinkle it on the people and upon the altar, the mercy seat of God. And without the shedding of blood, it says in Hebrews 9. 22, indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood. And without the shedding of blood, there is how much forgiveness? No forgiveness. So he is saying, I need the atoning blood that you have ordained for your people. Purge me with hyssop. And I shall be clean. He's not saying, I'll try harder, I'll do better, I'll make up for that, I'll let my good outweigh my bad, and we'll be okay, right? No Purge me with hyssop. That's always got to be our cry when we find ourselves having sinned. Purge me with hyssop with the blood of the covenant. Ultimately, the blood of Christ. Restoration then comes from blood washing in Christ. Then he says in verse 8, let me hear joy and gladness. I'm tired of hearing the sadness of my heart. Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice. Bones rejoice? Well, yes. Broken bones don't feel very good, but healed bones feel fine. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice. And then he says, hide your face from my sins. And there's this word again, and blot out all my iniquities. That's forgiveness. That's justification. All your iniquities blotted out so that they can't be read on the record anymore. Your name's still written in the book of life, but all your iniquities blotted out, never to be seen again. Hide your face from my sins. Don't look at them, Lord. And then create in me a clean heart, O God. He knows he has a dirty heart, but he wants a clean heart. Renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence. That is what he deserves, to be cast away. From the presence of God, and that is ultimately what hell is, is to be cast away from the presence of God forever. People say this is hell here sometimes. They make those kind of remarks. This this earth is hell. Well, no, it's not. It's bad. There's a lot of suffering and pain here, but this is not hell, believe me. Here, even those who are not saved still enjoy the sunshine and the rain and food and Laughing and many pleasures, but it will all be removed in the real hell. Cast away from the very presence of God. No common grace anymore. No beauty at all. Only misery forever. Cast me not away from your presence and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Here's a justified man who has sinned, and he is asking God not to remove his name. To forgive his sin and to not remove the Holy Spirit from him, who has convicted him of this sin. Restore to me the joy of your salvation. And uphold me with a willing spirit. Don't you want to have a spirit that wills to do the will of God? I hate having a spirit that wants to rebel against God. It grieves me. Let us always pray. To uphold, that God would uphold us with a willing spirit, willing to do the will of God, willing to follow Him. So that is restoration. That is the restoration that he prayed for, that we always ought to pray for. And then thirdly, service. Coming out of repentance, through restoration, knowing God's light of his face again shining upon us, knowing the joy of salvation, being upheld with the Spirit of God We are ready for service. He says, then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. God will bless service that is done with a heart made right with him by the blood of Christ. He will bless that service. It will be productive service. He will give it much fruit. And that's the sort of thing we see in 1 John 1:7. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Verse 9, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. When we have experienced the forgiveness of God, the cleansing, then we're ready for service. We're ready to speak to other sinners that they might return to God. And God will bless that service. He goes on. I goes back, I guess, again to the repentance. He says, deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God. Which is deserving of the death penalty. He knew he deserved to die. Deliver me from blood guiltiness O God, God of my salvation and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. That's service too, isn't it? Singing aloud to God. Our tongues set free, as Charles Wesley or John Wesley said. For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. Wait a minute. You mean God didn't delight in the sacrifices of his people? He says that's not primarily what you want, Lord That's not primarily what you want. For you do not, you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. If that's all you needed, I would do it, I would take care of it. You will not be pleased with a burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are first a broken spirit. A broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. Yes, God wants his people to perform sacrifice. In the Old Testament, the sacrifice is prescribed there. Now we trust in the Christ who became a sacrifice for our sin. But he wants us to have these things with a good heart, broken spirit, contrite heart. Oh God, you will not despise. And then I think he returns again to service. Do good to Zion in your good pleasure. Build up the walls of Jerusalem. Here's the king. The King of God's people, and he's saying, I want to be productive in your work. I want your people to be built up. Their walls of Jerusalem that protect Jerusalem to be built up. I want to do good to your people. Please put me in service again. Then you will delight in right sacrifices, in burnt offerings, and whole burnt offerings. Then bulls will be offered on your altar. So it wasn't either or, it was both and A spirit that's willing and ready and contrite, and then do the service that God has asked. Service performed without a clean heart is a foul offering. God does not delight in any worship unless it proceeds from a heart cleansed and motivated by grace. When we repent, brothers and sisters, God in Christ blots out our sins. Isaiah 43, verse 25, I, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake and will not remember your sins. Isaiah 44, 22, I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud and your sins like mist. Turn to me, for I have redeemed you. Jeremiah 18, 23, yet you, O Lord, know all their plotting to kill me. Forgive not their iniquity. nor blot out their sin from your sight. Let them be overthrown before you. Deal with them in your time of anger. And then Acts 3. On the day of Pentecost, Peter, preaching, said, Repent therefore, and turn back that your sins may be blotted out. God in Christ blots out our sins. He will not blot out the sins of the evildoers. He will blot out their names, but he blots out our sins and he restores us. And that leads us to verse 12. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit in service, a willing spirit. God puts us into service. And that that is something that was remembered by Timothy, young Timothy. 1 Timothy 1, as he's beginning his letter, Paul writes to Timothy, I thank him who has given me strength. Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service. Service But then he goes back and says, though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, an insolent opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. See, Paul understands, just like David did, that he had been a blasphemer, an insolent opponent, a persecutor. But God counted him faithful, putting him into service after he had been restored, after he had been saved by the blood that was shed on Calvary. And then he says in verse 15 of 1 Timothy 1, the saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance. That Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am foremost, doesn't that sound a lot like David? When he said, Against you, you only have I sinned. I'm the worst. I am the foremost. But then he says, But I received mercy for this reason, that in me as the foremost Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life. Then he gets very happy and starts a doxology. To the king of ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen. Dear brothers and sisters, I hope you will use this psalm not just as a one-time through as we are going through the Psalms, but make it part of your personal Worship in your home. Use these rubrics of repentance and restoration and service To come to God, asking his mercy through Christ, seeking to be restored and rejoicing in what he does when he restores us, even as David did. May God bless you as you use this psalm. Amen. Let us pray together. Lord, we thank you for David's testimony here. We thank you, but he was convicted by the prophet Nathan, the judge in Nathan. And that he turned to you, sought your peace, your forgiveness, your mercy, was restored and put into service. And became, as we know him, a man after God's own heart, and the sweet psalmist of Israel. And so we have this fruit of that restoration and that service before us in this altar. We thank you for that in Jesus' name. Amen.