And rules about roles, created roles in the world. But they don't accept him as Savior and Lord and King. They might have nicer lives, cleaner, more orderly, but they don't have grace. And the people marveled. Jesus too. And bring about a communist revolution. and deciding what things are true about Jesus, who he really was, who's the historical Jesus, not the Jesus of the Scriptures, because we can't trust the Scriptures They can just throw it away because I don't think that's historical. And he was told, Your mother and your brothers are standing outside desiring to see you. of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And they enter and dwell there. Or they've seen some Christians in churches or heard about them fighting, dividing, backbiting, and things like that. actual intelligentsia circles, and that is by simply redefining Jesus. It is a theology that makes Jesus into a communist revolutionary whose purpose in life when he came was to overthrow structures um you know and had some nice ideas. If you get into alcohol or drugs or if you get a into a bad relationship or something, he will help you get your life straightened out. When it says, When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, Jesus says, it passeth through waterless places seeking rest, and finding none, it says, I will return to my house from which I came. See, you get your life straightened out by this moralistic Jesus. They're able to help you put your life together real good. and unclean, and that we have sinned against God in thought, word, and deed, by what we have done and by what we have left undone. As well as the specific ordinances, the sacrifices, the Passover lamb, the tabernacle and temple, the priesthood, and the prophecies of the Messiah. Surely I am too stupid to be a man. Who has established all the ends of the earth? So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. This is the word of the Lord. He takes away his armor in which he trusted and divides his spoil. Who preserve these things in your providence, that we might truly profit. But he said, Blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it. is against me. Or he was some other, any other, even an agent of Satan, they proposed. You've done a few miracles. You have to have some kind of reference to the Old Testament. Exodus chapter 8, verses 18 through 19. So there were gnats on man and beast. So that's probably what he's referring to here. You have a lot of knowledge about who Jesus is, but there are a lot of people who are absolutely ignorant. moralistic platitudes, not really the preaching of the word of God, but just moralistic platitudes. They don't ever get there. Well, you won't know a lot about this, but liberation theology. have some version of Jesus, especially this moralistic Jesus that wants to fix your life for you and and when they accept him And here's the final word. Here it is. Women play a very prominent place. It's an indirect compliment. For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day later on. For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way, and God rested on the seventh day from all his works. While others, to test him, kept seeking from him a sign from heaven. Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided household falls. But listening to and keeping your word. And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order. They reject him. Some of them said, he casts out demons by Beelzebub, the prince of demons, while others to test him kept seeking from him a sign from heaven. If it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. That's what Abraham Lincoln quoted when he was referring to the civil war going on in this nation long ago. Even by the finger of God. Or Christianity favors traditional marriage, and we know that that's oppressive. And so by association, they they have an excuse to reject Jesus. of God and His Word and why He does have rules about marriage and rules about sexual practice And you'll you'll be fine after that. By the way, there are religions, denominations of sects, of cults, really, the Mormons in particular, I will say, who have a very well-ordered life And so then Jesus says it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself. We're we're we're prone to accept Christianity as a moral raise They receive Jesus when they receive the Jesus, the true Jesus, that they find in the scriptures. For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did not benefit them because they were not united by faith with those who listened Two things I ask of you. For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit. When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are safe. Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. And it says the people marveled, but some of them said they have an alternate view of what happened here. But if it is by the finger of God, that's an interesting image, isn't it? Then he attacks him and overcomes him. They needed an explanation for this. Others said, as the text tells us, so far so good, Jesus. Sabotaging the goals and efforts of a government, passing secrets, strategizing against the government, undermining the government of that party accepting the Jesus that they redefine and rejecting the Jesus that they don't like. The latest update on the historical Jesus, the search for the historical Jesus, what they mean by that is they are looking at the Bible and other historical records. And his son Civility, who live in the village of morality. And who taught people to trust in you, your word, and him, his mission, and to see that Satan's kingdom is being divided by those who trust in Jesus. We pray in his wonderful name. When they actually believe in the future that God has promised, the new creation, and they see that Jesus is the fulfillment and the centerpiece of all of that, then they receive the true Jesus. Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly received the good news failed to enter because of disobedience. When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places, seeking rest. But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided house falls. was a nickname for Satan. As the crowd did after the feeding of the five thousand in John chapter six. It's not going to work out very well. He says, one stronger than Satan attacks him and overcomes him. You go to church. Or it's against a particular kind of feminism, we should say. Who is less than God. But the Jesus that we can discern behind the text, probably just a simple rabbi who lived in Palestine. Maybe not the chaotic demons, but they're demons just the same Doesn't mean we can't be happy. That's receiving Jesus. Who has ascended to heaven and come down? The words of Agar, son of Jacob, the Oracle. And now the New Testament reading, Hebrews 4, the first 13 verses of Hebrews 4. For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest, although his works were finished from the foundation of the world. Again he appoints a certain day, today, saying through David so long afterward, in the words already quoted, Today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. Or you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebub. Mute, someone couldn't speak at all. And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say I cast out demons by Beelzebub. These witnesses were confronted with undeniable facts. It has stories in it, but the stories are just there to illustrate the rules, like Aesop's fables or something. Cheaters, gossips, rude, stingy such as Marcus Borg, who are always on the search for the historical Jesus. And people will accept that one because he doesn't ever correct them at all. We have to remember that we are poor, miserable sinners in the words of the 1928 Book of Common Prayer, Confession. Morally lifted ourselves up. Always in the place where Jesus accepts them. Let's go on. You are with him who gathers a church, chosen unto eternal life. To make a right judgment about who he is and what he is doing. Made heirs, cherished, nourished, protected by God. If this is your case, you are in the very best place. Therefore, they will be your judges. And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order. Jesus answered by showing the absurdity of their reasoning. Or we might say, in more modern terms, a football team who has members who, when they gain possession of the ball, always move the ball backward away from the goal. They're not going to win. Or purely a lack of church attendance, where they hear nothing about Jesus. The moral teacher Jesus was found also in John Bunyan's writings in Pilgrim's Progress, if you've ever read any of that. It's not good. And the results of those who receive Jesus is that they hear the word of God and keep it. Because they have been cleansed from the sin barrier which stands in the way of a relationship between God and man, and they have been adopted. Every word of God proves true. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fail by the same sort of disobedience. Luke chapter eleven, fourteen through twenty-eight. As he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breast at which you nursed. Without ever even considering who He is, God incarnate, who died for our sins on the cross and rose from the dead the third day. So they make judgments based on their predisposed moral categories. Religious people like us are particularly prone to slide into that sort of thing if we don't really understand the grace of God and how sinful we are and how much in need of a savior we are. Luke 11, 14 through 28. This may be due to the fact that many people fail to ever attend church. So they reject Jesus by association. Another way to reject Jesus would be to associate Christianity with being socially regressive. Verse eleven, uh chapter eleven, verses twenty-four through twenty-six tell us what it's like when people They have become his family. That's why we say those things, by the way, so that we don't ever go away from here thinking somehow that we have They have come become closer to Jesus than a little baby is to its mother. Socially regressive views that Christianity is against feminism. We have to remember that our sins are grievous, and the burden of them is intolerable. So that was the rejection part here. By faith in all that the scriptures tell us and teach us about Jesus. This will be our Old Testament reading. Unable to be duplicated by others. And young people, you're going to encounter various kinds of rejection of Jesus in your lifetime. Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. Or another version of Jesus that is accepted by redefinition is the Jehovah's Witness, Jesus. So Jesus in that very same spirit says here in response: Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it. Rejection. Do you reject Jesus as he's revealed in the Bible? And they know that church people are sometimes unethical. So that's some of the ways that people reject Jesus. And by faith in the words and deeds of Jesus recorded in the Bible for us We have to remember what we say often in our worship service, that we are by nature sinful. As he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breast which you nursed. So be careful that you never stop examining yourself, finding yourself a sinner whose heart is deceitful above all and desperately wicked. As he said these things, a woman in the crowd raised her voice. It reminds us of chapter 8 in Luke, verses 19 through 21. Another way of rejecting Jesus is by because of association. Lord, we thank you for this word of yours, this instance where Jesus taught. who a lot of people like this moral teacher Jesus, kind of the moralistic, therapeutic, deist Jesus, who will help you get your life straightened out. And the last state of that person is worse than the first. So we see rejection. You read the Bible. Or the elusive Jesus of the modern, particularly Protestant liberal Jesus scholars Whoever does not gather with me scatters. Thanks be to God. Great. That's what he's there for, is to is be your personal assistant It's this house that gets seven more demons, maybe more orderly demons No, we come every Sunday in the same need of a Savior because we're poor, miserable sinners. Amen. But some of them said, He casts out demons by Beelzebub, the prince of demons. He takes away his armor in which he trusted and divides his spoil. Then the magician said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. Deny them not to me before I die. It's just those people are regressive. We'll accept him. They don't accept him as God incarnate. It literally meant in the language the Lord of flies. Jesus explains himself himself as one stronger than Satan. He says, but if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Now let's look at the reception part. Rejection. They're not sure they trust him. Women in Jewish culture were kind of considered to be the least likely to come up with a good idea. We can't be joyful. Do some more. What he's really, what she's really saying is, your mother must be very proud of you I have not the understanding of a man. And the last state of that person is worse than the first. Either he was God's agent who ought to be heard and obeyed You hear the Bible read. Proverbs thirty. There we have the magicians tried by their secret arts to produce gnats, you know, the plagues that had come, but they could not. Back to that Exodus time. Hear the word of God and keep it. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. You are in a household that is not divided. As it said, he was casting out a demon that was mute. Jesus is always alluding to the Old Testament, which was very well known. But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Amen. They associate Jesus with his people They don't know any of that, so they reject Jesus because they just think it all sounds very socially regressive. Who has gathered the wind in his fists? And the demon was cast out by Jesus, and now the man speaks. Or that Christianity is against homosexual lifestyle. He cleans it up for you. He said, a house divided against itself cannot stand. But he answered them, My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. It's kind of an old thing that keeps coming back. What is his name? If I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Why have they become his family? I think that's pretty interesting, especially in the light of feminist claims that the Bible is all patriarchy. We'll read the first nine verses. But what it is is described here as a swept house put in order, but it doesn't have God in it, not the true and living God. For whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his He's using logic here. They don't accept his atoning death for sin. He's less than God. The text of the preaching is Luke chapter 11. Again, again, again, again. We saw the ways that they rejected him in the text. It's a little shorter. I certainly hope not, think not for you. And if I cast out demons by the Elzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? You know something about you. See, order has come because of moralism Or a political administration who's full of spies and traitors. He takes away his armor in which he trusted and divides his spoil. The finger of God, that's not much, is it? We have a real reason to be happy and joyful. But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Jesus was casting out demons. There are many people in this world who reject Jesus. Now he was casting out a demon that was mute. When a strong man fully armed guards his own palace, his goods are safe. You may be the Messiah, but we need more evidence. Now there are other sorts of rejection of Jesus. If that's what Jesus' people are like, I don't want any part of it. The big story of creation, of fall, of redemption. Now that as we consider this portion of your word, that you will attend by your Spirit who inspired these things. The man declares, I am weary, O God. Do it again I wouldn't want anything to do with that, Jesus. And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. The search, the endless and worthless search for the historical Jesus So he's a good Joe Jesus that's going to help you with your life. And what is his son's name? It's just two verses, Luke 11, 27, and 28. Remove far from me falsehood and lying. Jesus was, if you sum it all up, Jesus was claiming that his works are the works of God. Why are they closer? Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself. They want more evidence, more proof. It's a way of actually accepting Jesus while rejecting him at the same time. How does the person receive Jesus I have not learned wisdom, nor have I knowledge of the Holy One. We find that in Liberation theology and what that is, there's both a Protestant and a Catholic version of it. You go to Christian school, you're homeschooled. So they reject him by ignorance. If they don't like something he says anywhere in the writings of the Bible or anywhere else It's now empty. And finding none, it says, I will return to my house from which I came. Not going away forgetting what you say, not thinking we know better than what you say. Or if they attend a church, the church is a place where they hear It says, Then his mother and brothers came to him, but they could not reach him because of the crowd. He is bringing the reign of God on earth. They enter and dwell there. When people have accepted moral reform and moral uprightness, they are not better. Or there's one more way that has become very popular, especially in the intellectual Or the Mormon Jesus. In these passages in Luke, we first see But they don't have any understanding One more. You are with Jesus who divides war with his servants Or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God But when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, Well, Beelzebub They simply assume that it is a religious rule book. But Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he would not listen to them as the Lord had said. They're glad to have this version of Jesus. They just accept him as a moral teacher. You can't have it this way and have it that way, too. I'm going to pause to say this. So this sermon was preached in 2012 in the Luke series. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke. So it's got to be wrong because we know that's all good. Who has wrapped up the waters in a garment? And if Satan is also divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand Whoever is not with me. You see this every year in Time magazine around Easter. Why can he say, rather are those who receive the word of God and do it? Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar. Amen. One kind of modern rejection of Jesus is by ignorance Some church people are liars. Just the finger of God Be good, be nice, be kind, be tolerant, for goodness sake. There's the moral teacher, Jesus. It was the great literature of the day Nasty, you know, the Lord of flies. And again, in this passage, he said, They shall not enter my rest. They don't know him, they don't know anything about him, so they just say, I don't care. Therefore, it's got to be wrong. Surely you know We have a savior of poor miserable sinners. We've got to have more proof. But in Luke's gospel, women are always getting it right. These were the ones we just read about, but there are modern versions of rejecting Jesus They don't know the one who forgives sin. In Luke, in particular. So as we look at this pericope in Luke When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke. And that is pretty well described in verses twenty-four through twenty-six I am weary, O God, and worn out. Give me neither poverty nor riches. Many people know some church people Jesus is the one who is able to overcome Satan They accept him, but they reject the biblical version But when one stronger, the finger of God He is one of many gods. He attacks Therefore they will be your judges. He's Mr. Amazing. Legality. Jeremiah 17, verse 9. They encounter Him in various ways. Feed me You can become a God too.