And this prophet, beloved, Peter declares to be the Lord Jesus Christ in Acts chapter 3, verse 22. For his seed remains in him, and he cannot sin, because he is born of God. And that the hearts of your people here gathered today would receive it, be planted in them, and they would grow up in the faith of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and that you might have all the glory. We'll read through verse 27, hear the word of the Lord. We pray and ask dear Father that you would send your Spirit now to be our teacher and instructor, that this word may be claimed faithfully And third, there is Jesus' response to the questioners and the question. Here they are, aristocratic, powerful, priestly, worldly, wealthy men who seem knowledgeable of their Bibles and who deny the resurrection. namely husband and wife, parent and child, and then live a heavenly life after the heavenly man, the Lord Jesus Christ. in the age to come. That's 1 Corinthians 7, 29-31. I hope that you understand that this was God's will from the beginning. So 1 Corinthians chapter 15, beginning at verse 35, hear the word of the Lord. And what you sow is not the body that is to be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or of some other grain. But leaves no child, the man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. And as for the dead being raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the bush, how God spoke to him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? We thank you for this blessed day you have set apart from us that we could come to Christ's feet and sit there and be taught. so as to preserve his dead brother's name in Israel and to keep his inheritance within the family. It made the resurrection seem absurd. From among you, from your brothers, it is the hymn you shall listen Therefore, it is to him, it is to Jesus that the Sadducees should be listening, and it is to Jesus that you should be listening. Moses' word was not to be the final word. Is this not what I said would happen? Either cling to Moses or to Christ. Hear him again. horribly wrong for you here. And what we call in the Reformed tradition the covenant of grace, which is nothing more than that God so loved the world How are the dead raised? There's one glory of the sun and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars, for star differs from star and glory. The second man is from heaven. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown a natural body. Thus it is written, the first man Adam became a living being. We shall also bear the image of the man of heaven. There are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is of one kind, and the glory of the earthly is of another. Nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. And the second took her and died, leaving no offspring. In the resurrection, when they rise again, whose wife will she be? For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven He is not God of the dead, but of the living. Nor do I wish you ever to make that same mistake. Now, there are three parts to this passage. And come to see why the resurrection is so right and why those who deny it are so wrong. And namely, they were men ignorant of Scripture and the power of God. Which to them is the only one. And if that's how you think, beloved, you couldn't be more wrong. How many have owned the same property in different generations? To what age will the age to come, which is what Jesus is talking about in the resurrection, what age will it revert to? Or 2000 BC. What are we going to eat? Now, grant that this mosaic statute causes difficulty for the resurrection. Or that human relations as they are now will be the same in the age to come, then contradictions do arise. But he charges them with error. And we are going to deal with the manner of the resurrection life this morning, beloved, and next week deal with the fact of the resurrection life. Now we saw that the Sadducees' question rested upon the assumption that human relations continue unchanged in the world to come. But Jesus says otherwise. What does he mean by that? You can either cling to reason or to Christ, to tradition or to Christ. That this may come as a hard word to some of you, because surely you love your spouse Shall they suffer the dreaded single life forever? And I pray that you all would cling to Christ and to his word. And we are prone, I think, to read this and make it seem a horror or a hard and a horrible word. The old has passed away. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit, but it is not the spiritual first, but the natural. Now that is not the same thing as saying that Adam was imperfect, namely not good or upright, he was. Beloved, only in Christ are we sons of God in this perfected sense. that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever should believe in him shall not perish, but receive Now, because of Christ, men and women, boys and girls, old and young, achieve blessedness, achieve beatitude, that is consummate happiness Not by works, but by faith in Jesus Christ. Jesus is preaching to you, it is an ineffable existence that we can't even begin to imagine because who knows what life without the sex drive, without the husband and wife, without the parent child, and a society centered around the family looks like. It remains that both they that have wives be as though they had none, and they that weep as though they wept not. Of the age to come. But it may not always be helpful for us to be comparing the two, because I think that can lead to a wrong understanding of what it means to be, quote, spiritual. So don't abuse this life. Get jobs that will help you pass through this world to the next and not tie you down to this one You don't have to kill yourself trying to have everything in this life and what it offers before it's too late You are defined forever by your identity in Christ. about the their Christian hope. And God has never intended that for the human race to live only for this present age, but has offered more and new to come. The praise and exalting and rejoicing and fellowship with Christ. And I think that if parents told their children this when they are young, that it might save them much heartache And as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven. And they asked him a question, saying, Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife, Now they base their question on scripture. Deuteronomy 18, 15 says, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me, that is Moses. What do I mean? What then shall become of the woman whom God had assigned to seven husbands? And for many of you, most of your uh life on this earth has been spent with them in their companionship and fellowship. Or what about those whose spouses unjustly divorced them? Beloved, what we are dealing with here is a foundational doctrine. Everlasting life, beloved, everlasting life, a new life in Christ is not just a ethical, moral transformation now. Subsone to it, don't come under it, don't be controlled by it. But it is not the spiritual that is first, but the natural, and then the spiritual. Now I don't know about you, beloved, but I would want to know why one to whom Jesus should ever say you are quite wrong is wrong. So then, among other things, the Sadducees were men who denied the resurrection. And they had no other intention but to stump Jesus as well and to make him look foolish before the people. That man's brother not being compelled to do so was to raise up for him a seed or offspring. Whose wife would she be in the resurrection? The word of Moses that they use here concerns the law of Levirite marriage, which is given in Deuteronomy 25, which we read this morning. Leverite here does not refer to Levi, but to the Latin word levir, which is a husband's brother. Well, to the Sadducees, that law or statute seemed to make the doctrine of the resurrection of the dead a ridiculous or absurd doctrine because it presented a great puzzle. Now there is another presupposition here also in play, namely that the Torah, or the first five books of Moses, is God's final word. Will the first thing be to take everyone down to the DMV who lived more than a hundred years ago and get them a driver's license? If God shall one day collect believers into his kingdom, he will restore whatever he had given to them in the world. By taking refuge in your ignorant question. What do you mean? And I take it here is where Paul learned to destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of Now, in Jesus' response, our Lord starts with the manner of the resurrection life, and then he deals with the fact of the resurrection life. If I have told you earthly things and ye believe not, how shall ye believe if I tell you heavenly things? Verily, verily I say unto thee, we speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen, and ye receive not our witness. How many happy a Christian girl would there be spouseless in the age to come, having died before the opportunity to marry? Shall heaven be the hell of spouseless life for them and for others like them? He had hoped to walk the golden streets with her, but no more? What a future this present hell is preparing for them. And this new beloved has been God's plan since the beginning. And those who deny it, so wrong. Now let me make a few final points. Get hobbies and lifestyles that will help you pass through this world to the next and not tie you down to this one. Hope will guard them against worldliness, for their heavenly father has promised to them the best to come. Put on the new man grace and peace, and make no provision for the unbelief that looks not forward to the resurrection of the dead and the life of the world to come. There is a world of comfort here if you will hear it. Jesus said to them, Is this not the reason you are wrong? Mark identifies them as Sadducees, and he sees fit to say no more about them than that they say there is no resurrection. Now the Sadducees, and I don't intend to say a lot about these men because Mark doesn't, but the Sadducees belonged to the priestly aristocracy and were by by and large crass men. But Jesus does say one very important thing about these men that surely they would not have been so forthcoming themselves about. They used a pretense of following Scripture. The question is nothing more than a riddle to ridicule the resurrection. And it seemed also clever to them, and many a Pharisee, their rivals, surely had been stumped by it. Moses had written to them about the duty of a deceased man's brother, who had left behind him a wife and no children. Suppose there was a woman who, in fulfillment of this statute, married seven brothers, all of whom had left her no children Beginning of the quote, but that God should contradict Himself is impossible. If your presupposition, beloved, is that this world's goods will be restored to you at the resurrection Here is Jesus' response to their question. So let's be clear here, beloved. So then Jesus sets aside this silly question by his word of what the world to come will be like. Now you may be asking yourself, but how does Jesus know what life will be like in the world to come? Now I'm not going to say everything there is to say about the manner of the resurrection life this morning, only about what is being touched upon here in this passage. Then there's no conundrum about whose wife will this woman be who had seven husbands in this life. I assure you that it is a word of great comfort if you will hear me out. Of the consequences for your future if it was shaped by the present Shall they forever be deformed? Or consider all the Christian Ukrainian men who instead of drinking a nice draft at their wedding have seen their life's plans explode since being drafted. The first man is of the earth, earthy, the second man is the Lord from heaven. I'm going to assume you all here want to bear that image. But Adam could sin. And this blessedness has been the design of God since the beginning. And this purpose Adam and Eve sinfully thought to achieve through disobedience. God made him who knew no sin to become sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God So we must wait for the good one to come. But the life of this world is not bad in itself. Namely, that they neither marry nor are given in marriage. And they that use this world as not abusing or overusing it much, or the fashion of this world, or the scheme of this world, passes away. Children need hope. For not all flesh is the same, but there is one kind for humans, another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish. I rejoice, beloved, again to rise up here and address you in God's name from God's Word. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for Christ, our teacher, and your promise according to the new covenant, to write your word, all your word on our hearts, and to be our teacher and instruct us. Such a person must have made a grave mistake in his judgment. But really, you can think of any number of like situations. God says, Thou shalt not steal. Or you who took over a deceased person's property. You take it away, which Jesus does, and the riddle and the ridicule fall away. But Torah itself says otherwise. But if they had heeded that other prophet and waited for his word, they would not be coming up with silly questions. For Jesus is going to set them straight regarding the resurrection, and I pray set you straight if you are thinking like the Sadducee. Jesus says to these men, Is this not the reason you are wrong? But that will be immortal. His father did. Beloved, Jesus is speaking heavenly things to these Sadducees. Or consider, beloved, the men and women born with added parts, missing parts, crooked parts, lame parts, and on and on. And because of her economic situation, the wife is forced to marry again in the Lord. This is a merciful word that Jesus is speaking. And this new life we shall live in the full after the resurrection, when the heavenly city descends to the new earth It is the future that shapes the present. Only in the age to come shall you and I bear fully the image of God. God's purpose for your personal existence will be finally achieved at the resurrection. But Christ has won for us this purpose through his obedience. Spirituality is not withdrawing from the world and its mode of existence now, but engaging in it fully as new creatures in Christ. Of this revelation of God's amazing power given here by the Lord Jesus So the Christian perspective is that we live a good life here in this age, marrying and being given in marriage while waiting for the good life And they that rejoice as though they rejoice not, and they that buy as though they possessed not. You won't weep over those things that you weep over here. You won't buy those things that you buy here. Get spouses that will help you pass through this world to the next and not tie you down to this one. Don't be crippled by the thought that your job here, your spouse here, your intellectual pursuits here are going to define you forever. Be content with the job that pays the bills. To see them leave Christ and his church and go after the world because they want to live for this present age. Get a taste for the world to come and its joys. Or singleness of life, if that's your calling. Beloved, our first reading here from the epistle of Paul to the Corinthians in chapter 15, when we're going to pick up at verse 35 and read through to verse 50. What is it to think like a Sadducee? Christ promises to keep his own in this world. Well, dear congregation, you are quite wrong if you say that there is no resurrection of the dead. All that need be said, one commentator did when he said about them, and I quote, they were worldly and wealthy, end quote. We are dealing with here the image of God and man, and the way that image is achieved. Jesus does not let this ignorance of God stand for a moment. God has always intended that we should live first an earthy life, after the earthy man in earthy relationships. He was robbing you of your glory. Their riddle rests upon this presupposition He overcame every temptation of that foul fiend. Eternal life means far more than just mere existence. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. Well, Jesus says, is this not? Let me quote you here from John Calvin on this passage because he gets it right. With what kind of body do they come? Will fast food be the bread of the age to come? And notice that I didn't say the better life. And Adam did sin. That is what's to come put in their hearts at a young age. Tell them that there is more and new to come because it is the saddest and most painful thing It is raised a spiritual body. And it is to that prophet's word that all seeming contradictions to the resurrection go away. Jesus speaks to these men in such a way as to make it clear to them they couldn't be more wrong, and they should know it. He says, when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. He is that prophet to come. First, there are the questioners. But that's not how society will be centered. Well, he doesn't mean that we're going to be pure spirits without bodies Shall we have to get Abraham up to speed on social media and FaceTime? As was the man of dust, so also are those who are of the dust. Whose is it going to be? For it is not the present that shapes the future. That is, they base their question on a word from Moses. And when you and I say that, are we not looking for the answer yes? Be content with the Word of God for your education. Jesus is not saying here that life in this age is bad. Be content with a spouse that loves Christ more than you and is good looking. Don't think you're missing out if you don't get this or don't get that. I tell you this, brothers, flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. And Sadducees came to him who say that there is no resurrection. You are quite wrong. There is indeed much bad in this life. And the third likewise. It is to presuppose that life in this age will be comparable or identical with life in the age to come. He says, You are wrong, and you are quite wrong to deny the resurrection Beloved, you won't have spouses in the age to come, but the Lord Jesus. To them, your life now is all that matters. Does it make it seem absurd to you? For by it, creation's purpose will finally be achieved. But thanks be to God, who has redeemed us in Christ. What is sown is perishable, what is raised is imperishable. Moses wrote for us, they say, to maintain the status quo. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. Jesus is telling you that there is more to come. Third and final part of this passage. You see, then, beloved, if there is no marriage in the age to come Well, who will be the thief in the resurrection? The old, the new has come So you'll all be tied down to this one. You foolish person? For the seven had her as wife. Eternal life means far more than just moral behavior. He's not telling you don't enjoy the good in this age. And the same choice is yours Don't overmuch use it The image of God in man was not perfected at creation. And now a reading from the Gospel of according to Mark in chapter twelve, beginning at verse eighteen. Shall they face a miserable future for another's sins? And I don't mean any offense by that word. Here is a passage all of you should know. But how could it be? Beloved, God has always intended his people to wear first the natural body and then the spiritual. You won't rejoice over those things that you rejoice over here. So then, this morning and next Lord's Day morning, we are going to study this passage, beloved. To these men, this hypothetical case taken from this mosaic institution And really, a text like this should color singleness very differently for us in this life. Faith in his blood, or by the new covenant in his blood, all believers shall be glorified. Paul writes, But this I say, brethren, the time is short And I should never want to make that same mistake. Or what about all those godly spouses married to unbelievers? You won't live after the same scheme of this world as you live after here For the fashion of this world, beloved, is already headed out the door. And let us all do the same in our stations and callings when given opportunity That is, only in Christ can we not sin. Now there were seven brothers. How will God assign property in the age to come? Because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God Do you see my point, beloved? And the seven left no offspring. We thank you for giving us an infallible word, an errand, perfect in every way, inspired by your Spirit, through your holy prophets and apostles. Beloved, I'm going to leave you this morning with the Apostle Paul's own application. For example He is telling you and me that you won't miss out in the age to come if things go But the Apostle John tells us: Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin. Because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God? Second, there is the question You could even go further. It in fact may be a better life. What you sow does not come to life unless it dies. This is the word of the Lord. But someone will ask So then our questionnaires That's not how the mode of human existence will be lived. They denied that human beings would come back bodily to life. Shall her dead husband be raised to envy? That's what we heard the Apostle Paul say in our reading this morning If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. So, first, then, the questioners. And he says so in such a way as to expect that they would agree with him Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. You may think I'm being silly. End quote. Thus it is written: the first man Adam became a living soul. Yet God promised to raise another prophet. Their sophistry, therefore, is this. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust. He is giving them revelation from God. Or imagine the high school sweethearts who marry but in early death separates them. The first man was from the earth, a man of dust. Shall the resurrection life look like 21st century AD? Now that's no different than when you or I say to another uh one another, We saw that it is the will of God for us first. But God gives it a body as he has chosen, and to each kind of seed its own body. Jesus told Nicodemus, the Pharisee, who came to him in the middle of the night They fell to the tempter And Christian worship is at the center of that because this does not go away. Think with me for a moment. That is what makes the resurrection so right. But he is saying more than that, he is saying there is new to come. Do you understand then what Satan was doing to Adam and to you at the beginning? Let's pray and ask His blessing. Now I imagine, and this is where we're going to spend the rest of our time this morning Or shall we all have to take courses in camel riding and donkey packing? Notice It means a change that you can't even begin to fathom So foundational that it is rooted in the first chapters of Genesis. And we can glean one further thing about these men. He's telling you don't Because he has more in store for you. Last of all, the woman also died. And I suppose even to Moses or to Christ. The first took a wife, and when he died, left no offspring The person who moved into your house after you died? But I assure you that it is anything but that. Will you parents tell your children? That is their wealth and their power in this world. Let us pray. But things get silly when you think like a Sadducee. Who are these questioners? Who told him? And yes, I'm aware that is not yet. I hope that you see that, beloved. In Christ's name we pray. And they had a choice. That's Genesis 2:7. But what is their question? Amen. Amen.