Chapter twelve, beginning at verse eighteen, hear the word of the Lord. That is, that the dead rise. And he became a living soul after God had breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. Because I saw the blessing and a reward that I intend to give to them, and I'm going to raise them to dead and give them another life in which they will inherit it. That God had made promises to these men, very many of which they didn't receive. Earthly human relations won't be the same in the age to come. to sow it in us. that any child of Abraham would have known, and not least the experts in the law that these men presented themselves to be to the gospel and to the very nature of God, that Jesus wastes no time messing with them, but points out right to them and to all listening their great ignorance and who the true God is. To assert nothing more than life after death. So then I say to you, beloved, the thing that really matters for one to rise from the dead to eternal life. Do you know the stories of Genesis 12, on through the rest of Genesis, on through the rest of the Old Testament, and on through today in the gospel? And consequently that he will raise them to another life in which they may receive it. or definitive and absolute check upon their hopes, his protection is of little value to a good and broad land, a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. The man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. And you are the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Two, as I hope to show you all, it's not entirely out of place to consider the resurrection at this stage in our Lord's ministry This is an insoluble riddle and makes the resurrection look ridiculous Be it to married life or to single life or to this job or to that job. The same with men today who look at this world very rationalistically, materialistically, and say, and presuppose And there will be parents who are there, or children who are there whose parents aren't there, or not both of them. That these are the same exact relations. made the resurrection look silly, and Jesus says, you just wait, it will be glorious. And that is the word of God. Have you really overlooked what God's Word says? thought of immortality as a sort of existence after the afterlife, but immortality meant an existence with a body Verse 7. For his God is God of the living. Could change the fact that God is his God? Think of Romans chapter 8. And glorious bodily resurrection. Because it is unimaginable that God does not keep his promises. Between God's covenant faithfulness and the resurrection, which had led the Sadducees into their grievous error For those whose God is the Lord. That apart from us they should not be made perfect. of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again to a living hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. In which he says, I am your God in the blood of Jesus Christ. And it makes no sense for God to come back and say, I'm going to be your God if He's not going to do something about that curse. And he fled his flock to the west side of the wilderness, and came to Horeb, the mountain of God. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God. To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. He looked, and behold the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed. You believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory. And they asked him a question saying, Teacher, Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife, but leaves no child, Last of all, the woman also died. I am the God of Abraham, in the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. So the gospel that Mark wrote for us in chapter 12, beginning at verse 18, we'll read through verse 27, and this will be our text for this morning's sermon. This is the word of the Lord. We need your comfort, your courage, your hope and the strength and faith to get us through this life. that you would cause this word to be heard by us to our great comfort and to our Today marks the beginning of Holy Week or Passion Week. riding upon a donkey as Israel's Messiah or their king. That is, just days prior to his own shameful death on the cross for our sins. And that is that the dead rise. to his brother, should his brother die and leave behind him a childless widow. To make men like angels. So let me just pause and say, I'm trying to present to you, dear congregation, what I think to be the proper, healthy view of understanding These two ages. They both have their purpose, and they and one replaces the other. How things are is how they'll be. Now they deny this, of course, but Jesus affirms it. He says to them, Have you not read in the book of Moses in the the passage about the bush? Now, that's like one of you saying to me, Have you not read in the Bible at such and such a place, Pastor? God is saying that this relationship that they had with me where they walked on the earth hasn't changed. So then, beloved one, you need to know and believe is that the dead rise because Yahweh is not God of the dead. But first, I think that I ought maybe to explain a little bit more of the Lord's argument here, just to be sure that we are all all the way along Because I imagine, because I had this same difficulty, some of you are sitting there a little in the dark, maybe as to how Clarify this for a moment. Jesus got to resurrection from the dead, or got to resurrection from I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So, really, to get what Jesus is saying here and to understand his argument, you and I must have a right understanding that is a biblical understanding of what immortality is. The biblical view of man is Adam at creation. His glorious body. Your ego, your person, not to some immaterial nature that is man's better half is that Yahweh, the Lord, the living God, is their God And this also forms part of Jesus' argument here for the resurrection They while on earth walked with God, and God was with them. Well, they receive them at the resurrection with us, with those who believe in Jesus Christ. I am your God is covenantal language in the Bible He dealt well with them despite their sin, despite their failings, despite their mistrust, despite their trying to bring forth his purposes in their own way God covenanted with them. And God says, they will have me so, and death shall not do us part. They either didn't know or didn't think about God's covenant, his faithfulness to his covenant, and the very fact But trust, however, that was not misplaced, for his God and Father did raise him from the dead and give him glory. So everything that I have just said to you is declared and proclaimed in the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Recall the words of 1 Peter that we read. Here you see the same covenantal language, the God of, and even what's wonderfully revealed in the gospel, the Father of Why is he now our God and not just Jesus' God and his Father? My Father has given them to me as greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my Father's hand. Or Jesus, the Lord, who is one with the Father, does not shepherd the dead, but the living. This is not a house of dead people. Of your and mine and whoever believes sins. What did Moses do when God spoke to him out of the bush? Because he had murdered a man forty years ago. Not a plan to redeem you, a plan to deal with your sins and take away the curse, so he can say to you, I am your God Especially when the pressure mounts, right? And now, behold, the cry of the people of Israel has come to me, and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppressed them Chapter 1, beginning at verse 3 to chapter 9. Obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Now you may be thinking this morning, hey Pastor, the resurrection is next week, so why are you talking to us about it this morning? However, for a first century Jew, as one commentator puts it, human immortality was connected with the existence of the body. Means existence in a body. Another commentator says helpfully it was the failure to appreciate the essential link And as Hebrews makes clear, God was not talking about that little spot of land in we called Cana, but the new heavens and the new earth, and the city of its builder and maker is gone. Then he said, Do not come near. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And the second took her and died, leaving no offspring. Edification. And I'm doing so for a couple reasons. And this law stipulated it was the law referring to a husband's brother, that he was to raise seed. To further the race of men. They capitalized on this statute and made up a scenario wherein one woman married seven brothers who had all left her childless. Quite inexpressible now. We have the family at the center of society. And praise God that they won't be parentless or childless in the age to come because of his power. Jesus says, What gives you the right? And in case they still don't get what Jesus is saying, he spells it out for them: he is not God of the dead, but of the living, and you are quite wrong. Now it is this truth that I want to speak to you about this morning. And he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul, or as it sometimes is translated, a living being, in Genesis 2. Well, then Abraham must be alive forever, which is nothing more than to assert his immortality. Then you know that God chose these men, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. That he made with Abraham and his posterity. When God says to Moses, beloved, I am the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and Jacob, he is saying to them, as one commentator helpfully puts it, And his God and Father has raised him, given him glory, and put him in possession of those promises. The same commentator goes on to say then that the concept God of the dead implies a blatant contradiction. It is also, I think, enlightening to compare these words of 1 Peter and Exodus 3 to John chapter 10. Now, Jesus the good shepherd says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. If you are not in Christ, this passage tells you that you are still among the dead. He has promises yet to fulfill in their lives. It's not a madhouse rush to get it all now. And he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Oh Lord, this word means nothing to us and can find no place in our heart and can affect no change in us. Unless you come and be our teacher, unless you by your spirit join with this word and make it a word to us in And they pretended to find support for their position in the words of Moses. The ones that are the ones that we read here, Moses had given them a Leverite marriage And they asked Jesus, whose wife would she be in the resurrection? And we simply cannot fathom this kind of life now. Nonetheless, we are to serve the Lord where he has called us according to the callings of this age. They assume that how things are now is how things will always be. You are quite wrong, says Jesus, because you talk as if these men are no more, but that's not how God talks about them. And what's more, Jesus is saying it is right there for you all to read, and for you all to read. They all consider the flesh to be mortal to be mortal. But that is not at all how God sees it. So God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. Surely all rise, but not all rise to eternal life Cherish the same hope that you and I cherish and have. That Jesus, our forerunner, has bodily entered in within the veil, securing for us our perfection. Because he too trusted in the covenant faithfulness of his God and Father. Joined with the fact of the resurrection from the dead. So now, truly beloved, with the good shepherd raised from the dead, the sheep have a living hope. Another way then of saying that Yahweh is not God of the dead, but God of the living, is to say God Jesus came that his sheep may have life and have it more abundantly. Jesus has not come to break out against you in his wrath. But because he's given you Christ, and Christ has given himself to you to take away your sins. How wrong could these men be? In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. May be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire. And as for the dead being raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the bush, how God spoke to him, saying, Made a man like unto us, took great comfort in the truth that he defends here against the Sadducees. The Sadducees were the wealthy and worldly leaders of Israel who say or said, There is no resurrection. But our Lord set aside this silly question by revealing to them the power of God in the resurrection. The power of God on display in the age to come, Jesus is saying, results in a manner of life for human beings that is really Though in Christ we have received the first fruits of the age to come, the Holy Spirit. There will be those in the new heavens and new earth whose children won't be there, or not all of them. Scathing, cutting, rebuke this would be to these men. God says, I am their God. But of the living. And this is what God declares in his word when he says, I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. The Greeks speculated about the nature of the soul, what they considered to be the higher of man's two natures, which is really just nonsense, whether it was immortal or not. Sold or naphash, which is the Hebrew word, in scripture often refers to you. Some rise to everlasting damnation. Is that God is your God? God was their shield and their very great reward as he revealed himself to be. God is asserting in the bush to Moses his faithful maintenance of his covenant I thereby acknowledge, or God thereby acknowledges, that He had a blessing and reward for them still. If God had assumed the task of protecting the patriarchs from misfortune during the course of their life, but fails to deliver them from that supreme misfortune which marks the definite So you see then, beloved, why this may have been on our Lord's mind as he rode into Jerusalem. Jesus says to his disciples, I go to my Father and your Father, my God and your God Is proved by Jesus Christ and his resurrection. So that you and I and whoever believed this good news may have an everlasting covenant with God. Death. If you are in Christ, beloved, this passage tells you that you will rise from the death. He is plenteous in mercy. God has more in store for you after this life. Peter's first letter, 1 Peter chapter 1, beginning at verse 3, and read through to verse number 9. Jesus said to them, Is this not the reason you are wrong? Cannot turn us from our sin, cannot take us away from idols, cannot cause us to hope and to trust in you. What Jesus is saying, beloved, is this that faith in the resurrection Rest on faith in God, who is not God of the dead, but of the living. Paul says in Hebrews, these all died in faith, not having received the things promised. When the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the bush. Exodus three, one through ten. For I imagine that our Lord, our covenant Lord, undergoing his office as our Redeemer. A church to the whole world, who has me as their God and their father, and can rest secure in rising from the dead to everlasting life. So what is it that these men had overlooked? The Sadducees, their problem, Jesus said, was their ignorance of this power. And dear Father, we do come before you as your people who need your word. Because that's the second part of Jesus' answer to these Sadducees. And as you can see here, beloved, in that text, man was a soul when God formed him of the dust of the ground. And then no wonder, right, that we will rise from the dead. We ask all this through Christ our Lord. So we don't play down this one and overplay that one or play down that one, overplay this one. All you're showing is your ignorance of God's power. Miracles don't happen today because I don't see them. Do I have to come tell you what the Word of God says? To do something with your life. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground. Nothing can separate us from the love of Christ, the love of God which is in Christ And God gave him his promises. Paul goes on to say there in Hebrews 11, and all these, though commended through their faith, to not receive what was promised, since God had provided something better for us. They know nothing of God and nothing of redemption, nothing of the covenant, nothing of the idea that men lay under the curse of death by God One, it's the text that we've come to as we've been working our way through Mark. The dead rise because the Lord is not God of the dead, but of the living. That's the gospel we proclaim. In the resurrection, when they rise from the dead, whose wife will she be? Hear the word of the Lord. God's word to Moses there in the bush on the surface seems to us today and to many who read it. Let us pray. So this is a word of comfort to you that your Lord is giving you. That is the continuation of our persons after death. Now the holy God had appeared to him. Blessed be, here are these words, the God and Father. Jesus turns these men's attention to a passage of Scripture. Well, they'd overlooked how God spoke to Moses, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. For Christ has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel, that is, his asoning death. He is full of grace. Human relations in the world to come will not be focused on the husband-wife parent-child ones as they are now Did Abraham get the promised child? If the soul happens to go on good, but the flesh, no chance of surviving. Right, and presumably nothing ever will Therefore, no longer will they need to marry or require a helpmate. I know their sufferings, and I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land So then for God to say, I am the God of Abraham, means, as our Lord asserts, Abraham is alive But they are dealing with a doctrine so vital and central And we bless your holy name. It's this truth I hope again to encourage you saints in your way and comfort you in your way with He hid his face. And the third likewise. They couldn't have happened back then in the Bible. You haven't proved anything. God set his love upon these men. Almighty God, you are the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. And he gives us the sure grounds of this affirmation, and really the only one that there is. That's the gospel you receive. The Lord shepherds the living, because the Lord is God of the living. Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law Jethro, the priest of Midian. God, the creator of heaven and earth, formed man of the dust of the ground. And since, as God's word to Moses shows, not even Abraham's death Do it all now. So then what matters for rising to eternal life Amen. No longer will men need to procreate in the age to come Nor will human beings anymore be driven by the sex drive? Jesus served his God and Father faithfully, according to the covenant of redemption. But our Lord says, not so. And they have been gone, departed off this earth for 400 or so years by now. There were seven brothers. And we began last week considering this dialogue between Jesus and the Sadducees. And parents, you might remind your children of that. And he, the God of the living, gave his life for the sheep as a ransom for their sins. And you are in the same boat, beloved. Then the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. And Sadducees came to him to say that there is no resurrection God appeared to them as their shield and great reward Because the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ is not your God. I think it might be one of the encouraging to our children to hear. And that is, those to whom He is God rise from the dead to eternal life Yes. Because you can imagine what it would be like for all those people there, parentless or childless. Though you do not now see him. With the guilt of our sins gone, we have been freed from their punishment. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And furthermore, today celebrates Jesus' aw triumphal entrance into Jerusalem. You can get this sort of rebuke. And it matters for a couple of reasons God showed them his mercy and truth. Let me see if make it a little bit clearer. Why did he hide his face? But it is really to our great comfort and not sadness what Jesus is saying here that these earth That's the gospel you stand in. Did Abraham inherit the promised land? And he will by no means cast out anyone who comes to him. The fact that the dead rise. And of course I'm referring to Palm Sunday. And so the important thing to note here about the resurrection is that some of these promises they have yet to receive. That God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. And I tried to show last week the comfort of this scheme to come. And the biblical view of immortality is Christ at the resurrection. God never came to you in Christ's night without redemption. Now this morning I will talk to you about the fact of the resurrection But did the holy God break out against him in his wrath? God doesn't come to you in Christ and say, I'm your God because he wants to hold against you all your sin. That you do rise from the death. You and I have no hope if God does not keep his promises. And what this is saying to you and me, beloved, is that the saints of old Jesus' self-sacrifice on the cross canceled the debt. He is not God of the dead, but of the living. God is acknowledging that even though they've passed, I am still their God Because God the Father promised that your work of redemption will result in this. Because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God? Have everything And neither should we try to live it. Therefore your Bible's wrong. And Moses said, I will turn aside to see this great sight, why the bush is not burned. And you are not God of the dead, but of the living. I am their God. For many of our brethren around the world. And this was to continue the family line of the deceased brother I and the Father are one. And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. And the seven left no offspring Because they think that And with that, the Lord dealt with the manner of the resurrection life, which they thought Well, when will they receive the things promised? And as I've just said, immortality for man, as the gospel proclaims it Moses, Moses. If you continue to stand in, that you'll be saved in That hope that is the anchor of our souls. And turn to Mark's gospel. For the seven had her as wife. We do ask that you would come now and be our teacher. They're both ordained of God. God called Abraham out from serving other gods to serve him And this is why the Sadducees couldn't have been more wrong. The first took a wife, and when he died, left no offspring He was mocked at the cross for trusting in God. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. And this is what led them to ask their silly question to Jesus in the first place. No. So 1 Peter Too bad the Pharisees are so hard-hearted. But God does not shepherd dead sheep. There is still more to come. You in Christ, to whom God says to you, I am your God. And praise God, we get to read it this morning. This is the word of the Lord. And he said, Here I am. So Mark You are quite wrong. That's just not how they So I'm going to try to