I'm sure there's always God is working through all kinds of things at all times, but much of it was based on human ingenuity, human uh human contrivance. which means place of the skull, they offered him wine to drink, mixed with gall. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lemma, Sebaktenai, that is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? and put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink. And we will believe in him. Cursed the serpent. Cursed is the ground because of you. Then he goes on and says in verses 26 through 27, Teach me, make me understand. Secret sins. uh to tell God all about ourselves. The title of his thesis was A Conditional Resolution of the Apparent Paradox of Self-Deception. And so how can you deceive yourself? Consequently, the realities of self-deception force us to revise our idealized picture of ourselves as consistent and integrated in what we believe To know ourselves well enough. And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way. I have chosen the way of faithfulness. And dust you shall eat all the days of your life. The gospel, and God did a work. It is sometimes called the second great awakening, but it was not according to God's word. In accord with what you have said, in keeping with your promises, I'm asking you to do what you have said. He explains his methods, and he believed that he could produce a revival if you just put all the right ingredients together To receive it, but not in any way that we might contrive, but only according to God's Word He confessed fully and freely before God. that to just sit down and say, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to say it out, everything about myself. Then he says, beyond that, teach me your statutes. We should look over each day and sum up the errors of that day and say, I have declared my ways. And he says that's that is the apparent paradox of self-deception. He discusses the phenomena of self-deception. Self-deception thus continues to confront us with the disturbing fact of man's capacity for irrationality and duplicity A person's rational powers seem to fail him so obviously, and that reminds us of our own frailties just here. The phenomenon seems paradoxical because we tend to think of men's beliefs as rational, but what ought to be often is not. He understood that he needed more than simple knowledge, head knowledge. They compelled this man to carry his cross. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. And so God has promised to David here that he will revive him, that he will bring him back from this very low place. And God's ways. Wagging their heads and saying, You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. My soul melts away for sorrow. And then we hear it again in a few more verses. But an affair of his inmost spirit. The psalmist asked for life and vitality to be restored. And the colonists at that time were awakened and revivals spread and swept through the colonies, the middle colonies as well as the New England area of the English church and of the German church. Turned out to be one that did not last. From their souls. Means of grace, and God chose to bring about repentance and revival in the colonies. Teach me your statutes. When we say all that we should before God, we do hear his word of pardon and answer. David was able to choose the way of truth because he was in a close relationship with the Word of God. And some of the bystanders, hearing it, said, This man is calling Elijah. So we clearly see what he means when he says, my soul clings to the dust. And we'll whip up the frenzy, and we'll get evangelists who plead for souls, and we will cry out and bring forth revival. How can you actually, I mean your conscience, you are conscious, I should say, not conscience, but conscious, your thinking Strengthen me according to your word. David sensed the common temptation to lie, yet he determined to choose the way of truth. Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left, and those who passed by derided him. So also the chief priests, with the scribes and elders, mocked him, saying, He saved others, he cannot save himself. I will run in the way of your commandments while you enlarge my heart. cleaving to the earth. According to your word. You might remember or know from American church history that in this country there was a great awakening in the 18th century. When Jonathan Edwards and the tenets in New Jersey and other places preached. So we need to do what the psalmist, what David does here. And as all these sorts of papers have um odd titles, his also does Self-deception. But he sums it up on page number 330 of his thesis. I came absolutely clean. With that, he would both meditate on God's wonderful works. Verse 28: A plea for strength from a shrinking soul. And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots. 17 through 24 made his soul heavy, as if it would melt, he says. First here from Matthew twenty seven verses thirty-two through fifty. Psalmist used a strong image to say that he felt near death in his current crisis. Charles Grandison Finney was the one who wrote down the story of that thing they called revival. James Montgomery Boyce says, this is concerned with a deep understanding, one that goes beyond a mere understanding of the words to a profound understanding of what they reveal about the nature of God, the gospel. My soul clings to the dust. I think we heard some of that sort of desperation in the words of Jesus as we just read them in the narrative of his crucifixion. We will make revival happen. An Orthodox Presbyterian minister, Greg Bonson, produced his PhD thesis at the University of Southern California. And graciously teach me your law. My soul clings to the dust. There was another thing that was later called revival in the 19th century. My naughty ways, my wicked ways, my wandering ways, my backsliding ways, my cold, indifferent ways, my proud ways. Remember the curse on the serpent in Genesis 3, verses 14 through 19, the Lord You'll get God to do exactly what you want Him to do and bring forth a revival. And having done that, he says, now make me understand the way of your precepts. Spurgeon said, whatever was the cause of his complaint, it was no surface evil. He had a wonderful liberty in conversation. In the midst of the narrative of the crucifixion, beginning at verse 32. He said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and above all beasts of the field. I'm going to I'm going to tell everything. The psalmist told God about everything about himself, at least as much as he could know to tell And we need help in order to do this. And over his head they put the charge against him, which read, This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. And then turn over to Psalm 19, 119, that is, 25 through 32. Daleth. The first thing we see in these verses is a prayer for revival from a soul who feels near death. Spurgeon says, repentance should be done not only at our first coming to him, but continually throughout the whole of our life. So it takes help to get beyond self-deception, to be honest enough to actually tell God So he wrote a paper, a thesis, about self-deception. When I told of my ways, you answered me, Teach me your statutes. We think so highly of ourselves, or don't want to admit to ourselves the depth of our errors and our sins. Works that can claim to be revival can be measured only according to God's word. Make me understand the way of your precepts, and I will meditate on your wondrous works. The first great awakening, in contrast to that, was simply from the preaching of God's word and the outward administration of the ordinary. You might deceive somebody else, because they don't know what you're thinking and what your intention is, and you tell them something that's false. I set your rules before me. He trusts in God. And he said to Adam, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten of the tree of which I commended you, you shall not eat of it. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. But the others said, Wait, let's see whether Elijah will come to save him. We understand deception easily enough, but self-deception is a conundrum. So the psalmist wants a deep understanding of these things. Strengthen me according to your word. We need help to repent. It did not have lasting results. When you ask for God to do something according to his word, you're saying, in accord with what you have promised We'll sing rip-snorting fun gospel songs. We'll gather large crowds into a certain place, and we will sing emotional songs, not those old chrals. We need to pray, give me life according to your word. David wanted to get beyond all deception, even self-deception. God acted in their preaching. And the request from that perspective was, give me life according to your word. Let God deliver him now if he desires him, for he said, I am the Son of God. My soul clings to the dust. His soul cleaved to the dust. We need God's help. Dust was the place of death, the place of mourning, the place of humiliation. And the request is, give me life according to your word. Make me understand the way of your precepts, and I will meditate on your wondrous works. And when they came to a place called Golgotha, which Dust is the place of humiliation. The problems surrounding David, as seen in verses He needed understanding with both For I have chosen the way of faithfulness. And one of them at once ran and took a sponge and filled it with sour wine. This seems to be what happened here. Do we ever take the time to do that? It was very thin. He spoke to God as a dear and trusted friend. I cling to your testimonies, O Lord. We don't have it in us to actually do what the psalmist did here. That's hard for us to wrap our minds around. It's the lowest place, near death, place of humiliation. Well, history shows that the second Great Awakening Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field Put false ways far from me, and graciously teach me your law. And he asked that it happen. He says this, in self-deception, But when he tasted it, he would not drink it. With understanding and knowledge, with both of those, he could meditate on God's wonderful works. As they went out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. This is the word of God. Give me life according to your word. Make me understand the way of your precepts, and I will meditate on your wondrous works. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. The converts were moralistic and not deeply converted. In nineteen seventy eight He felt that he had no strength or stability within. And it was not a casual or accidental falling into the dust, but a continuous and powerful thing. Do you take the time to do that? There was a great awakening. Verse 26: When I told of my ways, you answered me God says he will bring us life. My soul melts away for sorrow. How can you lie to yourself? Then they sat down and kept watch over him there Some of it perhaps was. I set your rules before me. Put false ways far from me. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice, and yielded up his spirit. And what was the result? Let me not be put to shame. All of my wonderings, all of my doubts, all of my He wanted to understand himself and come to God honestly Thanks be to God. But how can you tell yourself something that's false while you're the one telling it? If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. But the psalmist here was saying, I told God everything. He is the king of Israel, let him come down now from the cross. On your belly shall you go And he's now asking God to do it because God has promised to do it. We need to You answered me.