First, Psalm three, as we have now begun our journey through the Psalms. We've got through Psalm one and two. We'll continue on. Hear the word of God. A psalm of David when he fled from Absalom, his son. O Lord, how many are my foes? Many are rising against me. Many are saying of my soul, There is no salvation for him in God. But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter up of my head. I cried aloud to the Lord, and he answered me from his holy hill. Saila I lay down and slept. I woke again, for the Lord sustained me. I will not be afraid of many thousands of people. Who have set themselves against me all around. Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God, for you strike all my enemies on the cheek. You break the teeth of the wicked. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing be on your people. Selah Then first Peter four, beginning at verse twelve. Beloved, do not be surprised At the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or as a meddler. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment. Ends with us. And if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. And again, the sermon text is Psalm 3. Pastor Tom is going to come up and preach and teach us from God's Word. Thanks for letting me sit. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. What is your current assessment of the state of this world today? How about our country? Your own life? Terrorism? Heinous, senseless killings? North Korea, fatal diseases, abortion on demand, marital strife, tribulation and suffering everywhere, huh Christians not accepted, but in some cases actual targets, it would seem. Well, the Bible says that Satan goes about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. So don't be surprised at the lamentation which we observe on almost every hand. There is a psalm of David that addresses this perplexing situation, even as this ancient king of Israel faced it many. centuries ago. You will discover that his life and his world were not very much different from ours. Oh, he didn't have the devices and Opportunities afforded us in this modern age. True. But his heart, and particularly his relationship to the Lord God who created him was clearly similar to ours. Let's see how this is exactly the case. But initially we must make a few comments about the background of our text tonight. Psalm three. It is the first book of Psalms one through forty-one Written by David. Then again, Psalm 2 is the first psalm with a historical title. A Psalm of David when he fled from Absalom. his son. Thus we observe much parallelism between this psalm and 2 Samuel, the historical Record, particularly chapters 13 through 19 of 2 Samuel, which chronicles the historical situation That prompts the Psalm's theme. Just a couple of examples. Verse 3 of our psalm: But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifting Lifter of my head. Think of Shemai's curse of David in 2 Samuel 16. Then look at verse 6 six. I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around. And Second Samuel fifteen thirteen, which reads And a messenger came to David saying, The hearts of the men of Israel have gone after Absalom. Thus, we're not surprised when this psalm is said to be a psalm of lament, for it concerns David facing a civil rebellion. and led by his son Absalom, whom he dearly loves. Can you imagine the tremendous emotional pain that caused him? Yet in spite of that, the Psalm celebrates divine deliverance of David from deep, deep trouble. Maybe we can be blessed in our day and age as we face similar, though not identical, troubles, difficulties, and disappointments as we Take a careful look tonight at this psalm. I hope so. Notice that the psalm is identified with worship. It's a good psalm for us to consider on this Lord's Day Evening also. We see that David describes his consternation. In the evening, particularly And initially, at the peril he faces because of his son's rebellion. But then, Thing is that trusting God, he sleeps soundly through the night, only to arise in the morning with renewed confidence in the Lord's total deliverance. both him and his covenant nation. So what's the proposition that we glean from this psalm? Just this. The one who trusts in God They confidently expect him as Lord Almighty to bring about deliverance from all trouble, persecution, and suffering. Suffering at the hands of every evil force, creature, or person through his covenant love, and faithfulness by the saving work of Jesus Christ. Christ. And we consider this theme under three headings. First, David's trial. O Lord, how many are my foes? Many are rising against me Me. Many are saying of my soul, there's no salvation for him in God. Selah. His situation is truly desperate. If for nothing else, the sheer magnitude of the opposition Which is increasing that he faces. But that's not all. His trial is deeper still. He exclaims Many are saying, of my soul, there's no salvation for him and God. Now that is really troublesome, isn't it? What do you think, David? That God would be all interested in delivering you from trouble? When as last we heard You, the covenant head of God's people, were found in bed with another man's wife. That sexual infidelity ought to be sufficient to bring down So don't expect Yahweh to come to your aid, David. Notice that this is where we get the first say Selahs, apparently, were instructions for musical instruments. In this case, probably directing them to pause And allow the full force of what has just been said to sink in. It is David's sin with Bathsheba that is clearly the focus of their content. That God not only wouldn't save David, but that he couldn't. No wonder they were sure that Shemai cursed David. He deserved it. And no appeal to God's mercy would suffice to erase the complete ruin into which David's sin had cast him. Yeah, I know. He had they had supporters. Joab, Beniah, Abishon And even a group called the Mighty Men. They supported David. But what could they do to remove the abominable stain upon the Royal house brought about by the king's sexual lust, and even his attempt to cover it By murdering Uriah the Hittite, Bathsheba's husband. Did you ever have any sleepless nights? Yes, David lays down his head that night with the anticipation, I suspect, that only restless guilt. Surely he, if anybody, is going to have a rough night, right? All he could think of was their words, ringing in his ears. There is no salvation for him in God. Now it's right here, beloved brethren, that it would be well for you to ask the same thing about yourselves. When you go through trials of various sorts, Doesn't the question sometimes pop into your mind, am I being punished for my sins, of which I am clean? Clearly guilty. Perhaps someone has even verbalized that accusation to you. Clearly, it would be Satan's desire to bring you down in despair because you are guilty, aren't you? Can God actually deliver me from this when I have failed him so utterly? Well, the Psalm goes on to declare something Amazing. And that's found in verses three and four, which I entitled David's Trust. But you O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory and a lifter. I cried aloud to the Lord, and he answered me. From his holy hill. What changes the tone of David's lament? Where does he go for an answer to his perplexity and sadness To Yahweh, God of Israel and God of David, Israel's king. Yes, he prays. It's his only hope, and it is in the Lord of So he takes his eyes off his enemies and turns them to the living and true God. These verses express David's view as the exact opposite. To what the enemies had charged. They alleged that God could not save David, that it was all over, and that there was no help from heaven for this disgrace And sorry, soul. But David has a surprise for them. You're dead wrong. I'll tell you what I did. I went directly to the very God whom you said would have nothing more to do with Now notice the content of his prayer. Not supplication in the first place. We read rather praise, adoration, and thanksgiving He says, You, O Yahweh, are a shield about me. This is the regular Hebrew word for a personal handheld piece of armament. Defend against an attacking adversary. David says to God, You are my shield, the only defense I have. But it is an extreme The purpose of this shield is to take an enemy's blow or pierce By a spear. David praises God himself for actually diverting the attack which would have fallen upon David. to himself. He takes the strikes, and thus David is saved. Oh Yahweh, you are a shield about me And my dear friends, do you not hear the exact gospel message in that Old Testament prayer? Jesus on the cross shows himself as that very shield. And you who trust him tonight are saved. saved as well. Hallelujah. But David's prayer is more than adoration. It's confession, too. He describes Yahweh as my glory and the lifter of my head. Lifter of his head? Why was his head down? Why was his reputation and status so depressed? We know. Because of his sin, that's why. But now both his glory and his head are restored to their upright position. And how was that affected? By repentance Repentance, forgiveness, and absolution. It's there, dear congregation, in David's prayer Because only in that way could David's glory, that's his reputation, his status, and his head, his conscience. Be raised. He said, I cried aloud to the Lord and he answered me from his holy hill. Yes, David confessed his sin, begged forgiveness from the holy God And he got it. He was totally absolved of all guilt through the saving work of the Messiah, Jesus Christ, who died for David. As for us. David's shame is removed because his sin is pardoned by God. The Apostle John has something to say to God's church of the ages. In his first epistle, chapter five, verses thirteen. through 15. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked. of him. Yes, David in his evening, we could maybe call it his bedtime prayer, had just that very confidence He knew God would hear him because he was sure that his shield would serve both to protect him and to forgive him. Him. He believed that God had found the way to be both just and merciful to him, a guilty sinner. Do you believe that? Did you pay it pay attention to your pastor's mind-bodling but completely accurate words this morning? Words to this effect. said exactly this, but something like it. Brother Ed, you who by faith are in Christ Jesus, your sins are forgiven you. Not mightly Well we hope they will be, but they are. And that's what David knew, and that's why he could sleep. For that word that you heard this morning means Christ Jesus Your shield has deflected all Satan's arrows and spears. He took it for you. Your shame is removed because your sin Is pardoned. You are absolved. So do not fear your enemy Satan's barbs. They're totally ineffective, whatever shape they assume. You've gone to God, like David, and he has answered you. His holy hill. Selah. Now third and last, verses five through seven describe David's triumph I lay down and slept. I woke again, for the Lord sustained me. I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me. Me all around. Arise, O Glord. Save me, O my God. For you strike all my enemies on the cheek. You break the teeth. Of the wicked. David got a good night's sleep after all, didn't he? He says, I lay down And slept. And what was happening, by the way, while he was off to La La Land? Just this. David says, Yahweh sustained me When you sustain somebody, you haul them up. He lay down, he slept, and he woke again. And through it all, Yahweh was Active, sustaining him. David was unconscious, but his God wasn't. What a contrast to David's enemies. Who numbered thousands of people. Yes, they had the numbers, but David had God. Even when David was asleep, God was then dealing with his enemies. Yahweh himself to arise. I find that interesting, David. to sleep, you know, and calls upon God to arise. Not indeed that God ever needs to sleep, but that even when David does, God is quite awake. And Thus David's enemies are toast. No doubt David could well remember that day. You remember it? When he was just a boy facing the giant Philistine Goliath. Then it was so grasp graphically demonstrated that Yahweh could strike all David's enemies on the cheek Or forehead, as was actually the case with Goliath. It wasn't David's skill at slingshotting That brought down the triumph over the Philistines. It was Yahweh fighting for his own Now here, in the face of Absalom's rebellion, threatening the destruction of the Messianic kingdom as represented by his father David. David, God would arise and act. And the key thing to remember is that all the glory and thanks goes to Him. Not the slingshot at that earth Who would have thought such to be an effective weapon? And not David, as this psalm tells it, asleep even in his military camp with Absalom, his son's forces threatening. How can David lead his men in that condition The same answer. God breaks. Now that, my friends, is really bad news for Satan. Satan and all his hosts of men and angels. What? Broken teeth, all of them? Not only extremely painful, but even more totally debilitating. Can't eat Can't talk, can't do much of anything but find a good dentist, if such is available. That's David's supplication. Save me, oh God. He's totally dependent on Yahweh. And his coming triumph over Absalom would happen by God's doing, absolutely. But here's something to notice and make Sure, you don't forget. David would suffer thereby. And when hearing news of his son's death As his rebellion failed, David was heard to cry, Oh my son Absalom! My son! My son Absalom Yes, David triumphed, but there was some pain in it for him. He was forgiven. But he still felt something of the consequences of his and the same is true for you today. Your sin brings sadness and pain, even when your sin is forgiven. Given, doesn't it? Expect it. Expect it. And be thankful for God's gracious salvation, which may sometimes include ongoing trials. Decreed by your Lord for your good, that you might trust him all the more, as David did long ago. And the conclusion of the Psalm is verse eight. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing be on your people. Salah. Think about that. David's case is ours. And David prayed for you and for me. Let's pray. Lord, what a psalm, what a what a thing you did for David and that allowed him to record it, his his deepest most Inmost thoughts in his heart, even what was happening while he was asleep. You inspired him by your spirit to record these precious words, and they strike us and they humble us and they comfort us. Hallelujah. Blessed be your great and holy name, God of Israel. God of all the Church of the Ages. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen