Alright, we turn to the text. Psalm 119, beginning at 113 and going through 120, this is Psalmek. Hear the word of God. I hate the double-minded, but I love your law. You are my hiding place and my shield. I hope in your word. Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God. Uphold me according to your promise that I may live. And let me not be put to shame in my hope. Hold me up that I may be safe. And have regard for your statutes continually. You spurn all who go astray from your statutes, for their cunning is vain. All the wicked of the earth you discard like dross. Therefore, I love your testimonies. My flesh trembles for fear of you And I am afraid of your judgments. We see here in this psalm that for the most part David is speaking to God. He says, I hate the double-minded, but I love your law. That is directly to God. And you are my hiding place and my shield. I hope in your word. But then he turns around, figuratively speaking, and speaks to others behind him. He says, Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God. Then the rest of the psalm he speaks again to God. In this portion, I think we can see four things, four things. We can see something you should hate and something you should love first, and then something you should hold fast. And then someone you should avoid and an end condition you should fear. First, something you should hate and something you should love. Verse 113: I hate the double-minded. Now my mother didn't like it when I would say I hated anything, especially if it was a person. You should not hate anyone. But she didn't even like it if I said, I hate that food. She said, you should say you don't care for it. But the psalmist here is vehement. In what he says. And he has a reason for it. He says, I hate the double-minded. By the way, James says something like that. In James chapter 1, 5-8. He says, if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God who gives generously to all without reproach. Approach, and it will be given him. But let him ask in faith with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. And then in the final chapter, or later in the book, not the final chapter, chapter 4, 7 through 8, James says, Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded So James would agree with David here about hating the double-minded. He's very, very clear. The double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. And he's like a wave of a sea, tossed back and forth, very unstable. Double-minded people, you see, never settle on anything. They think this and they think that, and their ethics are situational. Right and wrong? Well, it depends on the situation. A firm commitment to the Bible. is required to cure this perennial evil. That's why he says in the very next statement, but I love your law. I hate the double-minded, but I love your law. I need the stability Of what you have revealed, a commitment to the Bible. Now, law here includes the Ten Commandments And all of the ceremonial and civil codes that God gave to Israel. But law is also Bearing the general meaning of God's self-disclosure. I love God's self-disclosure. God's character revealed in His Word, Law. God's will revealed in His Law. God's law is what made Israel a light to the world in moral darkness and chaos. That's why it was to be a city set up on a hill, a light to the nations. Law here in this use is not the same as in Paul's use in Galatians. 2, 16, and following, where he says, We know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. Here, Paul is talking about justification and clearly saying that keeping or performing law cannot justify. That's not in opposition to This use at all. Because here David loves the law because it is the revelation of God which includes All of the gracious promises of a Messiah, a Savior, a Redeemer. You see, he loves the gospel because the law includes All that God has said, all his promises of a Savior, a Redeemer, a Messiah, that's why He can say, I love the law So that's something you should hate and something you should love. Hate the double-minded and love the full revelation of the character and the promises and salvation. of God, the law. Not as a way to be justified. Don't get it confused As the revelation of who God is and what God is doing to save the world. Secondly, something you should hold fast And here we see that God and His promises are a safe place. Verse 114. You are my hiding place. And my shield, I hope in your word, hiding place You're being chased by an enemy, by a foe, by a ravenous wolf, or a roaring lion, or some treacherous enemy that wants to kill you. You find a place. To hide, out of sight. And you find a shield. This hiding place shields you from the eyes and from the sword and from the teeth of this foe. So you are, God is for his people a hiding place and a shield. He says, I hope in your word. So God's promises, God's word here is the hiding place. God's word is the shield. Against the enemy. And that is so cognate on Genesis 15, which all Israel knew, Genesis 15. Where God said to this old man, Abram who had no children and had a barren wife and had no prospects, only had a servant named Eliezer. He said After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision, and he said, Fear not, Abram, I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. Here we have it. You're my hiding place and my shield. And then Abram said, Oh Lord God, what will you give me for I continue childness? And the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, you have given me no offspring, that is, Abram said. And a member of my household be my heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him, This man shall not be your heir. That's the promise, you see. Your very own son shall be your heir And he brought him outside and said, look toward heaven and number the stars if you're able to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. He believed the Lord, and it was counted to him as righteousness, justification, by faith. He believed the Lord, and it was counted to him, reckoned to him as righteousness. So for Abram, God was his shield. And the one who provides the reward for him. The hiding place for him. God is a place, you see. God is a place. God was with his people in the wilderness Moses said, if you're not coming with us, we don't want to go. Don't send us. But God is a place. He said, I'll go with you. I'll be with you. And God is with us and in us, and we are in union with God by our union with Jesus Christ. So we are in God in that sense Rock of ages, cleft for me, let me hide myself in thee. Let the water and the blood from thy wounded side which flowed be of sin the double cure, save from wrath and make me pure So that is the second part. Something you should hold fast. God's word, and it is for us a hiding place and a ship. Thirdly, someone you should avoid. Someone you should avoid. This is where he turns apart from speaking to God and speaks to someone perhaps behind him, someone around him that's calling him away. He says, Depart from me, you evildoers! That I may keep the commandments of my God. Young people and older people, evildoers, will try to keep you from keeping God's commands. At the end of chapter one of Romans, after that horrible list of all the vices, bad characteristics of fallen man descending into idolatry and chaos and immorality. It says, Paul says, though they know God's righteous decree That those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. They encourage others to practice these evils. They say, come on, let's go, let's all do it. Depart from me, you evildoers, David says, that I may keep the commandments of my God. And that is what you should say. When you are called away from God's ways, you should say, depart from me, you evildoers. Proverbs 1320 says, whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, young people in particular. Choose your friends wisely. Hang out with people who will be a good influence on you. Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, but the next part of that, the other half, is the companion of fools will suffer harm. Why? Because fools will try to drag you down with them into their ways and keep you from keeping the commandments of God. So someone you should avoid. Evildoers, fools, those who practice the things described in Romans chapter 1. And fourthly, maybe this is the most poignant one. We don't hear this very often in preaching. At end condition you should fear. Uphold me according to your promise that I may live, and let me not be put to shame in my hope Hold me up that I may be safe, and have regard for your statutes continually. You spurn all who go astray from your statutes, for their cunning is vain. All the wicked of the earth you discard like dross. Therefore, I love your testimonies. My flesh trembles for fear of you I am afraid of your judgments. There it is. An end condition you should fear. Turning away from God, God's judgments, being wicked, going astray from God's statutes. That is an end condition that you should fear. Why? Well, James, the brother of Jesus, wrote to the Christian church. And he says in James chapter 1, 12 through 15, Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test, he's have to stand the test. When he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him. The test is the crown of life comes at the end of the Not some little moment, you get the test, you won, you succeeded, now you get the kind of life get to wear it for another thirty or forty or fifty years. No It comes at the end of it all, after your life is finished. That's when you get that crown of life, when you have stood the test. And then he says, here it is, verse 13, let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one, but each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown, brings forth death. A kind of death. Well, probably not spiritual death. Those who are justified by faith, those who have been united to Christ will not be lost. But there are temporal punishments. Death. One of the things, themes that you find again and again in the Gospels. Is how surprising, even shocking Jesus can be in the Gospels. He says, take, for example, his demand for absolute discipleship in Luke 14. 26 He says, if anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. That's crazy. No, it's not. He's drawing a contrast. It's extreme, yes. But you have to love God and follow Him even at the cost of these wonderful and important relationships, if needs be. Jesus was uncompromising in his demand that there be no rivals to him in our lives, not even the members of our own family. Our love and commitment to Him must surpass all other loves and eclipse all other commitments. Sadly, much of that emphasis is lost today In the feel-good churches. Instead, they try to present Jesus as someone that you should like, someone who is relevant. I've gotten sick of that word. Someone who is fun and always good to have at parties. But mostly this new Jesus ends up looking about as interesting as The store manager at the local CVS, who is friendly and helpful and helps you find what you need, but he's tame and safe. Now you can't reimagine Jesus. You can't turn him into the nice guy down the street. You have to take him for who he really is. as he has revealed himself in Scripture. And there you find that he is rarely safe. As Mr. Bieber says to Lucy in C. S. Lewis's Chronicles of Narnia, he is not a tame lion, nor is he safe. In that same passage from the book, Lucy asks Mr. Beaver if Aslan, the lion representing Christ, is safe, to which he responds, safe? Who said anything about safe? Of course he isn't safe, but he's good. He's the King, I tell you. So it is with the real Christ, who calls you to follow him, who calls you to bear your cross. He is not safe, but he is good. Is the king. I pray that God will give you eyes to see Jesus for who he really is, not a tame Christ, but the Lion of the tribe of Judah. Who is mighty to save. Paul, the great preacher of God's grace, like David the Psalmist, was afraid of God. Paul, who preached in Romans 8, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. No condemnation, he said. He also says in 1 Corinthians 9, Do you not know that all in a race of runners run? But only one receives the prize. So run that you may obtain it. Every athlete exercises self-control in all things. They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable. So I do not run aimlessly. He says, I do not box as one beating the air, but I discipline my body and keep it under control. Here's the fear. Lest after preaching to others, I myself should be disqualified Wow. Psalmist says, my flesh trembles for fear of you. I am afraid of your judgments. Proverbs 8. 13 says, The fear of the Lord is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate. Proverbs 9:10 says, The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is insight. Proverbs 10:27: The fear of the Lord prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be short. Proverbs 14, 26, in the fear of the Lord one has strong confidence, and his children will have refuge. Proverbs 14, 27, the fear of the Lord is the fountain of life, that one may turn away from the snares of death. In summary, again, something you should hate and love. Hate the double-minded and love the law of God, the whole revelation. of God. Something you should hold fast. God and His promises. You are my hiding place, my shield. I hope in your word Someone you should avoid. Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God, and an end condition you should fear. Let me not be put to shame in my hope. You spurn all who go astray from your statutes. All the wicked of the earth you discard like dross. My flesh trembles for fear of you, and I am afraid of your judgments. Amen. Lord, we thank you for this word of yours. May we learn to love you and And hope in the gospel and revel in no condemnation, and peace with God But please guard us from being anti-nomian, free from the law in the sense of discarding your teaching and doing evil things. Help us to fear that. In Jesus' name, Amen