Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the 12th chapter of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy chapter 12, beginning in verse 29, and we'll be reading to the end of chapter 13. Deuteronomy 12, 29, through chapter 13, verse 18. When the Lord your God cuts off before you the nations whom you go into dispossess. And you dispossess them and dwell in their land, take care that you be not ensnared to follow them after they have been destroyed before you. and that you do not inquire about their gods, saying, How do these nations serve their gods, that I may also do the same You shall not worship the Lord your God in that way, for every abominable thing that the Lord hates they have done for their gods, for they even burn their sons and their daughters in the fire to their gods. Everything that I command you, you shall be careful to do. You shall not add to it or take from it If a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder, and the sign or wonder that he tells you comes to pass. And if he says, Let us go after other gods, which you have not known, and let us serve them, you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams. For the Lord your God is testing you to know whether you love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. You shall walk after the Lord your God and fear him and keep his commandments and obey his voice. and you shall serve him and hold fast to him. But that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams, shall be put to death, because he has taught rebellion against the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt And redeemed you out of the house of slavery to make you leave the way in which the Lord your God commanded you to walk. So you shall purge the evil from your midst. If your brother, the son of your mother, or your son or your daughter, or the wife you embrace, or your friend who is as your own soul entices you, secretly saying, Let us go and serve other gods, which neither you nor your fathers have known, some of the gods of the peoples who are around you, whether near or far off from you, from the one end of the earth to the other. You shall not yield to him or listen to him, nor shall your eye pity him, nor shall you spare him, nor shall you conceal him But you shall kill him. Your hand shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people You shall stone him to death with stones, because he sought to draw you away from the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. And all Israel shall hear and fear and never again do any such wickedness as this among you If you hear in one of your cities which the Lord your God is giving you to dwell there, that certain worthless fellows have gone out among you And have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, saying, Let us go and serve other gods which you have not known. Then you shall inquire and make search and ask diligently. And behold, if it be true, and certain that such an abomination has been done among you, you shall surely put the inhabitants of that city to the sword, devoting it to destruction, all who are in it and its cattle with the edge of the sword. You shall gather all its spoil into the midst of its open square, and burn the city and all its spoil with fire, as a whole burnt offering to the Lord your God It shall be a heap for ever. It shall not be built again. None of the devoted things shall stick to your hand, that the Lord may turn from the fierceness of his anger and show you mercy and have compassion on you. and multiply you as he swore to your fathers, if you obey the voice of the Lord your God, keeping all his commandments that I am commanding you today, and doing what is right in the sight of the Lord your God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. The New Testament reading from which the sermon will be preached is John chapter 17. Verses six through seventeen. John seventeen, beginning at verse six. I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world Yours they were, and you gave them to me. And they have kept your word. Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you, for I have given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you. And they have believed that you sent me. I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world. I am coming to you, Holy Father. Keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them has been lost, except the son of destruction, that the scripture might be fulfilled. But now I'm coming to you, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Almighty God, we thank you that we have the truth That we are not left in the darkness, we're not left wondering, we're not left guessing, but we have the truth. And we pray that now the Holy Spirit, who inspired these words to be written, Will bring that truth home to us today through Christ our Lord. Amen First, I want to give credit to the excellent resources of John Piper in Desiring God Ministries and Michael Hoodman from God Questions. And I want to begin by quoting Piper. He says this: one of the greatest challenges facing young people and children in our age. Is the cavalier attitude toward truth. That is, acting as though there were no such thing as truth, or as if it didn't matter when in fact it matters eternally Michael Novak wrote about this in First Things magazine some time ago. He said, there is no such thing as truth. This is what they teach, even the little ones. Truth is bondage, they teach. Believe what seems right to you. There are as many truths as there are individuals. Follow your feelings. Do as you please. Get in touch with yourself. Do what feels comfortable And then he says, those who speak this way prepare the jails for the rising generation. They do the work of tyrants. You see millions of children who grow up making themselves the measure of truth rather than believing in objective truth outside themselves. Will sooner or later not submit to law and will end up in jails or dead. And the reason the people who speak this way and teach this way do the work of tyrants Is that a society in which the individual, autonomous self is elevated as the source of truth will sooner or later descend into chaos and anarchy? And then will bless the day that a tyrant rises to protect them against the mobs. The thesis of this sermon is this. Jesus prayed to God the Father about the safety and preservation of the disciples and all who will believe. By means of truth. He says in chapter 17, verse 6, I have manifested your name to the people who you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word, that is the word of truth. Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you. And verse eight, for I have given them the words Words of truth that you gave me. And they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you. And they have believed that you sent me. Then in verse 14 he says, I have given them your word. And the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Verse 15, I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. And these final words. Sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. And then just a bit later on in verse 19 he says, and for their sake I consecrate myself that they may be also sanctified in The truth. So truth is what Jesus is promising here. But what is truth? Well, first, what truth is not. Let's consider that. Truth is not simply whatever works. This is the philosophy of pragmatism, where the ends versus the means type approach prevails. In reality, lies can appear to work. They can be pragmatic, and yet they are still lies and not the truth. Truth is not simply what is coherent or understandable. A group of people can get together and form a conspiracy based on a set of falsehoods where they all agree to tell the same false story, but it does not make their presentation true. Truth is not what makes people feel good. We hear a lot of that today. Unfortunately, bad news can be true. And things that people feel good about can be quite false. Truth is not what the majority says is true. 51% or more of a group can reach a false Conclusion. Truth is not what is comprehensive. Just because something is lengthy and detailed and complicated does not make it true. True, such things can still reach a false conclusion. Truth is also not defined by what is intended. Good intentions can still be wrong. Wrong. And truth is not simply what is believed. A lie, believed, is still a lie. The Greek word that Jesus uses for truth Truth is the word Aletheia, which literally means to unhide or hide nothing. It conveys the thought that truth is always there, always open and available for all to see, with nothing being hidden or obscured. The Hebrew word for truth is emet, which means firmness or constancy or duration. Such a definition implies an everlasting substance and something that can be relied on. From a philosophical perspective, the main way to define truth is that truth is that which corresponds to reality. Or in other words, truth is simply telling it like it really is. It is the way things really are. And any other viewpoint. is wrong. Well, I've mentioned some things that are not true, but let's consider some challenges to the truth. There have always been and always will be challenges to the truth. We heard some of that in the Old Testament reading. Jesus announced himself as the truth from the Father, and he was constantly Challenged. The Apostle Paul says: the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who listen to this, suppress the truth. In unrighteousness. So, what are some of the challenges these days? Well, the philosophy of relativism is a challenge. It says that all truth is relative. That is, it's dependent upon the point of view of the receiver. And that there is no such thing as absolute truth. But one has to ask, is the claim that all truth is relative a relative truth or an absolute truth? Truth. If it is the relative truth, then it really is meaningless. How do we know when and where it applies? If it is an absolute truth, then absolute truth is exists. There are also others who follow the philosophy of skepticism. They simply doubt all truth But is the skeptic really making sense? Does he doubt his own truth claim? If so, then why pay attention to skepticism? If not, then we can be sure of at least one thing. In other words, that truth exists absolutely. Skepticism, which ironically becomes the absolute truth in this case, the agnostic says you can't know the truth, yet the mindset is self-defeating because it claims to know at least one truth, and that is that you can't know truth. So skepticism simply doesn't work. It's self-defeating And then we have something that's come along in the last 30 or 40 years, and that is postmodernism. It simply affirms no particular truth. The patron saint of postmodernism was Frederick Nietzsche, who described truth like this. He says, what then is truth? A mobile army of metaphors, metonyms, and anthropomorphisms. Truths are illusions Coins which have lost their pictures and now matter only as metal, no longer as coins. Ironically, he affirms at least one absolute truth. The truth that no truth should be affirmed. Like the other worldviews, postmodernism is self-defeating and cannot stand up under its own claim. And finally, another popular worldview is pluralism. Pluralism. Pluralism claims that all truth claims are equally valid. Of course, this is impossible. Can two claims, one that says a woman is now pregnant and another says that she is not now pregnant, can they both be true at the same time? As one philosopher mused, anyone who believes that the law of non-contradiction is not true should be beaten until they admit that to be beaten is not the same thing as to be As to not be beaten. Well, truth is offensive, isn't it? When the concept of truth is maligned, it is usually for one or more of the following reasons. That is one of them being that the truth is narrow. Narrow. We don't want to be exclusive. We don't want to To to be conformed to just one idea, it's too narrow. Well, let me ask this Is a math teacher narrow-minded for holding to the belief that two plus two only equals four? Is it arrogant for a math teacher to insist on only one right answer to an arithmetic? Of course not. Another charge against those holding to absolute truth in matters of faith and religion is that such a position excludes people. This is a social standard being applied. And so it excludes people rather than being inclusive, and it can't be right if it does that. But such a complaint fails to understand that truth by nature excludes its opposite. All answers other than four are excluded from the reality of what two plus two. equals. Yet another version of this protest against truth is that it is offensive and divisive. Again, another social standard It's offensive and divisive to claim one has the truth. Instead, the critic argues: all that matters is sincerity. The problem with this position is that truth is immune to sincerity. Wish and belief and desire Do not determine truth. Truth is also unaffected by sincerity. Someone who picks up a bottle of poison and sincerely believes in lemonade Will still suffer the effects of poison if they drink it. Some will admit that absolute truth exists, but then claim that this is only valid in the area Of science and not in matters of faith and religion. This is the philosophy of logical positivism, which was popularized by philosophers such as David Hume. In essence, such people state that truth claims must be testable through science in order to be true To the logical positivist, all talk about God is nonsense. But listen, there are many realms of truth where science is powerless. For example, science cannot prove the disciplines of mathematics and logic because it presupposes Science cannot prove metaphysical truths such as mine's other than my mind exist. Science is unable to prove the truth in the areas of morals and ethics. You cannot use science, for example, to prove that the Nazis were evil for all of their murders. Science is incapable of stating truths about aesthetic positions such as the beauty of a sunrise. Possible for science to prove that. Here is an undeniable fact about truth. We must We must presuppose a creator as the source of logic and mind and morals and goodness and beauty and truth. And this creator can be no other than the triune personal God who is holy, just righteous, and has redeemed sin. Sinners, the God revealed in the Bible and in no other place. The truth corresponds to our creaturely nature and fallen need Jesus promised to us a full disclosure of this truth. In John chapter 16 He said, I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak And he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you. And then in John 17, verse 14, I have given them your word. He fulfills what was promised in the previous chapter. And he says, the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. What Jesus was promising there was the full disclosure of the whole of Scripture. Jesus had taught them that everything in their Bible was true. Jesus believed the Old Testament was divinely inspired, the veritable word of God. He said, in effect, the scripture cannot be broken, referring to the Old Testament when he speaks in John John chapter 10 verse 35. He referred to the scripture as the commandment of God in Matthew 15, 3, and as the Word of God in Mark 7. He also indicated that it was indestructible. He said, Until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass away from the law until all is accomplished. Matthew 5. 18. When dealing with the people of his day, whether it was the disciples or the religious rulers, Jesus constantly referred to the Old Testament. He said, Have you not read that which was spoken to you by God? Matthew 22, 31. Yea, and have you not read out of the mouths of infants and nursing babes? God has prepared praise for himself, Matthew 21, 16, quoting Psalm 8. And have you not read what David did, he says in Matthew 21 Matthew 12, 3. And examples could be multiplied to demonstrate that Jesus was conversant with the Old Testament and its contents. He quoted from it often, and he trusted it totally. Throughout the Gospels, we find Jesus confirming many of the accounts in the Old Testament, such as The destruction of Sodom and the death of Lot's wife, recorded in Luke 17. The murder of Abel by his brother Cain, recorded in Luke 11. 11. The calling of Moses, recorded in Mark 12, and the manna given in the wilderness, recorded in John 6. Jesus Believed these were true historical events, and he did not doubt them in the least. The list goes on, and the evidence is clear. And this is it. Jesus saw the Old Testament as being God's word, and his attitude toward it was nothing less than total trust The disciples already had the Old Testament scriptures. Now, here in John's Gospel is the record of Jesus promising to give his disciples a full and complete disclosure of the truth concerning all things necessary. in order to know God and to live for God and to die with the assurance of a blessed future. Paul, writing to Timothy, says in 2 Timothy 3, all scripture is given by inspiration of God, that is breathed out by God. and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. The Apostle Paul wrote, and we also thank God constantly for this, that when you receive the word of God which you heard from us, he says, you accepted it not as the word of men, but as what it really is, the word of God, which is at work in you believers. So the New Testament revelation is the word of God, according to the to the apostle in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. And Peter does the same things. He refers here to Paul in his writings as being scripture. Scripture he said about Paul, our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you according to the wisdom given him, as he does in all his letters when he said Speaks in them of these matters. There are, he says, some things in them that are hard to understand, which the air ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction as they do He's putting the New Testament writings of Paul on a par with the other scriptures, the Old Testament scriptures. This is Recorded in 2 Peter 3. Jesus had promised this. He said in John 16, 13: When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. And now he is doing it. Truth, you see, is so important. Truth is life-giving. We can't do without it. Why is it so important to understand and embrace the concept of absolute truth in all areas of life? Simply, this. Because there are real consequences for being wrong. Giving someone the wrong amount of medication can kill them. Having an investment manager make the wrong decisions about your money can impoverish you. Choosing the wrong road will take you where you do not want to go. And a failure to trust in Jesus Christ will send you to hell. As the Christian apologist Robbie Zacharias puts it The fact is, the truth matters, especially when you're on the receiving end of a lie. And then he says, eternity is an awfully long time to be wrong. Jesus said, sanctify them. He's praying, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. This word sanctify means separation from participating in and being influenced by evil on the the one hand, and it also means separation unto service, consecration unto service on the other hand. Jesus prays that his disciples will be Sanctified, separated from the falsehoods, and separated unto the truth. Truth sets you apart from the ravages of the philosophy of relativism that says that all truth is relative. It separates you from the philosophy of skepticism that simply doubts all truth. It separates you from the philosophy of postmodernism that simply affirms that there are no particular truths. That can be known, and all truth claims are mere attempts to control others. But the truth promised by Jesus Sanctifies you. It sets you apart on the solid ground, a firm foundation, the rock of ages. And the truth sets you apart for service because it prepares you to be a gospel witness. When you have the truth, you have something to say. And here's what you need to say As revealed in all of Scripture. Number one, man, man and woman, humanity, is a rational creature of the tripersonal God, made in the image of God. And has sinned against God. That is your message, that truth. Secondly, that God has chosen to redeem a vast number of human sinners. Thirdly, that God the Father has sent God the Son to become a human in order to redeem humans by living a sinless human life and dying under condemnation. Pay the price for their sins. And fourth, this is the truth. And all who believe this truth and receive the Redeemer Jesus Christ are redeemed. And all who do not remain condemned. Thank God for the truth, my My friends, it's so important. Believe the truth. Be sanctified by the truth. And bear witness to the truth. Amen.