We thank you, Father in heaven, that you continue to speak to us. You continue to address us by your word. And we ask now that you would open our ears and our hearts to hear that word tonight and to receive it. To work in us, O Lord, that we might turn more from sin, that we might turn more towards you in faith and trust, turn more towards one another in love and fellowship. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. You open your Bibles to Psalm 139. That's our text for this evening, Psalm 139. While you're turning there, I'll just say comment I didn't know this, but maybe for your information, uh was looking at some commentaries this week and apparently we we we very well possibly may be in the middle of a Kind of a 12 Psalm section here beginning back at Psalm 135. Some scholars think that Psalm 135 to Psalm 146 are Twelve Psalms that were sung at uh after the exile in the second temple when it was built. The Psalms one hundred thirty five, one thirty six, and one thirty seven were by another penmen, but Eight Psalms right here in the middle are Psalms of David that sort of got taken out of the rest of the Psalter, put in here and then ends with uh another composition in 146. I just thought maybe you'd like to know that as you're turning to that psalm. So hear the word of the Lord, Psalm 139. Oh Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path in my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You hem me in behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it. Where shall I go from your spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed ensure, you are there If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night, even the darkness is not dark to you. The night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. For you formed my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you and I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance, and your book were written every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there were There were none of them. How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them If I would count them, they are more than the sand. I awake, and I am still with you. Oh, that you would slay the wicked, O God. O men of blood, depart from me. They speak against you with malicious intent. Your enemies take your name in vain. Do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with complete hatred. I count them my enemy. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. And see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way that of the word of the Lord. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, you have before you in the 139th Psalm an account of King David's heart. You get a glimpse of what it means for Almighty God to have spoken of this heart as one after his very own. In this psalm, you see David sincerely turn to his all-seeing, everywhere present, covenant, Lord and Maker. And an amazing act of trust. And ask that Almighty God, leave not one corner of his heart unsearched But to use his greater knowledge of David's heart to lead him from any grievous path and then to the way everlasting. The psalm has four equal parts. Each part, or strophe, that's just fancy terms for a paragraph in prose language. Contain six verses. The first three parts, verses one through eighteen, form a meditation upon God's omniscience. Verses 1 through 6. His omnipresence. Verses 7 through 12. And here's maybe a new one for you. His omnificence. Unlimited power, creative power. I just thought I'd keep the Latin going there Omniscient, omnipresence, and omnificent. All maker, the maker of all things, unlimited creative created power The final stroke is a jarring change from meditation to urgent prayer. It's as if, after a quiet moment or hour of meditation, David is jarred away to the reality that this glorious God is not loved by all, but hated by many. And this sends him to urgent prayer, which closes out the psalm. For tonight, we're first going to take a look at each of these four parts to hear what the Word of God has to say for itself. And then I want to draw a lesson from church history, which teaches the point of this psalm and illustrates perfectly for me the final section, the one doctrine you might say that I want to pull out for application. So let's begin. Strofe number one, these first six verses dealing with God's omniscience. Look at verse one. O Lord, you have searched me and known me. This can also be translated, you search me and know me. In which case, not a past action, but of course David's earlier years would have been just as much under the scrutinizing gaze of God, but a present reality Forms the occasion of this psalm, God scrutinizing gaze upon David. And then in the following verses, David goes on to recount for us what life is like under this gaze of God. Look at verse 2. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. Whether David is still, like when he's sitting down, Or he's active, rising up. God knows all that he's up to. God has intimate knowledge of his daily routine. And furthermore, God knows not just about his actions, but even his thoughts. God knows where they come from. God knows what they tend towards. God knows even the moral quality of them. Nothing escapes his And look at verse 3. You search out my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways. God sees David's activities, his past, and his inactivities, is lying down, and he knows everything that happens to David in his day. He knows his condition, his mood. He knows his conduct. He knows what he does and what he suffers. God knows it all. And look at verse 4. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You might think from these first three verses that God learned everything that He knows about David from watching him. But verse 4 makes you rethink that. Before David says a word, God is aware of it. And such is his knowledge of Devon. He can anticipate his actions, his responses His words in any given situation. That is how thoroughly he knows David and He knows you. Look at verse 5. You hem me in behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. David is trapped by God. And the hands of God rest upon him, guiding him through his life. That's his present situation. Look what that leads them to say. Look at verse six. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me It is high. I cannot attain it. This finite knowledge that David has of the infinite one is too high for him. He cannot come up to God to understand how this is possible. God to him is ineffable That is, he's too great to be expressed or described in words. A truth perfectly captured by the name I am. Here David acknowledges that God has a better knowledge of him than he does of himself. And God has a better knowledge of you. What should be done about that? You'll have to wait until later. Now, this is the end of the first strophe, David's meditation upon God's omniscience. Stroke 2, beginning there in verse 7. God's omnipresence is being everywhere. Look at verse 7. Where shall I go from your spirit, or where shall I flee from your presence? Some say that this refers to David at a time when his conscience is guilty. And it's a realization, it's a reminder to those who would read this, possibly the his anointed sons who would sit upon his throne. You better watch your behavior because you cannot escape the gaze of God. But it could also just be stating the general truth that God cannot be escaped. And look at verse 8. If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there. There's no place in the universe where one can escape God's presence. And look at verse 9. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea The wings of the morning, morning there meaning daybreak, that moment when day uh daybreak, very early dawn, is a metaphor referring to the incalculable velocity of light. How quickly that light just shines on the earth when daybreaks. Some see this referring to a time when David fled anxiously from his enemies. So he's in haste, fleeing from his enemies. And so they translate this without the F. They read it I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea. Because the if is not there in Hebrew. It is added from the context and is purely an interpretive decision. Or it could be the Protestant, the F-clause of the forthcoming Apothesis then, there in verse ten. And look at verse ten. Even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. If you understand verse 9 as referring to an anxious flight by David from his enemies Then verse 10 is intended as consolation to God's people who are chased about by God's enemies. No matter where they end up, God's hand is guiding and sustaining them. But if you interpret verse 9 as an if clause, then verse 10 is the confirming is confirming the truth of verse 8. That God is omnipresent, guiding and sustaining all his creatures. Look at verse eleven. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me and the light about me be night, again you face the same interpretive decision here, whether to translate with an F Or without. Some read it as, surely, or I say, surely, the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night. If you translate it so, then David is expressing a dark time in his life, to which verse 12 offers consolation. If you translate it with the yes, then David is setting up another hypothetical situation to teach the same general truth of God's omnipresence, albeit using the colorful language. of experience. Look at verse twelve. Even the darkness is not dark to you, the night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. If you interpreted verse 11 without the if, then David is consoling himself with the truth that nothing, I quote here, can prevent God seeing either sin or suffering Either the danger of his people or the malice of his enemies. If you translate it with the Then what's the point of trying to hide from God? He's there in the darkness, which is as light to him who made it. And this is the end of the second stroke, David's meditation upon God's omnipresence. And you can see how it's not an abstract thing to him, but a source of consolation to him. We'll go on to verse 13. This begins the third stroke. God's omnipotence, his unlimited creative power. For you formed my inward parts. You knitted me to gather in my mother's womb. Here is why God sees all and is in all. He is the maker of all. And especially, of course, David's reflecting upon his own creation. That God has made him, therefore he has this knowledge of him. One commentator really nails this verse. Thou hast, here's what David is saying, thou hast in thy power and at thy control, the very seat of my strongest sensibilities. The inward parts, his kidneys, my pains and pleasures. And this subjection is Co-evolved, that is, it's having the same date of origin with my being. For even before birth I was under thy protection and command. As I am now. The all-seeing everywhere present God and His making of you is the source of His knowing you And so that you have always been under his knowledge, under his control. And look at verse 14. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it very well. David's heart praises God for distinguishing him from inferior creatures. David is delighted in God's handiwork and in himself. Look at verse 15. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. God was there and saw David's skeletal structure as it was formed in the womb and all the various tissues of the human body embroidered or intricately woven. What a majestic truth that evolution could never approach to see God's embroidering of you. And look who you come out as this wonderful creature and fearfully made. The ideal being, you're supposed to strike awe in your own self. Is who you are as a creature a source of awing wonder to you? Or a source of complaint? Martin Lloyd Jones once remarked, after a long ministry, he felt like that was one of the most basic truths, trying to get people to understand. They are preachers. We need to trust in God. We turn this into a source of complaint. We're so limited, we complain, we want these things, and David turns it into a source of joy To be the workmanship of God's hand. And look at verse 16. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them. That unformed substance is probably referring to his fetus. In Hebrew it's just one word that means anything kind of rolled up, the ideal right as it's unrolled as it as it grows, etc. What God has you know put there and it becomes unraveled. And that phrase there, every one of them. The days, um, excuse me, every one of them. In your book was written, every one of them. And this could be referring to body parts as the King James Version and other ones translate it, or could be referring as ESV translate it to his days. It's ambiguous in the Hebrew, but apparently the latest and greatest scholars say it's days and so on So DSV goes with days. Not even one day of yours was left unaccounted for and not foreordained by God. You know, these four verses really make you think twice about abortion, don't they? I think these verses should be read to all mothers. Let me give you a quote here from A. K. Tangbird, and I I don't know who he is. He was in the comment here I was using. I found myself as I was meditating upon this week going to the same direction of I was just stunned by this. I thought who could have an abort? Right? And then in that commentary, he had a comment on abortion, so I couldn't help but to include it. Here's what he says And this is for the Christian to help them in the fight of abortion against this. It is clear that the essential I, right, your ego, who you are, yourself, your inner personality Has its origin in conception. And this is the beginning of God's miraculous creation. This creation is also the beginning of God's providential care for the individual, which continues throughout the person's lifetime. But it's as if the David saying here, they are born what God is embroidering in the womb and doing there to never see that handiwork finished. The point is, if anybody wants to argue with you, it takes so long before they become an I, take them to these verses, verses 13 through 16 in Psalm 139 and say, no, we're wrong. That person and you were in God's mind ever before he made you. And when he conceived you in the womb and began to enroll who you are, you were just the same person there as you are today. Look at verse 17. How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them. And by thoughts here, David means God's perpetual attention towards him. No, oh you know, don't our kids, especially right when they're young and very childlike, want just that from you? All your attention. Here David expresses that is, I quote, most valuable privilege is to be subject to this scrutiny. This attentive gaze and care of him by God. Here you get another look at David's heart He blessed God for showing him such care. I remember the words of Christopher Hitchens He's an atheist. He stands in stark contrast to David here, the theist, doesn't he? Christopher Hitchens complained about God's providential care He said something along the lines. He hated this idea of God, this big eye in the sky, nitpicking him about his moral behavior. David rejoiced in this eye in the sky. Look at verse 18. If you would count them They are more than the sand. I awake and I am still with you. David is saying that God is always an object of adoring wonder to him. He is so right up until he falls asleep, and he remains so right after he wakes up. And this is the end of the third strof. David's David's meditation upon God's omnificence, his uncreated or unlimited power of creation So look here at verse 18 on our fourth stroke. David's urgent prayers that come out of this meditation Look at verses 19 through 22. Oh, that you would slay the wicked of God. O men of blood, depart from me. They speak against you with malicious intent. Your enemies take your name in vain Do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with complete hatred. I count them my enemies. David's first prayer here is to say in verse 19: I want no communion with wicked men while I wait for God to slay them. This seems jarring right after these three previous strokes, meditating upon the majesty of God. But it appears from the following verses there, verses 20 and 21, that after being caught up in his meditation upon God. But after waking from his sleep, or maybe a daydream, we see there in verse 18, I awake and I am still with you. That the thought of anyone abusing God's name, that's what verse 20 is about They speak against you with malicious intent, or they speak your name, they take your name, another way you could take it, and use it for a malicious intent. People would take God's name. They would act religious in such a way to work out malicious purposes. His enemies or your enemies take your name in vain. Or the thought of anybody hating him and rising up against him, that's verse 21. Do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord, and loathe those who rise up against you and would overthrow you and do you harm? But this sends a fire of righteous anger through David's bones. And it's understandable. Imagine if you were looking at a majestic painting and someone came along and threw paint on it or slashed it. You'd be angry. Especially right if you were just caught up in it. And to see somebody just destroy something so beautiful. Or everybody here is a musician, or if you were listening to a majestic piece of music and someone's phone went off You'd be angry. Well, David has just been looking at dimly through a mirror. The majesty of God. And someone or some people, maybe waking up brought it back to his memory, and the realization of it, they do everything they can to mar this God's beauty. Showing utter contempt for him, even hating him, and wishing him dead. What was Nietzsche's quote borrowed from Hegel, God is death. Such the Enlightenment thinkers liked and rejoiced in. And look what world we live in. Post-Enlightenment. You cannot love righteousness without hating sin. And you cannot love God without hating those who hate Him. That's Genesis 3. 15 and the first principle of sanctification. I will put enity between you or between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. Now I know this is difficult, I'm not going to dwell here, and Elder Seth did a good job dealing with these when he gave his exhortation. But the thought surely you have enity against Satan, right? Is there not to be enmity against the children of Satan? Those who will not repent? Those who would kill your God, let me remind us, right? Remember, God by His grace has put this enmity and changed us, right? His enemies are our enemies. Don't hear me speaking personal, vindictive hatred here. You know that I'm not. Let us remember, right, what happens when God comes down amongst men They kill him. They didn't like his beautiful life. It was a very beautiful life the Lord Jesus Christ lived on this earth. And they didn't like it. So what are we to do? Never desire for them to be done with? To have God dead and his beauty marred and never be able to gaze upon, that's the truth kind of dealing here right in the text. That's the reality. of sin that it once gone down. Look there at verses twenty-three and twenty-four Search me, O God, and know my heart, and try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. David's second prayer is to petition God to do what he's already been doing. Why ask God to do what he's already been doing? Why seek this intimacy with God? And we're going to come back to that. But here let me quote Calvin, who sums it up perfectly the relationship between these verses and the previous ones. They are connected what precedes in this way that having declared his utter separation from and aversion to the wicked. He prays that this may be no mere outward separation. He remembers that even whilst he were whilst he seems most opposed to the wicked, The all-seeing eye may discern in him some way of evil and sorrow. But only as God holds his hand and leads him can he walk in the way of life. But here David is saying, since you know me better than I, which is both my delight and my consolation and my wonder. Find out all my grievous ways. And grievous ways mean the ways you walk in now that lead to grief later. Right, and that day of gnashing of the teeth referring to a grievous way is the way it right, many people the sin doesn't always find cause grief in this life, right? Many people think there's sin brings him great joy. David's referring to the sinful ways always lead to grief or end. And he's saying, deliver me from those. And lead me in the old paths. Or you can translate everlasting way a few ways. One of the ways is the old paths, which is referencing Jeremiah 6. 6 16, the ones that the prophets and the patriarchs and the saints of old walked. That way. But of course, that way is the way of faith. Walking in love. It's interesting to note if you read the New Testament, believers are exhorted to walk like prophets. Matthew 5. Jesus says, rejoice that they treat you like this. That's how they retreated the prophets. You're supposed to walk like the patriarchs. Romans 4, Galatians 3 or 4, puts Abraham as your father and model of faith. And the promises of God. And the saints of old, well, Hebrews 11 is full of modeling the faith of the saints of old, working in love and what all they did Let me turn here to this quick historical lesson that I wanted to bring out that really illuminates where I want to go and end tonight in making applications. Some of you may know who Origen is, the church father. He lived from 185 to 253. And he was the apologist, quoting here, par excellence. And he knew how offensive Psalm 139 was to the pagan philosophers such as Chelsus, with whom he debated. And Kelsus wrote a book against Christianity that he titled True Doctrine. And Telsus was well versed in the scriptures, and so he was a dangerous antagonist. Kelsus had also read the cosmological argument of Plato in the Timaeus, that, quoting Plato here. To find the Maker and Father of this universe is difficult. And after finding him, it is impossible to declare him to all men. Following upon Plato and the true doctrine, Kelsus scorns the Christians for their claim that God has been revealed in a historical person. This unification of God's ineffability, right? Verse 6. This is this knowledge of you is too wonderful. I can't get to it. My words are here, I'm trying, I'm doing the best I can. That ineffability of God That the unification of that with his intimacy and that he knows you. Not only that, that he can you can call upon him to search him. This unification of the ineffability of God and with his intimacy is the primary cause of offense to pagan philosophers. For from these two realities of God's persona proclaimed in Psalm 139 to them were incompatible. And why did I point this out? Because it makes the gospel so amazing. Remember what John said of Jesus in John 1. 18. No one has ever seen God. The only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. You know, maybe not Plato, but Jesus can declare God to all men. And Jesus says, whoever has seen me has seen the Father. Maybe God is hard to find for Plato, but not for Jesus. He is God. He is the ineffable one that we've been looking at in this Psalm. Very significant claims then that our Lord was making there in the first century in the flesh and that he still makes today. Here's one thing of the many things Psalm 139 teaches you. Psalm 139 teaches you that the God who sees everything and everyone whose hand is in everything and upon everyone, who is the maker of everything, and everyone can be trusted to use his wonderful or his greater knowledge of you To lead you in everlasting life. Is this true? Well, David clearly thought so, and so did Peter. Turn with me real quick to John's gospel. We're going to look at two passages, John 13, verses 36 and 38, and John 21, verses 15 through 17. And we're going to end there. John 13, verse 36 to 38. You'll be familiar with these two accounts. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? And Jesus answered him, Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow afterward. And Peter said to him, Lord Why can't I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. And Jesus answered, Well, you lay down your life for me. Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. Our Lord showing his greater knowledge of Peter than Peter had of his own self. And look at chapter 21, verses 15 and 17. When they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lamb. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him and pay attention to these words, Lord, you know everything You know that I love you, Jesus said to him, feed my ship What lies between these two meetings with Jesus? Peter's two meetings here with Jesus, the ineffable God man. What event takes place between 13 and 21? The cross. And Jesus laying his life down for Peter, this one whom he had a greater knowledge for. Calvin said there in about verse 23 and 24 That man must have a rare confidence who offers himself so boldly to the scrutiny of God's righteous judgment. And you saw this morning where that confidence comes from. The cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. The point I want to say to you, brothers and sisters, is this: stay with Jesus Christ and trust Him to search out your heart. To find in it their grievous ways. And where's that done? It's done here at his church. It's done by the means of grace. We saw how it's done in David's life. We actually get accounts of how God answered his prayers in the search of them. He did it by his conscience. What happened when David cut Saul's robe? His conscience smote him. And he had to change his ways. That's not how you act against God's anointed, David Learns. David was going to kill Nabal in a fit of anger, who spawned him after he took care of his men, and Abigail, a friend said. David, that's not the way. God can lead us in the paths by smiting our consciences. God can lead you in the paths through a Christian friend or a brother or sister in Christ. God can also do it through His Word. He sent the prophet Nathan to David to say to him, right, you are the man. So I say to you tonight, remain with Christ. Remain under his means of grace and trust his cross to do you no harm as he searched out your heart. And remember what Peter says there, it's not easy to have your search your heart searched. Look at the ordeal he went through and he's just hanging on there before Jesus. You know it, but rejoice in that truth. Jesus didn't say, No, Peter, not yet. You don't love me yet. You can come to the true knowledge in your heart that you love Jesus Christ. And what more knowledge would you want than to know that your heart truly loved God? May God ever lead you from the grebiest paths and in the way everlasting. Amen. Our Father in heaven, the pagans they marveled, our fathers marveled. We would have marveled and exclaimed against it if you hadn't opened our eyes to see That yes, you are beyond our words to proclaim you, and yet you are so intimate with us. And we thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you, Lord, that you search our hearts. And you do it in the love of your cross to lead us out from these grievous ways and into the old path. Oh Lord, ever keep us, ever keep grace and peace in your people here in these towns. In Jesus' name.