Each office has limits, limits to its jurisdiction and scope. If you go to a person one-on-one first and he doesn't listen, it says, if he doesn't listen, take one or two others along with you. So what those judges, the task of the judges, and this has been done in our our history of our nation, they did this very thing, but this is what they have to do. You shall appoint judges and officers in all your towns that the Lord your God has given you, according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment He didn't come to repeal it. You know, the only way to look at it. what I'm saying about the same law being enforced, be existing and being enforced by God through this time period. It was a period, a time of free, unfettered development in which the nation was to familiarize itself with the theocratic constitution given to it by the Moesaic Law. They were getting familiar with what God gave them in written form. Do not take away or add to this law. Okay, it's the same same principle. He's current Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Alabama. Just think in terms of, you know, substitute any civil magistrate you want in here. One from among your brothers you shall set as a king over you. And he shall not acquire many wives for himself, lest his heart turn away, nor shall he acquire for himself excess silver and gold. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot will pass from the law, until all is accomplished. because of the mess that results when you do combine the two, or one has jurisdiction over another. between severe judgment by God and prosperity under God. They're not one and the same. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to put it into this chronological framework for you. You basically quote straight from Scripture on this. And his family leave the ark, and then God makes a covenant with them. And you see the result of that later in Mount Sinai, where God creates cities of refuge. As commentaries will tell you, this when you see the word for mighty one there, in Hebrew, that means attacker or tyrant. When it says, when the Bible says he was a great hunter, he's a great hunter of men. authority. That refers to his law that they're supposed to enforce. He is to uphold and carry out God's perfect law without regard to his own feelings or inclinations or pressures put on him by those around him like bribes. When God reigned in Israel and Judah, and God's laws were enforced by both a church and a state that were both loyal to their creator, separate church and state, both following God's law. bestiality, incest, rape, it doesn't say anything about those being wrong. And then we read that in Matthew 5, 17 through 19 too. Now, if you would, please turn me with me in your Bible and let's go to 1 Timothy 5. or for any wrong in connection with any offense that he has committed. These laws directed the redemptive process. Uh this is part the Old Testament laws applicable only to the fifth dispensation from Mount Sinai to Calvary. the enduring truths within those. So we're talking about not the separation of religion from the state. And I remember thinking, well, this is the Christian man who knows the place of God's law in the civil magistrate, and he knows the separation of church and state That includes civil magistrates. And may we not be fearful of doing so, because you are right there with us. with all his heart and all his soul to perform the words of the covenant that were written in the book. in the political arena to be uh to glorify you. At the feast of unleavened bread, at the feast of weeks, and at the feast of booths, they shall not appear before the Lord empty-handed. Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the Lord your God that he has given you You shall not pervert justice. Only he must not acquire many horses for himself or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to acquire many horses. that his heart may not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he may not turn aside from the commandment, either to the right hand or to the left. So that he may continue long in his kingdom, he and his children in Israel. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed. Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval. Open us up to your word, that we may understand your word better today and be convicted by it deep in our hearts. But we'll talk about the origin of the civil magistrate, as the Bible shows us, and the development of it. that everything I want to say comes straight from the Bible. Something to keep in the back of your mind. Most people in the church especially would say, well, God created the church. And when you think about the people in these roles, you're talking about anybody from the lower levels that we might see around town. Worked for. He was a scribe, so he was church. America will rise to renewed greatness or fall to chaos and oblivion, according to her answer to one question. What is the relation of church and state? are involved in a total war against each other for the USA, including all her political, social, educational, and ecclesiastical institutions. This conflict is anything but a scholastic sectarian debate. So the flood divides that first stage. And within that, you have two substages, two steps, from creation to the flood, and from the flood to Mount Sinai. What we have to say in conclusion from this is that God's law is a reflection of who He is. So it doesn't save, but listen to this. Okay, God's saying no civil magistrate is allowed to enforce any law regarding this. He hadn't delegated yet. And at that point, from there till Mount Sinai, you have a patriarchal system of government. At the family tribal level. of government. Now we get to the second stage of the civil magistrate's origin here. That met God's criteria for taking vengeance when someone was murdered And those are areas where that avenger of blood, the person holding that office, had no jurisdiction. He's named there, and he's the first recorded tyrant of the earth. Their abuse of office is a deadly cancer to any society. It's because all these peoples who live in this area, the Canaanites, which by the way are the Phoenicians, they And when you read Jeremiah chapters 46 through 51, he just goes through nation after nation after nation that he's judging for their ungodly civil magistrates. Was a transition period from Mount Sinai through Samuel David. That will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples, even now. He's saying he's going to tell other kings about God's laws and a godly civil magistrate. Or what bind us today. These are just summary laws, and you have the case laws that all go fall under those. in their specific context, their historical situation, all that. It says, for the scripture says, you shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain. But there's a third kind of law that we have to not forget. And we see, you know, we're dealing with church conflict. Applied in a different situation within a church. uh fibers and making cloth, all those, that falls into this category. God's still going to say, you don't have a Savior. And notice too, and it's some depends on the background people have had, but if you go to Schofield's reference Bible, he's going to say Well, we've destroyed that today. Okay. An enforcer of both tables of the law. Please turn with me to 2 Chronicles 34, 11. This is going to happen before he returns. All that have ever existed, all that will exist. Or an oath of office here. And I want you to see here how God records, sums up the actions and decisions of a civil magistrate. So 2 Chronicles 12, 13-14, and we're just speaking about King Rehoboam here. be convicted of the truths therein, and also have healthy debates over them and strive to move forward and apply these things. And it shall be with him, and he shall read it in all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God by keeping all the words of this law and these statutes and doing them Now to chapter 17, verses 14 to 20. Pay to all what is owed to them, taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. Is accountable to God for how He wields it and how He enforces it. Well, that was the case law against homosexuality revealed later in Special Revelation, Leviticus 18. A person could reside in that city of refuge until the high priest died. And here he's given at Mount Sinai written revelation, special revelation to his people, but at the same time For all nations. Tells us this. In your place. And then they have to take those case laws, strip out the historical context and all that detail, and say, here's the enduring truth. from the state. A civil magistrate is made up of people in these offices that God created. thing like Islam says. um be be shown that that maybe they have a calling in this area politically. And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself in a book a copy of this law, approved by the Levitical priests. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Do not think that I have, this is Jesus speaking, do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. And it's all religious. who uh were sort of experts on the law and advisors to the civil magistrate. State. What we're going to make sure we understand here is that God's laws, which were delivered, special revelation to God's people in written form Who enables them to love God's law and do it better and better. The law of God is a transcript of the holiness of God on a creaturely level. Not just from Pentecost on. from creation uh to the flood. ho uh has a totalitarian type of government. definer and creator of this whole civil court system. judging judges. We we see just continued on that he's enforcing his law internationally. for telling hi uh the Israelites, enforce God's law. Leviticus 18, 24 through 27, God tells his people why he's having them go into the promised land. that and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment. And what we see here is those Old Testament concepts of the civil magistrate, they're they're just reiterated. Well, remember Deuteronomy 4, 5-8 says that we read earlier, says that God intended Old Testament Israel to be a model The right, the biblical way of approaching it is to say, each and every law in the Old Testament is still in effect unless God modifies it. Law, enduring truth in that law. And so when you go there to 1 Timothy 5. Leviticus 17, 11 says, For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it for you on the altar to make an atonement for your souls, for it is the blood that makes atonement. So now, what we have to say then is that all these Old Testament laws, both ceremonial and moral laws, still apply in their principles. But now if you are not one of God's people, those underlying principles are still in effect, and you haven't fulfilled those but not their circumstantial details. Doing this, Christians, trying to do this. where he presided. Think about a current civil magistrate. holding this civil magistrate office. How long that will be, when that will happen. And it's not man who said there needs to be a separation between the two through you know experience through the ages. Uh so don't answer out answer out loud, but I'm going to ask you a few questions to see if you know, have a sense of what the Bible says about which uh institution, the church or the state, these people I'll name How about the Levites? He's the head of the church and the head of the state. Now I want to sum up the significance of this issue, separation of church and state. Can any human institution bring salvation to a society? Whose word is the binding authority for church and state? To be filled by men to which he delegated aspects of his authority. For an office held by man to have legitimate authority, God must grant that authority. And let me show you a few uh things. And the first step of that from Mount Sinai through Jesus Christ's life. So in that context, back there, it's talking about landmarks and witnesses before the priests and the judges and all that. Remember the laws about unclean meats, things they couldn't eat, uh unequal yoking of animals, the mixing of certain seeds, and and uh By the life. God's laws are eternal, internationally relevant. The Hebrew Commonwealth in the Old Testament is a model for all nations through all time. Christians need to be involved in this. Justice and only justice you shall follow, that you may live and inherit the land that the Lord your God is giving you. When it says in verse 17, fulfill the law, what he's talking about is reasserting the law. Uh we might see uh policemen, local judges, up at the state level, a governor. uh up at the national level, senators, Supreme Court justices, the President. But they were advisors, consultants you could think of, to the civil magistrate in difficult difficult cases. They were neither one. He ruled over most of the earth, but he had an authority above him. to the end of time is divided by Jesus' life right there in the middle. uh at Mount Sinai have existed since the beginning, since creation. It was never ever meant to save man. But once regenerated, once God saves a person, he gives them the Holy Spirit. It shows us our sin. Here's our uh we have a a legitimate civil authority example given in the Bible and an illegitimate given. These are the laws that you enforce. Justice and only justice you shall follow. And as another Christian stated with discernment, ungodly judges, those who do not enforce God's law, are to be feared and hated. When uh God praises Artaxerxes in Ezra, a pagan Persian ruler, he praises him So he gives this, there's a transition time, and then Samuel and David, then they start really implementing this the way that God intended it to be implemented. And then we see that all of God's laws are still in effect in their principles. One way is this. Or eliminates it. The laborer deserves his wages. The ox would work, treading grain, let the ox eat what it's treading. ascended into heaven. Also, though, don't forget this, there are laws that taught God's people how to be separate from the unbelieving nations around them. Because it says that Jesus died, shed his blood to atone for the sins of his people. We don't have to keep that because Jesus did it for us. But God's people don't have to keep those. Now granted, there is room for debate and all that, of course. stated that the civil magistrate is to be the is entrusted to be the keeper and defender As people are taught, people are converted, they will want a godly civil magistrate, they will choose those people, and they will want God's law enforced. He is was elected back into office by the people of Alabama. We're just going to take one example. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And the king stood in his place and made a covenant before the Lord, to walk after the Lord, and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes. And then the gospel reading, Matthew 5, 17 through 18. God's laws are eternal. When they did that from the heart, the people had greater unity, political equality, freedom, peace, justice, strength, and prosperity than any nation in history From king to king. And you have, for instance, I'll give you a couple examples. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Lay it up in our hearts so that we may practice it in our lives going forward today. So today we're going to look at the separation of church and state, and this is just a sort of a foundational step here. Every man who's ever lived has been under some form of authority. So you see there, I mean all men have that written in their hearts. So first stage, creation to Mount Sinai. Same law. What great nation is there that hath statutes and rules so righteous as all this law that I set before you today? Well, let's look at what that means so we don't get confused by that. Okay, these are wrong, and I'll tell you why they're wrong. The Old Testament condemns those. It's the only right way. But last thing here. And reigned. For because of this you also pay taxes. How about the apostles? Jesus Christ, what was he? God created these offices. We see the legitimate civil authority given here. So the result of that was Noah's family and their descendants. He's not remaining under that. Uh relevant internationally and through the end of time, relevant to everyone. And Old Testament, New Testament agree, those still apply. But let's look at the three kinds of laws. Third, ceremonial laws tell us that no one may worship God except through a priest. And I'll skip to the beginning of 14. Deuteronomy 16, beginning in verse 16 through 20. David. And this is what Romans 13, 1 said when we saw, for there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. God made man in his image, Romans 5. God gave to Adam a law. And God prevented, he put a mark on Cain and prevented any other man from taking vengeance on him. God said, you're culpable for this because you know in your heart this is wrong. within each family or tribe called the Avenger of Blood. He's holding those other nations accountable to his law and civil magistrates, his law And to quote another person, when God reigned in Israel and Judah, so we see from uh Samuel and David on through the end of the Old Testament. So when it's done right, this is the best it gets. So what we're going to see here is that there's you have this case law, and God has this true Well let's not get confused about the church and religion. He's not talking about the church over the state in wanting those commandments there. But importantly though, he's willing to not just study this topic, but act on it and do something. And then say, I will set a king over me like all the nations that are around me. Okay? 1 Chronicles chapters 23 through 27 also show you these distinctions in the Levites. When you read in Genesis 10, the listing of all these nations, 70 nations, when it says they are by their clans within their nations, what we're talking about is tribal family levels. Have disobeyed my law. But here note that we still have a patriarchal system of government. But notice that Old Testament Israel, we might say, is that still the way they did things, the principles they had underlying their civil magistrate and how it should work? Hebrews 4, 15 through 16. And I want to also tell you up front, I'm talking about the two institutions here. Okay, so this first stage, you see, we saw no civil magistrate, God enforcing his laws, and then we saw the seat of the civil magistrate, and God saying, here's what I want you to do. And there, and this is what we read earlier, Jeff read this, Deuteronomy 16, 18 through 20, where he says, You shall appoint judges and officers in all your towns that the Lord your God has given you according to your tribes Here's how one commentator put it. Okay, second stage, second step. So we're told in our society to avoid mixing politics and religion. Old uh Testament ceremonial law requiring a Passover lamb to be sacrificed in Exodus 12. State, not the church. In fact, Nehemiah said, Ezra, you need to come back because I can't govern in the ecclesiastical area. But this law, look at how it's fulfilled for God's people in Hebrews 9, 20 through 22 through 24. We're saying the separation of the church as an institution from the state as an institution. And notice also in Psalm 119, 46, written by David, a king. And that doesn't mean just then. It's relevant to then. He was forty-one years old when he began to reign. A person can fill an office temporarily and then leave the office. You see this at the end of every king's reign through Chronicles and Kings. He came to reassert it. I won't go through each one of these verses, but God doesn't change. Another example, Genesis 19. And the father rules in that kind of system. Blood makes atonement. They may not add or subtract from them. Now the New Testament reading from Romans thirteen one through seven. The Old Testament laws no longer apply. From creation till the second coming, they apply. Who's our Passover lamb? But first stage, uh the two stages. Another uh example, we don't have to go to this one, but this is Deuteronomy nineteen fifteen. Jesus didn't do it for you if you're not one of God's people. How about Aaron in the Old Testament? In other words, don't create a new law. Now let's pray. And some people believe these ways, so we don't want to be thinking this way. They had special revelation from God. Then the second stage, from Mount Sinai to G till Jesus' second coming, He was a king. He's making his own laws up and he it's illegitimate. But we need to relating this to the civil magistrate. So I want you to think about in our society why people might say, avoid mixing politics and religion. This is not an exaggeration because the issues are sovereignty and salvation. Here's a good quote, I think, that sums it up. So you have the two tables given in Mount Sinai, first four commandments on one, fifth through tenth on the other. In the future, all nations will have magistrates that call Christ their King. This is where a lot of people get confused. When we talk about here this first stage of the civil magistrate, I want to show you that there was no civil magistrate, no man that was delegated authority. Because only God can change his law. And he did evil, for he did not set his heart to seek the Lord. And our confessional statements say the same thing, because this is what the Bible says. You don't have like a national level of the civil magistrate. Three kinds of laws in the Old Testament. 18, you read that Paul is saying that Old Testament case law said two things, not just one thing. They typified Christ. And I remember being in a hotel room with a few pastors talking to him. And God's enforcing it before he gave it in written form. So again, we saw from the beginning God's law on everyone's heart Now that says a couple applications here, there's some truth beneath those two applications. Church. It means through all time. It's relevant to now. And it doesn't matter which kind of society we live in, it still applies. Well remember, Christ rose, he sits at God's right hand, and God says, you stay there until I make all your enemies a footstool. You shall not show partiality, and you shall not accept a bribe. Well, if I asked you uh who created the church He didn't lead and worship like things at all. And I think this is 2006. So Christ will not get up and return until all of those civil magistrates are under his feet He created the civil magistrate as well as the nations. This law, after his fall, continued to be a perfect rule of righteousness, and as such was delivered by God upon Mount Sinai and Ten Commandments. That these nations through the whole world will call Christ their King. I mean we don't go and have these sacrifices and all this priesthood and all this. And it shows us on what basis God blesses people. Also, God's law continues to be in its eternal truths New Testament doesn't. This is what God expects. They have ungodly civil magistrates. First, there are a couple unbiblical ways of looking at that Old Testament law. It'll be either a verse from the Bible or passages or something necessarily implied by the Bible. And from this we have to conclude these things. Jesus Christ says, I'm not repealing these laws. There are all these ceremonial laws for the covenant community These are commands. And you may say, well, we're so far from that, how could we ever get there? So keep in mind three last points. God's law is perfect, and God is perfect. Then second stage from Mount Sinai to the second coming. One is Deuteronomy 25, 4, you shall not muzzle an ox when it is treading out the grain. That was a transition period, the period of the judges 18. You stand before Him at the last judgment. Jesus Christ is our high priest. And the maintenance of civil order and the administration of justice remained in the hands of the heads of tribes, families, and households. And he's given it to Old Testament Israel Only the evidence of two witnesses or of three witnesses shall a charge be established. And I'll give you an example. Also, let's flip over to 2 Chronicles 12, 13 through 14. They're ministers of God. Get rid of a law. What do we do in Matthew 18? Now you see in there, they failed over and over. You can just take a real basic uh approach logically here. You may not put a foreigner over you, who is not your brother For he is God's servant for your good. It was not until the time of Samuel and David that a new stage began, the time before Samuel and David, the time before. The what Christians are supposed to do, this is where the Great Commission comes in. For the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. So he was the head of the civil magistrate. And as other Christians have stressed, a judge is therefore not an impartial listener to the arguments made before him. Nehemiah, he was a governor So God's creating the seed of the civil magistrate. And there are things like regulations for the sacrifice, the temple, the priesthood. That's how God will record their reign. He was speaking about religious matters all the time, right? It's timeless. King, joy to the world. 13, and therefore the law of God is written in his heart since the beginning That's one way to look at it. 1 Timothy 5. And we're going to see here that the these ceremonial laws have an enduring truth also that still applies. You shall not pervert justice, you shall not show partiality, and you shall not accept a bribe, for a b a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and subverts the cause of the righteous. The Noahic covenant Jesus Christ's life through his second coming. It is a life and death issue. And that's illegitimate civil authority because he's not obeying God's 1 Corinthians 5. Now, in conclusion, we've seen the civil magistrate was created by God. Okay? The law of God is a transcript of the holiness of God on a creaturely level. When we talk about this stage, I want to go over a few concepts first about God's law. And notice here God is asserting his sovereignty over the civil government, and he's the initiator. First, there are summary laws, the Ten Commandments. They were God's mouthpieces. The office is the one that authorities have delegated to. So I want to just go over that real quickly. It's fulfilled. There's a part of the Levites, a whole family within the tribe of the Levites And any man wielding the authority of an office Notice here, there's a judge, capital J Our Heavenly Father, illumine our hearts and minds by your Holy Spirit. Who or what is the origin of social order? God created everybody. Keep in mind when we say all this though, we're not talking about the church being over the state. God's the ultimate authority. God was the one doing it himself. And in this time, we see God revealing a complete mature system of government. May it sink into our hearts. First stage from creation to Mount Sinai. It's not like they were just given this system and then they implemented it in a day. And I want you to think in terms of a presidential oath. And he reigned seventeen years. The Sodomites. That's just a repeat. In an example, I'll give you three examples. We ask this in Jesus' name. And those who resist will incur judgment. But what about the state? We're not saying separation of religion. Anyway, he uh I remember talking to him So King Rehoboam grew strong in Jerusalem. God's law doesn't change. That's sanctification. From the flood to Mount Sinai. For instance, stealing's forbidden. 18, and we'll look at how the New Testament looks at that Old Testament case law. Now the civil magistrate has authority. Then we also see uh in So the conclusion is that the law still applies after Jesus The institution of the church, the institution of the state. But here's an illegitimate civil authority that we're shown there too in Genesis 10, and that's Nimrod But you have to know how to say that. This is not just a personal statement. Verse 17 and 18. We ask this in Jesus' name. And uh You're going to end up in arbitrary kinds of statements if you end up on those two talking in those two ways that I just mentioned there. We say, you know, if Two steps in there. You have it at the family and tribal level. And he said there, I taught you statutes and rules, as the Lord my God commanded me, that you should do them in the land. Only I do that, God says. Then you have the second category is the case laws, the judicial laws. The reformers It just points man, who knows he can't fulfill it, to our Savior, who did fulfill it. We have to realize here the civil magistrate has judges, right? So now think about this for a second. 2 Chronicles 34, 11. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? So now let's look at what God's Word says about the origin and development of the civil magistrip. And notice too, since the beginning, God's given the Holy Spirit to his people. 7 says Jesus Christ is our Passover lamb. They created an office because of God's command. And this civil court system must enforce his law that he's giving. Why? You may indeed set a king over you whom the Lord your God will choose When you come to the land that the Lord your God has given you, and you possess it Okay, he's this is somebody who is a The only, they say, the only, only the old New Testament laws, the laws of the New Covenant Everything's religious, all decisions and everything that people make. We're talking about all these people They weren't the church. And uh It was recorded for us too. Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. But how about Ezekiel and all the prophets? Christianity and humanism, the two major religions of the United States right now. I'm doing this That's the same word by the way when you see uh the Nephilim in Genesis six four. And we read that in Deuteronomy four, too. Judge Roy Moore This is how I think of it. And guess what? The length of time they've been in office, their name, and what they did. But now we need to remember something here. And two examples here. This is a violation of my law. But notice he spoke with God and God held him accountable for what he did. They weren't priests. Exodus 21, 12-14. And we see this That's why I am destroying them. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. We'll go through what that means. Another way to look at it is the Old Testament laws are irrelevant unless the New Testament restates them. May we all glorify you by teaching others the truths of your word in this area He was church. And this role of this person was to carry out God's justice when a situation arose Because it reflects God's character and who he is. Another example. And I think this quote puts it really well. So I want you to think about the difference between the office held by a person and the person in the office. And God's word describes the limits of authority for that office. He says, Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed. But three last points. Amen. They were held accountable for their homosexual deeds. What we have here is a seed of the civil magistrate starting. Amen. So no matter how high you get in life, you saw with Nebuchadnezzar. When you talk about a biblical concept of authority. And I I can show you verses in the Old Testament and the New Testament that say the very same thing on this And there are other verses that say the same thing. In the New Testament He's not going to be seeing Christ there. And let's see how we get there, biblically speaking. Well, one little aside here is Acts 27, Acts 17, 26. Three times a year all your males shall appear before the Lord your God at the place that he will choose. Okay, and we'll go through each step. And uh I'm establishing them. This is the word of the Lord. And I want you to notice something today. Remember they hold held the church accountable, the state accountable. So Noah They have to be able to distinguish between the case laws and the ceremonial laws But what we have to all agree on is this is the whole approach that has to be taken. Well, we have people right now in high offices doing this thing But God actually showed us exactly where that division is supposed to be between the two. A single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime This is not long after uh the Ten Commandments statue was removed from that courtroom that he Verses 17 and 18. But notice God's enforcing it. For and those weren't just for anybody to go to. Why? So he did that for his people. God's laws are international in relevance, eternal in their principles Everybody's religious. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain And I want you to keep in mind here uh It is the difference between liberty and slavery And we'll see two examples here. Romans 13, 9. The king has come. So God's the ultimate authority, but he also created offices Well, if you're going to base it on New Testament law, you can't say those are wrong. Since the Lord has said to you, you shall never return that way again. Ezra in the Old Testament. It's not like this is But how is this implemented? He's there now. Psalm 22, 27. For a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and subverts the cause of the righteous. 22. Only then. This is what God expects. He was the high priest, not the state. In the Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 19, it says there Who's our high priest? God created the state as well. You can see that in Deuteronomy 17, 9. So when Cain killed Abel, Cain broke the sixth commandment. And These enduring truths, they remain for the ceremonial laws. May we delve into these things and Is one human institution sovereign over all others? But there's a truth within it This is a statement of this man in this office. This is not going to cover the whole topic. Which law was that? He makes a contrast here. And when I say the state, you can also use the word civil magistrate for the state God's law is holy, and God is holy. That every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. Jesus did it. God expects all civil magistrates the world over to make a covenant with him In Genesis 9, 5 through 6, this Noahic covenant God makes But they had some successes. And You know, you But let's get a biblical concept of authority in our minds first here. God's law has never ever And he's saying, it's not because you're so good. New Testament never mentions And you'll see No civil magistrate exists yet. Proverbs 14, 34 talks about a righteous nation And in this verse, I want you to Thank you. Jesus said you were either for me or against me But we go to Matthew 18, 16. He didn't come to abolish Here you have the civil magistrate doing this. That's a political statement. We might see a sheriff. Which one were they? This is not some perverse Book of Ezra. And then here's how it will apply today. This is the way it's always been. If you had some situation like involuntary manslaughter, And I want you to think in terms of uh He fulfilled it for his people. They were neither one. There's a lot to it. Both tables. This is the word of the Lord. And notice that it's all political I need someone to do that. Let's pray. And may some of us and some of our children Are those still relevant to us today? How about Moses? God created all nations. He says it must be a righteous judgment. That's what Christians today need For God made man in his own image. And God creates it. Same type of thing, same word used. But he was he worked for the state. Same law Same principle.