Congregation, hear the Word of God. Romans 13, 1-7. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God. And those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval. For he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore, one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. For the same reason, you also pay taxes For the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them, taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed Respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. Then from 1 Peter We read chapter 2, verses 11 through 17. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution. Whether it be to the emperor as supreme or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free. Not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. Honor everyone. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor. Now we'll read the first two verses that I failed to read later. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. So far in his letter, Peter has dealt with the special privileges that belong to you believers. You have been chosen by God unto salvation. You may rest in a firm and living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, of an eternal inheritance kept in heaven for you. And you are now by His Spirit given the power to be patient in trials. And perhaps the most precious gift evident in your life here on earth. You are actually born again for a sincere, active love of the brethren in that body, the people of God. Now, tonight, Peter goes on to another step in your earthly pilgrimage, which we might call the principles that God has laid down to govern your lives in this world. Yes, in your nation and your community. For although you have been separated from this world's sin and darkness, And gathered into a people of God's own possession, you have not as yet been separated entirely from life beside all workers of iniquity. You still reside in Goshen, awaiting your transference into the Promised Land. You're still, by God's providence, part of the society, including the civil government of the land in which you fill out your earthly life. The passage before you tonight begins another major section of the epistle, and that title could be called Duty. For you have relations with government, business, the home, and yes, also the organized body of saints called the Christian Church In all of these relations, the key word, and this may surprise you, but it's true: the key word is submit Now, this first section of this main division of Peter's letter lies before you this evening. And it has, as its theme, Christian citizens. You see, the most monstrous slanders had been circulated against those early believers in Asia Minor, to whom Peter is writing. They were accused of all sorts of terrible crimes against the state, even that of arson, burning the city of Rome, for instance. Peter says, you have a solemn task, even to an authoritarian state, whose ignominious head is Nero Caesar. Now, as in many areas of life, so in the area of citizenship, you have an obligation to walk a straight line between two loyalties which may on occasion clash Your first royalty is to the Lord Jesus Christ, and you belong to another country. You are strangers, that is, aliens Pilgrims and exiles here. You are in a foreign world and not permanently at home. But your second loyalty is to the state. Small S. Which the Lord has ordained providentially to preserve society from chaos by punishing bad conduct and encouraging good conduct. We read all about that in Romans, didn't we? Therefore, you are obliged to render due obedience to civil authorities for the Lord's sake. As Peter makes very clear in verse 13, be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution. Now, within the tension of these loyalties, you live and make your witness. For secular pressure encroaches upon sacred ground. Peter's own personal example provides the necessary rule. Acts chapter 4 judge for yourselves whether it is right in God's sight. To obey you rather than God. You must obey God rather than man whenever the two come into direct and unmistakable conflict. Let there be no confusion here. But our point tonight in this sermon is this God in our text provides you With a clear command consistently to render proper submission to all proper authority. And we read the command itself in verses 13 and 14 and 16 and 17. Maybe it would be good to read them again. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the governor as supreme or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. Honor everyone Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor. And I could say, even if you don't have one. You see that Peter, as a spokesman for the sovereign God over all human affairs, lays down this clear command by beginning with the affectionate address Beloved in verse 11. This word is like warm sunshine, transforming the bleak plane of duty into a pleasant garden of opportunity. Yes, this is a command from God, but it is a command addressed to his church. Obedience here, writes the apostle, is therefore of great concern to you. to the people around you who don't know the Lord and to the Lord himself. I urge it upon you, says Peter. I beg you to consider carefully what I have to say. I'm trying to get at your heart. For if I succeed in that, I know I will have your willing response, balking at authority, rebelling against it Do I need to say, perhaps characterizes the world in which you live today as much as anything else Terrorists strike out willy-nilly against anyone. Others, less malicious perhaps, but also blind To God's command of submission to proper authority, express their resentment and rebellion in somewhat milder ways. They storm capitol buildings They refuse to pay taxes. They stage sit-ins and engage in various forms of civil disobedience, even to the extent of harming or failing to pay lawful authorities. Not so with you believers True, you have been separated from the world. You belong no more to its domain of ungodliness, of disobedience to his law, and to its destination of eternal death. You don't belong there. But that does not mean that you have been removed from earthly life all your days before the end of this present age. And your transference to the eternal bliss of the new heavens and the new earth Jesus is your resurrected and reigning king and head, but you are still, do I need to tell you, in this veil of tears for the moment Now is time for you to live not only as separated, but also as involved. As such, God's command to you is that in the words of verse 16, live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil. But living as servants of God. Now it goes without saying, doesn't it, that Sometimes vexing situations arise in which you simply have to disobey even a lawful authority, because obedience of that authority would involve disobedience Of a clear command of gods. One can think in this regard of a number of illustrations Such as Nazi tyranny. But it is not our purpose to propose a list of exceptions to this rule. It is our purpose to hear the commands from God and to understand it well. You start soundly in your thinking when you remember that there is a biblical doctrine of government. I'm not talking about monarchy, anarchy, or any other system in between. The Bible recognizes that human beings, under his providential common grace, have developed and will continue to develop various ways to organize their civil affairs. And God does not authorize any particular system as being the best or even the better. You might disagree with me on that, Hunter. Tell me afterwards if you do. Jesus recognized the right of Caesar to receive tribute. Paul in Romans 13 and Peter in our text tonight teach that earthly government is a divine institution. And that its primary task is to enforce social justice. John the Baptist did not command soldiers, when repenting of their sin, should leave military service. God saw fit to direct Peter himself to open the door of salvation to the Gentile world in the home of Cornelius, a Roman centurion. And you Christians ought to be the best citizens in the land, showing this in your respect for civil authorities and avoiding unrestrained abusive criticism. I have to watch this when I'm looking at Fox News. Godly behavior in this scene is not identified by Scripture as being in the direction of any particular civil scheme. Be it conservative or liberal. That needs to be remembered by you and by me. Lest we find ourselves in unnecessary and even ungodly controversy with others who belong to the other political party. Yes, righteous indignation at the crash taking of unborn human life is no license to oppose that ungodliness by ungodly means. The end does not justify it. All lawful means must be pursued, of course, especially where the laws of the land permit wrongs to be openly practiced. But the Bible says the wrath of man will not accomplish the righteousness of God. Peter's plea for obedience to God's command begins with these words: Abstain from the passions of the flesh which war against your soul. We might think at first that he is speaking about sexual immorality, passions of the flesh, sexual immorality. Which of course is something from which you must abstain. That's obvious, axiomatic. But he isn't speaking of that here I say that because he is describing the behaviors of believers, not in secret, but which is public. Hold yourselves back from this public behavior. What public behavior? Your foreign nature, whose power over you was broken when you were saved by the blood of Jesus. is still there, which is with its downward pull. And God here commands you to restrain from those things which you would do naturally. What things? Outward things. Rebel. He says, keep your conduct That's seen. Among the Gentiles, honorable. Give an honest, open testimony of what you are inwardly by the way you act in your community. Your state, your nation, be an open book. Consistent behavior in the matter of submission to authority is, of course, always inside It should start at home. When you commit begin submitting to one another in love, in your home and in your church, in honor preferring others better than yourself. Then perhaps you will be prepared to function as good citizens outside there in the world Put yourself in an attitude of submission here, not only to obey, but first to keep an attitude of obedience. If you don't understand what I'm saying here, let me just give you a simple example. Thank you, officer, for catching me on your radar. I needed that. How do you get it? So for the command. Now, together with that we observe the grounds for that command. Found in verses 15 and 17. For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Honor everyone, love the Brotherhood, fear God, honor the Emperor. We start there with verse 15 and we end with verse 17. For this is the will of God. Fear God, honor the emperor. There's the sermon. Those two things are connected. They are not two separate commands. They go together. You fear God when you honor earthly authorities, apparently Good Christian citizenship does not depend upon the personal goodness of those exercising authority over you, or even their wise and righteous exercise of their office. It depends upon the will of God. He has ordained civil government, and he has apparently ordained them to be in it. It's as simple as that, and you must not forget it. Otherwise, you act just like the children of this world and rebel whenever you don't agree with them. Acting that way resulted in the situation described in Genesis that brought about the very Noaic flood. Anarchy. Then again, remember the situation during the time of the judges in Israel. So apparently the discipline of the flood didn't work. When we read, each man did what was right in his own eyes. And that was not good. God had to send judges, authorities, men, and in one case a woman, Deborah. To check that lawlessness, that rebellion, that unsubmissiveness. Some of those judges were less than admirable. Samson for one. But God used them. He ordained them, and fearing God meant obeying the judge. When God establishes an office, he puts an official in that office, because as our confession rightly says, He has ordained whatsoever comes to pass. Rebelling against that office and against that official is rebelling against God Himself. Now you can change it, you can vote. And pray God to bring about relief from oppressive government officials. But in the meantime, you must submit. Again, Peter is pending that Christians in general should do this. He does not deal with extraordinary occasions when conscience, guided by the Holy Spirit, requires civil disobedience. He's talking about the rule, not the exception. And there are more solid grounds for his plea. Look at the text again. Your own spiritual well-being is at stake. Listen to verse 12. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. So that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. God's people will do that, whatever it is. We'll find out in a moment. Yes, when you do that, when you submit to proper authority, you provide a powerful picture of righteousness. Obedience in the area of citizenship is one powerful means God uses to convince the world of its sin. At least there will be some people who will live decent, respectful lives in all godliness, rendering submission to lawful authority. Ignorant and foolish people will see that. And they will do more than merely see it. Peter says that when they see that, when they see you doing good, they will be put to silence. And he adds in verse 12 that when they see your good deeds, they will glorify God on the day of visitation. What in the world is that? What does that mean? It refers, I believe, to the visitation of God's mercy. The day of visitation. God's mercy upon those unbelievers. It translates a Greek word which is also rendered bishop or overseer. So here it refers to that day when God becomes the overseer, the bishop of otherwise lost sinners. The day of their visitation by the mercy of God. Brought about by what? By their observing your civil obedience Did you ever think of that? I didn't until I read this text. Thus, your good deeds, your beautiful lives, particularly your law-abiding citizenship. Are used by God as one of his means of bringing lost sinners to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So you don't have to become a missionary. To be used by God to bring about people to salvation. This then is another purpose of God's command, powerfully laid down in our text this evening. The command is for God's glory, yes. The command is for God's will, to be sure. But also it is God's purpose for you as witnesses in this world. Follow his urging, nay, his command, so that unbelievers observing your behavior Might be brought, possibly, that is his will, by the work of the Holy Spirit in their hearts to both want and come to faith in the Savior. Do I say too much? I hope it's just what the text says. There it is, my dear congregation. This is something extremely practical. It is a way in which you can show that you love the Lord Jesus by being good and faithful citizens of this country. Such pleases the Lord, and he is pleased to use it to make a witness for his son and for the gospel of grace, to bring people to Christ. I don't ask you to submit to all proper authority. I only proclaim to you the message of this God's Word. Obey the laws of the land, especially the tax and traffic laws. A number of our members here at Grace and Peace work for government agencies That's a good thing. I noticed that one of our members is running for office in this county right now. Pray regularly for government officials on every level. Civil service is an honorable calling. Vote. This text provides a lie to the common notion that religion and state Don't mix. God calls you believers to be citizens of his eternal kingdom and citizens of this land. Amen. God, we pray that you will help us to be obedient to your command. Maybe we have not thought about this much. Maybe we have been straying. from the truth that's contained there in this portion of your word. And maybe we've just thought so much of the world to come when all of the terribleness of this world will be gone That we haven't thought about what you want us to do while we're in the midst of it. And we pray that you will help us to be testimonies to your saving grace. And show people that it is possible by that grace to not only have eternal security, but to have earthly sensibleness and obedience Peace and freedom. Give us this answer, O Lord, for we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.