Unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Those are uh frightening words by the Lord Jesus, aren't they? It would have been a shocking word to hear if you were in hearing that sermon because how do you be more righteous than the righteous most righteous people on the planet? Doesn't that just mix me? I just give up all hope of ever entering God's kingdom. Well, as I preach to you, I preached the cross and mark, and Jesus died. Yes. If you will not be saved by the cross, yes, because there's no other way. Unless you die with Christ and rise again, you will never enter God's kingdom. You'll never produce this righteousness. Sin will n you'll never be free of sin in its power. Here's a passage and we're going to be looking at Romans 6 today. And we'll be looking at it for the next two weeks because our gospel epistle lasted for the next two weeks and deals with this. There's a bit of a progression in the teaching here that we need to know some things about us as you're listening there. Paul says, don't you know in verse 3 Paul says again in verse six, we know. He says again in verse nine, we know. Living the life in Christ, and that's the theme of all these post advent or excuse me, post Pentecost sermons, so what we'll be going through until we finish up in October or so when when Advent starts again. Life in Christ, which is life in the Spirit, because of Jesus' redeeming work applied to us by the Holy Spirit, we now have new lives in Christ And there's a bit of a progression to living the spiritual life as Paul begins to deal with that in this letter to the Romans in chapter 6. You need to know some things that are true. You need to then consider yourself in light of that truth And then you need to go on and present yourself and render obedience to God, but there is a progression of knowing and of considering and of presenting. And so this week, what I want to focus on is the knowing, but in really emphasizing the considering part. And so the text that I really want to make most of today and look at and kind of see the rest of it through is there in verse eleven. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. I want to deal with considering ourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus this morning. And I want to deal with and emphasize and show and talk about the importance that believing has on behavior It matters how we think. How we think impacts how we act. And as Christians, as born-again believers in Jesus Christ, as those new creatures made new in Jesus. We have to reckon with some facts about ourselves and come to terms with those facts and believe those facts and in light of those facts act. And it's a wonderful fact. Why do we read about in Acts Why do we read about in the annals of church history the destruction of pagan temples? Why do we read about in Acts 19 a plummeting and silver trade? Because the demand for idols has decreased, that it has upset economy and people are frustrated with gospel preachers. Why do we read of these things? Because those people are now dead to sin in Jesus Christ. And they are aligned to God and for God forevermore. And they cannot live that old life And by God's grace, they will not live that old line. This is the foundational truth For Christian. Maybe maybe the second. The most foundational, as I'll show you, it comes out of it, is what Jesus did in dying for us and justifying us. But but but living that out, this is the most foundational truth understanding our union with Christ and what that determines about us and means for us as we live dead to sin and alive of God. So let me just start where Paul starts. I'm not going to walk through every verse. That would be a wonderful way to do it. If I spent three minutes in each verse, it would be thirty-three minutes. It'd be impossible for me to spend three minutes in three verses. So this would be a three-hour sermon. So I'm just we're going to look at the things there, but I want to deal with with verse eleven. I'll tell you why I want to deal with verse eleven. If if I uh to give you an illustration, I think I recently saw the Keel Auto Shop Or you know, car dealer. I think I saw a million mile warranty. They think you can get a lot out of their product, right? They think that this thing's gonna go and go and go Beloved in Christ I tell you, this is my Kia verse. I will get out of this verse until the day I die and pass in glory. Everything. Because I needed it when I was converted and was in sin and coming out of it, and I still need it today, ten years later. as new sins crop up and new temptations and I find myself in new scenarios and sin wants to make its ugly inroads and give its pressures and the worst thing you can do is talk to it. You just need to reckon with Something true about yourself in Christ, I'm dead to sin, and I'm alive to God. That belief motivates all behavior and all action and gives us success. Because really any way to do it, if you have to if you have to die to sin to be dead to sin, it's just saving yourself by works, right? I've got to die to be dead. That's how Paul says. He says you're dead, so die. If you had to live to God to be alive to God, you've got to earn and work your salvation. You've got to do living works to become alive. And Paul says that's not it. You are alive, so live for him and to him. This is the gospel of God's grace to us in Jesus Christ. Paul begins. What shall we say? Asking us a rhetorical question, because he wants to get us to his teaching, and here it is: are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? Now before I go any further, we do have to reckon with one great truth that stands under this, and that is that God's grace has about it. He's talking about what he said up in verse 20 of chapter 5. He said the law came in to increase the trespass, Adam's trespass. The law didn't come in to help it, to quell it, to do anything about it. It came in to increase it. But where sin increased. And where did it increase? Where the law came in. Who is he talking about? The Mosaic economy, the people of God in the Old Testament under Moses. That's where it increased. Oh, the pagans were going on in sin. But it is more sin when God tells you it's sin and you still sin. When you know it's wrong and he draws that line, that's the transgressions I illustrate to my kids, it's when you draw a line and say don't cross it, and we go I'm crossing it anyways. That's transgression. That's where sin increases. The truth I was dealing with is that not May? Is it is grace going to abound? No, it did abound. One of the joys of reading the very first sermon Peter preached in Acts was What does Peter tell the crucifiers of Jesus after he convinces them you crucified him? Well he knew it. But he tells them he's alive? What does he say? Sorry for you guys. There's no more grace for you He says, tell you what, stop crucifying and confessing, and this same Jesus will pour out God's Spirit and shed abroad His love in your heart. And you'll know how loved you are. Grace abounded. Anybody who's been converted, now there are a m there's as many different let me just put it this way, there's no one model for conversion in the Bible. It'd be it'd be the best thing if we all of us came out of our mother's wombs or regenerating and grew up and never not knowing God's grace, right? Never wandering into sin and getting all that nonsense, but that God's wonderful election and covenant would work out as it does in according to his covenant, and we would just grow up knowing the Lord all our days. That's the best But even then, as covenant used, God's grace abounds over the sin in your life, because you have sinned. But thinking of these people God's converting Generally, when you read about these mighty conversion stories, and God does it to show his grace, they're in a lot of sin. They're living a lot of sin and sinfully, and God graciously converts them. Has mercy on them and brings them to faith in Christ. So God's grace always abounds. Over our sin. So it's not that it doesn't. The question then becomes really: are we to turn this into a principle? Because I know how much God's grace has abounded in my life, and I am hoping sure you know how much it's abounded in your life. Do we then go, well, let's make it more gracious by intentionally sinning? And Paul says I I do prefer the older translations which says, God forbid, because there's an element of horror in that that Paul's dealing with. God forbid. Because let me tell you what that means. That means bringing Jesus down from heaven again and crucifying him. That's what we did in our sin. Crucify God. Couldn't listen to him. Paul's saying, if that's the course you're going on to be like crucifying Jesus again. God forbid. The horrible thought. No, it did abound when we did do that. But to think, are we to continue in debt? God forbid it, right? Should we just continue to see past laws? We just continue to abort babies that God's grace can abound Think about the horrors, right? Take any sin. If sin is horrifying, so we just have it abound So God can be gracious? The Bible nowhere says this is dealing with people, maybe you thought this, you maybe you've acted on this, and hopefully you've repented of it, because it can happen We think, well, God will forgive me if I do this, so I'm going to do it anyways. Have you ever done that? Have you ever reasoned wrongly with yourself, because you know God is forgiving, and you gave in the temptation, you did it anyways, because you said God will forgive me. Now I challenge you to find a verse in the Bible that says, if you sin, God will forgive you. You will not find it. You will not find a passage that says, if I sin, God will forgive me. You find verses all over the Bible that say, if you repent, God will forgive you. If you repent for that sin, and are genuinely sorry for it, if you repent from that sin and are horrified and turn from it, oh yes, God will forgive you. But I've I I met a man trying to witness to him at Starbucks years ago when I was a summer intern, and he told me, Well if I sin, God will forgive me. You think at first you want to say yes to that? No! I mean if he's not a Christian, sure, we we know they're just abonded and saved to sin. I I don't know where the guy was at, but his understanding of God's grace and whatever he's learned about Christianity hope hopefully wrong I mean uh evidently wrongly, but hopefully no Christian actually taught him this. That if you sin, God will forgive you. He's gotta do it. And so do it. No. No. That's not what God said. He doesn't want you to sin. Never wanted you to sin. James is very clear about this. If you're in temptation you sin, never think God wanted that. Don't ever think God tempted you to sin Oh, is it this is his does his ordination uh otherwise order and direct and govern and bound our sins of his glorious sins? Absolutely. But he is not the author of our sins. We are. And he is gracious. Question 82 in our Short of catechism says, can anybody keep God's law perfectly? Answer, no mere man is accepting Jesus. No mere man in this world, in the next, yes, in this world can daily transgress thoughts, words, and deeds. Beloved, it's not if God's grace will abound in your life. If you're a Christian in Christ, it has. It will. But your heart can't be, let me continue in sin so that it may. That's what Paul's dealing with. Because he wants us to reckon with the glorious truth that we're free from sin, its power. We've been pardoned by its guilt and justification. As Paul even demonstrates in verse 7, even in our justification we've been freed from its power. And when Jesus returns, we shall be ever freed from its presence. No more will it ever be a part of our life as it is for him. It was a part of his life. Not as a sinner, but he dealt with it every day as its tempting influences upon him by Satan, by Peter. In the world he lived, it was his presence was a reality to him of which he died to. But he's forever free from that in his kingdom in heaven. And we will be too one day. So Paul says You Christian must consider yourself dead to sin and alive to God also. I found this quote. There's a new quote. Paul says, ask the question, are we to continue in sin? His answer is, God forbid, how can we? And yet, this author says, quote, and yet, there are many believers who have placed their faith in Christ Receive forgiveness for their sins, been baptized with the Holy Spirit, are indwelt permanently by the Holy Spirit Have an inheritance in heaven, and who sin like they are brothers of the devil. A horrifying thought, isn't it? We're not of that family anymore. Now, I believe me, am aware of indwelling sin. My purpose this morning today isn't to crush people. And Paul's purpose isn't to crush people, Christians who are battling against sin. and striving against it and are agonizing against it and they want it out of their life and they're tired of dealing with that. That's not the point. Really, the point, this text will either be an admonishment to you, because for whatever reason you've fallen into continuing in some sin. And you've somehow rationalized it away to yourself, and I don't know, maybe some of this text will expose some of that. And it is y an admonishing you to not live like that. You can't, and reckon with who you are in Christ is dead to sin And alive to God? Or it will just again be the greatest encouragement and reminder to you, and it should be to any Christian. You are freed from sin's power. You are freed for God to serve him. Not because you say it is, not because you want it to be, because it is. in Jesus Christ. This is that would be an admonishment and hopefully an encouragement to every Christian here about the glorious reality and identity that you have in Jesus Christ. It's dead to sin. alive to God. So here's the teaching. It's clear. You, Christian, must consider yourself dead to sin and alive to God also. You might ask the question, well, why is that? Why must I, as a believer in Jesus Christ, why must I consider myself dead to sin? And a lie to God in Christ. Well, that's what Paul says there, the very last phrase in verse 11, because you are in Christ Jesus. Jesus Christ the Lord is God's eternal son. In the fullness of time, right? He took on our flesh as he was promised by all the prophets to do. Because God had purposed to do this from all eternity? In the fullness of time, he became a man. He is the God who became a man, like you and I Live the life for us so we could never live serving God, dying to death, we don't want to die. On our behalf, in our flesh, dying to sin Rising from the dead three days later, conquering it, victorious over, have made reconciliation, has reconciled us to God, has brought us forgiveness of our sins. And in his great promise to his church, to his believers, as he told the apostles at Upper Room In that day, you will know that I am in the Father and that you are in me. What's that day he's talking about? The day he poured the Holy Spirit out upon them. and regenerated them, uniting them to himself forever as one body, one spirit with himself. Well saying, so what's presupposed in this text is you've been converted. I was writing to the church, you have heard the gospel and you have believed the gospel. And you have the Holy Spirit and you have been baptized. That's the underlying assumption what Paul's saying here is he is speaking to people who are converted. People who know the gospel, believe it, confess their faith, been baptized, have the Holy Spirit. They are then in Christ. By the work of Christ and by the will of God, you are as a baptized believer in Jesus Christ, in Him, united to Him. And Paul then specifies there in verse 10. Well you might say, well, what's the significance of that? Well, what Paul says there in verse 10 We all know Jesus died, right? That's preached to us. Ought to believe that? Because it's true, because God declares it to us. It happened. The Holy Spirit said what happened in Scripture. It came and happened Eyewitnesses saw it, they testified to it, and the Holy Spirit had them recorded down to us. Jesus died. The Son of God died. And he died to sin Not because he was a sinner. He didn't need to die to sin. He died to sin for us. Sin as the reigning power in this age. If you are not in Jesus Christ, You are under the power and dominion of sin. You are under the power and dominion of death. Try as you might, you will do nothing else but sin, and in the end you will die. That is the horrifying lost state of mankind in Adam. But God's grace abound him. And the amazing, awing, wonderful state is. In Christ, we've been justified and made alive and reign with him in life. So because Jesus died to sin As the power over our lives and broke it by his death, dying in our place for our sins, for the guilt of our sins, suffering what we deserve. He also died to it as a power To deliver us and free us from it. So Jesus died to sin. Jesus, then Paul says, in the life that he lives, he lives to God. What does he mean there? Was he not living to God when he was in the flesh and dying to sin? Yes But what he means is in a way now in his resurrection life fully freed from the influences, not that it influences sin, but just the presence of sin is he is alive to God fully. Freely, completely, even in a way. Not that he wasn't before, but think about it. He had to sleep, he got tired, he was fatigued, and then he died When you die, you can't be living the God in your body. And now he's alive. He really died. The horrible reality of death Once for all, so that now he may live forever bodily, never returning to the death. Forever. Death has no more dominion. Think about that horrifying thought. Death once had dominion over Jesus Because he took our sins on him and laid in the tomb. No more. He died and he buried it away. And now he is alive forever. And whom for whom does he live? The one he's always lived for. God. It's a wonderful life. It's not just that he's a lie to God, he's a lie for God. Everything he does in his resurrected life as he did on earth in the Fullness of his new power and capacities as the glorified Son of Man, the life-giving spirit, he does for God. He is alive in every fiber of his being for God That's what it means that he's alive to God. He's alive for God. Well, that's true of Jesus. That's what we preach. That's the gospel message, true, that then he says You who are in him, God, because you are in him, you've died. And you've risen. But you get the logic what he's saying, right? If Jesus died to sin, And lives the God, then you who are in him have also died to sin. And live. That's the death he's emphasizing here. He's not emphasizing in this portion of the epistle you're dying to sin That's actually mortifying and putting him to death. He's getting you to reckon with the fact, in Christ you've already died to it. Because Jesus died to it. You in Christ, you are already alive to God because Jesus is alive to God. These aren't truths of you because they're truths of Jesus. And you then ask the question like, well, when did this happen to me? When did I die to sin? And when did I come alive to God? And Paul says there in verse 3, this happened at your baptism. But he says, Do you not know? He's reminding him here the church, because of course they knew. Maybe he's chiding them because they forgot their catechetical basic instruction Here again we see the importance parents, church, leaders reminding of the catechetical instruction and the meaning of baptism for our children and instructing them and what that is. The sign and seal of God's covenant of grace, what it signifies, and Paul says what it signifies here is union with Christ. When these people heard the gospel, repented of their sins, believed they were baptized And at that point they were not in by some magical right, but because this is the symbol God has chosen, the instrument according to His decree to show us and seal to us That we have died. Jesus is death. He's not saying baptism somehow symbolizes going into the grave and dying. He's not saying baptism symbolizes dying. It's generally what's commonly thought and by our brothers who want this emphasize a certain mode. It's not saying you die in baptizing. He's saying you you die Jesus and you become united to Jesus. The emphasis in baptism is union with Christ His death now is your death. And that's why he says, therefore, by baptism into his death, you've been buried. And as everybody, well, probably all of us, most of us know, burials when it sets in death, right? It's final. There's no coming back. That's what Paul's trying to get across to us. If you're in Christ, there is no going back. God has done something for you. He has put your old man to death. Peter Bonhoeffer says when when Christ calls a man, he calls him to die. So he does Who you were before baptism is not who you are now after baptism, by God's grace. Not because baptism does something. I does something of the fifth sign and seal. It's not an empty sign and seal, Paul's saying. Paul can appeal to baptism for their teaching and for their knowledge. They should know this as baptized people. And that meant union with Jesus. That meant dying. And therefore you who are in Jesus' grave. You die. Why does he say that? So you can walk in newness of life. Did Jesus stay in the grave? Did he ever intend to stay in the grave? No. Death didn't catch him by surprise. It's not a big tragic. His life isn't a tragedy He came to die. I love John Owen's title on the um for his work on definite atonement, the death of death and the death of Christ. He killed death by dying. He killed it. He put it to death. He came to put it to death forever to bury it. The way you and I need to think about the gospel is when Jesus died and was buried, there went Adam and the whole world of sin and with it. buried away. And when Christ rose on Easter morning, the whole new creation with its glories and powers and energy and light and everything has come in and is the reigning thing and just a matter of the rest of that Finally getting out of here and all of that, finally coming in the resurrection. But maybe you're asking yourself the question, am I really dead to sin? Are you really dead? Paul says you are. He is spending the whole, these whole verses 2 to 10, and every verse talking about death. The Apostle Paul says in these eight verses here, you are really dead to sin. And you are really alive to God in Christ. And he says that you must consider it to be so by yourself. In fact, he makes it the only necessary conclusion about your conversion. That's the force of the words. So you also. It's an inference. It's a necessary inference. It's a necessary conclusion. If Jesus died to sin And if Jesus rose from the death alive to God, and if by your baptism you were baptized into that death, and if we've been planted in the likeness of his death, we never also be planted in the likeness of his resurrection, then you too have died to sin And you two have risen in our lives to God. You know, Paul doesn't say we've got to get this straight because we're dealing with our thinking. Next week we'll talk more about the active warfare and strategies with it. But we're talking about how we're to think about ourselves in Christ. Paul does not say become dead to sin and allied to God. That's not what he says here. He's not saying become dead to it and become alive to it, it's not what you're saying here. These are facts that are presupposed Nor does he say this, that by reckoning these facts to be true, they'll become facts. He's not saying by you believing them, then they become true. That's not what he says Yeah, I'll quote John Murray in his Commentary on Romans. What he says is, this is a paraphrase, these are facts. Obtained by virtue, that means because of or and result of union with Christ, which we then as believers are to reckon with and appreciate. These are facts. And the truth of the matter is both whether you but consider yourself or not, they're true. Whether you believe it or not, they're true if you're in Christ. Believing makes nothing true, right? The world wishes it could, and maybe you do too, right? People believe there's no God, and they wish they could make it true because they believe there's no God. Believing makes nothing true. Believing receives the truth. Something is testified to you. And Paul is trying to say: what is being testified to you by God Because the sacrament is not man's word, but God's word. What God is saying to you in the sacrament of baptism is you've died with Jesus Christ. You're in union with him. And you've risen with Jesus Christ, and these are facts. And now, as believers in Jesus Christ, who are dwell by his spirit, you need to appreciate this about yourself, and you need to reckon with it in your living They are facts. He doesn't say become dead to sin. Become alive to God. Believe you are and say it will be true. He says believe it because it's true. God says it in the gospel. You believe it. God signs it and seals it to you in baptism. Believe it. You are dead to sin in Christ Jesus. You are alive to God in Christ Jesus. But why do this? Why go through this act of believing? Why consider this? It's because, as one commentator said, believing it is essential to experiencing it. Paul in the next two verses and really in the rest of the chapter is going to go on then and say, well, don't let it rain in your mortal body. Here's the fact then of die to it now. Why? Because by because it's raining in your life? Paul says no, it's not raining in your life. You're dead to it. Reckon that. And now live out. As a believer in Christ, sin is not raining in your life It can't is what he's getting across to us. It can't be the reigning factor. So we can't reason. It's too much. I understand the struggle. Well we can't live defeated by sin as Christians. I remember Oscomberg, I first, that's why I said, for the first in my life, I felt like I had a free will. It's not enslaved to sin. We were getting together with some Christians, and they were talking about the next one, they're going to something like why are you like living like that? Now believe me, in the in the last in the next in the decades since then I've sinned. I'm aware of that But we're not sinner going, when am I going to sin next? It's inevitable. It's not inevitable, is what Paul's saying. It's inevitable beyond Adam. It's not inevitable in Christ. You're free. But notice what it says here. It doesn't say sin's dead. It says you're dead Sin's still there. Sin's going to tempt you. You may give into it. Sin's going to tease you. It's going to make you feel strong. It's going to exhort its power. Sin's not dead. You're dead to it. Reckon that as true. I know my temptations, and I know the sin God brought me out of. And it was because in the heat of the moment When sin is wanting me to do more sin. And serve yet sin, even though at that point in my life I had confessed that to a group of men at a at a in a men's fellowship group and had repented of it and had been baptized, here is sin, trying to get me to sin. It's only because I said over and over to myself, I'm dead to sin. I'm alive to God. Reckoning with these facts. I'm dead to sin. I'm alive to God. And I wasn't able to go forward and not having it reign over me. And it's the only thing, beloved, I know how to do when sin creeps up yet in my life still. Paul is giving you the greatest gift here. This is what I give you as pass just using Pastor Paul's pastoring. is encouraging you how to think about yourself in Christ. And it's not because thinking this makes it true, it's because if you're in Christ, it is true. It's true of you. Belief in taxile behavior, you know the hardest part about becoming a Marine isn't boot camp. That's the easiest part. They just tell you what to do. You don't have a choice. Just yell loud and move fast, you'll get through boot camp. Easy peasy. Do you know the hard part about being a marina? Being a Marine Getting the EGA going out now and being a Marine because you got a new identity. You've been baptized through boot camp. You're a Marine. You're not the same you were anymore. You got the spread of corn you, and all you Navy people and airmen, I think airmen, you guys all you airmen, you army folks, are you get it You got them identity. You put those candies on, you've been through that, you put the rank on. You have to live that out now. You've got to live out what you are. That's what Paul is saying. You have to live out what you are in Christ. Dead to sin and alive to God. That's the hardest part. I'm so glad God gives us that visible sacrament, that that act The right we can go back and appeal to something tangible, something that's happened, because it's just like all the mini rights, right? Marriage rights. Church membership, you know, these things, these these ceremonies, these things that change us and give us a new identity, and we have to live it out But Paul's saying uh here's a analogy, an example by I picked up in an illustration. If someone you know if someone told me I I've given you a thousand dollars, I didn't unless I believe that I'm never gonna act on it I might want to go look at my thing, but I'm going to be bleeding my screen that says I've got the thousand dollars. And I'm going to be trusting that Bank of America, or I guess I'm a Navy Fed now, didn't make a mess, and it really is there But unless I believe it, or I didn't convince of it, I'm not going to go spend a thousand dollars. You need to believe your dad to sin. And then live alive with God. Because you are. Not because believing it makes it true. I know I've said it a thousand times. I hope so. I hope it's in you. You are dead to it. And you are alive to God in Christ. Now you have to become what you are. Here's another uh example, illustration I got. Did you notice that uh and maybe you've seen in shows, have you ever seen a grown elephant tied up And the other thing, that little rope the other thing's pointless, right? They put this little T rope on this However many ton animal tied to this dinky little stake and you say all he's gotta do is sneeze wrong and he's gonna break that thing and be free. Like how's this little dinky rope? Apparently When an elephant's a baby, they tie a big rope to his leg and tie him to a deep stake, and after fruitless, countless efforts of trying to get free from it, it just stops and gives up And since elephants don't forget anything, when they're older, it just takes a little rope. Had a little escape because they don't even try to get free. Maybe that's been you and your sin. And you've forgotten you are free. Maybe there's that one little tug of reckoning that you're dead to sin and alive to God is the tug you need. To break free from sin, not continue in it. Identity or victory Here's one commentator's language and a precept of biblical psychology. I know psychology is a science, but the Bible talks about psychology is the study of the psyche, the soul. Man, as a rational man, creature man in God's image. Well, the Bible talks about who we are, right? So there's a biblical psychology, and one of the precepts of biblical psychology is victory is preceded by an awareness of identity You need to be aware. And remind us in pop this is a present tense imperative, meaning this is probably something you don't just do once. But may you need to remind yourself in the heat of the moment, time to time, I don't know what frequency, but you need to reckon with it as you facing trying and tempting circumstances Get into new things. You need to train yourself to reckon within the heat of the moment. I'm dead to sin. Oh I just got. You can say it under your breath. You can say it real quick. It helps to name the sin. What's the name what you're dying to? I'm dead to that kind of sin. And I'm alive to God. And it's out of that belief that you act. That's not then moralism. That's just reckoning with who you are. You are dead to sin. You don't have to sin. As a believer, you you you I will say this, you do. This is the careful thing that you've got to say, but you don't have to. You're not enslaved to it You're free from it. Notice what Paul says in verse 7. I I I needed to hear this this week, and this helped me out a lot. If you look at verse 7, Paul says, the one who's died, if you're reading the ESV, it's in your footnote They translate as been set free from sin and there's a lot of debate in which ways you can take it. It's a it's a legitimate translation. I just think from the context, the better one is their marginal reading. The one who has died has been set free from sin, because that's the normal verb that Paul uses everywhere in his epistles for justification. What's Paul talking about? He's saying, and then in the next verse in verse eight he says, Now if you've died with Christ, Paul's saying the one who's died with Christ, you've been justified from sin. In your justification, not only have you been freed from its guilt, and so there's no more condemnation, in your justification, you've been freed also from the power of sin. I think there can be a way in which we teach justification and emphasize it, and maybe just the ways I've heard it and some of the circles I've been in. Maybe you've heard something like this, Jesus did it all, so you can't do anything, so don't try Well, yes, that's true as far as justifying us to life, but that's not true about being in Christ. Because now you need to live that out, right? And so sometimes justification can be taught us in a way that might undergo it and cut out from under us. Any desire for moral effort, because we think exerting moral effort and obeying God, which is what Paul's just talking about here, is then legalism and trying to save ourselves by works. It's not legalism Legalism is when we say I don't need Jesus crucified for me to save me and die in my place for my sins and make me acceptable and righteous to God. So if that's what legalism is saying, I just need this law and by my works I'll stand. Now, if you believe on Jesus Christ and you trust in him and the work that he's done and you live by that faith every day that Paul says, the Son of God loved me and died for me. Well y if that stays true and you're in Christ, then your obedience to God is is just what you're made for, is what you've been justified for, is what Paul's saying. You've been free for this. Your new obedience in Christ is not legalism. It's not salvation by works. It's the fruit of being put into a new and right relationship with God through union with Christ. Your new obedience to God is a fruit of your justification. It has justification as its foundation. But earnest, eager dying to sin, earnest, eager obedience and living for God. is not salvation by works. This is also what our confession says in its chapter on the law and justification. Better look there. But it's the fruit of it. Because you've been pardoned. Because you've been redeemed. Because you've been made new. Because you're in Christ. You're freed from sin, and your new obedience to Christ is what you must do, should do, and by God's grace, one day all you'll do. So I just want to make that clear because it can get into our minds, can't it? Oh, I'm just trying to save myself. Why am I doing all these works? I'm just trying to present something and place the Christ. No. I just don't want to serve sin anymore because I'm freedom. What am I gonna do? Continue in sin? Paul's gonna deal with that next You're either going to give yourself a servant to sin or you're going to give yourself a servant to God. There's not two options for man to do. And a justified person is going to give himself to God. He's going to serve as God. That's what he's going to do. So, beloved, know this. You are free to obey. You're free to obey. And you have the heart and propensity to obey. That's what you have in Christ. You're dead to sin. You're alive to God. That is good news. May you reckon that daily with yourself, because it is true in Christ, dead to sin. Alive to God. And so let's together stir each other up. Prayerfully, encouragingly, reminding one another. You're dead to sin, brother. The lies of God's sister. Let's serve him with everything that we have. Because this is great. This is God's life for us in Christ. And God give you his grace. Amen.