Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the seventh chapter of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy chapter seven, and we'll read the first twelve verses. When the Lord your God brings you into the land that you are entering to take possession of it, and clears away many nations before you. The Hittites, the Gergeshites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizites, the Hivites, the Canaanites The Perizzites, the Hibites, and the Jebusites, seven nations more numerous and mightier than yourselves. And when the Lord your God gives them over to you and you defeat them, Then you must devote them to complete destruction. You shall make no covenant with them, and show no mercy to them. You shall not intermarry with them Giving your daughters to their sons, or taking their daughters for your sons. For they would turn away your sons from following me to serve other gods. Then the anger of the Lord would be kindled against you, and he would destroy you quickly. But thus shall you deal with them. You shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and chop down their asherine, and burn their carved images with fire. For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. It was not because you were more in number than any other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you. For you were the fewest of all peoples. But it is because the Lord loves you and is keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers. That the Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Know, therefore, that the Lord your God is God, the faithful God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations. and repays to their face those who hate him by destroying them. He will not be slack with one who hates him. He will repay him to his face. You shall therefore be careful to do the commandment in the statutes and the rules that I command you today. And because you listen to these rules and keep and do them, the Lord your God will keep with you the covenant and the steadfast love that he swore to your fathers. This is the word of the Lord. Matthew 15, 21 through 28. In the ESV, the heading is The Faith of a Canaanite Woman. And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon. And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying. Have mercy on me, O Lord, Son of David. My daughter is severely oppressed by a demon But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and begged him, saying, Send her away, for she is crying out after us. He answered, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. But she came and knelt before him, saying, Lord, help me And he answered, It is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. She said, Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their masters. Then Jesus answered her, O woman, great is your faith, be it done for you as you desire. And her daughter was healed instant. This is the word of the Lord. So you need to be turning to Joshua chapter 9 because that is the preaching text. It wasn't read. Joshua 9, as we continue our journey through this portion of God's Word. And in the beginning, we have these few verses where we see the Canaanites After having uh after the Israelites have defeated both both Jericho and I The Canaanites decide they're going to take up arms against the Israelites who were invading and taking the territory. Here it is. As soon as all the kings who were beyond the Jordan in the hill country and in the lowlands and all the coasts of the Great Sea toward Lebanon, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, the Jebuzites heard of this. They gathered together as one. To fight against Joshua and Israel. So they have decided they're not going to stand for this invasion and taking of their territory. They are going to unite together so that they can stand as one. And stand against Israel and Joshua. And then we get on to the next. There's one little group in the next portion, One a few little small cities who don't want to join with the Allied forces of the Canaanites. And here we have what they decide to do. They decide to deceive and scheme for peace. But when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and to I, They, on their part, acted with cunning, and went and made ready provisions, and took worn-out sacks. Lying sacks, really, because the sacks are lying about what they really are. Worn-out sacks for their donkeys, and wineskins worn out and torn and mended. with worn out patched sandals on their feet, and worn out clothes, and all their provisions were dry and crumbly. So they're pretending like they're They've come from a huge distance and the food they have is really old because they've been traveling so long and so forth. This is lying evidence. And they went to Joshua in the camp at Gilgal and said to him and to the men of Israel, We have come from a distant country. There's the actual lie being told. Now, I'll make a covenant with us. But the men of Israel said to the Hivites, Perhaps you live among us, then how can we make covenant with you? And they said to Joshua, We are your servants. And Joshua said to them, Who are you and where do you come from? And they said to him, From a very distant country. There's a lie being told yet again. And by the way, in Deuteronomy 20, verses 10 through 18, there it says that Israel, as they come into the land and as they make their journey from the wilderness, They're allowed to make covenant with nations that are distant, not in Canaan, but distant nations. They're allowed to make certain kinds of covenants with them if they will submit and will not make war against Israel. So they're allowed to make covenants with distant lands. These people are now pretending to be from a distant land. They're lying about it. They said, from a very distant country, your servants have come. Because of the name of the Lord your God. For we heard we have heard a report of him and all that he did in Egypt. So they're saying We don't know about what you did here recently. We're ignorant of that, but we're hearing about the story of long ago in Egypt, 40 years ago. Really? And all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, that's more recent. And to Sihon, king of Heshbon, and to Ag, king of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth. So our elders and all the inhabitants of our country said to us, Take provisions in your hand for the journey and go to meet them, and say to them, We are your servants. Come now make a covenant with us. So this is the lie that's being told. And they even now they offer the evidence. Verse 12, here is our bread. Take a look at our stuff. It was still warm when we took it out of our houses as food for the journey on the day that we set out to come to you. But now, behold, it is dry and crumbly such a long journey. These wineskins were new when we filled them, and behold, they have burst, and these garments and sandals of ours were worn out from the very long journey. And then verse 14, this is important. Listen carefully. So the men took some of their provisions. Hey, well, look at this evidence of your long journey, right? And then this phrase, but they did not ask counsel from Yahweh. They say, we can handle this, we can look at the evidence, we can make a decision, we can figure this out. Okay, just show us the stuff. They don't ask God. They didn't ask Yahweh. Now, how could they ask Yahweh? Well, there's a provision for that. In Numbers 27, 21, when Joshua was commissioned as leader of Israel, replacing Moses. It was there said, he, Joshua, shall stand before Eliezer the priest. Who shall inquire for him by the judgment of the Urim? This is a way of determining things, a way of checking out what God wants. It was a yes or no kind of thing Before Yahweh, at his word they shall go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he and all the people of Israel, with him the whole congregation. So what they should have done is they should have said, let's go check what God wants. To do here, what God says about this. And let's get Eliezer and let us stand before him and let him use this method to determine what God says about these Gibeonites and what they're saying to us. That's what they should have done, and they didn't do it. They just decided they could figure it out themselves and they can make the decision themselves, and so they did Verse 15 tells us that they did. And Joshua made peace with them and made a covenant with them to let them live. Now, you've heard that reading from Deuteronomy? No one in the land was supposed to be allowed to live. You don't make any covenants with them, you don't let any of them live, you destroy them, you devote them to destruction. And the only exceptions to that are people like Rahab. For cause. God said that's okay. And others where God says you can take this plunder, but not that plunder. They could take the plunder of I, but not the plunder of Jericho. But other than those kinds of exceptions where God speaks and makes it clear, you have to destroy them completely and don't make any covenants with them. And then this is what they did. They made a covenant with them To let them live, and the leaders of the congregation swore to them. So it happened. And then we get to the next part: the deception discovered. Verse 16. It only took three days. Verse 16. At the end of three days, after they had made a covenant with them, they heard that they were their neighbors, not from a distant country. Weeks and weeks journey away, not at all. They were their neighbors and that they lived among them, just over the hills a little way Verse 17, and the people of Israel set out and reached their cities on the third day. It was just a short journey to go check them out. Now their cities were Gibeon, Chepirah, Beroth, and Curiath Jirem. But the people of Israel did not attack them Because the leaders of the congregation had sworn to them by Yahweh, the God of Israel. When you make a swear, an oath by Yahweh the God of Israel, you don't reverse it. Then all the congregation murmured against the leaders. But all the leaders said to all the congregation, We have sworn to them by Yahweh, the God of Israel, and now we may not touch them. It's a done deal. Maybe it shouldn't have happened, but it's a done deal, and we can't go back because we swore by the name of the God of Israel. Yahweh, and you don't undo an oath that you made to Yahweh. You just don't Psalm 15 tells us that. It's a beautiful psalm. Let me read it to you and emphasize the last bit. Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart Who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend, in whose eyes a vile person is despised, but who honors those who fear the Lord. In this last part, who swears to his own hurt and does not change You swore an oath, it hurts you to keep it. You still do not change. Absolute follow-through when it's done in God's name. So they have to keep the oath. Verse 20, this we will do to them, let them live. Lest wrath be upon us because of the oath that we swore to them. God is a God of truth, and will not tolerate people who lie in his name Or who break their promises made in his name. And we see that this covenant made with these few cities, these Gibeonites. is a perpetual covenant. It wasn't just for then and there. Because in 2 Samuel, much later in time, during David's reign, King David David's reign. 2 Samuel 21, we read that during one point in David's reign, Israel experienced a three-year famine. And David investigated why God was withholding rain. And he learned that it was the result of this covenant between the Gibeonites and Israel that was broken by his predecessor. King Saul, a generation earlier. And the covenant that was broken was struck under the terms of deception. That's this Gibeonite one Nevertheless, Israel violated it by King Saul, and restitution was required. And when David discovered this, he brought forth the restitution, the cost of breaking the covenant. was steep. Seven sons of Saul had to be brought out and given over to be hanged to make restitution. For this covenant breaking that happened much, this covenant breaking that happened to a covenant that was made much earlier. You see, here's what we can take from this, folks. Promises are important. And the consequence for breaking promises are real. All of our promises made in God's name are very important to God. We're the people of God. We bear his name. And so our words should be very seriously taken I have a series of quotes here about promises that I think will kind of underline what I'm saying. Here's one that's an unknown quote. A relationship without trust, this is a modern quote. A relationship without trust is like having a phone with no service. And what do you do with a phone with no service? You play games. Right? Now, here's another one by the famous Frederick Nietzsche. The father of Nihilism, which means nothingism, he was a forerunner of postmodernism. Nietzsche claimed that the death of God, the end of the of this idea of God would eventually lead lead to the loss of any universal perspective on things, and along with it any coherent sense of objective truth. That's why I say he's the forerunner of postmodernism. Because postmodernism doesn't believe there's any coherent truth. Your truth is your truth, and my truth is my truth, and if they contradict each other, no problem. But here's what he said. He can't live with that. Here's what Nietzsche said. He said, I guess he said this to someone. I am upset that you lied to me No, he says, I am not upset that you lied to me. I am upset that from now on I can't believe you. So he he plays it both ways, you see. There's no objective truth, and yet he lives in the world where objective truth matters. He can't believe someone who's lied to him. Well, here's another one by the famous Stephen Covey, a management guru. Trust is the glue of life. It is the most essential ingredient in effective communication. It is the foundational principle that holds all relationships. Here's one by Julianne Moore. Loving someone is giving them the power to break your heart, but trusting them not to do so. And finally one by Patricia Hewitt. You don't repair that relationship by sitting down and talking about trust or making promises. Actually, what rebuilds it is living it and doing things. So don't just make promises, keep promises. So we go back to the narrative, verse 21. And the leaders said to them, Let them live. So they became, what did they become? Cutters of wood and drawers of water for all the congregation. Just as the leaders had said to them. They had said, We're your servants, and they said, Yes, you will be our servants. And here's your job: you will cut wood and bring water for the congregation. Specifically for the sanctuary, to supply the needs of the sanctuary. God is the God of truth, and his people must be the people of the truth. So now we see the deception confronted and the consequences given, spelled out in these words. Verse 22. Joshua summoned them and said to them, Why did you deceive us, saying, We are very far from you? Will you dwell among us? Now, therefore, you are cursed, and some of you shall never be anything but servants, cutters of wood, and drawers of water for the house of my God. They answered Joshua, Because it was told to your servants for a certainty that the Lord, Yahweh, your God, commanded his servant Moses to give you all the land and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from before you. So we feared greatly for our lives because you did this thing. And now, behold, we are in your hand. Whatever seems good and right in your sight to us to do, do it. So he did this to them and delivered the people of Israel, and they did not kill them, but Joshua made them that day cutters of wood. And jars of water for the congregation and for the altar of Yahweh to this day in the place that he should choose. I believe, however, we can see something of God's marvelous grace in this providence God's promise made to the Gentiles, for the Gentiles, made to Israel. As I said earlier, we can see that God makes exceptions occasionally Ruth, later on a Moabite woman, became one of God's people, Israel. And Rahab and Jericho was saved. By grace through faith in Yahweh, fearing that he was the true God, and she trusted in him. And we also see this principle. So sometimes these principles come to clash a bit, but God resolves them. Here's the principle of Jeremiah 18. Much later, Jeremiah 18, verse 7 through 10. Here's what God says: if at any time I declare concerning a nation or kingdom that I will pluck it up and break it down and destroy it, I will. And if that nation concerning which I have spoken turns from its evil, I will relent of the disaster that I intended to do to it. And if at any time I declare concerning a nation or a kingdom that I will build and plant it, and if it does evil in my sight, not listening to my voice, then I will relent and not do the good that I had intended. We see this principle when Jonah was sent to the people of Nineveh, and he proclaimed to them for forty days that God was going to destroy them, and yet they repented, and God God did not destroy them. So there are times and situations where God says, I will change my mind In God's providence, the Israelites were deceived here into making covenant with the Gibeonites, who by all rights should have been destroyed. Perhaps some of these folks who served at the tabernacle would learn about the true God and come to trust Him. How would that happen? Because they're carrying water to the temple? to the tabernacle. They're bringing wood and they're hearing the conversations and they're learning the ritual and they're understanding the grace of God in providing sacrifice for sinners. And they're learning about the moral nature of God, the God of Israel. And they're saying, wow, that is a holy God. And he requires sacrifice for sinners. I wonder if he might have mercy on me, a poor, lowly, Gibeonite slave, Gentile. Maybe some of them, by God's grace, would learn of him in this providence that happened here and come to trust him. See, you see, God is able to bring good out of evil. And he often does. I think some of you could say it in your own lives. You have started out doing evil, but God has providentially turned it around and made it into something good and right and beautiful. That's no excuse for doing evil or choosing evil. But God is greater even than all our sin and our evil and our bad choices. So God evidently planned to save some Gibeonites. The danger that was lurking in saving some of the Gibeonites. was a real danger because that's why God said destroy all these people because if you don't destroy them they will influence you and they will want to marry your kids and they will change God's word and God's promises, and it'll all be null and void, so don't let them live We see here that even this provision of making them slaves put them in a place where they didn't have so much influence. And that's good. In time, as you know, wonderfully know, God sent his Messiah A Jew. Salvation is of the Jews, not the Gentiles. He sent his Messiah, a Jew, to be the Savior of Israel, yes, but not just Israel, to be the Savior of all nations. The world, isn't it wonderful? And you sitting here today, and I standing here today, are the recipients of that greater grace. Are we not? We are. We are parallel to the Gibeonites and the Canaanites. Who deserve destruction. And by the way, Israel deserved it too. But God's grace has been made manifest. To us. We did not scheme to obtain it, although I think some of us probably turned to Christ out of sheer fear, like these Gibeonites. Did. Sheer fear of judgment. And yet, if judgment and fear bring us to Christ and we learn of His marvelous, wonderful grace, His great, loving nature. It's a great thing, isn't it, to be fearful in that situation? It is. God's grace has been made manifest to us in the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Savior of all nations Dale Ralph Davis, a very good commentator, says this: The Gibeonites escaped with their lives, but lived under a curse. They were woodcutters and water carriers for Yahweh's sanctuary. Sheer drudgery was to be their lot, yet we may detect redemptive purpose here. And then he quotes Bush. They were hereby brought into a situation where they would naturally acquire the knowledge of the true God and of his revealed will. They were made to dwell in the courts of the Lord's house, were honored with near access to him in the services of the sanctuary, and thus placed in circumstances eminently favorable to their spiritual and eternal. Interests. And that reminds me of a psalm that says, I would rather be the doorkeeper in the house of the Lord than to dwell in the tents of iniquity. Amen. This should not surprise us because God has always had it out for us, Gentiles. Always. And Paul says it in Ephesians 2 verse 13, you who were far off, Gentiles. He has brought near by the blood of Christ. Isn't that wonderful? Though he is just to destroy sinners, Jew and Gentile, his greater purposes are for the salvation of the world, and he keeps His promises. Just listen to what God said to an uncircumcised Gentile much earlier. Just listen to what he said. In Genesis 12, 1 through 3, he said this to an uncircumcised Gentile named Abram, a guy from Iraq, a guy from Over the other side of the world from Israel's perspective. Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. and I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you, I will curse. And all the families of the earth shall be blessed through you. That is what God said to an old Idolatrous Gentile from Babylon A favorite hymn in our hymnal, written in 1834, has as its first line: My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. When first published, the author entitled this hymn, The Immutable Basis of a Sinner's Hope. This title more directly describes verse three of the hymn, which says this His oath, His covenant, His blood, support me in the whelming flood. When all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay. With Israel, God had made a covenant, but now we have the new covenant. At his last supper with his disciples, Jesus said, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is shed for you. And in the book of Hebrews, chapter 6, we are reminded that it is impossible for God to lie. The fact that your sins are forgiven gives you a sure foundation, a certain hope. And it supports you in times of trouble and doubt and fear. If God has given you his oath and sealed his covenant with his own blood, how can you You doubt. God is the God of truth. Trust Him. Amen Lord, we pray that you would make us in the image of Christ, the people of truth. Truthful in all our ways, in all of our actions, in all of our words, in all of our contracts, in all of our vows. Make us truthful. Forgive us for our failure. But we thank you for your truthfulness, your covenant, your vows which you have not broken, which you renew to us today in gathered worship here at your table. Through Jesus Christ our Lord, Amen