Please turn in your Bibles to Genesis 17. The Lord appeared to Abram and said to him I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you, and may multiply you greatly. Then Abram fell on his face. And God said to him, Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham, for I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant To be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you The land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. And God said to Abraham, As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you, throughout their generations. This is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and your offspring after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised. Every male throughout your generations, whether born in your house or bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring. Both he who is born in your house and he who is bought with your money shall surely be circumcised. So shall my covenant be in your flesh, an everlasting covenant. Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. This is the word of the Lord. New Testament reading. First one is from Luke 2, 21 through 38. And at the end of eight days, when he was circumcised, he was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. And when the time came for their purification according to the law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. For as it is written in the law of the Lord, every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. Now there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law. He took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Now, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and for glory to your people Israel. And his father and his mother marveled at what was said about him. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that is opposed, and a sword will pierce through your own soul also so that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Thaniel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from when she was a virgin, and then as a widow until she was eighty-four. She did not depart from the temple worshiping with fasting and prayer night and day. And coming up At that very hour, she began to give thanks to God and to speak of him to all who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem. And then please turn to Colossians 2, 8 through 15. See to it that no one takes you captive. by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world and not according to Christ For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily. And you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority. In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ. having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith and the powerful working of God who raised him from the dead. And you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses. By canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. He set aside this, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Lord, in your light we see light. Unless you illumine even these sacred words that have been preserved for us by you. Unless you illumine them, Lord, we will not receive. But please do illumine them now. By your Spirit, help us to make profit of what you tell us. In Jesus' name. Amen So we are continuing today in our study in Genesis in the development of God's promised salvation. And as you will probably recall, it began in the Garden of Eden with the first humans, Adam and Eve. They had a perfect relationship with God and with one another, which they lost When they disobeyed God and ate the forbidden fruit. And so The inevitable death that was promised began to ensue upon them. And they were expelled from the Garden of Eden. Still, God graciously promised to restore the relationship Through sending a Savior, which in Genesis 3 verse 15 is called the seed of the woman This one would be attacked by the seed of the serpent. But he would prevail and crush the serpent's head. That is, crush the seed of the serpent. And we have been seeing how this promised salvation was beginning to be realized in the history of the life of Abram so far. Genesis twelve records how Abram was called to know Yahweh and to worship Yahweh. And Genesis 14 tells us how Abram defeated the kings that had captured his nephew Lot. And how on the way back from that capture he met mysterious person, Melchizedek, and paid tithes to this Melchizedek. And that fits into the story of how God was unfolding his promises as well. And then in Genesis 15 Since God had made such amazing promises to Abram, God confirmed the promises by cutting a deal. Literally cutting a covenant. Making a unilateral covenant. He swore by himself that he would keep his promises and he was willing to to carry the obligation even of the one With whom he made this covenant, Abram. If Abram failed, God would still keep the covenant because he would take the punishments for Abram's failure. And keep the covenant. God swore by himself. To do this. And then in Genesis 16, since God had promised a child to this old man and his old wife. And it wasn't happening. Times were going on and on, and still no baby. Abram and Sarai tried to get the promised seed through surrogate parenthood. And this was when Abram was 86 years old and Sarai was 76. That wasn't a good idea. Ishmael was the product of that union. But now, here we are in Genesis 17, 13 years later. And that's a long, long time to wait for a baby when you're in your 80s and 90s. And so now God appeared to Abram yet one more time. And the first point of our message today is Almighty God. Demands integrity and obedience. That's what you see when he addresses Abram this time. Verse 1. When Abram was 99 years old, you know, Prince Prince Philip died just the other day, 99 years old. When Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty, walk before me and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you and may multiply you greatly. By the way, blameless means integrity. It means no contradiction between what you say and what you do What you know and how you live. No contradiction in all those things. Transparency And this is an appropriate response to serving the living God, blameless living, blamelessness. And then he says in verse 2, that I may make my covenant between me and you and multiply you greatly. Now God's already made that covenant, but he's saying that I may fulfill what I said to you already. It's been 13 years since I said it, but I'm telling you again. And what is Abram's response? Verse 3, the second half. Then Abram fell on his face. Now, I've been to ordinations in various other Christian traditions, and when the ordinand is being ordained, they lay out flat on the floor, face down with their hands and arms extended. Face down. That's what I imagine here. Abram falls flat on his face. And it's like What happened in the a time when God appeared in a vision to Isaiah and he filled the temple and it was awesome. And what did Isaiah say? Woe is me. Well, I think Abram is doing that by falling on his face here. He's basically saying, I can't look. I don't deserve to look. My face is in the ground. So God demands integrity. He says, I am God Almighty. I am El Shaddai. Walk before me and be blameless, and I'll keep my promises to you. So then, second point, Almighty God promises amazing things. Once again, Verse 3b, and God said to him, Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. And God shows that to him by what he does next. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham. For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. God is speaking proleptically here. I have made you. It's so sure to happen that I can say I have already done it. And I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you, and I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout your generations. for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan For an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. His name gets changed to Father of a Multitude That's hard to believe in a way, isn't it? And you're going to be exceedingly fruitful. In fact, I've already done it. And I'm going to make you into nations, and you're going to be the father of kings. And this is going to be the perpetual covenant relationship with all of your offspring. In those days, by the way, folks, we have to remember that the quality of a man's life wasn't measured in how much money he had or how many possessions he had, even though that was important and it was significant. But the quality of a man's life, the importance of that man was measured more in his legacy, especially children and land. And that's what God is saying here. I'm going to multiply you greatly. You're going to have a legacy forever, and they're going to have a land forever. And then verse 16, he speaks of his wife, Sarai, and I will bless her, and moreover, I will give or have given you a son by her. And I will bless her, and she shall become nations. Kings of people shall come from her. A son to this barren woman. And then, just one more point, Almighty God dramatically communicates these things that he's now restating. And confirms his promises through names, first of all. Names. Names. He names himself. He says, I am God Almighty. El Shaddai, God the all-powerful, I'm the God who can do anything that I say I'm going to do. God names himself this way to make a point about his ability to do what he promises here And then he gives Abram a new name. No longer shall your name be Abram, which means Exalted Father, but your name shall be Father of a Multitude, Abraham Or I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. Again, proleptic. It's already done in God's eyes And then Sarai gets a new name. And God said to Abram, As for Sarai, your wife, you shall not call her Sarai, but Sarap, which means princess, shall be her name. I will bless her, and moreover, I have given you a son by her. I will bless her, and she shall become nations. Kings of people shall come from her. And then one more name, because names are really important here. The name of the promised seed. I will bless her, and moreover I will give you a son by her, and I will bless her, and she shall become nations. Kings of people shall come from her. Then Abram fell on his face and laughed. Now what's he laughing about? And said to himself, shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? Shall Sarah, who is 99 years old, bear a child? I don't know whether he's laughing in disbelief or he's laughing in joy. I'm not sure. And Abram said to God, oh, that Ishmael might live. It seems like he's saying it ain't gonna happen, but you please take this one that I've already fathered And God said, no, but Sarah, your wife, shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name, He Laughs. Just to remind you that you laughed at my promise. He laughs is his name. Isaac. And I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his offspring after him. Then Almighty God dramatically communicates his promises through signs and seals. We're so weak. We just can't believe the gospel sometimes. We just can't believe that our sins are forgiven. We just can't believe all these wonderful things that we say and sing. We just have a hard time grasping it and hanging on to it. So God gives signs and seals. God wanted to mark his people with a perpetual reminder of their being separate from the other nations. And of belonging to God and of his promises to them. And so he gives this very strange to us sign of circumcision. I just want you to note that the promise relates to sexual life and children that come from it. And so this particular sign has to do with that organ of generation. And circumcision here is an absolute requirement. It's not optional It involves pain, a little bit, I guess, and blood. It involves the cutting away of skin from the male organ of generation. And it basically is saying: no confidence in this measure, no confidence in the flesh, no ability to produce the promised child by yourself. And it was an indelible mark of identity and of cleanliness, marking out the people of God. And wives and daughters were included under the headship of their husbands and fathers. This sign pointed to union with God and his people through his covenant. And I want you to carefully note something here. Circumcision is not a profession of faith, is it? Are we waiting to see if someone professes faith and then, oh well, now we'll circumcise you since you profess your faith. That's not what this is. It's a sign and seal of God's faithfulness, not of the faith of the recipient, you see. Physical circumcision pointed to spiritual circumcision. Circumcision of the heart. No confidence in the flesh. No boasting before God. Only humility and repentance. We see that when we do some biblical theology and put some pieces of the puzzle together. Listen to Jeremiah 4, verse 4, where Jeremiah the prophet castigates unfaithful Israel and says to them, circumcise yourselves to the Lord. They were already circumcised. But he says, circumcise yourself to the Lord. Remove the foreskin of your hearts. O men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem, lest my wrath go forth like fire. and burn with none to quench it because of the evil of your deeds. So it's an inward thing as well as an outward thing. Jeremiah 610 To whom shall I speak and give warning that they may hear? Behold, their ears are uncircumcised. They cannot listen. Behold, the word of the Lord is to them an object of scorn. They take no pleasure in it. So circumcision here is of the heart and of the ears listening. And the deacon, Stephen, before he was stoned to death in Acts chapter 7. Verse 51 spoke to those who were listening, and he said, You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, he puts those two together. You always resist the Holy Spirit as your fathers did. So do you. Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the righteous one. whom you have now betrayed and murdered, you who received the law as delivered by angels and did not keep it Now in the future, circumcision would serve God's purposes for the generations to come. When God was about to free his people through the great miracle and judgments administered through Moses Leaving Egypt, God nearly killed Moses. He nearly killed Moses. Because Moses had not had his baby boy circumcised. It's recorded in Exodus 4. And when the Hebrew people lived in the wilderness for 40 years after After leaving Egypt and then sinning, and we're ready now to enter the promised land. The men, all the men, had to be circumcised first. In graphic terms, it says in Joshua 5. 9, today after they were circumcised, today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you. And when the Jews were much later cut off from the land for unfaithfulness to God's covenant and deported to Babylon, where no one practiced circumcision. They had to decide whether their children would be marked out as the people of God or become like the Babylonians. You see, circumcision here was important. It was not optional. God said in verse 9 to Abram, As for you, you shall, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. And he's using that circumcision as keeping the covenant here, as a juxtaposition, saying the same thing in different words. This is my covenant which you shall keep. Between me and you and your offspring after you, every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised. And that's what we saw in the gospel reading when Jesus was circumcised, right? And then verse 14: Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. But even more importantly than the outward sign was circumcision of the heart, which was not optional. The sign without the thing signified only points to judgment. If you're baptized, but you fail to follow the one into whose name you were baptized, you're only demonstrating your judgment. You're coming under the judgment. So how does how does all this ancient stuff about circumcision and the covenant and all how does that apply to us today? Baptism is the new and improved sign. and seal of the covenant. Circumcision has been replaced with an unbloody sign and seal. We're told that in Colossians 3. In him, you who are Christians, Gentiles, not physically circumcised, In him you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ Having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God who raised him from the dead. Baptism is also an absolute requirement. It is not optional. Now, is it possible that someone could trust in Christ personally and and not be baptized and then die in an accident? And yes. But the New Testament simply doesn't countenance the idea of an unbaptized, a non-baptized Christian. It is not optional. Jesus said to his disciples in Matthew 28: Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. And in Acts chapter 2, when Peter was preaching on the day of Pentecost, he said, repent and be baptized. And then echoing this promise from Genesis 17, he says: For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God shall call to himself. As a sign, therefore, baptism points to pain and blood. Just like circumcision did in a very small way, baptism points to pain and blood and judgment and no confidence in the flesh. As a seal, it marks out a people for God, for union with God. Yes, even the little children of believers are included. Just as in the old administration of the covenant of grace, baptism points to spiritual cleansing, the washing of the heart. The washing of the ears, the sprinkling of blood. It points to no confidence in the flesh. When people join the church, we say, Do you trust in nothing but Christ? And they answer, yes, of course. Nothing but Christ. No confidence in my works, no confidence in the flesh, only in the blood of Jesus. The sprinkling of blood. And it points to union with God through his covenant in the promised child of Abraham. Baptism, therefore, like circumcision, is not primarily a profession of faith. That's what our Baptist friends think. That it's your profession of faith. When you've made your decision for Jesus, then you get baptized to show it. That's not what the Bible teaches. I'm sorry. For a convert, yes, they are baptized after they've made their profession, so it appears that way. But that's not the biblical theology here. It's not primarily a profession of faith, but a sign and seal of God's faithfulness to save sinners, not my faithfulness to Jesus, you see. The blood that God would shed is portrayed in the water of baptism. The curse of pain and death that God would endure for covenant breakers is depicted. In baptism, let's go back to God's first words to Abraham As we conclude, verse 1 of chapter 17: When Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless. Now that's a good idea. When you're trying to have a relationship with a holy and powerful and righteous God, you better be blameless. But that's bad news. Bad news for me. Bad news for you. I've got plenty of blame. And the record of my blame gets longer and longer. I try to be good, but I fail. So do you. Knowing the reality of my sinfulness, not being blameless, I need a sign and a seal pointing to someone who was blameless, truly. Someone who was a true descendant of Abraham, a miracle child. Someone who was cut off Out of the land of the living, cut off from the Father's countenance, because he was made unclean, filthy with my sin. I need a sign and seal of someone whose blood was poured out that I might be washed with it. Someone who unites me to God through the covenant ratified in his blood. Someone who names me with his own name, so that I don't come before God with my name, Ed, but I come before God with the name of His Son, Jesus Christ. And I pray in his name, and he hears me through Christ. I need someone who names me with the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. I need a sign and seal of someone who does all this. And baptism is that sign and that seal. Trust, my friends, trust the gospel promise and cherish the sign and seal which was given to you. And praise God for the sign and seal of your salvation. Amen. Lord, we thank you that you are a God who stoops to our weakness, our frailty, our inability. Not only in saving us, but in showing us how you save us and that you save us. You give us outward things to communicate and to assure us of your mercy. We thank you for our baptism. And we thank you for your love for us, despite our frailty and our weakness and our sins. And we celebrate these things in Jesus' name. Amen.