Please open your Bibles to the book of the prophet Ezekiel, where we will read chapter thirty-six, verses twenty-two through twenty-eight. Therefore, say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God: It is not for your sake, O House of Israel, that I am about to act. but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came. And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, and which you have profaned among them. And the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when through you I vindicated my holiness before their eyes. I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleanliness, and from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and be careful to obey my rules. You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Romans six eleven through fourteen. We'll we'll shorten it just a bit. Romans six eleven through fourteen It comes right into the middle of discussion, but I'm going to start right there. Verse 11. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God. In Christ Jesus. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body to make you obey its passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life And your members to God as instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law, but under grace. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we pray now that as we have read this little bit of Paul's letter to the Romans, we will digest it fully and inwardly. Live it out in our lives. For your glory and by your grace. In Jesus' name, amen. I want to remind you at the beginning that this is a letter. And so it was meant to be read in one sitting. And so you have to kind of keep all the context in mind, because we're breaking it up in little bitty pieces, but there is the broad context of the whole letter. What we have seen so far in this letter is in chapter 1, verses 18, all the way to chapter 3, verse 20, we have seen a gift forfeited. The gift of God given to humanity, forfeited in all the disaster and all the consequences, and all the sadness and brokenness and hurt and pain of forfeiting that gift. And then we've seen from chapters 321 to 521. Now just remember the chapter verses and chapter heading. Numbers were not in the original text. So this is just a way we're kind of finding our way through it. But from 321 to 521, we have a gift given. Back, really, and received by faith. Received by faith And what we say in in recent times, and last Sunday actually, was, you were born in Adam. You were conceived in Adam, you were born in Adam, you sinned with Adam in the garden And because you had Adam's nature from the very beginning, you were subject to the indoctrination. of Adam and all the things that come along with being an Adam, all the abuses and hurt and pain. But You who believe in Christ, you were ransomed and have come through a baptismal ordeal united to Christ. And now you are raised with Christ. And mystically, as it says in Ephesians, seated with Christ in the heavenlies. How can you be here today and seated with Christ in the heaven? That's why it's called a mystery. And yet it's a reality. You who are in Christ have been raised with Christ and mystically seated with Him. And this is number one in our sermon today, the doctrinal foundation for what's going to be said today. God has done all this, He has done it. So you must consider yourselves, Paul says in verse 11. And he uses the word logizemai. Now, I'm not telling you that to show you how smart I am, because I'm not. But it's a Greek word, and it means to impute, or it means to reckon, or to account. You must legizomai consider yourselves dead. To sin, since in union with Christ you have already come through the judgment ordeal, a baptism in Christ. And you are alive to God in Christ Jesus. By whom you have already been vindicated, the judgment is passed for you. What Paul has said so far is you, by baptism with faith. Have been made to hang there on the cross in Christ and in him to pass through the judgment for your sins. It's passed for you. The captivity is over, the judgment is done, and you are free. Free to love and obey Jesus who died for you. Now, this is an amazing truth. Paul is spending a lot of energy on this. This must, not merely may, but must change your perspective on life Paul, you see, so far has laid significant theological groundwork showing us the radical depravity of humanity earlier in those chapters. And the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ by which God justifies us and brings us into baptismal union with Christ. And now Paul gives something he has not given before. Here in this verse, he gives, first time in the whole chap, in the whole book, or the whole letter, first time he gives an exhortation. A command in the imperative mood. Finally, something for us to do. You've been hearing what God has done But now something for us to do, but you must be careful to understand what Paul is saying before you spring into action The key word in the imperative verb is, I said before, the Greek word logizemai, which was used in bookkeeping to speak of the value of something or to appraise a project's success. A lot of you are doing that in your workplace. And in philosophy, it means to refer to objective reasoning. You need to have objective reasoning about what really is using that word logizimai. The common ground in these two uses of the word has to do with reality, the way things truly are. James Montgomery Boyce says about this word, it is an acknowledgement of or an acting upon something that is already true or has already happened. So, what we have here is Paul is exhorting you to get a firm mental grasp on two important facts. The first one is: you are dead to sin. You get that into your head. Play that tape over and over. Say it every day. I am dead to sin. This means that your old life of complacent sinfulness is ended, and you can't go back to it. And the second thing is that you are alive to God in Christ Jesus. This entails several things. It means that you've been reconciled to God, you're not an enemy. Anymore. And you have been reborn and remade as a new creation in Christ. And you are freed from slavery to sin. And you have been given a new loyalty to follow together with a higher calling than ever before. And you have been given the indwelling Holy Spirit. In short, you must now see your life as parallel to Christ, who died to sin and alive to God in the resurrection This is in fulfillment of what we heard from the Old Testament prophet Ezekiel 36, where he said about the future, I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleanness. And from all your idols I will cleanse you, and I will give you a new heart. There it is. And a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you, listen to that. And cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. God is working powerfully in this promise, and it's being fulfilled now. This is the first of Paul's exhortations, as I've already said, as to how we are to live the Christian life. But because it is first, it carries special importance. As one commentator summed it up, quote, the key to living the Christian life lies in first knowing that God has taken us out of Adam. and joined us to Jesus Christ. That we are no longer, listen, no longer subject to the reign of sin and death, but have been transferred to the kingdom of God's abounding grace. So the first step in our growth into Christ's likeness is to count as true what is actually true. This is also called in theology union with Christ. Union with Christ. It comes in that word that's repeated over and over in Christ or in him. That always denotes union with Christ. Let me just give you an example of some of that. In Ephesians chapter 1, it's repeated several times, verses 3 through 13, listen to how many times God shows us, Paul shows us our union with Christ. He says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us In Christ. There it is. With every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him. That's union. before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before Him. In love He predestined us for adoption to Himself as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of His will, to the praise of His glorious grace. with which he has blessed us. Here it is again. In the beloved. That's Jesus. And then verse 7, in him We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished. I love that. He lavished Upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose which he set forth. There it is again, in Christ. As a plan for the fullness of time. And then he says, he puts it all together, to unite all things in him. In him, things in heaven and things on earth. And then verse eleven, in him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So that we were who were the first to hope in Christ, there it is, might be to the praise of his glory. And one more, verse 13, in him you also Who heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. So many times here, the apostle shows us union with Christ. And that's the main idea here in this first point. Union with Christ. Union with Christ. Now, sometimes theologians will talk about something called in Latin the Ordo Salutus. Ordo salutus, what is that? Well, it's the logical order of the way we are saved. Ordo salutis, order of salvation. And you know, it'll be uh just it'll be justification or calling and then justification and then sanctification and then glorification. And you can find various lists of that. They're all logical. But where does the union with Christ fit in in this? Is it ever listed anywhere in these orders of salvation, like in Romans 8? No, it is not. Because, precisely because it is the ground of every facet of our salvation. From our calling to our justification to our sanctification to our glorification. It's all in Christ, in union with him. Very, very important. And so we have to get this logically in our minds, this fact that God has done all this. That's the ground of our sanctification. The second point. The practical implication. Here we have not passive, but imperative. Here is called for us effort and resistance. And that is in verse 12, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body to make you obey its passions. Let not sin reign in your mortal body. And then he goes on in verse 13: Do not present your members, your body parts, your mind, your will, your powers to sin as instruments of unrighteousness. But present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members, that's body parts again, to God as instruments for righteousness. Now, as we look at this, there's a reminder that's always necessary. The gospel message is that you became citizens of God's kingdom and share in all the benefits of this citizenship. peace with God, access to his presence, eternal life, forgiveness, through union with Christ, through the imputation of the righteousness of Christ by faith alone. But just as true citizens of any country have a love for their country and an obligation to their country's law True citizens of God's kingdom have a love for their kingdom and an obligation to its law. The gospel does not place on you any obligations to get into the kingdom. That's wrong theology when we say you have to get yourself into the kingdom. You have to save yourself in some way. That's wrong But what the gospel does call us to do is to acknowledge that Christ alone has earned citizenship for us, and then respond to that. with thankful praise and good living. The gospel does demand that you recall that you are a kingdom citizen and live in a way that fits that status. At times this may seem daunting. I know that from personal experience. I never want to give the impression if the Christian life is free of trouble. It is not. It is a struggle. But in one sense, the Christian life of sanctification is very simple because God does not call you To do the heavy lifting. God does not call you to do the heavy lifting. I want you to notice here the passive voice in verses 1 through 10. The apostle has said so far, we have been baptized into Christ, into his death. We were buried into his death. We have been united with him in death like his. We shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. In all these constructions in the previous verses, we are the ones who are acted upon. We didn't do it. God did it. We who died, we who also live, these actions or realities are clearly a result of your being passive. Of God acting upon you, not you acting. The apostle does not tell you to make yourself die to sin. Rather, he says that God has made you to die to sin. The Lord has changed your relationship to sin and death. And so the commands that Paul gives presuppose the reality of what God has already done. And the imperative here. What we must do is grounded in the indicative of what God has already done. We are dead to sin. Due to Christ's work, therefore we must live in light of this reality. Now here I have an illustration. As I was studying this week, my eldest son, Isaac, was flying across the North Atlantic between Newfoundland and Ireland. He sent me pictures. We have iPhones, you know During the entire trip he was flying between 500 feet and 1,000 feet above the surface of the ocean in a C-130. He sent me a GoPro photo of the white cresting waves on the sea surface. And he said it was creepy, I'm quoting him, creepy to be flying so low. Then I texted him back and commented on the wind. I asked him if it was a headwind or a tailwind. That was stirring the ocean so wildly. He said, thankfully, it was a tailwind blowing east toward Ireland. A headwind, he said, would have required more fuel than they were carrying. Ah, I thought there's a sermon illustration here And here's my application of it, if you'll follow me. When you, by the working of God, are born again. United to Christ, buried with Christ, dead to sin and alive to God, you have the strong tailwind of the Holy Spirit at your back Encouraging you forward to new obedience of righteousness. Before this, you always and only faced backward towards sin and unrighteousness. But the law was behind you condemning you, but you kept going on toward death and hell. Now you have the fresh breeze, or maybe even the gale, of the Holy Spirit, behind you. Helping your new obedience. You may turn away into the face of this rebuking wind and sin against the truth. You may grieve the Spirit, but the sovereign wind will prevail in due time. If you look at sanctification as making yourself holy, you will be driven to despair because you cannot make yourself pure. You do cooperate with God in sanctification, but you do not make yourself holy. He has already done that. You become in essence what he has already made you in Christ. In your cooperation. When temptations come, say, No, I am holy, and I am in Christ. And to sin would not be in line with what God has made thee. That's what you must do. And the third point of the sermon today is the motivation. One more part of the motivation. We've already got some of that motivation down, but one more part is in verse 14. Listen to these words. For sin will have no dominion over you. He is looking forward. He is seeing the future. It's in the future tense. Sin will have no dominion. It doesn't have any now, and it will have no dominion. No dominion over you, since he says you were not under law but under grace. What this means is your future destiny is complete freedom from sin's dominion You've already been delivered under grace from condemnation under law. There's no reason to live like an abused prisoner, but every reason to live like an heir to the royal throne. As one motivational speaker said, sometimes these motivational speakers get some things right. This motivational speaker said, the fastest way to escape your past is to find your future. Well, Paul has found your future. Sin will not have dominion over you. Sin's power has been broken. Its final destruction is assured. But sin doesn't give up his hold easily. Until your glorification, sin will attempt to re-establish its rule over you and me and make us obey its passions. But because of the perfection of the work of Christ, it is impossible that sin will ever fully and finally succeed in God's elect. It can regain temporarily a good measure of its hold over you and destroy the integrity of your life. That can happen. R. C. Sprohl comments in his commentary on Romans, quote, As Christians, we still sin, but we do not have to. Every time we are presented with a temptation, God gives us a way out. He promises us the present power of the Holy Spirit if we will simply cooperate. So here, in his first direct teaching on sanctification, his first imperative, he tells the Romans and you and me, that because you were dead to sin and alive to God in Christ, your future. Is bright. Your success is assured. Your future is of complete freedom from the very presence of sin Your future and the wind at your back should give you courage to resist actual sin in your life. Though its power over you has been broken and you're able to resist it, the warfare can be taxing. His challenge to you is to stand guard over every part of your body. He says every member, he's talking about body here, so that they do not become instruments of unrighteousness. So your mind, your eyes, your ears, your tongue, your stomach. Your hands, your feet, your sexual nature, all of these things can be channels by which sinful cravings get out of hand. And that's why you should memorize the little song I told the children. Oh be careful little eyes. Oh be careful little ears. Oh be careful little hands. Oh be careful little feet Oh, be careful, little mouth. As Dr. Boyce notes, it is through these physical parts of our bodies that sin operates and through which it maintains a strong hold on us. For this reason, every part of your body must be kept under control and not used for sinful purposes. But what is more, they should be put to a new, holy use. He says you should use your whole body, your whole being as instruments. Of righteousness to God. After all, we are alive to God. Therefore, give yourself to Him fully. With all your heart and mind and strength, determined to use your body as he has given to you all these ends for his glory. It must be your goal not only to not do evil, but to actually do good. So we could rewrite that song in the positive. Verse 14 is the final verse. It's not an exhortation, but a powerful reminder. It should be a motivation to action. Sin will not have dominion over you. For you are not under law, but under grace. Always remember, my dear friends, always remember, God has done the work. God is at work in you today. The wind is at your back. You're not a slave to sin. You have been raised up and seated with Christ. Your future is complete freedom from the power and even finally from the presence of sin. So, as it is, we will sing in a few moments. He breaks the power of reigning sin. He sets the prisoner free. His blood can make the foulest clean. His blood availed for me. Amen. Lord, we thank you that sin is not our boss We have a new master, a gracious and kind and patient master, a sovereign master. So encourage us to use our whole being for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.