This is Deuteronomy. Literally, it means the second or the again giving of the law. Namas is law. Deuteros is again or second time. So it is the second giving of the law. The law was given earlier in Exodus. And now a number of years have intervened and wanderings have intervened. Now the people of God are finally ready to enter the land, and so Moses gives them the law again. What does he say to people that are about to enter into the land? Have they experienced God's saving work in Exodus? and in keeping throughout the forty years in the wilderness. What does he say to them? Verse 1, now this is the commandment. The statutes and the rules that the Lord your God commanded me to teach you, that you may do them in the land to which you are going over to possess it. That you may fear the Lord your God, you and your son, and your son's son, by keeping all his statutes and his commandments, which I command you. all the days of your life, and that your days may be long. Hear, therefore, O Israel, and be careful to do them, that it may go well with you And that you may multiply greatly, as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you in a land flowing with milk and honey. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God. The Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way. And when you lie down and when you rise, you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. And when the Lord your God brings you into the land that he swore to your fathers to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob to give you, with great and good cities that you did not build, and houses full of all good things that you did not fill. and cisterns that you did not dig, and vineyards and olive trees that you did not plant, and when you eat and are full, then take care lest you forget the Lord who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. It is the Lord your God you shall fear, him you shall serve, and by his name you shall swear. You shall not go after other gods, the gods of the peoples who are around you. For the Lord your God in your midst is a jealous God, lest the anger of the Lord your God be kindled against you, and he destroy you from off the face of the earth. You shall not put the Lord your God to the test as you tested him at Massah. You shall diligently keep the commandments of the Lord your God and his testimonies and his statutes, which he has commanded you. And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord. That it may go well with you, and that you may go in and take possession of the good land that the Lord swore to give to your fathers, by thrusting out all your enemies from before you, as the Lord has promised. When your son asks you in the time to come, what is the meaning of the testimonies and statutes and rules that the Lord our God has commanded you? Then you shall say to your son, we were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt. And the Lord brought us out Of Egypt with a mighty hand. And the Lord showed signs and wonders, great and grievous, against Egypt and against Pharaoh and all his household before our eyes And he brought us out from there, that he might bring us in and give us the land that he swore to give to our fathers. And the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God, for our good always, that he might preserve us alive as we are this day. And it will be righteousness for us if we are careful to do all this commandment before the Lord our God as he commanded us. Um the Huckabee's have said that they kids have learned more vocabulary words from me than maybe they've remembered. from other pastors. I've heard that from one of you at least. So I have two more vocabulary words for the Hucabies and anyone else maybe listening tonight. The first one is the German word. It's Heilsgeschichte. You want to know how to spell it? H E I L S G E S C H I C H T E. Wow, what a word. Heiles Geschichte. It means salvation's history. The history of salvation. It's a long German compound word that is translated salvation's history. And a definition might be this. It is an interpretation of history emphasizing God's saving acts and viewing Jesus Christ as central in redemption Heil's Geschichte. George Satanyana in nineteen oh five said those who cannot remember the past Are condemned to repeat it. And in a 1948 speech to the House of Commons, Winston Churchill changed the quote slightly when he said Those who fail to learn from history are condemned to repeat it. And so what we have here is a command To teach the faith in Deuteronomy 6. Teach the faith. When your son asks you, what does all this mean, teach the faith. And it's interesting to me as we read that that this is a generation removed from the original generation And yet the answer that the Father is to give to the Son is to say, We were slaves in Egypt, and God delivered us. Even though that man probably wasn't himself a slave, he's the second generation from slavery. But in a sense, we can all say we were slaves, but God delivered us. We were slaves in Egypt, and the Israelites certainly were to say that They were to identify with their prior condition and remember God's salvation by so personally identifying with what God did that they could actually say, He delivered me. from slavery in Egypt. Because in a real sense he did. If they hadn't been delivered two generations earlier, the person that was speaking that day would be still a slave in Egypt. Egypt. So it's very much right. That's what Deuteronomy six is teaching, and that's also what Psalm seventy-eight is teaching. It's teaching from Exodus to David. And you read the verses, you read the stanzas, the strophes. And you see, story by story, how God delivered his people from Exodus, how he led them through, and how he kept them in the wilderness, and how he gave them the land and how they failed him, and yet he was faithful to them. And that's what this song is about. And this is what the command of this Teaching is, it is to sing this history. I think it's important to sing. I really do. I think these psalms were sung. They're not just poetry. Because people needed to get this truth drilled into them. Drilled into their hearts and minds. Put to tunes so that they would think of those tunes. Do you ever get a tune stuck in your head and it goes on and on and on? Sometimes they're good and sometimes not so good. But they do have a very strong function in teaching us God's truth. And this what was being said here So the opening verses, which I'll just highlight for a second, give ear, O my people, to my teaching, incline your ears to the words of my mouth. That's a doublet. I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings from of old, things that we have heard and known, that our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from our children, but Tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the Lord and his might and the wonders he has done. He established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel. which he commanded our fathers to teach to their children. This is being summed. That the next generation might know them, the children yet unborn. And arise and tell them to their children, so that they should set their hope in God and not forget his works, but keep his commandments That they should not be like their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation whose heart was not steadfast, whose spirit was not faithful to God. That is the preamble. That's setting up. Now what's the rest of the Psalm? It's going through that history of saving God's people, God saving his people. From Exodus. And it ends with David. Go to the end of the Psalm for a second. We're not going to go through all the verses here. We are, actually, but not in the way that we usually do. Go to the end. In verse 67. He rejected the tent of Joseph. He did not choose the tribe of Ephraim. But he chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion, which he loves. He built his sanctuary like the high heavens, like the earth which he has founded forever. He chose David, his servant. and took him from the sheep folds, and followed the nursing ewes he brought him to shepherd Jacob his people, Israel his inheritance. With upright heart he shepherded them and guided them with his skillful hand. So there's the end of the song. It starts with Exodus. Goes to David and his establishment on the throne in Jerusalem. And that's where they end in their singing. But they are telling the story. They're singing the story. So really the application of this of this psalm is to sing this psalm. It really is. There's a lot of verses here. We're going to sing it, but uh we're not going to sing the same tune. It would be pretty tedious. Before we do, I want to give you the second word to add to your vocabulary. And that is the word hagiography. Hagiography. This is a Greek word, compound word. Hagios means holy Andography means to write. So graphy and hagias. Hagiography is when you when you write a story about somebody. This usually happens at funerals, unfortunately. When you write a story about somebody so that everything that's told about them is only good, they are holy. There's no evidence of anything ever wrong in them. They are completely perfect and holy. You know, nothing wrong. That's hagiography. And that's what most nations would do with their heroes and their patriarchs and their history. They would write them up like they were the best thing ever and never made a mistake and were the most wonderful heroes and the most Perfect conquerors and did everything right. Hagiography. Well, this is not hagiography, because this is the Word of God. And because it's true, nothing bad is left out. All the warts, all the mistakes, all the crimes, all the terrible things are included even in this song that we sing. It's not hagiography, it's realistic history because it is important To instruct and to warn. You can't warn people about things if you're if you're saying everybody in the past was perfect. Oh well, not me. But if you say everybody in the past trusted in God, but they had failures, then when I fail, I can learn to trust in God. See, that's how important this is. Before uh we sing, I want to uh just add one more little bit of a personal story here. Um We see these young people standing here this morning being received as communicate members And a superficial look at that is to say the parents did a good job. Now that's true, the parents did a good job. And you could also say these are really cool, really nice, really upright kids. So the kids are good, and the parents did a good job, and that's why we have Christian youth standing here. But the truth is, we have sinners saved by grace. All the parents can really do is I would call to use this metaphor, they're stacking up dry wood. When they're teaching their children the truths of God, they're stacking up dry wood They're building dry wood into the into the fireplace of these kids that are growing up, stacking up dry wood, bit by bit, day by day, over and over, they're stacking up dry wood But the Holy Spirit has to light the fire. The dry wood is stacked. That's your job, parents. Young people, it's your job to keep the dry wood. And to hold it, but it's the Holy Spirit who sets it ablaze. And so we give glory and credit only to God, and not to parents, and not to individuals who make good decisions. You see what I'm saying? So that's what this is, folks. We're gonna do it now. We have time. We're gonna do it now. We're going to rehearse. What God is commanding here, that we sing the truth. Sing it to the future, future generations. We're going to do it in Four different ways. If you turn to this Psalm, Psalm 78, you'll see that there are four pages of it. The elders were kind of laughing because they it was coming to me to do this one and they were wondering how I was going to do it. This is how we're going to do it We're going to sing the first page to the tune Lux Prima, which is the one it's written to. We're going to sing the second page to the tune Urby. You know this tune. We're going to sing the third page to the tune Meander. They fit metrically. And we're going to sing the fourth page to All Saints Old. So after we sing a page, Jeff will transition with his great skill somehow. There was firewood stacked up there too that got to burn. And so let's uh let's sing the psalm as an application to what the psalm teaches, all right?