So, uh, if you've been wishing that uh that maybe there would be a shorter sermon tonight, you may have your wish come true. Uh I uh usually have a pretty full manuscript and uh in about eight pages. Tonight there are four pages. So um uh it wasn't that I didn't have the time, it's just that it seemed like this was the main idea and didn't didn't require a great deal of development. Um so first let's read Psalm ninety-six. Psalm ninety-six. Oh sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord, all the earth. Sing to the Lord, bless his name, tell of his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples. For great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but Yahweh made the heavens. Splendor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord glory, the glory do his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. Worship the Lord in the splendor of holiness. Tremble before him all the earth. Say among the nations, the Lord reigns. Yes, the world is established, it shall never be moved. He will judge the peoples with equity Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice. Let the sea roar and all that fills it. Let the field exult and everything in it. Then shall all the trees of the forests sing for joy before the Lord, for he comes For he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness, and the peoples in his faithfulness. This is a great psalm of calling to worship. Psalm 95, which was preached last Sunday, is also a great psalm of calling to worship. But Psalm 95, as Pastor Tyson pointed out, has a warning side to it This one is not filled with any warning. It is full of calling to worship and in a particular way calling to sing the new song. And then the psalm breaks down into various categories that are called to sing this new song. We see the nations will join to sing the song. The whole creation will sing the new song. And God's people are to sing the new song. But what is the new song? What does that mean? It's not just the latest, you know, top 40 gospel from Nashville. Tennessee, where a lot of Christian music is now produced, or Hill Song's latest album, or even uh Town and Getty. Whatever they've produced lately. That's not what it means. A new song, according to Baker's Evangelical Dictionary of Theology, is defined this way. The new song of the saints is spoken of nine times in the Bible Psalm 33, 3, Psalm 40, verse 3, Psalm 96, 1, which we just read, Psalm 98, 1. Psalm 144, 9, and 149, 1, and then Isaiah 42, 10. Finally, Revelation 5. 9 and Revelation 14. 3. New song. New song. It is logical that most of these references are found in the Psalms, the hymn book of the Bible, so it makes sense in that way. Some of the texts refer Clearly to an individual singing, as in Psalm 40, verse 3, but mostly the new song is to be sung by groups. It's a fine thing and often very beneficial to sing when you are alone. I do. I hope you do too. That way no one can critique your singing singing. But you can just let it go. But there is a special delight in singing God's praises in the assembly of his people. This must be done in a sincere manner as an expression of the heart, not merely as an expression of skill or perfect pitch or something like that. But the new song has even more definition to it, not just those references. Sometimes people have sadly used this phrase. To justify ignoring the hymn book and the rich legacy of hymnity that has been built up over the centuries To replace hymn books and old hymns, the riches of two thousand years of Christian song. With the latest shallow little things that come out. Some people say, why do we want to sing all those old hymns? We want to keep up to date, not seeing those old things. They don't want to identify with the past, but only with the latest. But that is not the meaning here of the new song. If it was the meaning of the new song, then God would never have given us the Psalter, which is the song book of the Old Testament. And the people of God would not have found blessing in the hymns and gospel songs that they do find blessing in that have been written over the years. No. The new song is always just the fresh outpouring of thankfulness to God for his acts, his saving work. The fresh experience with God that gives the singers a new motivation to share that testimony of their personal experience. Of God's grace. So it's about an old, old story, and yet being applied and experienced In new, new ways. It's the new song of the old story of salvation. In the sharing of it, God's people are renewed in faith and in confidence And in a spirit of praise and thanksgiving by the Spirit of God. The newness theme is reflected throughout Scripture Isaiah prophesied of a new order that would bring new blessings to the people of God. But they were blessings that were promised beforehand. You see, it's not really new. It's just a refresher of what was already promised. This new order with its abundant blessings is expressed by the climax of the newness theme. In the New Testament book of Revelation, there we have reference to a new name in chapter 2 verse 17. In chapter 3, verse 12, he gives us a new name. He writes that new name down. We have the reference to the new Jerusalem in chapter 3, 212, and then 21, too. And then in chapter 21, we have the reference to a new heaven and a new earth. And we are told that God makes all things new in Revelation 21, verse 5. And so the point of this song, this new song that the psalmist so long ago refers to, looking forward and looking back at the same time, the point of this is is found in the cosmic turning point of the death of Jesus and his resurrection. That is the culmination, that is the the focal point of all of the new song of salvation. when the new creation sings. And it's expressed beautifully in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, where Paul says For if anyone is in Christ, new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself. And gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them And entrusting to us the message of reconciliation, the new song of reconciliation. And Paul also mentions this when he mentions in a redemptive historical way in Galatians 6. 15 that now neither circumcision counts for anything nor uncircumcision. But a new creation is what counts. So it is God who focuses and culminates the newness of the new song The new song of Revelation 5 praises the Lamb for his worthiness to carry out God's ancient redemptive plan. Employing motifs of the Exodus of Israel. The redemptive work includes four qualitative aspects. First, it is for God. It is accomplished through Christ's blood. It is universal that every tribe and tongue and people and nation sing this song. And it is established in God's kingdom or rule. The new song, therefore, encapsulates the theology of Revelation. The redemptive work of Christ is the Is the centerpiece of the new song establishing God's kingdom. And we see in Revelation 14, verse 3, that this new song is sung by the 144,000. That is the 12 times 12 times 1,000, the numbers of perfection, of completeness. Who have been redeemed from the earth. They sing in praise for God's redemption through Christ. All of God's people, through time and history, will add stanzas. You see, to the new song, as they praise him progressively and continually for his mercy, his love, his grace to the children of men. And it started long ago and it continues even to this very hour. The church's song is the song of salvation. So look just quickly. At these divisions in the psalm. First, the church is called to sing the new song. Sing to the Lord. Verse 2, bless his name, tell of his salvation from day to day. declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous work among all the peoples, for great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. The church is supposed to sing. The church is on mission now. We've been given a mission. Go and preach the gospel to all creation Make disciples of all the nations. So our new song is a song of salvation to all the nations. And then the counterpoint is made in verse 5, for the gods of the people are worthless idols. They're not going to help them. No help from worthless idols. But in contrast, the Lord made the heavens. Splendor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. And then we see how in the next section the nations will also join to sing. We're to call the nations to sing. And now the nations will sing. And this is in fulfillment of the promise that God made to Abram back beginning in Genesis 12 and then restated and expanded in Genesis 15. And then restated and expanded again in Genesis 22, where the whole world is to be blessed through Abram's descendants, Abraham's descendants. Here we have it in verses 7 through 10. Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the earth. That's not the people of God at this point. Ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord glory to his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. We're told elsewhere in Old Testament prophecy that when the fullness of the kingdom comes, The Gentile nations will come and bring offerings. And it's foreshadowed when those those kings come from the east and bring myrrh and frankincense and gold. to baby Jesus the King. But the nations are being told to sing here, Worship the Lord, verse 9, in the splendor of holiness, tremble before him all the earth. Say among the nations the Lord reigns. Yes, the the world is established, it shall never be moved. He will judge the peoples with equity. Okay, so the church is called to proclaim. The nations are called to respond and proclaim. And then, this is a bit of a surprise, but it shouldn't be, the whole creation will join in the song, verse 11 and following. Let the heavens Be glad. Now how can heavens be glad? They're inanimate objects, aren't they? But God created them for his glory And they have been harmed by man's sin, we're told that. Let the heavens be glad instead of sad. Let the earth rejoice instead of groan, as we see in Romans 8. Let the sea roar and all that fills it. Let the field exult and everything in it. What do you what do you how do you imagine a sea a field exulting? Well, I can imagine that, you know, it it just springs up with green stuff. The grass just grows so fast, it's exulting. But when God's blessings of the curse are lifted, or God's curse is lifted, and the blessings of the redemption come to pass. The whole creation will will really be freed from its bondage to decay, and it will exalt, it will praise God in its own way, you know Then shall all the trees of the forest sing. There's that new song. What are they going to sing? About God's salvation. How do trees sing? I don't know. But they're anthropomorphically here, I guess, not anthro, but um whatever whatever the right word is, that they're they're being f caused to sing. Before the Lord, for he comes. For he comes to judge the earth. In this sense, it's not coming to judge the earth with a destruction, wiping everything out, although there is biblical aspect there too. But in this case, he's coming to judge the earth to free it from its trouble To bring it into peace and harmony, judging all the evil and getting rid of it so that the earth can rejoice. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness. I think that last part about the creation singing is beautifully uh written in Isaiah 35. We sing a uh choir song that paraphrases this and I love it. Isaiah 35 says, The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad. The desert shall rejoice and blossom like a crocus. It shall blossom abundantly. And rejoice with joy and singing. What will we rejoice with joy and singing? The desert. And the wilderness? And the glory of Lebanon shall be given to it. What is that? Well, the mountains north of Israel catch wonderful streams of moisture coming off of the Mediterranean, and that moisture rises up. This is kind of a meteorological meteorology lesson. It it rises up and is forced to condense and rain showers and storms and abundant rainfall comes and falls on the windward sides of those mountains. And they are rich with beauty and great forests and beautiful meadows and streams and fountains and waterfalls and all those things. He says, the majesty of Carmel and Sharon in Isaiah 35, verse 2. And then all these things shall see the glory of the Lord, the majesty of our God. So it's a beautiful depiction of the song of salvation that is sung by God's people, sung to the nations, sung by the nations, and it will eventually be sung through the whole creation. As the creation rejoices in what God does to save. It is of utmost importance that God's creatures bring praise to Him for His mighty redemptive acts. These redemptive acts are rehearsed and celebrated in the 14 hymnic portions of the book of Revelation, which is the book of culmination of God's plan. I'm not going to list all those places, but one could say that there is one new song, but this song has many stanzas. And so I want you to consider, by way of application tonight, are you singing God's song of salvation. Are you rejoicing in his salvation? Yes, there are many troubles. There is much sadness. We still live in a broken world. But is there some real heart song going on within you that responds to when you read this psalm and when you read these passages and In the book of Revelation, when you read this passage from Isaiah 35, are you singing the song of God's salvation? Are you rejoicing ahead of time? For the glory that God is going to bring over all the earth so that the fields exalt. And what stanza are you singing in your life? Think about that. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we uh thank you. For this psalm, because it informs us that we are not to dwell on the things that are sad and difficult. But whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are good, whatsoever things are a good report, we should think on these things and we should We should be those who always have a place in our heart to praise you for what you are doing and what you have done. So help us, Lord, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.