This morning's Old Testament reading is from the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 15, verses 12 through 15. Deuteronomy 15, verses 12 through 15. If your brother, a Hebrew man or a Hebrew woman, is sold to you, he shall serve you six years, and in the seventh year you shall let him go. You shall let him go free from you. And when you let him go free from you, you shall not let him go empty-handed. You shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, out of your threshing floor, and out of your floor out of your wine press. As the Lord your God has blessed you, you shall give to him. You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Of Egypt, and the Lord your God redeemed you. Therefore I command you this today. turn to Philippians two, one through seven So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, Any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests. Of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. Who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a A slave, being born in human form, he humbled himself by being by becoming obedient to the point of death Death, even death on a cross. So far, the reading of God's Word, and then we turn to the sermon text, which is Exodus chapter Chapter 21, 1 through 11. Now these are the rules that you shall set before them. When you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing. If he comes in single, he shall go out single. If he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him. If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her masters, and he shall go out alone. But if the slave plainly says, I love my master, my wife, and my children, I will not go out free. Then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall bring him to the door or the doorpost, and his master shall bore his ear through within awe And he shall be his slave forever. When a man sells his daughter as a slave, she shall not go out as the male slaves do. If she does not please her master, who has designated her for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed. He shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has broken faith with her. If he designates her for his son, he shall deal with her as with a daughter If he takes another wife to himself, he shall not diminish her food, her clothing, or her marital rights. And if he does not do these three things for her She shall go out for nothing without payment of money. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that you have given us your Holy Word. Guide us, O Lord, by your word and the Holy Spirit, that in your light we may see light. In your truth, find freedom, and in your will discover peace through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Now, do you remember how the Ten Commandments began? Do you remember the opening preamble to the Ten Commandments, the opening words? They were in Exodus 20, verses 1 through 2. Before the ten commandments were given, God said, I, God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who did what? Brought you out of the land of Egypt, and there's a second description, out of the house of slavery. You remember the slavery of Egypt. You remember what it was like. You remember the hard taskmasters in Egypt. Egypt, the unfair and unjust way they treated slaves, and it was in complete accord with their view of human life. The situation of Egyptian slavery was addressed before the giving of the Ten Commandments. And so now as we come to the Book of the Covenant, The Book of the Covenant, slavery is again first addressed. Let's go back a moment. The ten words or the ten commandments are universal absolutes. And the Book of the Covenant, which we're now starting to get into, is the application of these universal absolutes in some specific situations. Again, by way of explanation, the ten words, the universal absolutes, are like a law that says, thou shalt not speed. Thou shalt not speed. Okay, there it is. Thou shalt not speed. But the book of the covenant is the application of these universal absolutes in some specific situations. So here's an example. The speed limit for a certain stretch of road in a winding mountain area without shoulders is 40 miles per hour. That's the That's the application, the situational application of the universal thou shalt not speed. Where on a stretch of straight federal interstate highway in Kansas The law might say 80 miles per hour is the permitted speed limit. So there's a an application. I mean, we think, wow, this is going to be boring looking at these Book of the Covenant stipulations and these Book of the Covenant descriptions of how to apply the law of God. But no. How awful it would be if you just had a universal thou shalt not speed and you had to figure out when speeding and when not speeding. I think it would pretty dangerous, wouldn't it? So this is very exciting, very exciting stuff to the Hebrews, to the Israelites, because they can see that God's word isn't just something up in the sky, universal, absolutes. But it comes down and it tells us how to live. It applies to all of life. It's relevant and it's very helpful to the situations of life. And so here we have this phenomenon of slavery. You were slaves back in Egypt. You know how you were treated back there. Those Egyptians were hard tasked masters. They had unfair demands. Make more bricks. Make more bricks. Raise the quota. And we're not going to give you any materials anymore. And you still have to do it. And then there's genocide and all kinds of unfair things. No freedom is possible in that situation. But here we have something quite different. We have a different kind of slavery. It's not really slavery as we think of it. It's certainly not the kind of slavery that happened in the American Civil War. period. What we have here, first of all, is voluntary slavery or voluntary service. And in this situation the The purpose of volunteering to serve was to repay debt. To repay debt. The slave or servant lived in his master's home. He wasn't stuck in some Horrible situation. He lived in his master's home and worked for room and board. And in the constant situation in which that he lived, he learned a trade or a skill. So they were very helpful kinds of situations for these voluntary servants. In contrast to that, and in contrast to the American version of slavery, it says in chapter 21, verse 16 that slave traders are to be what? Put to death. So this is quite different in so many different ways. Voluntary. It's also temporary, limited by the Sabbath principle. Verse 1 says, Now these are the rules that you shall set before them when you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing. Nothing. His debt will be paid free for nothing. The Sabbath principle limits and makes service temporary. Such a contrast And that was explicated even more in the passage that was read in Deuteronomy fifteen. I'll read it again. If your brother, a Hebrew man or woman is sold to you. He shall serve you six years, and in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you. And when you let him go free from you, you shall not send him him out empty handed. You shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, out of your threshing floor, out of your wine press, as the Lord your God has blessed you So it was temporary and it was to be We ended with setting the person up for business, setting the person up for life, supplying their needs so that they could go forward with integrity and strength and be able to make their own way. The world, debts all paid, and set up for business. It was constructive, therefore. The slave would be free and set up to succeed And this is in parallel, by the way, with what happened when God set his people free from the slavery of Egypt. What happened on that night? God said, You will borrow from all your neighbors, or you will receive, really, not just borrow, because borrowing is you give it back later. No, you will receive from all your neighbors treasure tre Repayment. So this is parallel to that. When you are set free, you get all this stuff. A slave was to get on-the-job training, it was to be a constructive exercise. On-the-job training in business or farming or animal husbandry, and then be given some startup capital. So again, you see how different this is from From any modern or ancient concepts of slavery. This is a wonderful thing. This is a wonderful institution here. And this was to be done in the context of living in the home of a stable, happy, healthy master. family. So this person who was brought into service would learn how to live in family, would learn how to live productively in a stable family situation. That's trained That so many people in our society never have had. They've never seen a good family. They've never seen a mother and father who stayed together. They've never seen the way it ought to be. But look what God's Word would supply for these people who were in debt. Beautiful family situation where they'd learn how to live and then be given supplies and set on their way to live a productive life Well, it is also helpful in the area of marriage, God's way of doing this. Marriage. In American slavery and Egyptian slavery, I presume, families were often destroyed. The husband might be sold away to another plantation or another farm. Or the wife might be sold away from the husband. Or the children might be sold off and moved so that they didn't have sibling relationships anymore with each other. But the book of the covenant The application of these universals preserves marriage. It says in verse 3, if he comes in single the servant, he shall go out single. If he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him. So keep them together, you see. Keep But there is a complication in verse 4. If his master gives him a wife and she bears him some sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her masters And he shall go out alone. You think, well, okay, wait a minute now, this is dividing the family, isn't it? Well, uh Philip Graham Riken says this about it. I think he's right. He says, it is at least possible that this law was actually for the protection of women and children. Remember, he says, that the husband and father in this case was a former debtor. If his servitude had served its purpose He was now ready to become a productive member of the covenant community. Soon he would be able to buy his family's freedom as prescribed in Leviticus 25. And they would all be united under one roof. But if he had failed to learn his lesson, he would soon be back in debt again. For the time being, then, the safest thing would be for them to remain under the care of their master. They were still a family, but the woman and her children would remain in their master's household until their husband and father could take full responsibility for them in a God-honoring way. I think Philip Graham Riken has it just right here. And the same kind of spirit of protection is here for female servants If a master decided not to keep her in his household, he had to allow her to return to her family. So he took her in, might marry her, but if he decides not to, she goes back. She's free. The debt's paid, and she's free. If he was pleased, he could matchmake her for his son and become betrothed and be treated as an adopted daughter. And if the engagement or marriage was broken, she would not receive bride money, but would be maintained. She wouldn't be destitute. She wouldn't be thrown out on the streets. She'd be maintained by her master. And if this master refused to provide She would be free of her service, but be out of debt and return to her family. So you see this wonderful protection for women in a very vulnerable state. Who have to serve a master, but God provides protection so that she's not put out and destitute. These are the teachings of verses 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11. This is practical stuff, you see. God's word works. It's practical. And it has practical applications for us today, too. If we think about it. That's one of the reasons why it's very important for this congregation to gain deacons. To gain deacons. The diaconal work is so very vital to the application of principles like these. What are the diaconal implications of this teaching? Well, one of them is that, and this isn't something that deacons could administer, but this is one of them, employers. Some of you might be employers, some of you were definitely employees, and the Bible would teach that employers should not exploit employees. Employees, but seek to promote their welfare, even to the point of helping them advance in their careers That's what we find here in this teaching. And when people are in debt, this is another implication, when people are in debt and they get in debt, this is a fallen world, debts happen When people are in debt, they should be given, according to God's word, an opportunity to pay back what they owe. And that opportunity to pay back should be in the context where they can learn how to be responsible citizens. That's what deacon work would be. Really mean. Helping people, not just, here's the money to pay your bill, but we're going to show you how to operate, how to live under God's Word, how to live productively. The lack of such opportunities is a plague upon America. And the government welfare system almost always makes things worse by violating these biblical principles. Not giving people an opportunity to repay. Not teaching them how to live. Debtors in the Bible times, in this situation, were not given handouts, but were given opportunities. And that all requires personal covenant community involvement, which is all too lacking. Well, we can't fix that today, can we? We don't have deacons at this point. We can operate on some of these principles where we have opportunity, but we can't fix that fix all of that today. We certainly can't overhaul the whole government welfare system, although it certainly needs it. But I want to point to you, point you to something Wonderfully redemptive here in this passage. That's in verses five and six. Please look at that for a moment. The scriptures, by the way, printed on the front cover of the worship. It says in verse 5 and 6, but if the slave plainly says, I love my master, my wife, and my children, I will not go out for After the six years. Then his master shall bring him to God, it says. And he shall bring him to the door or the doorpost. And his master shall bore his ear through with an awl. Body piercing, right? And he shall be his slave forever What does that mean? Well, bring him before God. What does that mean? Literally, it means the slave went before the elders The elders here were God's representatives, the spiritual leaders of the covenant community, in order to make a formal declaration of his desire to keep serving his master. This is similar to what happens in our wedding ceremonies, where we say, Before God and these witnesses, you see, I pronounce that you are husband and wife Before God and these witnesses. This is the kind of thing that's going on here. Note that the declaration that the servant made had to be emphatic. It wasn't a casual, I think I'll just stay here. No Witnesses would do what? They would go to the master's house, to the door of the master's house, and use the door post as a backstop. He put that ear right up to the door post and pierced the servant's ear, nailing him to the door, in a sense. What's this about? Well, we can study this and understand that the ear, first of all, is symbolic of listening to the commands. Of the master and obeying the commands of the master. When your ear is involved, you're going to use your ear now to serve this master the rest of your life And the doorpost, what's that about? The doorpost showed that the servant was now a permanent member of the household. A permanent member of the household, never to be put off. And the all was a symbolic fastener. Fastening instrument and an instrument of bloodletting. A covenant was being made and blood was involved. And this was all voluntary, completely voluntary, not under compulsion, but voluntary. The servant chose to serve out of what Out of love for his master, out of covenant faithfulness to his master. That master must have been a very kind Master, a good master, a friend, a generous master who had his servant's best interests at heart. And the servant knew that. And then I want to point you to this, in that connection. David expressed such loving commitment to God in such Psalm forty In Psalm forty verse six David says, and I think we hear the words of Messiah Jesus too, sacrifices and offerings thou didst not desire but Mine ears hast thou pierced. Now there is some variation as to whether this is you've given me open ears and So forth, but literally, it's mine ears thou hast pierced. And this is the same word that's used in Psalm 22, where it says that Jesus was pierced. Christ, the Son of David, the Son of God. Listen, Christ, the Son of David, the Son of God, became God's forever servant. God's forever servant and our forever servant Christ's declaration was emphatic. There was no doubt. In verses 7 of Psalm 40 Then I said, Behold, I have come. In the scroll of the book it is written of me. I delight to do your will. O my God. Your law is within my heart. There is Christ's emphatic statement. statement of his commitment to you and me, his becoming a servant for us, a servant to God the Father, and a servant for us. Jesus bound himself and was pierced to do God's will, even though it meant the suffering and death of the cross. In Philippians 2, verses 6 through 11, it describes Christ as the one, though he was in the form of God. Did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a slave. Being born in the likeness of men and becoming found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Put all these things together, he joined in the household of our humanity. By permanently coming in our flesh, and has made us permanent members of his household by the blood of the covenant shed for us. And so was the result in Psalm 40. The verses that follow say: I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation, the whole household. Behold, I have not restrained my lips as you know, O Lord. I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart. I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation. Christ declares his love for us, and we declare our love for God because of what Christ has done for us. done in his commitment to us. Paul says in Philippians, therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Well, how will you respond to such a servant who is also now master? How will you respond? I end with a story told by the Reverend Leith Anderson, and he tells the story of Abraham Lincoln. Abraham Lincoln once made a visit to a slave auction where he was appalled to see a young woman. She had been used Used and abused all her life. And this time was but one more cruel humiliation. The bidding began. And length Offered a bid. As other amounts were bid, he countered with larger amounts until he won When he paid the auctioneer the money and took title to the young woman, she stared at him with vicious contempt She asked him what he was going to do next with her. And he said, I'm going to set you free. Free, she asked. Free for what? Just free, Lincoln answered, completely free. Free to do whatever I want to do? Free to say whatever I want to say? Yes, free to say whatever you want to say. Free to go wherever I want to go, anywhere I want to go? Lincoln answered, you are free to go anywhere you want to go. Then I am going with you, she said with a smile. Romans six Paul says that anyone who is united to Christ has been delivered from sin and death. And he says, for when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness But what fruit were you getting at that time from the things of which you were now ashamed? For those things end in death. But now that you have been set free from sin and have become Slaves or servants of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification. And its end, eternal life. And these very familiar words, for the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Jesus our Lord. In Christ, we are free. Free to go with Jesus. Free to serve Jesus out of love. Out of his covenant mercy. Mercies and his constant love for us. Free to go with Jesus who paid our redemption price. Amen. Lord, we thank you for the Book of the Covenant, which applies your law, your word in ways that are redemptive and helpful and just and good and right. But most of all, we thank you for our Savior Jesus Christ. Who took on our humanity and was pierced and was made our covenant Savior and has made us members of his house. Household by faith. Help us then to go with Him, serving Him with joy and freedom. Amen.