Please hear our prayer and do so through the preaching of your word this morning, that your saints may be built up and kept in their most holy faith. And now the holy and anointed one, God's Son, is living on earth in Galilee and making himself known. But then of course they're having to absorb all that. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. And Jesus says, well, yeah, Moses permitted it because of the hardness of your hearts, but from the beginning, Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4 would not exist were it not for Israel's hardness of heart. Or the wife, maybe she didn't like the man she was born and did everything she can to make him unhappy, so he'd send her away. For if the latter man dies, who took her to be his wife, then her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after she has been defiled, for that is an abomination before the Lord And that you have not obeyed my voice, declares the Lord. And she departs out of his house, and if she goes and becomes another man's wife, and the latter man hates her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house and in righteousness the nations shall bless themselves in him, and in him shall they glory. We're a little bit past halfway. Because it's not just enough to profess him as the Messiah, because Israel had a very dark, satanically influenced view and misunderstanding of who their Messiah would be That Isaiah 53 has to come to pass. And then as Mark is proclaiming that gospel to us today, what does that mean for our lives? We are not to put stumbling blocks before them because we'd have them all follow us and get in line with us. Then they come up with a law supporting no-fault divorce. Verse 9 says, What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. So Jesus is applying Scripture in this passage. I think particularly for our high school and college and young adult people who in the circles and social media and the things around might find themselves He had been privately spending time with his disciples to prepare them for the cross so they their faith would hold out. Alright, there is three things that you will see in this passage, beloved. who he is, he declares it to in his word. But what is marriage, right? Not just of marriage, but everything. We should all stay together. I have a very forgiving wife. Because they said the other godly relationships and marriages in the church were examples to them and encouragements to them in their own marriages. Which leads to adultery in our fleshly unions is the idolatrous adultery of God's people. Let me make it very clear to you, beloved, God did not give Israel divorce laws. They've learned them from other nations. So Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4, far from giving it as a as a just decree of God because he wants this. Please forgive us when we pull out our pens to write out your work and try to improve upon it, to add to your word, or to take from your word. And you shall not bring sin upon the land that your Lord your God is giving you for an inheritance. I will not be angry forever. And Jesus said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, he wrote you this commandment, but from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female Therefore a man shall lead his father and mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. as Jesus' first touch upon the lives of these men as God incarnate has come amongst them according to God's promise. To proclaim as a mercy and revelation of God to them, you are the Christ And not understanding that he is also the servant of the Lord. You know what the first thing it says in our text was that Jesus was leaving Galilee. And they're arguing and debating who's going to be the greatest, who's going to be the preeminent amongst them that all men are going to come before and serve. that he's come to salt this world with, that I'm sure you beloved who have spent years in the church and know wonderful salt, when selfish ambition is checked. And he warned them right of the danger of it, that their ambition was leading them to put stumbling blocks before themselves and others, because they weren't getting it Anybody who swears allegiance to Jesus Christ and lovingly and serves their master, promoting and making known his kingdom in this world, right? than marriage. Jesus is strongly dissuading these men and his disciples and any who would listen, the crowd, the Pharisees, whose ears seem to be closed, and his disciples who would listen. Dealing much more with the agendas and ideologies who would denounce any ideal of the truth that Jesus is speaking here. And a world filled with lies and darkness to help them and set them straight. Do you know what Herod has recently done? He was beheaded and lost his life because he was a profitable prophet, preaching, there is no peace for the wicked, and he was killed. And so the Pharisees, more than likely, knowing that he's in Herod's territory, want to get his words, get a hold of it, and hope that Herod would probably do something similar to Jesus. if he finds out what Jesus' view on marriage and divorce is. Jesus is speaking to hard-hearted Pharisees. Uh therefore is a word marking a conclusion. He quoted Genesis 2. And of course, the Bible, God's word, as inspired by him, just is the revelation of God Himself. Not a homosexual union. And so again, that's why I said, if you know this passage, particularly our young folk, if you know this passage, this will keep you straight, right? Look into our confession and catechisms. Think of God in this case then like a playwriter. Given you the relationships that you had and defined what they are and how they should be lived out. Look right again what Jesus says. Have you ever joined a trailer to your truck? Men and women go together for the purposes that God has given in marriage. But I did ask them in preparation of this, so how did you stay together? And Jesus, of course, is speaking about a certain kind of man. Picking up the pen and writing in and editorializing and writing your own story and not playing the part that God's given you. Making other gods from Egypt, learning what they say about marriage and divorce, and not paying attention to what God has done from the beginning. A man who has become hardened in his heart or stiff-necked, as the Bible says. I'm going to just give you a quote here from an author because he says it more succinctly and makes the point. If a man takes another wife, no longer gives his first wife food, raiment, or marital duty? So she'll grow up and have no seed, nobody to take care of in her old age. And he gives them in their hard-heartedness this prohibition here saying, unless this land be completely filled with defilement. And as a way also to curb the practice, he made a prohibition against a man remarrying his former wife within the interval she was remarried. Do you know what Proverbs 29:1 says about such a person? in gladness and amazement and wonder and awe. but to walk in the light of your word regarding marriage and all other things. I'm going to cling to you, Christ, my bridegroom, and I'm going to cling to you, my spouse, and I'm going to put away all other lovers. Momentarily in our worship to the visible word and the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, fix your eyes on the Lord Jesus. And a promise of. Would not that land be greatly polluted? Go and proclaim these words towards the north and say, Return, faithless Israel, declares the Lord. Circumcise yourselves to the Lord. Because of the evil of your deeds. And again, as was his custom, he taught them. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. Our Father in Heaven, our request this morning is very simple. We would have your word shape our lives and transform us again into the image of your Son. And men are having to deal with him. But since that kind of high point with Peter, we've been then going up some rocky ground seeing that Jesus has more work to do. He has left that and in a few months will be crucified on the cross. Puts a child before them and lets them know the salty, and if you've ever eaten food without salt, you know it's pretty bland and you don't want to keep with it. And where the receiving and loving and serving of children is a hallmark of Christ's kingdom. Because if you've ever been right in a business world, political world, it's dog eat dog, and it's nasty, and it just Killed. That allegiance to Christ, that is the central thing. I don't need to go into that, but marriage, if you get it wrong, a stumbling block to yourself. You know, I've heard, right? Because too many of the church follow no fault divorce. What do we see? That's not who he's speaking to. As he is here speaking the truth to them in love. Maybe want to get his words and trap him in it, because if you also remember some of the context here, there's been a high-profile divorce case These men are wanting to find reason for divorce, and Jesus has to set them straight is the author of marriage. for marriage to be for life. God is the author of marriage. God has revealed his mind and heart to you right here. is what this passage is. application from the word of God to his hearers listening to him. So when God offered marriage and wrote it, and his purposes for it, it was for a monogamous, one marital spouse, and heterosexual God has joined a man and a woman, a male and a female. And God has put them in a union, as Jesus is saying, that man is not to separate. And that is what God has joined together, a single male and a single female. mutual help, sexual fulfillment, and filling this earth with a legitimate seed and the church with a godly seed. And to change his story and write and sinfully what we would do. You know what happens, beloved, and why is this so serious? Who wanted to exalt and oppose yourself above God and write in your own story Write in your own life. So that he as God sits in the temple of God showing himself that he is God. So that is the first point, that God is the author of marriage, and that we should read the script, know the script, and play our part, and not seek to editorialize God's word. You can think then about God joining together. God is saying then that marriage is like yoking a trailer to a truck by a hitch, right? Um sticking a picture to a wall or gluing a a hand cut out you ever cut your hand out at Thanksgiving time to make a turkey and you glue it to some cardboard paper and draw a beard on it and you got a Thanksgiving craft right It's no longer Thanksgiving crafty ripping apart that you you want you glued you command stripped the picture on the wall for a purpose. And particularly glue gives you the idea, because you ever tried to unglue that hand from the paper? You change those, you no longer have the beautiful thing that God created and intended it to be. cleaving, being glued, and therefore maintaining that that sticking together, or or the two becoming one flesh, all teaching us the point that Jesus wants to get across, that God intended us to Stay together, our marriage unions to be for life. I'm going to give you maybe a few halves, but I'm not going to give them to you because I've been married for five years, and I'm sure your eyes would glaze over if any of you thought I would give you guys marriage advice But I did ask a couple in our church this week who's been married for 58 years. The first thing they unanimously said was God. God is for you. He wants your union to stay together. They said that the church was a big part of their staying together. For God to open up again, right, those communication lines and to have conversation and to talk. The relationships God's put us in, pray for the marriages of our church and every other relationship in union. I did then also ask another member who'd been married for 43 years, Elder Spaulding, how they stayed together, and he said the word love. Which of course is the bond of perfectness. Hold fast and cleave to God. Third thing, man is the cause of divorce and of separation. He's out from under his environment, he's out from under what God has put him in. So that is the second thing, right? Jesus is speaking about hard-hearted men, men who need, as God said in Jeremiah 4. if she was married to another man in the interval. But also for the defilement of the land. Jesus is speaking the truth in love to these men, reproving their hard hearts, that they might not face this fate. But also, beloved, it's not just turning from sin to God out of a true sense of sin, but out of a sight of God's mercy in Jesus Christ. Do you know what Jesus is doing here on earth? Has Yahweh come to earth to sue out a divorce with all of his adulterous creatures? God knows the hurt of this sin more than anybody in the whole world. We turn with grief. And by your Holy Spirit, Father, please help us in our marriage relationships to live them as you would have us live them. But we also turn with that new desire of obedience, a purpose, and endeavoring after, I'm going to cling to you, my God and Lord. God is the author of marriage. Fix your eyes on the one who made an everlasting covenant and marriage union with us. We thank you for giving us our relations, for creating us, for writing the story of our lives, and the parts we are to play If you return, O Israel, declares the Lord, to me you shall return. And if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. and to deliver to you the Word of God. What's the relationship? And I think so, and I think one commentator pointed out very well when he says, and I quote, No relationship is more susceptible to causing either oneself or a little one to stumble. Talks about holding fast or cleaving, the old language of cleaving, or talks about one flesh, the two becoming one. If you wanted to glue and stick things together, marriage is like a command strip. And I read a little bit more from Jeremiah 3 for the context, the hardness of heart that God is talking about there. That's meant to cause the man, you better think twice about divorcing her if she, because if she leaves your house and be remarried, you're never going to get her back Incidental to the process, as are the grounds that she displeased him. When a man takes a wife and marries her, if then she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some indecency in her, and he writes her certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house Jeremiah 3, verse 1. And the Lord said to me, Faithless Israel has shown herself more righteous than treacherous Judah. Is it law for a man to divorce his wife? They said, Moses allowed a man to write a certificate of divorce and to send her away. We would see and know and hear Christ our God and know Him And he left there and went to the region of Judea and beyond the Jordan. Before we look at this morning's passage, I will remind you, and I see some new faces, so I'll take a brief moment to say a word about where we're at in the Gospel of Mark And he finds that attitude tasteless. An exhortation is to strongly encourage somebody to do something. is you get it right, gives you everything you need to know about marriage and divorce. And God Himself is teaching man. Man is the cause of divorce or separation. So point number one, that God is the author of marriage. What has God said about marriage? We should all follow the script that God has wrote for our lives as men and women individually, and as a man and a woman joined together in marriage, if that's a relationship, and all the other relationships. Act it out what he has given you to do. And that's why we shouldn't undo what God's put together. And finally, then, right, this idea of two becoming flesh. So let us remember that and encourage each other and pray for each other and remember Though Eve was very soon brought to Adam and married to him, Eve had a relationship with her maker before she had a marriage union with her husband. If you think of gravity as a moment as our God, as our law, man on this planet, gravity holds them together. And Jesus again makes the point by quoting or by saying there in verse 6, but from the beginning of creation, God made them. command instituting and legalizing divorce. When unions are so broken and things have happened, divorce is a mercy. Is God curbing this evil practice? Out of a true sense of your sin. Let me be God and write in what men should do. And in that case, then we could think of a sinner as like a stubborn mule who won't yield to his master's desire. Me who is a creature of your hands in a dust, but of a moment. I know many of you have been sinned against in these ways. And yet he says, repent and come back. Jeremiah three, we will read verse one and then verses eleven through thirteen and then down to chapter four, verses one through four. Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. Mark chapter 10, and we'll read together verses 1 through 12. Found his disciples' company tasteless. And men and women selflessly and sacrificially serve one another, and where humility is greatly prized Before, and let me give you one more, because you this let me give you one more word of context here so we understand what's happening here. Jesus is not speaking here to broken-hearted spouses who have been cheated on. He is not speaking to spouses whose husband or wife has cheated on them, nor is he speaking to broken-hearted spouses who have been abandoned. God gives him his word, if so desired by those offended party or the innocent party. Notice the region that Jesus has moved into. The man of sin, the son of perdition, who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is worshiped Right, the implication that Jesus is saying, right, if God has joined them together, if that is God's work, if this is what God has done, well woe to man, who is man He puts you together, right? He will get in and warp you, it will begin to work in your relationships, someone will see you speak maybe not so kindly to your wife in church. You do not live a private life. But if I may humbly give you one thing of my own that may help. You need to stay glued to God. Yahweh their God, his desire is, I joined you together. Repent. Our shorter catechism, question 87, tells you what repentance is. Yahweh in his infinite mercy has come down to confirm a new covenant. Turn to lesser lovers. To cling fast to the word of your purpose, that you have joined each couple together for life, for wonderful purposes, and have presented them to one another Please open your Bibles to the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 24, verses 1 through 4. Congregation, it is my privilege and honor again to come into this pulpit. He's walking with them, preaching to them the word of God and his coming sufferings. Jesus here is applying Genesis 1. 2 Corinthians 3:16 tells us God's word is profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction. dissuading them from separating what God has joined together for the good of their salvation. To treat that offending spouse as dead in the eyes of the law and can sue out a divorce and be remarried. or the storyline, right? God has glued you together. Let not man separate. God did a work of marrying us and putting us together. In context here, what Jesus is saying, he asked them, well, what did Moses say? It can be dissolved, and you can be remarried if you're the innocent party. Undoing what God has done and live according to God's kingdom. Some reason to go divorce their spouse for whatever reason they want and be done with her. This kind of man that Jesus is talking about, a hard-hearted man, as I said, the Bible calls such a person stiff-necked. Take his name off of where it says authored by God. God's grace be with all of you. Number two, the second thing we learn from this passage is that God intends marriage to be for life. God has joined together, as Genesis 1. Who is man to say what God's put together I'm going to take apart? These words in the passage here illustrate for us really what Jesus' point is when he talks about God joining them together. Sin, all sin, not just the sin of adultery here, but all sin is picking up the pen and saying, I can do better than you, God. And Jesus is saying, that is not the kingdom that I have erected. Let me just, as before we dive into our text, and the text I'm going to mainly focus on is verse 9 this morning. It is God joining together by his purposes and design a single man and a single woman for a lifelong relationship of companionship So therefore teaches us then that Jesus' dehortation here, let not man separate gods join together, is a direct 24, therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. And I know we need to hear that a thousand times. The church wants to speak strongly against LGBTQ and other movements. He creates the characters, he writes the roles of the characters, he defines the relationships, he assigns purposes to those relationships. No, God is the author, beloved, of everything. What is man? First we saw God's the author of marriage. Cleave to your spouse and stay together. They've invented them themselves. Only acknowledge your guilt that you rebelled against the Lord your God and scattered your favors among foreigners under every green tree. This is a very simplistic breakdown of it, but you might think of the first half of the Gospel of Mark God has joined one man and one woman. So forgiveness will keep each other together, right? Is there any, as Mark has put his gospel together in presenting it for us, between that stumbling block and the text here this morning? What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. Put down the pin. No relationship is more susceptible to causing either oneself or a little one to stumble than marriage. Jesus is speaking to hard-hearted Pharisees who do not want to be taught to notice the context. Who is he? Married his brother Philip's wife. Chapter 24 is on marriage, if you'd like to see more. Would you like it to come apart as you're going down the road? God intends marriage to be for lifelong. Jesus is making a point. So that led into the next thing, prayer. So God is the author of marriage. That has been broken in the fallen sin. Or using the language of this text, who has God joined together God is the author. God intends marriage to be for life. Remove the foreskins of your hearts, O men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem, lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn with none to quench it Isaiah 49 and other places must come to pass in his ministry, that he must suffer and be rejected and die, that this isn't failure or mistake or loss Secondly, this passage is teaching us that God intends. Grieved that we would ever write out God in our lives. So when Jesus quotes from Genesis, he is telling you this is what God says. So Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4 is not giving these men what they think they can find in God's Word. The word of the Lord. You have played the whore with many lovers, and would you return to me, declares the Lord. What does that mean for me, a follower of Christ, who's not going to be sitting in glory in Jerusalem in a matter of months, but who's going to be crucified on a cross? Man is an actor. Amen. See in here, right? It's the region beyond Jordan. So yes, love will keep two people together. If a man divorces his wife, and she goes from him and becomes another man's wife, will he return to her? He's put it in such a way that it's become one, as the next thing says. And that's in everything, beloved. Because it is always sin where there's divorce for protection of the woman, so she's not treated as property Find satisfaction in broken cisterns that are empty. It was by God and His grace. Adam had a union and relationship before his marriage, and it was with God And do you know who Jesus is who's doing it here on earth? Get rid of Genesis 1-1. Is he who he says he is, or is he not? And Jesus utterly denounces no fault divorce. The word there is yoking together. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. Because when man becomes unglued from God, everything falls apart. It's out of that mercy that you see in God, who says, Come back to me even if you've done it. Man and a certain kind of man is the cause of divorce or separation. The playwriter he comes up with the plot If you come from out from under God, out from under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, you are getting into dangerous territory of falling apart He is all but abandon her, and he's also committing adultery against her, and God has called us to peace. 27, Genesis 2. But Jesus is speaking to men who want to test him 27 says, a single male and a single female. I'll use a musical analogy because everybody gets that at Grace and Peace. Everything you do, you might think nobody sees my sin. Anybody who swears allegiance to Christ, whether OPC or not And that is proved to us and seen by the word therefore. Now if if that's the case, right, well, then it's pretty obvious if you are married, That is what's going on. God tells us he's a jealous God. Well Jesus if you look back in verse six, he called it Genesis one twenty-seven. Do you have that sense, beloved, in you of what sin is? He hasn't joined one male and male. Let us read the script, read his holy word, and play out our part. It is man who seeks to undo it. Beloved, God has been cheated on more than anybody in the whole world. Let us seek now His blessing as we come to hear His Word. Because you know what the Bible calls the editor of God? I'll say it one more time. Help us not to put stumbling blocks before ourselves in these ways and before others Have you seen the true sense of that? Let me write my story. And then of chapter four, verses one through four. God secondly intends our marriage unions to be for life Let's pray together. So what does that mean for men? Membership in the church and staying with the church and fellowship Man, right, God is not undoing his own work. Marriage is like the second one here, about cleaving and holding fast. In this word from Jesus, you see him applying Scripture. A deortation is the opposite, to strongly dissuade somebody from a course of action. Do you know who is king in that region? Do you know what happened to John because he preached against that? So that's all the context. God has made known his eternal counsels, his decrees, his purposes The validity of the bill of divorce is assumed and in a sense But in the new covenant, the bond that we have with Him in Christ is we are united to Him by His Spirit, by faith. Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4, I quote, is a prohibition against a man remarrying his former wife So the church needs to get this right. Because it's not broken-hearted spouses, beloved, that were looking for a divorce in the first place. And Pharisees came up and in order to test him asked, If you go back to verse 5, Jesus says, because of your hardness of heart He that being often reproved hardens his neck shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. God intends marriage to be for life. When communication does break down, they said it was helpful to pray He's saying, Moses is dealing with a situation of many stiff-necked, hard-hearted people And stop trying to editorialize your life. Man is not an author. Because God has put man together. And so this would be a wonderful text for anybody here to memorize. You're an actor. Have you ever used a command strip? In the beginning God created and delete that. And we'll look more in detail about that in the next point, the strength of this union. So Mark chapter 10. You are either a male or you are a female. So the implication that Jesus is trying to get across to these Pharisees is that God intended marriage to be for life. A man who will not yield to God or play his part. Congregation, turn with me in your Bibles to Mark, the gospel according to Mark chapter 10. So that's the big overview. And so he rebukes them Let us never forget, right? So all these words that God gives in His Bible of joining together, of It's come down to win a bride. If you remove your detestable things from my presence, and do not waver, and if you swear, as the Lord lives, in truth, in justice, 24, which he just expounded upon to these Pharisees, and now he's applying it. So God has joined man and woman together, like you join a trailer and a truck for a purpose. God's great love for idolatrous adulterers He answered them, What did Moses command you? It doesn't just separate nicely, does it? Jesus says here, what therefore God has joined together And now over to the book of Jeremiah. And so Jesus has been working hard with his disciples to get them to understand Man is the cause of divorce. But we should ask ourselves real quick, since God is the author of marriage It is beholden to us to play the part God's given us. Put your heart again in the hope of the wedding feast of the Lamb, which this is a but a four taste Let us always love our Savior who seeks even the salvation of his own enemies. But notice what Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4 is. And last time we were in the gospel, what we saw, beloved, was Jesus We should all follow the script, right? Forbearing and forgiving one another like Christ did forgive us. Stay together. I know that seems basic, brother, but right it's it's not basic today. And they told me many things. God's for you. He knows what it is to see his creatures. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for being the author of all things. We ask this for the sake of our Lord Jesus Christ and for His name. And particularly, they're remembering, reminding us that, right, God wants your marriage to succeed. He hasn't joined female and female. Isn't that one way of saying they become married, they're now hitched to each other? Ron and Judy stopped by and saw them. They allude to Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4, saying Moses permitted it. When you come across divorce in your Bible, they're assumed as happening. For thus says the Lord to the men of Judah and Jerusalem, Break up your fallow ground, and sow not among thorns Jesus will not return to Galilee. God wants you to succeed as a Christian more than you do. And in the house the disciples asked him again about this matter, and he said to them, He intended and he still intends today. Do you have you come to understand the heinousness of sin and saying, God, stop being God? It was lacking salt You don't want to be God's editor. Now So if that is you They both said, and Ra in particular said So what therefore God has joined together, beloved, let not man separate. Jesus is not speaking to broken-hearted spouses That's a kind of a big thing today, right? It's meant to be there. Now he's back heading down towards Jerusalem, and the crowds are regathering You are not an author. Repentance is turning from sin to God. Far from it. We're in that second half looking at Jesus touching and dealing with these men, because as we see in the passage this morning. You might be wondering, well, what is Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4 all about? And if she gets remarried, well maybe she has a change of heart later, she can't come back together Let me have what I want and do what I want. Man is the cause of divorce. We would see and know and hear your truth I will not look on you in anger, for I am merciful, declares the Lord. And the first part of that touch in his interaction, particularly with his disciples, was to lead them That is not the kingdom I've called you to. Herod. Deuteronomy 24, 1 through 4. Jesus is God. Three things. I know you know this, and I'll remind you of your great privilege again, right? And that is at the heart of what sin is: to be God's editor That is what Jesus is responding to here. And crowds gathered to him again God has joined together a male and a female. And as one example, any a yoke is anything you use to join two things together to keep them together He wrote the story. So Jesus warned them about putting stumbling blocks before themselves and others. You couldn't be any more ungodly with no fault divorce. This is Yahweh, right? It's come down to call and back. They might hear the truth of God's word and stop Grieved that we would want to just So God is the author of marriage. Baptized by John, everything taking place according to God's word It will have impacts. They are committing idolatrous adultery with God And it's been included in here, so I maybe just more want to bring it to your prominence. And then people are saying, yeah, but you can't even get divorce right He hasn't joined male and m There's a reason you used glue, there's a reason you used a command strip I'll tell you why I'm going to focus on that text, because if you get this right, you'll get everything else right with what's happening here in context. This is God's word. So the church helps us stay together. Take man and put them out in space, he begins to come apart. First, God is the author of marriage. And third 4, which we read this morning, to have their hearts circumcised. Mark chapter 10, beginning at verse 1, hear the word of the Lord. Now, in certain cases, in God's mercy Here is God and His goodness It will have an impact on this body. This is the word of the Lord. Command strip and things. So I'll read it to you. And then Jesus says, from the word of God So stay glued to God. God calls us to peace. Let us pray This is a word Greeks use for gluing. If you get it wrong, a stumbling block to the people in the church who see it. They're doing well, and they thank you all for your kindness towards them. So they are no longer two, but one flesh. He'll not return to the place where he was raised and grown up anymore. You don't want that at the last day in the judgment to be said to be found to be God's editor. Marriage is like a or two voices, right, harmonizing into one. I don't care how much you sinned against me. At this text That is marriage in a nutshell for us, as God has intended it He put you together. Play the part that God has given you. Male and female or female and female male. Jesus doesn't talk about lawful divorce here Jesus is again on the move. Right? God is the author, right? Well, how can we illustrate this to us, right? Here's the correction. He is liable to do anything. Marriage is like a command strip This isn't a What therefore? That is not the salt of this earth. But from the beginning of creation God made them male and female, and verse seven And a conclusion then from what God says Through Jesus Christ we pray. And so let that be a word and reminder, beloved So Jesus is speaking to a certain kind of man Because I only think about me The salt of Christ's kingdom That comes from the Old Testament too. So as we go from the visible word here And then down to verse 11. Return from not just this sin, but all sin. This is a dehortation God is the playwright. This passage is teaching us that God God is the author That's repenting from this sin. This idea of no fault divorce. It's very confused and misunderstood. Maybe this will be a helpful illustration. You couldn't be any more against the maker's mind. None of that Amen They go together for that purpose of hauling your goods. That's Exodus 21, 10 through 11. He has wrote the story, created the characters. Amen. So don't undo it.