So Mark chapter thirteen, beginning at verse twenty-four, hear the word of the Lord. It helps you then to live and appreciate the rest of this age and the life called to now. And there's an end, there's a finish to waiting. And he says, if you want to judge yourself by righteousness, look at your Sabbath keeping. That this would be a time of intercession for them as we await the birth of the Savior these four weeks to start again in our intercessory prayer and praying for those beloved people And the works of Satan are destroyed, you see witchcraft and all those horrible things that fill the land destroyed, and you see people's lives transformed. Because Isaiah is praying that you would, because if you did, O Lord, things would be different, and we all know it. I feel accomplished as a pastor. Let me also say this, because I feel like I'm just going to exhort you on everything I've been wanting to exhort you on for the last month this morning. But they become a people who had sort of lost sight that there's more to come. But they had a bit of overrealized spirituality and thought that uh that's it. You see, God has called us and look at verse 9. There's yet more to come. But it's also a life still of waiting, the king's coming, and we must be prepared for that. And then you get into chapter 56 through 66, and that's the end of the book. But what do we do? But what's this issue here? and our preparation and waiting for God. Those are the ones he's going to come and deliver at the end of the age, as Hebrews says, he came once to take sin away. We'll talk about that when we get to Corinthians. The pre-existent son has been incarnated by the seed of David, fulfilling God's promises to the seed of David. He's been risen three days later according to Scripture. And set it apart to him. Run clean like the woman in a menstrual birth who had to be set apart and couldn't come into your house. Because I think each and every one of us knows somebody that we love that isn't awake and isn't waiting on the Lord Would be a good way as Isaiah's doing here looking around because Isaiah's right, look at verse 64, chapter 1, as it begins. Others translated, oh that you had. It burns. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. If you look at Corinthians 1, it appears that in this context at least they had become, and Paul acknowledges it, and he's got a point, and I'm not going to get into the whole context here Here, grace, here, I give thanks to God because of the grace, and I was respending time this week reflecting on the grace in your lives Praise the Lord for it. These are huge things in God's eyes, of immense importance and responsibility, which in no way looking to what to come diminishes them. God is confirming Himself amongst us in our gifts and graces, and God has promised also, look there verse 8. Jesus says they are so big, so important. And love God and serve him. built up in its glory and everybody living under the law of God in great peace. Who wants to see famine? Live for them. God ordained way and marry and start their families, or God's going to call them to singleness and use them in his own way. And have you do you do you know and have the peace and rest that your waiting will come to an end? As you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will confirm you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. And the moon will not give its light. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. And what I say to you, I say to all, stay or wait. delight in all that will take place with family and gifts and hopefully most importantly remembering uh the greatest gift of all gift of Christ our Savior Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know when the master of the house will come, in the evening or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning, lest he come suddenly and find you asleep But this idea of spending four weeks in preparation, not for Christmas, but for Christ's second coming, is what it's about. As you notice as we go through Advent, I I didn't pick these readings, if you will. Back into them to Isaiah chapter 64, and we'll look at that. uh talking about Christ and his work that he's accomplished on his first coming and the atonement and making himself an offering of sin for his people. And then chapter fifty-four, which is the wonderful fruit of that, enlarge in the tenths, spread them out, because then you get chapter I know I wrestle with it, and I think, can can God's people really say this? To serve the Lord with joy and all that they do and give themselves to Him. Turn to him and serve him. If you want to ask me, one of the great sins I think God's displeased and angered at, and Isaiah makes a big point of in these last chapters. Because it's not kept in a traditional manner by many Christians. Business and when you look in the history of the Christian Church at revivals, it's God coming in the power of the Holy Spirit If you've been in spiritless fellowship, it is so dead. Saints, pray the Lord's Prayer every day in the power of the Holy Spirit, and pray beyond those things. Acknowledge God's love for you in Christ, which he loved you first, and say, I'm going to love you today. Those praying in the Holy Spirit, those walking in God's ways, those are the ones who know something what Isaiah says here that yes they might find joy in righteousness, yet at the same time they know that their deeds are still like polluted garments. I'm the works of your hands, you begun in Christ. Reminder that I must give thanks every day for the grace I see in your lives, for the true, real love of the saints here. Presbytery yesterday? I can't wait till I'm 16, so I can have my own, you know, motorbike or whatever thing they're saying. In another sense, no. Living the Christian life, fulfilling the Great Commission. They were hoping for well we're hoping in the second coming, not quite, but they were hoping for the utter ridding of evil, all ridding of disaster, getting rid of idolatry and idolaters, seeing God's house Not quite. And now let me enter into this day today and live fully in this day. That's the point of setting your heart on that. He has saved us by that cross. God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. To those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. And then he will send out the angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven. Be on guard, keep awake, for you do not know when the time will come. Preparing to meet the Lord, which we all should be doing individually together as a church, preparing to meet the Lord, we will appreciate greatly But hopefully as we look and see these two comings go together, one puts us in hope of the other. One of the things we need to have fixed in our hearts, beloved, is God has ordained a day, a day alone known to Him, in which Jesus is coming. He said it's going to happen. And it would be the foolish thing in the world then not to live in light of that. About waiting, talking about in part one, starting, right? continuing and stopping as we wait for the Lord Jesus Christ. But then you get this psalm, or not psalm, this prayer here in Isaiah. Of course, in the passage we read in 1 Corinthians, if you know anything about that church, they've been in their sins for a while. They hadn't been cleaning out their house. And yet Christ in the gospel gives himself to the poorest have nots there are sinners. There's great victories. God is faithful, Paul reminds him. Well what does that mean? Who's God coming for? Look with me at verse 4. God has cast out Satan. Could not be said about them that their call has been efficacious in their life and there is fruit of grace there So maybe it's time to pray again for another revival. But where the Spirit has the warmth and love and zeal and holiness of God, the transformation of sinners that open the floodgates of our hearts and tears, serious seeing of sin Is it hopeless if you've fallen asleep? Oh, look at verse 8 and 9. Teaching you that God's grace is is for licentiousness. Don't hear gospel like that. Beloved, say it every day to yourself. And, like the prophet, acknowledge our sins and rest our case not in our righteousness as finally what we're hoping in, but in God's mercy. You don't need tongues in heaven. A beautiful, wonderful thing that is all here. Present power of the Holy Spirit, present service, present living. Like that. Any child yet who doesn't say to their parents at some point, I can't wait when I'm fourteen so I can have my own leaf blower Jesus says, if you're faithful now as a child, I'm going to give you to be faithful over many more things. This is a great word then for the Apostle Paul to see all the corruption in the church and say, yeah, but God's faithful. guiltless. And it's still going to be a verdict of guiltness because God's called you into fellowship. Cruel things. Because we want to be reunited with those we love. We don't want to see people walking around and blaspheming God's name. I want to say wonderful, let's live like children who have more to come. I love my four-year-old and two-year-old child. Stay awake. Nudge each other in the fellowship hour. Paul called by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus and our brother Sosthenes to the church of God that is in Corinth. And our gospel reading this morning comes from Mark chapter 13, beginning at verse 24, and we'll read to the end of the chapter. From the fig tree, learn its lesson. But uh we have uh a great day ahead of us and it's not just Christmas Day. But as we were reminded from God's word this morning, there's yet another coming of Christ. So I uh learned a little bit this week about Advent season. The way in which he came first to us in humility to save us. And love him and swear allegiance to him and follow him and live for him and wait for him. Not just the first coming, but as these readings point us to, the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, that does put us in waiting. In the prophecies of the Messiah, he's come, he's done his work, he's risen, he's reigning, he's sending out his heralds to announce the good news, he's calling the nations in, and of course the Lord's been doing that for two thousand years now. Every day you should be looking ahead to the mercy that's going to come to you in Jesus Christ. Both doing works of righteousness, both examining our hearts and asking for forgiveness and turning yet to God to repentance and acknowledging, You're my Father, you'll never cast me off. We're not huddling saying yes come so we can just get done with this life and pass. And the joy of waiting for more like a child, right? In every day we're called to cross-bearing discipleship. An awake church. That in every way you were enriched in him in all speech and all knowledge, even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you, so that you are not lacking in any spiritual gift. So also when you see these things taking place, you know that He is near at the very gates. blame the Western lectionary and I didn't feel like being a rogue, but I think it's important and wise of the church to have at least one time a year where we remember They polluted themselves. It's meant to be a meal of fellowship together and teach us about the selfless sacrifice of Christ and giving himself to all and the have nots go with nothing. And can we really say his kingdom is set up everywhere? Challenging, isn't it? That's a statement about who God is. What does waiting look like? This is the state. Jude even tells the church that in his letter. And just teach, keep living in your covetous, idolatrous ways. We're all going to know in perfection then which we only know in part now. We already see it's gonna be a greater revealing when we see the glory of the transformation when we s to hold Jesus face to face and there's a greater knowledge, a greater power, a greater filling of the Spirit to come. We're in child age. Don't live in this life because you gotta live in this life, and you can't ever be ready for that one if you're not living seriously in this one. When our hell's that. And know something of being on a post, something of standing in the cold, something of being hungry, something of being tired, you're glad that your watch ends. I know we want to keep them right there, don't we? When Jesus returns and live in light of every day of making your day full. Dear Congregation of the Lord, I look forward to spending this Advent season with you all, looking forward to Christmas together as a family in Christ, as a church. The prophet says in verse 5, look at verse 5, you meet him, you come to help him, who joyfully works righteousness. But that's what it looks like to start waiting, to heave the gospel message. God was already angry, and what happened? It's an amazing thing. Let's go then finally and the third the stop. We don't want to see those things. God had been judging them, turned his face, you might say, many of their sick, many of their ill come from the improper way they would keep the Lord's Supper. God will come in final victory and destroy his enemies and establish his kingdom and power of glory. So we start waiting for God when we get serious about Him. Put off our wicked works and repent and begin joyfully serving. But look what Isaiah then says in the rest of verse 5. And God's greatly displeased with the horrendous state of the Christian church and its Sabbath keeping. Maybe also we need to restart waiting for God. The people aren't ready. They're not taking hold of God and upon his power and his promises and live a godly life. He's also this kind of God, our sovereign potter, of which were the clay. Great, though yes, we're children. Beloved, your watch will end. Stay awake for Jesus. So as we uh look at uh the readings this morning and as we have our mind fixed upon It's the it's the reality of our continual sin, continual needing to cry out for mercy And then that that's the point of this, beloved. We'll read 1 Corinthians chapter 1, beginning at verse 1, hear the word of the Lord. And acknowledge. Because God's a consuming fire and when he comes, he's going to burn up his enemies. And yet, if you know anything about Mark thirteen, if you know anything about what we now know in the first coming, uh the Jews expected a far different appearance of Messiah. Accept that, and then live in light of that and make the most of every day you do have with them, right? First, a note on its context. It's so wonderful to see already what you are in Jesus Christ. When you take fire and put it underwater, it transforms it, begins to boil it. Now's not the time that it ends. It's not good that just our ancestors were awake in their day. That's starting. And I think this is something like children waiting for adulthood, right? Our works won't be what gets us the guiltless verdict at the end, but what Jesus Christ has done for us right on the cross. That great free banquet. He said, You have a great congregation. In one sense I want to say yes, in another sense I want to emphatically say no. Who's the fall? Are we really waiting for him? Even verse 7 says it. Every day that's how we're I've been wanting to preach that as a whole sermon someday and I just said it in one verse or one part of a message. So beloved, have you started waiting? How how how how do you wait for him? But in the grand scheme of God's plan for us as children, redemptive history, we're we're still children. And yet Jesus says, you will see something you all want to see, my coming in glory. I thought, you know, we live under grace and all is well in in Christ. God was already angry at them. Who wants to see earthquakes? Because in the end of the day, beloved, what does it matter if you adore a babe in a manger if you don't adore the living Lord? That's not Christ. I can go to sleep better now, knowing that I've given the sheep a model of how to live their life the whole time as they wait in the Lord's coming. Who are these people? What does the prophet say? That's your faith. There'll be one tongue. They've fallen asleep. There's going to be many things that fill this age that you're not necessarily going to want to see. They're horrid things. Live for Jesus. They go and sit at demons' tables, the idols, and then they come to the table of the Lord. Do we say you're just so slow? Those people that have cast off works of darkness, those people joyfully doing works of righteousness, making that their life's business If you fix your eyes on what's to come and have it set in your heart that day, have it set in your heart, they're going to grow up and And we must live. That's believing the gospel. And I don't know which way to translate it. I know there's great, grave, wonderful saints among us. Okay, so finally let's go back to Mark and we'll look at ending. He has made the name of God so glorious in the world. We must not only be people that start to wait, beloved, and I know that you have, but we must not only be people who start, we must only be people that need to restart. Stay awake for Jesus. This prayer ends with that note. We don't want to see people bowing down the Molech, the god of humanism. Isaiah 64. He's been seen, he's enthroned now at God's right hand as Lord, and he's coming again in judgment. God is faithful. Those people that God effectually calls into the fellowship of his son. You're showing up to church, you're being a part of it, you're serving, you're doing. I wish they'd just say four and two the whole time. There are sinners set free. I can I find it a strange thing. Nobody even calls upon you. Build yourself up on those great truths every day. Nudge each other at during the week in text. And the stars will be falling from heaven. We sinned. You will finish what you started, and trusting in the grace and promise and power of God. It's fun to be a child and yet you have all that delight of I want to be this and we need to learn to live in that attitude because it's biblical, it's real. I've never yet met a person, a parent that hasn't said it goes quick. So starting, continuing, and finishing our wait. Now I I said that we would go here and would talk about starting waiting God has judged the world and we're in this waiting period to see it manifested fully in Christ is Lord. Here's what you should do. I said, I know, I don't want to mess it up. God's called us into that. God acts for those who wait for Him. Is it hopeless if you know someone that's fallen asleep? Then maybe we need to restart. It's still real responsibility. If you're familiar, and I think many of us are familiar with Isaiah, this is after chapter 53, that's one of the most famous chapters in the book of Isaiah. They haven't been rebuking sexually immoral amongst them, but have been countenancing them and letting them continue at their table. Oh, that God would come and things would be different, but these people aren't ready. Who wants to see children persecuting their parents or the other way around because their Christian faith? As soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near. Everybody get in here now. Not to escape reality in life, but to say, yes, that stay there. And one of the things I I'm encouraged to this and hope to encourage and talk about today, when you get that set in your heart This joyfully working righteousness. They might have started 200 years ago. We become like the unclean. Because if God hasn't come yet in power and glory, there's still hope. God's called us into this fellowship. What does that look like? You don't need gifts of knowledge. This end is God ordained, we should have our hearts set on it, and we should live in light of it. We learned something about God in verse 4. So we have to start waiting. Fighting daily against Satan, daily against temptations, daily against the world will end. Who wants to see that? We wish more could be done, but you're the one holding us back? How much of Christianity are getting a message that, oh God he'll forgive you, it's fine, and doesn't do anything about saying repent So they had become so focused, rightly so, there is good here. And that, beloved, is what the world needs more than anything. Maybe we've waited and then stopped and need to start again We want to be set free from the real aching and pain of our bodies. May God give you his grace. Are we awake? Build yourselves up in your most holy faith. Uh they had what, as one commentary said, isn't generally the problem of the church today Present grace. We're effectually called. So there's a word of comfort too that those have an end. Have you ever sinned against a parent that was already angry with you? How can we say we're joyfully waiting for you in righteousness when we can't give God one day? You've had people come in your midst and they are utterly corrupt. Many people say, I want to be in heaven, I want to see God, I want to be with him, and then he says, Here's one day you can do it, and they don't want to do it You may say, I wish the pastor had picked readings talking about Christmas, because that's the Advent I like. And they went on sinning further. Yes, God is this God who acts for these kind of people and does this. I'm going to say the Ten Commandments. You gotta start. They're a great congregation. It is like a man going on a journey when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge, each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to stay awake God has made a feast of his loving mercy and kindness and salvation in Christ They're both good, they're both stating truths. This is an attitude we've got to learn. I know I'm a child, but I don't want to be an adult because I want to do those adult things. It's horrible. Do we blame God? Those who remember God in God's ways, that's who God acts for. You're going to be transformed when he comes. I only want to say yes because God's ordained it, so we better be ready for it. There are Satan kingdoms destroyed. That's what they thought was going to happen. That's beginning to wait for the king and hearing the good news. You're all going to see God face to face. That's an effectual call when He's brought you to Christ and made you a member of the church. Are you continuing to wait and longing and knowing that there's more? We're a leper in your sight It is so cold. For who? Maybe we need to pray for people to start. I tell you, it's one of my favorite things every week to go to this table and be reminded of God's work and to see it. It's still really these children God's entrusted you with, the gifts of service he's entrusted you with, the resources he's trusted you with, the relationships that he's trusted you with. It's quite old. Reclining in a chair? Either way, they're going to grow up and have their own lives Can we really say this about the church? And then what does Paul say? He has shown his love. And the point of Isaiah's and all of God's prophecies about the end is no, the church won't do it That means worship. That's what Jude says. But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. I know that we look forward to that day and You can't mark it on your calendar, because you don't know when it's coming, but it's going to be on there somewhere. You want to talk about having a God-centered life? And when he comes, when you take fire and you put it to brushwood There's wonderful offices and and everything here. And the powers in the heavens will be shaken. And why am I saying this? Your lives matter so much. Jesus gave this message before, right before he went to the cross, right, to remind us of what the call is to follow him. We have nothing. What I'm trying to say, beloved, is in Christ's first coming, it's not just an age of triumph for the church. He's coming again to bring salvation to those who wait for him. Our works are like that, unacceptable to you. God's not ordained that. Behold, you are angry. And Jude says, don't be like that. I'm going to follow them. So we'll talk about that in Corinthians. For those effectually called, those building themselves up in their faith. In one sense, yes We have good now I don't want to miss this to confirm you to the end. Who doesn't want to hear that message ever? Amen. Is it hopeless for a very much of a church in our day around us that's fallen asleep? You have a wonderful people there. Horrible to ever say one wrong word against God. I give thanks to my God always for you, because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus. Present enrichment of your minds Looking at one helps us appreciate the first coming. He's also this kind of God who cares for the works of his hands, of which we are, if we would but humble ourselves. Carl Sherman said months ago, you want to do something counter-cultural today, keep the Sabbath in a traditional manner That's what Isaiah looks around and see this is intercessory. This is the state that Isaiah is looking at and Christ has come. Nudge each other in your prayers every day. The Messiah's come. I've not met We have to continue waiting. Because if you don't show yourself faithful in what you might think little things, how can he entrust you with bigger things, which he wants to entrust you with? Beloved, there is an end to it. Not to escape the day, but to be able to enter and into a real spirit-filled way. This is the word of the Lord. Now what is interesting about this passage There's nobody who takes God's worship serious. Parents, teach your children the Apostles' Creed and say it every day to them. Nudge each other as you cross paths. Because it is a life of waiting. Pray in the Holy Spirit. Then he goes on and says, Keep yourselves in the love of God. Because I'm going to keep myself in this love. He has forgiven us. It goes back to at least the time of Gregory the Great. Those who are remembering your waves and Praise God for all these glorious sign gifts was come and they lost sight that no, there's actually these are going away So I want to say yes to all the good right now. But they've fallen asleep 200 years later. There's adulthood responsibilities. And we'll start in the Old Testament. Some translate this, oh that you would You see what it looks like to begin waiting for God. And yet there's more to come. You won't need teachers in the church because you're just going to look at Jesus and you don't need a pastor anymore to say, look at Jesus Who wants to see war? Okay. You gotta continue, part two. It is so formal. Can it really call into question, are we going to be saved? The world's going to be transformed when he comes. I just met a minister who had ministered here not too long ago. But let's also hear God's word that it's not necessarily always easy to wait in this life, is it? He said no, they're gonna grow up and start their own families, and you better get on board. Because those are the ones He comes and acts for. And then Jesus is opening up here to his disciples. Do we look at our own hearts? I know compared to the old covenant, we we've come of age too, so we've got to deal with that. Now I say all that, not because I want to downplay anything of Christmas That's a church of Jesus Christ. And yet, how many thousands of years is the gospel God in this world But if you take it on the the latter one, oh that you had come down, he's acknowledging when God comes things are gonna be different. Stay awake for Jesus. He's died for our sins, according to Scripture. If you've ever been in a Christian church where there's no spirit, or been in one where there's the spirit of God, it is utterly different. But in those days after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened Because chapter 64 in redemptive history fits to our time Okay Or do we look at ourselves and say are maybe we the ones I'm trying to take that to heart and love them daily. Accept the change that's going to come. He may yet again have mercy. Your responsibilities matter so much right now Every day we should put on Christ. Not a sleepy church. He has given us new birth through his sufferings. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. It's known in the presbytery. And they've already got it wrong and they've fallen under God's judgment. Is your life centered on a Sabbath, a whole day set apart to God? You're showing yourself not to be very faithful at the moment. There's more to come which we must be ready for. Parents pray with your children, Lord's Prayer, every day. I think Jude is such a great thing. That gospel message proclaimed, and hearing that and taking it serious that Again, I remind you, these last chapters are dealing with this age between Christ's first coming and the second coming. Let me affirm good Let me see if I can illustrate it this way, because here's something also that God's ordained that I struggle with wanting to live in light of Sitting down? The prophet tells us that God is somebody who acts for those who wait for him. Have you ever sinned against a colleague that was already angry against you? He uses the word called revealing. Whew, that just makes you want to turn from the sin Let me have my heart on it. But He doesn't say don't rest in that, because he says, and look towards what? That's what we're going to talk about this morning. And It's a life of enjoyment. But I want to say no because it doesn't mean Ugly, horrible, wicked But does it make what we do nonsense, not important, or anything like that? It is so hypocritic. Let me put it that way. And God, if you know anything about the Corinthian church, they're anything but guiltless at this point Beloved, every day walk in his Ten Commandments. Because I honestly want you to be waiting for the Lord's coming You profess that publicly. What what kind of waiting are we talking about here? Let's turn then briefly to 1 Corinthians and look at continuing waiting And I'm going to make that point in the next point. So I hope as we look at these readings today and the coming weeks and spin this season. And one day the waiting will be over. There's a wonderful people like Grace and Peace. You know, 1 Corinthians plays up the good now. So if you care to follow along with me, turn into your Bibles. There's nobody who rouses themselves. You have the picture from the prophet, what it means to wait for God. And Christ has come and again, and he's looking around and saying, Your church isn't ready. He knows that God's coming is serious Christmas has been celebrated much longer than that, a couple hundred years There's been a first coming. I can't change it. Well So I want to talk to you this morning from these three passages. He may send his spirit again in power in our day, and we might see these things. Jesus says the same thing to us, and let me humble us again real quick. There's adulthood things to do. And you need to hear that and heed that and And we're called also to follow him daily in that cross-bearing. Apostles' creed every day, Lord's Prayer every day, Ten Commandments every day. Don't you see it when we come together? God's put us in hope of more to come We want our strength back. He's also this God, too, our Father. You've been baptized together with your children, and you live in the fellowship using the means of grace. He's been buried Maybe it's maybe advent could be profitable to us Starting Is it hopeless But don't go to sleep now. We've been in our sins for so long. We also need a people that continue waiting for the Lord. That's our armor. We'll see that If you've been on a military detachment If for no other reason They're asleep. But So we're not escapists. That's how we stay awake. And he's ordained the day A corrective one And Paul's saying you also have to live The mercy of Jesus Christ when he comes. God's work. Real love of the saints. Lord, we're hoping in your mercy when you come. We're children. There you go.