Dear Saints, tonight's sermon is well summed up by the famous words which we will sing when we end from How Firm a Foundation What more can he say than to you he has said, to you who for refuge to Jesus have fled When two people marry, what more can they say to one another but to thou, I do? Shouldn't that vow put there in the old way troth or faithfulness beyond all dispute? And provide a strong consolation. I prefer that over encouragement, and I will tell you why. A strong consolation for all the years ahead of them. The better ones, but especially the worst ones. The healthy ones, but especially the sick ones. Put it beyond doubt that their partner through it all will be there for them until the end, until death do them part. A marriage vow gives strong consolation to the husband and to the wife. And if I can say from experience, because I tried to do a relationship without it And it was miserable. Had the engagement ring handed back three times. No peace. Is this thing gonna last or not? I'm so thankful for Elizabeth and our marriage vow. There is true rest. True consolation that this isn't built on a fleeting emotional thing, but a promise, a covenant. An agreement before God. The marriage vow gives strong consolation to the husband and to the wife. But also in Christ, beloved, you have such a word of comfort from your God. in his gospel. And my exhortation to you tonight, from Hebrews 6, 13 to 20, which we'll look at, Will be that you console yourselves by God's unchanging purpose to bless you and to give you life in His Son. And to get you to do that, I need to show you two things. One, how unchanging God's purpose to you is in Christ. And two, how God wants that to be a strong consolation for you through this life And Paul here in these verses show us how certain God's promise is, kind of in three ways. In verses 13 to 15, he gives us the example of Abraham. In verse 16, he shows us from the practice of men, and in verses 17 to 18, from the character of God himself, we see how certain God's promise is. Last time we saw that Paul spoke so urgently to these Hebrew Christians. Because he so strongly desired them to show the same diligence or earnest effort in their Christian calling as they formerly had. until the end. It's the end of their life when they would obtain these promises. And that he urged them to that so they would not become or would not be lazy. But be followers or imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises And this last word here in verse 12, the promises, becomes a jumping-off point in verse 13 of our text tonight. In verse 13, Paul says, For when God made a promise to Abraham And here, notice that rather than emphasizing the promise, Paul begins with the promiser, God, the one who made the promise. The actual promise is not the focus of these verses. The focus is the nature or character of the promise. That God made to Abraham, and as we'll see, makes to us believers in Christ. Nature and character means what kind of promise is this? The promise itself only comes in at the end of our passage, 19 and 20, when Paul goes from there and he sort of uses that to transition to the high priesthood of Christ in verses or chapters ten, excuse me, seven to chapter ten, verse eighteen, and we'll get to that in coming weeks. Paul goes on to say in verse 13 that since God had no one greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself when he made a promise to Abraham. To swear can mean use a curse word, that's not what it means here. To swear is to take an oath. And an oath, according to the ancient Jewish commentator Philo, I quote, is nothing else than to call God To bear witness in a disputed matter. And that is, God is invoked, He is called upon to guarantee a person's words that what he is saying is in fact the case. Our own confession of faith in chapter 22, which deals with oaths in Article 1, describes an oath this way. An oath is a lawful oath, is a part of religious worship, wherein upon just occasion The person swearing solemnly calls God to witness what he asserts or promises And to judge him according to the truth or falsehood of what he swears. And at the end of the day it means if you really mean what you say, you you take an oath, right? It's called upon We've all seen cases, I'm sure you've seen cases, right? He said and she said, and there's a dispute. And we may want to say, Oh God, right, come bear witness and tell us who's telling the truth In American courtrooms, still today, the oath we take is, so help me God, after we promise to tell the truth, the whole truth. You know, what what a thought that Paul's driving at when he's really just doing exposition on Genesis 22 here. That when God made his promise to Abraham, saying, Surely I will bless you and multiply you, God added, and so help me God. And or to keep with Paul, so help me myself, because there's no one greater for him to swear by. Now keep this thought in your mind, but what could God be up to swearing by himself? But just keep that, well not quite there, but just think of that. Paul goes on to tell us, and so, this is verse 15, and thus or so Abraham, having patiently waited, obtained the promise. That is, the so there means in this way of relying upon God's sworn promise, by the way, can also go by the name of a vow. A promissory oath is a vow. In this way, relying upon God's vow, his sworn promise, trusting in this, Abraham, after waiting patiently, obtained the promise. Now, why is Paul telling us about God and Abraham here? For one reason, Paul told us back in verse 12. That he wants us Christians to follow those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. And Abraham is one of those who faith and patience inherited the promises. In fact, in the Old Testament, he is the example par excellence. Of enduring faith. We read in Romans four, No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God. Abraham waited 25 years for Isaac, and when tested severely, as we saw in Genesis 22, Which is from where Paul quotes there in verse 14 of our passage, Abraham's faith still did not waver. How's God going to bless and multiply me when I have to offer my child up, right? His faith did not waver in the promise. So Abraham's an example of the certainty of God's promise. But second, The example of Abraham in Genesis 22 parallels the case of believers today. As we will see, God has made a sworn promise to you believers in Christ as well. So then the story of Abraham gives us an example of someone who inherited through faith and patience. And the story of Abraham highlights the certainty of God's promise. He swore by himself when he made a promise to Abraham. As the Bible says Abraham truly is the father of all who believe. All who believe God's promise of eternal life in Jesus Christ. I wish we had Father Abraham and I am looking. No, we don't. But it would be an appropriate one to sing tonight. To be a son of Abraham, beloved, is not necessarily to be a Jew after blood. It is to rely on God's promise, to wait patiently for it, and at length to obtain it. Beloved, to live like that, to truly receive God's promise of being in glory with Jesus. To live like that, having that promise, it should make you feel akin to all the saints in the Old Testament. It should really make you feel at home. In your Bibles, the more I've sat with this all week and been just reveling in the fact that I have this sure promise in Christ, I'm like, wow, I feel right next to Abraham. Right next to Isaac, right next to every Old Testament believer, and right next to every New Testament believer, because we're trusting in God's promise to give us eternal life in Jesus. So the example of Abraham confirms the certainty of God's promise. God promised. God swore. Abraham believed, Abraham waited, Abraham inherited, and we can just say rinse and repeat all the way down, covenant history, until we all inherit the promise. Now the second way Paul shows us in these verses in verse 16, the second way Paul shows us the certainty of God's promise is from the practice of men. And you see that there in verse sixteen. In verse sixteen, Paul tells us what is universally true of oaths taken by men. When men make them, they swear by something greater than themselves It doesn't do much good to swear by yourself or by something inferior to yourself because the whole point of swearing is, well, yourself may be kind of questionable and they're not taking you at your words, and you're swearing to confirm your words. And to confirm your words means to prove that they are true. I cannot see into your heart An angel cannot see into your heart. The devil cannot see into your heart. God alone can see into your heart. And he does Only he can confirm your oath, and only he should be sworn by. So then when men need to confirm their words, prove that they're true, They swear by something greater than themselves. Now, since this is brought up, I'm going to have a short side point about taking oaths today, because it's controverted. Christians dispute about taking oaths today. Let me just address that real quick. Those who believe that Christians should not take oaths generally appeal to Jesus' words in Matthew 5. 33, where Jesus says, and I quote, do not take an oath at all. And at first that seems quite conclusive at all. Yet when you read the things in the rest of the passage that they were swearing by in Jesus' day, heaven Earth, Jerusalem, your own head, together with the reasons that Jesus gives or gave for not swearing by them, for it heaven is the throne of God, for it earth is his is God's footstool, for it Jerusalem is the city of the great king And for you cannot make one hair white or black, because God's more in control of your head than you When we take all that together, we see that the problem was not swearing in itself. It's actually a command in the Old Testament in certain places. Swearing in itself is not the problem. The problem is swearing in such a way that directly avoids using God's name And you did this so that you could give yourself an out if you didn't keep your word. And the rabbis wanted an out because the law condemned oathbreaking. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord will not hold them guiltless that takes his name in vain. And some rightly can tran you can rightly translate Exodus 27 as, You shall not swear falsely. by the name of the Lord your God. So God condemns swearing fossil by his name. And the general oath taken by Old Testament believers was, as the Lord lives. But the rabbis taught that it was only swearing by God's name and then breaking your oath, only that was sinful. But what Jesus then was doing is he was setting aside what you might call conversational oaths, just used in regular conversation. And Jesus dismisses all these by pointing to the sovereign, omnipotent reality of God. But I think the strongest case for Christians being permitted to take an oath today, as our confession says, in matters of weight and moment, is found in Jesus' own example. Before the Sanhedrin in Matthew 26, 63 to 64, we read, but Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to him, I adjure you by the living God, tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus said to him, You have said so. Other words, I adjure you by the living God, mean I put you on oath. And the oath sworn there was, as the Lords live, I enjoy you by the living God, the high priest said. That was the usual and strongest oath in the Old Testament. If anything was said after taking such an oath or after being adjured in such a way, it was spoken on oath. That is, it was spoken under oath. And therefore, Jesus' words to the high priest, you have said so, were spoken under oath, as the Lord lives. Now, Jesus would not have spoken on oath if it were sinful to take an oath. Consider the words of Levi 5. 1 because they're applicable here. If anyone sins and that he hears a public adjuration to testify, and though he is a witness, whether he has seen or come to know the matter, Yet does not speak, he shall bear his iniquity. Jesus was lawfully adjured by the high priest to testify to being the Christ or not, and he did. Because to do otherwise would have been a sin to him, according to Leviticus 5. 1. He was a jewel. To give testimony, and he did. This accords with our own confession of faith, chapter 22, verse, or article two. So a lawful oath Being imposed by lawful authority in such matters ought to be taken. And all that to say to you is be at rest. When you take an oath in a court of law that you're not sinning or other times. Okay. I felt I needed to address that because Paul does it. I know it's debated, but let's get back to the point. We've seen that Paul here is stating what is universally true for humans regarding taking oaths They swear by the greater, and they swear to confirm or prove true their words, and they do this to end a dispute And in all their disputes, an oath is final for confirmation. When you have taken an oath, beloved What more can you say? If if your oath, if that does not settle it, what will settle it? But Paul's real point here is that for men, an oath, in fact, does settle it. Whatever the dispute may be, when men take an oath, that settles the matter. And so Paul is saying, if human oaths put the matter beyond question But what about divine oaths? Again, if human oaths settle disputes, then so should God. So not only does verse 16 explain how oaths work and what they do, verse 16 is really it's an argument from the lesser to the greater. Like in 1 John 5. 9, if we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater. How many people have been locked away by the testimony of men? How many contracts daily are made upon the testimony of men Men believe men. Men convince other men by their oaths Well, how much more should we believe God when he testifies? And how much more should we believe God when he convinces us Or when he convinces us by swearing an oath. It should be beyond question to us, beloved, the truthfulness of the gospel's promise. And therefore, it should be beyond question to us its power to console us and comfort who believe. And that's Paul's point in verses 17 to 18. The third way that Paul shows us the certainty of God's promise is from his own character. I asked earlier, right, what could God be up to swearing by himself? Um just an aside, I was studying it a little bit. Paul wasn't the first to comment about this. Philo comment about it, other Jews comment about it, and they did it kind of apologetically. 'Cause isn't God's word true already? Why's he got to swear an oath? What's wrong with your gone? So what is God up to here taking an oath? Well, verses 17 and 18 explain what God was up to. The logic of verse 17 is: since men take oaths to convince others, God did the same. That's the meaning of that word so that verse 17 begins with. It picks up in verse 16. Since men take oaths to convince others, well, God did the same when he desired to show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise The unchangeable character of his purpose. God was swearing by himself To show more convincingly to the heirs of the promise, that's those who will inherit and obtain it, the unchangeable character of his purpose. Now I want you to hear this. God's naked promise, that's just a promise by itself without a note, is just as unchanging in character as his sworn promise. Paul is not saying here. God often waffles on his promises, but when he swears, then you can be certain that he's not going to change his mind. That's not what Paul is saying. Did do you get that? We want that to be clear. Paul's not saying God's usually doubtful in his promises, so he really wanted to make you sure this time. His promise is just as unchanging as his oath. He's only saying here That an oath shows the unchanging character of his purpose more convincingly to us, since we humans are used to that sort of thing. It's really an accommodation to us. When you make a promise, beloved, you are making known what your purpose is. For example, when you promise to take out the trash, you make it known that your purpose to take out the trash, or in reality, it's your purpose to make your spouse happy. But you're making your purpose known. And your promise. Imagine this. Imagine on Thursday promising to take out the trash on the following Tuesday. So Thursday. And I promise I'm going to take it out on Tuesday. And then imagine Saturday comes around and on Saturday swearing an oath to take out the trash on Tuesday. From the time you first made the promise to the time you swore the oath two days later, has your purpose changed? No. But does your oath Demonstrate the unchangeableness of your purpose? More convincingly? Yes. And that is what God was doing in Genesis chapter 22 If you go all the way back to Genesis 12 and 13, 25 years prior to Genesis 22, God made known to Abraham that it was his purpose to bless him and multiply him when he promised him saying in Genesis 12:2, I will bless you and make your name great. And then in Genesis 13:16, I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth Fast forward 25 years later, in Genesis 22, 17, God reissues that same promise. Surely I will bless you and multiply you. However, in verse 16 of chapter 22, we read, By myself I have sworn, declares the Lord. For God's purpose had not changed in twenty-five years, but through his oath he is more convincingly showing to Abraham and the heirs of the promise the unchangeable character. Of his purpose. And he did that. God did that, the text tells us, because he desired something. He wanted something. And here is where God's amazing goodness is really shown. He whose word cannot but be true swore an oath for our good. And what good was God desiring to give us? Strong consolation. We read in verse 18, so that by two unchangeable things, and those two things being his word or his promise and his oath. In which it is impossible for God to lie. God cannot lie when he promises. God cannot lie when he takes an oath. We now here I depart from the ESD. And I go with like a King James or other translation. The Greek gets ESV changes the Greek order, so I don't go with it. Here's my translation. It's really just I think the King James, but so that we might have strong consolation to have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us Now, the ESV understands the passage to be saying that the unchangeable character of God's purpose Provides strong encouragement to hold fast to the hope. It's so unchanging, or that it will most certainly come true, so don't let go of it And that's true, right? I just don't think that's the truth Paul's saying here. It is true that it will come to pass, so don't let go of it. But what I think Paul is saying here, and again it's just because the way the Greek words are ordered uh fleeing for refuge and laying hold are next to each other and they separate them and make them apply to different objects and I don't agree with it. I think what Paul's saying here is God has demonstrated the unchangeable character of his purpose to the heirs of the promise, so that they who have fled for refuge, and the word refuge here is the same Greek word used in the Septuagint that deals with um Fleeing to the city of refuge? That they who have fled for refuge, like a manslayer fleeing to a city of refuge. And why did he flee there? To lay hold upon the hope of life there might have strong consolation that God's purpose to give the guiltless manslayer life To all that his purpose is unchanging. What a strong consolation to flee there. That God's purpose is unchanging towards you, to give you life if you are in fact a guiltless answer. The unwitting manslayer under the Old Testament had a city of refuge that he could flee to if if on accident he took a man's life. For example, this is the one the scriptures give Two men are out chopping wood, the axe head flies off the handle, strikes the other man so as to kill him He's not guilty in God's eyes, but there's still an avenger of blood. And to escape that avenger of blood, the manslayer could flee to the city of refuge, whereby God's determined purpose He could receive a fair child by the elders of the city, and if acquitted, live there in peace. And once the high priest died, He could return home. So what a consolation then to the manslayer who fled to lay hold upon God's hope of life in the city of refuge, that God's purpose isn't gonna change. He's fled there He is a dead man if he doesn't. And he's gone there seeking refuge, because God's promised life to you manslayers to stay here and live. And what a consolation to him that God's purpose is unchanging. So then, the unchangeable character of God's purpose, right? The certainty of God's promise Is a strong consolation to those who have fled to lay hold upon God's promise of life in Jesus. And Paul finishes this passage by briefly describing the Christian's hope. Our hope, Paul says there in verse 19, we have as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul. Now I think that all Paul is trying to say here by this simile as like Is that like an anchor, our promise is sure and steadfast. That is, it's reliable. I don't think he's trying to say that as believers were anchored to Jesus. I mean that might be true. Again, I just don't think that's what he's trying to say here in the passage. I think he's saying, like we all know, you don't anchor to something unreliable. You anchor to something firm and fixed And I've made it clear to you by now, from the not me but Paul, I've made it clear to you by now from the example of Abraham, the practice of men, and the character of God, that God's promise is reliable. He is certain about his purpose to bless you believers eternally And Paul then Paul goes on to say there in verse 20 or Latin 19 and 20, and that this hope enters into the inner place behind the curtain, where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf. Having become a high priest forever after the order of Nelchized. Later on in the letter, Paul will identify the place where Jesus has gone as heaven itself. 924, for Christ has entered not into holy places made with hands, earthly temple, which are copies of true things. But in the heaven itself now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. And He's gone bodily there. Christian hope, beloved, bodily enters into heaven itself, into the very presence of God, there to offer him priestly service forever. Now, here's the interesting part. We have this sure hope Because God has sworn in Psalm 110, verse 4, that Christ will be a high priest forever. The Lord has sworn And will not change his mind. You are a priest forever. And Paul makes much of this quote, much of this oath. In chapter 7, which we're going to look at next time. But what Paul's saying here is that God's sworn promise to us who believe in Jesus. Is that our Lord Jesus, he is a priest forever. God has sworn it. And this is a strong consolation to all who have fled from the wrath to come. To Christ to take refuge in the promise of eternal life in Him The words of my hope is built on nothing less come to mind. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. And right they better be, because he is a priest forever, and God has sworn it. In ourselves, we are condemned, and we are exposed to the avenger of blood But covered with Jesus' blood, God's sword is sheathed, his wrath is turned away, and in Christ We have God's certain promise of eternal life. And we're going to look at all this in more detail in the weeks ahead. This idea of your promise being sworn to you because of Christ and who he is and your hope being built upon not you, but Christ's priesthood And receiving life as a free promise from God based on Jesus. We're going to look at all that ahead. But let me end here with some application. As you can see, congregation, God wants you to have strong consolation who have fled to his hope of life. The text says that God has given it to you. Eh? The text says that He desired to give it to you. He wants you to have it. It is very useful to you in this life. How is it useful to you? Well, consider what a refuge is for a moment. God's promise of life in Christ is our refuge. The refuge is a place of safety and of shelter. You go there for protection, for peace. Well, in Christ, God has promised to bring us to glory. That is, God has promised to bring us to where Christ, our forerunner and priest, is. And in the process of bringing there, He's promised never to leave us. and at the same time to complete us into his image. With us saying, if you are a believer in Christ, You have a glorious future, and all your life long, God is completing you. In other words, another way of saying it is, in this life, you're on the way. And you have this hope to console you through all of life's evils, trials, difficulties, and temptation. God gives you his sure promise to cheer you through it all, to comfort you through it all, to encourage you through it all. For example, in Hebrews 10, we'll get to it later, we read there about believers in Christ who endured a hard struggle with suffering. They were sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners with those so treated. But by confidence in God's promise, we read they joyfully accepted the plundering of their property. What will you flee to when persecution comes to you? What will you flee to when grief comes to you? What will you flee to in just the daily downs? God wants you to flee to his promise. Christian hope is not escapism. As you are well aware, I'm sure, Christians do not get out of life's problems. Yet they endure them in the refuge of God's hope. Through them, and at times despite them. God is bringing them to glory. God is completing you. The world seeks refuge By an escapism that numbs. They want to numb the pain with drugs, alcohol, or other dopamine fixes to get themselves up. Escapism is not the Christian way. So because we know our future is sure, that our life is hid with Christ, We can face tomorrow. I don't know if you guys know Bill Gaither. But he puts he says it well here. He gets Paul. Because he lives. And as we saw by a sworn oath, because he lives, Jesus, I can face tomorrow. That was my grandfather's favorite song by Bill Gaither. He loved the Southern Gospel music. But my grandfather also suffered terrible tragedies in this life. I have an uncle I've never met. My grandfather lost him to a DUI accident when he turned 19, his friend. For God has sworn to be with His people, sworn to never leave them. I think it is so important. I think of you young ones, but all of us. If you don't have this hope, then all you have is now, and you live solely for this, and you have to make the most out of this life You've got to create yourself here. You've got to be yourself here. Everything. You gotta be up on TikTok or this or that. And what happens when you get cancer? You have a hope in Christ beyond this world. You cannot live as a Christian solely for here and now. You have to live here and now. But God's bringing you some you have a destination. You are in process. He's bringing you there. And you have this promise as a refuge to console you. Through this life, when it seems like the world's passing you by and you're being left behind. Just wait, because you will be with Jesus in glory. Console yourselves, congregation, with all that is to come to you. Look up Look up to the future in Christ. Not to escape the now. But so that you can engage the here and now as God's called servants with a sure hope. Let God's promise be your certain refuge And console yourselves with it. Because God has given it to you in Christ. Amen.