And I think ours, let every person, let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. What it means to be a Christian is to acknowledge that God has given to Jesus, his incarnate Son, who's died and risen, ascended at his right hand, reigning, and who will return. And every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father. You might say, but I'm a sinner, and we know God hates it. and have given themselves to him and cast themselves on his mercy. They've been made by him and for him. He can even send you out to pasture for seven years, and nobody will take your kingdom while you're grazing like a sheep. Don't you think maybe you should give him back what's his because he's making it possible for you to live the life that you're living? He's saying, let no Christian ever give any cause by his civil conduct for speaking ill against the gospel of God. But let me give you another example from Jesus' life when he was in subjection to the powers that be that weren't so nice to Jesus. So for wrath's sake, you will be opposing God's ordinance. The voice of the nobles was hushed and their tongue set to the roof. Hupo tasso is to be in subjection. 'Cause it's the better we're gonna fulfill our duty in this. For the nations is your inheritance and I'll give them, and Jesus apparently asked, because they're his and they've been coming to him. And trusting in Him and being blessed and receiving all those spiritual blessings of forgiveness and adoption, glory and sanctification that Christ gives What do you mean, Pastor Young, by being promoted by the higher powers? To bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, this gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is being preached to the world Paul's dealing with a very serious issue in the church of bad teaching, but because it's corrupting the gospel for all, people are getting dealing with the law they don't understand and aren't preaching this word of grace to the nations. That's our petitions. But what is so good about this? Here's that great truth. Afraid to do what? of arguing and debating on what right they have to be power and authority. Paul's talking about don't as Christians get into an endless cycle Acknowledging Caesar's right that he has, but ultimately remember or render to God or belongs to God. And then he narrows it down, and particularly by doing good, by being the better citizens than the Romans, he's saying, You would silence the ignorance of foolish people, it always meant in a moral sense. And his body on the tree. We saw it there in his life as he was suffering under it. And to do, it's easy to preach this one. Therefore, one must be in subjection. They're God's servants. That's there the word translates tax means revenue or customs. Followed by six purpose clauses that for six reasons have ordained and established this constitution. They have direct involvement as Americans, a huge responsibility that they were started and doing, that we're born under. Let me give you a final word and we'll be done. It's lawful in those cases to meet those ends if called upon and need to fight a war. When my steps were washed with butter, the rock poured out for me streams of oil. And I searched out the cause of him whom I did not know. The voice of the nobles was hushed, and their tongue struck to the roof of their mouth. I put on righteousness, and it clothed me. I chose their way and sat as chief, and I lived like a king, among his troops, like one who comforts mourners. of God. Powers. God has given all authority. but the death on a cross for our sins. And it is to bow before that name and is to confess Jesus as Lord because that is God's will for every one of you here and every person who hears this gospel of God's But also means our obedience. Look at the flood that the last time Jesus used these words of little faith when he talked about God's provision of the world and then men and women thinking, well they have to put all their strength into taking care of themselves because God's not going to care for me So part of what it means to be a Christian and to confess his lordship of Christ is to know and believe in our hearts that he loves us. Not so we would just stop at that, but that we would trust God, trust Christ, make him Lord. Be obedient to him, because he is Lord of all and Son of God. If God provided for our salvation before we ever gave a thought for him, we can trust him, right? Also, Paul says in Romans 5, that's why he received his apostleship. So that men and women, boys and girls everywhere would come to believe in him, trust in him, and obey him and serve him as Lord. Which is the testimony given at the proper time. They need to know this God, they need to know this mediator and come and trust in him. And therefore, since it is a fifth commandment issue, an issue dealing with God's law, it's also an area we need sanctification in, right? Christ, salvation, etc. Heart is renewing your mind that you might discern his will in everything and walk pleasing. I think Paul's dealing with this at our most basic level, right? Now I wonder, and I will, when I get to the application part of this, fill this out more fully. sticks to it. The language that you use if you were to array yourself against an opposing force. For he is God's servant for your good, but if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. and have the power of life and death in that regard, uh the capital punishment and that being the most extreme punishment But notice that Paul also fills out a bit more about these powers. It does not come from God. Ultimately, in subjection to the Lord, who is Lord of Lord and King of Kings, they're from God, instituted by Him, and they serve God for your good. Civil power is a divine institution performing a divine service in this world for God's glory and for the public good. And to trade and enjoy. And namely that public good being to promote piety, justice, and peace. That's the force of what Jesus was saying. In the states that we live in, we have a debt or a duty and obligation to support it and being subject to it. But living as servants of God, honor everyone, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the emperor. This duty to be in subject to the powers, it's on God's will. Clean your room. And then Peter says in the next verse, obviously that was true in all of his sufferings, but he is emphasizing the cross. It cannot but be. A dictator. It's not the argument Paul makes here. I actually found it quite challenging this week as I was preparing for this sermon and thinking about the form of government that you and I live under. If you do what's evil, you will bear God's just punishment, his wrath against your sin He may hate that God, not acknowledge that God. And they may revile you because of how heathen they are. People held their speech before him. When they tell us to disobey God, who's given us direct command, a witness to Jesus Christ, and they say, You stop preaching, Jesus, we say, sorry, I can't obey you because Jesus is Lord, and God's told me to do this. Let us not see our state go a place like Haiti, right? Dictatorships is authoritarian governments. Says no I won't do it. As God's ministers for your good. and justice and security in our land and be able to lead these quiet and peaceful lives. Now it's come from God. It's wanting to see your parents' rule flourish, the church's rule flourish, civil society authorities flourish. May God give us his grace bow and forever. How many people that actually live in those neighborhoods are saying, please don't defund the police? When I prepared my seat in the square, the young men saw me and withdrew, and the aged rose and stood. After I spoke, they did not speak again, and my word dropped upon them. Can do what is good, and you will receive his approval. An avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. For the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. And behold, there arose a great storm under sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves, that he was asleep. Taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. That even winds and sea obey him. Coming out of the tombs, so fierce that no one could pass that way. What have you to do with us, O Son of God? But before we get there, I'd like to say a few things, and largely because Paul's writing to Christians. everything. He has been given all authority in heaven and earth. Son. That is above every name. Lord that God has put in charge of this world, whose name God is ensuring is being made known, so that they can come and put their faith and trust in Him. of kings on earth. They are, or he is their ruler. Before we get into and apply Paul's word to Christians about our duty and responsibility to the state. He's dealing with us in mercy and love and calls us as creatures who need a Savior and a Lord, who can't take care of ourselves. Jesus says that's that's just little faith it really means this is living without faith. They know who's in charge. That this God they don't know, they'll trust him and love him and turn to him. Lord. Message of preaching justification by faith. Psalm 2 talks about that. Every person you meet in this world has but the same media that you have and has the same value placed on your life as as theirs, the death of Jesus Christ on the cross allows this to take place. Called upon Jesus Christ as Lord, haven't trusted in him, received his grace to do so, even now, turn to him. Through the civil authorities. In subjection to Christ, your Lord, who serve him in this world to make his gospel known, let every one of you be subject unto the higher powers. But any relationship in fact the all of them of superiors, inferiors, inferiors, superiors, and equals. that we owe as not just Christians, but as citizens in the Commonwealth that God has pleased for us to be born into or you moved to in His providence, etc. It's an area we need sanctification in. The authorities resist what God has appointed. to the higher powers. So he's talking about the powers that then are over us, which we are then under. Everyone under that as well. But powers that are, He has put them in place by His providence. my good for the public good as God's servant to promote that good and punish evildoing. So then, what is the Paul's teaching here? Civil power is a divine institution, and it comes from God and is set up by God. Now, I don't think in this congregation I'm going to have to prove this in any kind of depth, but I will just remind you briefly that this was our Savior's teaching. even to Caesar, right? Um, if you will. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the Emperor as supreme, or to governors as sent by him, to punish those who do evil, and to praise those who do good Was he ultimately in subjection to God his father? When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. Paul prayed to the beast. It's the same one, same Roman Empire in the book of Revelation that John's exposing as being in the thralls of Satan. Is it good from God and His servant? This is clearly not a dictator living under that Jesus lived under. Uh the the pagan people that that the the church lived in, they probably feared the state and they probably obeyed or subject to it for that very reason. is actually used of our Lord Jesus Christ in his heavenly ministry in in Hebrews chapter eight. Therefore, there should be a fear and an awe, as Paul says, that we are to render to them. far excels us. performing a divine function on his behalf, executing his own justice in the world Let us lament and hate and mourn and we don't see it being in hell. Did you pick out that on there in verse 29 as we read? If you don't like the laws, get ranked and change it. Of treating a civil magistrate as God says he is. But obedience. Mourn it. All these taxes, all these revenues that go back to these civil powers are for maintaining them in their order and their goodness. I think God's gonna hold me accountable as a person under this Constitution to make sure that I'm doing my part, that there's a just rule, because I, as an American citizen, I've ordained I've established, we the people, the government we live under. And that you're not living in one of those areas, you're directly impacting their lives by the way you're voting, because now they're living in more crime-ridden streets. And particularly as American citizens and this Constitution, they're big responsibilities. Holds us accountable to. Visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. The firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent, for in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. And through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. Beloved, Christ our Lord, created the powers that be for himself, and as Redeemer, they are an instrument in his hand. to promote his ends and particularly the witness of the gospel. I smiled on them when they had no confidence, and the light of my face they did not cast down And our gospel reading this morning comes from Matthew chapter 8, and we'll read from verse 23 to verse 34. And they went and woke him, saying, Save us, Lord, we are perishing. We read in Philippians 2, 9 and 10, therefore, pointing back to because of what Jesus did in his obedience, his humility, his obeying the Father even unto death, and no just any death. Be read down this morning. In the how section, or more positively, lay out what it means to be in subject. Acknowledge God's providence, the powers that be have been ordained or put in place by Him. So the powers that be, let us be in subjection to them. And these powers that we're to be in subjection to, whether they willingly know it, unwillingly, consciously, unconsciously, these powers are God's servants. Paul. But the Bible also uncovers in Revelation, right, the great uncovering, the apocalypse of Jesus Christ, that pulling back the veil to see what's going on And if they are unjust in persecuting you, use all lawful means to deal with it. Thinking about our American Constitution and going back and reading it and and what it means today for us to fulfill this duty, to be in subjection to it, when we're under a democratic republic, the form of government that you and I are under. Why does Paul say for conscience sake? Gives us a bigger picture, doesn't he? And he uses quite an exalted and dignified term in uh verse six. God's given you that rank and station. Jump down to verse 17. And they became their own rulers. Our taxes. But that's not the American State that we live in. As I was in my prime, when the friendship of God was upon my tent, when the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were all around me. Because I delivered the poor who cried for help, and the fatherless who had none to help him. My glory fresh with me, and my bow ever new in my hand. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities, resist what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain, for he is the servant of God. Not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. Saying, if you cast us out, send us away into the herd of pigs. Now a herd of many pigs was feeding at some distance from them, and the demons begged him So they came out and went into the pigs. Paul's not just addressing every man, though every man should be, but this is a word to the church. I'll give you a final passage to support this idea that, first of all, being subject and what it means to getting at the heart of being a Christian is Now Jesus' Lordship as this passage, imagine we're talking about being a Christian real quick. Those people who belong to him, whom the Father has given and draws to him, who've come to him, it is below them to be so betaken. Shall not perish. That he is the Lord of all and will provide for his servants. If we think it's a good thing that human lords care for their masters and they do, well what about Jesus, right, who's Lord of all? They just got really quiet. And he may take you through a storm so you learn to believe that. They know who's the one in charge. Good and orderly societies, the higher powers who can promote civil peace so that you can have a teaching ministry, a preaching ministry, you can have freedom of speech and freedom of religion People running for their lives. Be subject to the to the governing authorities. Why does Paul write every soul? That the civil magistrate is God's or is a divine institution performing a divine function of service in this world for God's glory and the public good. He he got the coin for a few reasons, but one of them was, well you're using his currency to buy your goods For this is the will of God. The kingdom of God is here, but not in a way that it disrupts society completely. And be good citizens. Luke 2, chapter, or Luke chapter 2, verse 51. Here's Jesus doing it when it's not easy to do it. It's foolish and nonsense to think, let the state be state, it doesn't have to deal with religion and morals. To promote anti-Christian activity. And if you oppose them, Paul says, watch out, because you're opposing God's ordinance. They may have done it out of a sense that there are good benefits coming to me as a Roman citizen. I sat in the square, the young men went withdrew. But perform their public service and public good. It kind of amazed me this week as I was thinking through how broad love your neighbor really is. Our confession does recognize just laws, being those that are in the defense are supporting what the Sisual Magistrate is about in the first place, promoting piety, justice, and peace. Oh, that I were as in the months of old, as in the days when God watched over me, when his lamp shone upon my head, and by his light I walked through darkness. Then I thought, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my days as the sand, my roots spread out to the waters, for the dew all night on my branches And here Matthew is showing us two examples in Jesus' life as he revealed himself to us as the Son. The herdsmen fled, and going into the city, they told everything, especially what had happened to the demon-possessed men. So before we address ourselves as Christians this morning, let's just take a moment from Matthew's gospel and remind ourselves: well, what is a Christian? Being subject to Christ as Lord, Revelation 1:5, we read, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler. And Jesus gets on his disciples here. Even before Jesus deals with the wind and the waves, he deals with his disciples. That's what it means that Jesus is low. But evangelism itself, and this will help transition us to our text, evangelism itself can also be promoted by these higher powers. Now, as I read this morning from our larger catechism, this is really a fifth commandment issue. Paul made this very clear, or excuse me, God made this very clear in Daniel, right? Uh when he was pressed with the question, should we pay tribute to Caesar or not, you know how he answered? To subvert the state? Again, I'll say it now so you uh we'll plan to say it. We all know that Job was a man that God loved, that God had singled out for a particular reason. Or show them honor. To Job who sat in a place of authority and executed God's justice in the place that he lived, he was given honor. Again, obedience as far as we can go. It also means we have the power as well to promote just and humane causes and to oppose those that are unjust and inhumane. It means also because we do have a voice, and through lawful channels and ways, we can offer criticism to government in light of the gospel and the law of God. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. The word of the Lord. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. All the city came out to meet Jesus. Well, first of all, what it means to be a Christian in light of this text, that every soul be subject unto the higher powers, that first means to be subject to Jesus. Matthew 28, words I know that you are familiar with and can quote to me. You're not gonna perish. All people, for kings, and all who are in high positions. I think he's also saying it doesn't matter if you're a bishop, an elder, a deacon, a whatever title you have as a servant of Christ. Just circumvent that whole endless debate and going into and who should be ruling on the earth. Same word we use for in the very limited sense in the church is a diacon. 1 Peter chapter 2, beginning at verse 22. The state, if I could put it this way, beloved, is from God. You can do it too as Christians. But he didn't sin. Jesus, under an unjust authority, notice this, did not sin. We all at times may be like that, but how many of you have ever thought of Job as the civil magistrate? Well, how then do we go about fulfilling this? Praying on people. Do our duties and trust in God. I wasn't even applied to that. Many of you know I went to Afghanistan. The right to govern, right? Suring the right people get in? Democrat Democratic Republic. If you read the stories right, they go around the nation as they're debating all these different ways of fighting crime and policy But it's also going to mean the renewal of our minds. You know, this is a this is a I think right an easier sermon to preach to Americans because we generally like our government. Well, do we take in our own power and say that one's foolish, so I'm not going to follow it. Our Old Testament reading today is Job 29. God's will for them is that they would confess him as Lord, as their Lord. What do we have to fear, right, when Jesus is our Lord? The point to see is what it means that Jesus is Lord of all. What does Paul mean by higher powers? Example from him, let me give you an example from Jesus' own life, a being in subjection to the powers of being. The text that I want to uh expound on this morning is found there in Romans 13. That will be the text I want to expound this morning and be looking at why uh we should do this and how. Means trust. God's word. Nobody is exempted from being in submission to the higher powers. Romans 8:7. We also do it in 1 Timothy told us through prayer. So Matthew chapter 8, beginning at verse 23, hear the word of the Lord. The Son of God. And that's, of course, the big problem that you and I know in this world. The one who followed him, Nera, whom Paul's writing here to the Romans about all dictators. But he's using words here that we translate as resist that are military terms. And then let me also here apply specifically to our state. So first of all, to fulfill this passage and becoming a Christian, to be subject on every higher path, first of all means to be subject to Jesus, the Son of God, right as Lord of all. Serve God and His Spirit, because God has condemned that power of sin over your life and you're not under it. Be subject to higher powers. An immense responsibility that means if we're going to be in subjection and support this and maintain, remember subjection, just again, as the fifth commander reminds us, isn't simply obeying it, it's promoting it It's going to mean obedience to the things that they say. Now you can imagine if Jesus was not going to be in subjection even to evil powers. That's why states incur his judgment when they are moral institutions. But the point is, Paul uses a very lofty term to refer to civil authorities, making them God's ministers. Say, oh Lord, thank you that your just kingdom will finally come. Lord, please do this for me. But this is also the teaching of the apostle to the Jews. Here's a conversation I can never imagine happening between Jesus and his parents. Paul also says something about these powers that the ones that exist. I mean it's not a common word we use, but it means to pay back something that's owed. There is but one God, and there is but one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all Now, Paul's not talking about how bad taxes can be. We can't say no I won't do that. Paul says, this is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth I broke the fangs of the unrighteous. God is the all-powerful one, and all power flows and comes from him. You know, the same Roman government that Paul is telling, the same dictator and empire emperor that Paul is telling the Christians there to be subject to Nama, I serve my God, my father. He makes it necessary. We look in God's providence and you can debate how the American Revolution started and all that. So this is the form of government that we have. Let us show that on who who knows what might happen. The Evangelism itself aims at bringing about disobedience, making known the Lordship of Christ for our salvation. Even to the civil powers. And it was like anarchy. The consent of the people, the power we've invested in these things, the laws that we make through elected representatives and officials over us. So evangelism is something that can happen and flourish and does happen under the civil authorities and can be promoted by it in states that aren't in chaos. What were we deciding? He is Lord of all. You can live if a state ever got so bad. The glorious news there's no more condemnation in Christ. So Paul is talking about then the civil powers that are over us, and that we are then under to be subject unto. There's a coin remember that coin came from them. Colossians 1, verse 6, beginning of verse 16. What does it mean to be a Christian? And Paul talks about that by a couple of ways. I came into this world, I'm sure that would never happen. They're begging, they're saying, at your leave, if you will permit us to do this. But what I would say on this point is that our duty to be subject to the higher powers is not conditioned upon whether they're just or not. It's conditioned on the fact that authority comes from God and they're the ones that being ordained This is good and pleasing in God's eyes. Job said, I stood up and made that prey fall out of his mouth. So then, after having reminded you what it is to be a Christian, couraging you and being a Christian, urging any of you that are Christians and haven't Do not be rebellious to them and undermining their authority. Maybe you can write to your congressmen and say something about it. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. And why has he done this? Many of you know our missionaries who've been serving in Haiti for a very long time aren't there anymore because of the state that that place has evolved into. So Caesar is apparently doing something for your good and the worldwide commerce that he has that allows you to order those expensive imports that you like to put in your house If I could sum it up, I would put it in this way. It can also be abused and made a tool of anti-Christian persecution. They'll not die for their sins. Prayers is just a general term for it. No security. Let every soul, let every one of you. Absolutely. That's the whole intent of God proclaiming his gospel to endarkened pagan idol worshipers of any day. Anti taso is to be in or resisting or opposition. Why is it necessary for us to fulfill this duty? If you want to follow along now, we'll look at our passage here in Romans chapter 13. Now, since I'm speaking to Christian people who both love Jesus and draw all of their moral Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. You saw that this morning there in the text. The word subjection there, I'll just say the Greek words, just so you can understand the play of words Paul's doing here Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name When Jesus is exalted to his Father's right hand, and the Father says, now ask of me. That by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. That may convict his mind. Because this have you ever thought about an application of loving your neighbor in supporting government? You of little faith. You and I know the truth. Why does Paul tell us that you and I should be subject to higher powers? The aged people rose up and stood. Let me remind you the gospel. Jesus, God's Son. Or what we say governing authorities. There he was, the avenger of God's wrath. Many of you know I saw combat. It is frightening to see a lawless society. Whether they willingly admit that or not, knowingly admit that or not, Jesus is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. God has brought his kingdom in in a real way. Even under that. Paul tells us who they are. They called me blessed. Yes, we all know Acts 5. My justice was like a robe and a turban. Every person you meet in this world has the same God as you. Recruit, there we recruit. But our taxes are there to maintain a lawful state that God's justice might be performed amongst us, that we might have peace It's going to mean being reliably informed as much as you can about political issues. Amen. Kings might sit, and they not might, they do sit in the highest authorities, in their realms on land, but Jesus does sit above them. But he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. He makes it necessary on two accounts. They're not asking the people for their opinion on how to rule. So subjection is going to mean honor. The winds and the waves didn't answer back and say no Every person by God's creative act, held up by God's creative power, this person in existence, is a living soul. He says there in verse 1 that they're from God. There is no authority that does not come from God, that does not come from Christ. Continual processing. Didn't mean he set aside their authority. Makes it clear in the book of Revelation. In fact, it's very hard to do it. That's the indirect taxes. So it can also, though God designs it for our good, it can fall prey to Satan Don't pay attention to the man, right? Acknowledge their God-given power and place, and give them honor, respect. Or other countries around the land. Mind you how the Constitution begins, we the people So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth Or if you were to withstand somebody face to face in battle. Look at all these functions Job did. Receiving God's grace, the death of Jesus Christ for our sins. Let us cry against those abuses. Finally it's going to mean ready to serve in justifiable armed combat if we're commanded to do that? Because it's good for you to believe and trust in His Lordship, His faithful love and care, right? Not a place in which you can then teach the nations, open up the Bible, explain to them who they are, who God is. He lived under a dictator. That's God's servant. I'll read to you another passage I know you're familiar with from 1 Timothy. You can still not sin and obey God. Notice again, obedience is not conditional. Philippians 2, I know another text your saints are all familiar with. I mean, multiply that by all the human examples of right. They came in illegally, they're unjust tyrants, etc. And the death that Jesus stretches there in his teaching was Now what can it be for us who live under a good power when we sin under it? We try to do that every week at the Lord on the Lord's Day, try to pray for the civil government every week from the pulpit. I broke the fangs of the unrighteous and made him drop his prey from his teeth And behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the waters. And Paul's saying, here's an area that saints also need sanctification in. Why didn't he say Christian? This, being in subjection, is God's will for us Obviously in subjection to God, we can't go with them when they tell us to be disobedient to the Lord. That's not the point. God's not dealing with us according to our sins in the gospel. Intercessions, that's praying on behalf of somebody else. He's a loving Lord, and He is going to get on to any one of His servants who don't believe that. We have received grace, we've received apostleship Made it very clear to Nebuchadnezzar. They are diaconos. Jesus went down with them, his parents, came to Nazareth, and was submissive. But don't be insubordinate to it I want to address you as Christians, I want to remind you what it is to be Christians, want to encourage everybody who's not a Christian to become a Christian. All power comes from God, the ones that be have been ordained by him. That might lead to a fruitful conversion story. And when he came to the other side to the country of the Gaterenes, two demon-possessed men met him Again, we'll fill out more what that means. The first way in being subjection is going to be honor it. That should be part of your profession of faith when you profess Jesus as Christ, the knowledge that to him So it's going to mean honor to be in subjection to civil authorities. I came here to save you, to give my life for you So let us follow his example and be subject unto them. See if you're voting policies that say defund it What does he mean? And what does Paul mean by the words be subject unto They had Jesus, they had his money, and they were using his money. They approved them when I saw my eye. 29. You don't think that God cares for you. And Paul's saying, good and orderly commonwealth. Why is that? One of them here paying taxes. It's on us to maintain it. And when they saw him, they begged him to leave their region. And he is the head of the body of the church. And he said to them, Why are you afraid, you of little faith? It's full of people, including ourselves, who don't obey God. And after Paul lays it out, he then says, So first of all then I urge that supplications Why? So the reason why I appreciate higher powers, that's what the word means there, higher. Besides, I don't like your rules. Holy Spirit might bring in a conviction of sin. And rulers need to remember, right, that our taxes aren't to line their coffers and live at luxury. The older translation, the powers that be, or an ours, the powers that exist. The princes refrained from talking. A duty we owe to the state is to continue to become more holy as we possibly can. And Job again took up his discourse and said. God so loves the world, right? His name was Emperor Tiberius. I took the here he uses a very vivid image, right? And we don't have to live under some of these greedy, oppressive, what we consider to be very foolish rules, but we can't be insubordinate to it. So we promote this and maintain it by paying taxes, not avoiding it For he is God's servant for your good And when he says go out, they go out. That's what it means to carry the cross, right? That's not what God says. Taxes on our goods and commodities and services. So it means being ready even to, if commanded, to serve in that. The state is from God. He's a minister in heaven, a public servant of God, doing a public function. I delivered the poor and they cried to me for help. I like this one, so I'm going to follow it. For it does not submit, same word, to God's law. They waited for me as for the rain, and they opened their mouths as for spring rain. But part of what it means to be a Christian is to know that Jesus' name is the highest name in the universe He's talking about don't array yourself against He committed no sin. The state, though, also can be influenced by Satan. That word we translate as ministers, le turgoi. That was not the most frightening part. It's going to mean obedience. I'm going to close now. Have you come here to torment us before the time? Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers The demons know that. But let me see if I can give it to you negatively here. Civil authorities and powers are from God. That's the point. Why did he say every soul? That Providence takes into account all the unjust ways that people come into power, and yet His providence overrules all that. We don't live under a dictator, do we? Christ's kingdom is here, but it has not torn down these parables. For wrath's sake, for conscience' sake. But you know who they are. Let us not live practically like atheists, right? We must obey God and not men. Git rank and change it. Paul's writing to people where you didn't have really influence in the power, right? The point is it's here in existence it'd be. We take it upon ourselves as American citizens. The blessing of him who was about to perish came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy Civil power is a divine institution. Peter. And it is God's will that we would live in the states that we are in as the best citizens that we can possibly be. When I went out to the gate of the city, Therefore, one must be in subjection. Yes. The demons, right? Render to Caesar to Caesars. When the ear heard, it called me blessed, and when the eye saw it approved Because you've been set free And if you're familiar with our churches, Confession of Faith, chapter 23, that's essentially the summary of Articles 1 and 2, which deals with the civil magistrate. But thank God for what we have and pray that God would maintain just powers amongst us. But what does he mean? Because they may not bear that image at all This is that always a challenging one, right? God's servants. This is a word to Christians. They are diaconia. And Jesus by using that term is acknowledging there's a debt we all have to God, obviously, as his creatures, but there's a debt we owe Have you ever thought that way? Every soul. The point is you know who they are. For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth. So God rules in the kingdoms of men. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? For because of this, you also pay taxes. And then it performs a divine service in this world. Now you might say that's easy to do, right? Men listened to me, and waited and kept silence for my counsel. And Jesus is saying, you in this boat with me The word render we don't use a a lot In fact, they wanted to kill him. And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. In that first verse, I'm going to read it as older translators give it to us. He's talking about that practical faith. Because in Jesus' mind, That's a whole The fifth commandment is dealing not just with the relationships of our parents. There is not a power, authority in this world It might cost you your life like it cost Jesus. It's because you and I know The princes refrained from talking, and laid their hand on their mouth. I was eyes to the blind, feet to the lame. You can see Paul's using the same word, just changing the free th Peter writes in his first letter, chapter 2, verses 13 to 17. It's not made up of a bunch of amor, made up of image bearers, creatures that he's made to bear his image. Don't pay attention to the man in office. But let us not resist it, but pray for it. And as you heard today, God doesn't just turn a blind eye to these things, I think. Jesus' Lordship means our faith, our trust in him Why? Finally, God says that these powers serve him. Jesus But they'll also obey him because Jesus is Never would have had the sacrifice and offering made for our sin. Jesus thought it possible to live even under a demonic power and not sin. They had their hand on their own mouth. We need to pay direct taxes, right? He said to them, Go. He revealed that through his power and command over creation, demons, disease, death. And the nations have been turning to Christ for two thousand years and kissing the Son God has given you that new God rules in the kingdoms of men. Job was a good civil magistrate. I'm going to read you one passage here from Colossians. Paul then addresses us and says, as Christians God has told us how we are to behave in all these stations and relationships in life And particularly what powers are these? So that's going to mean promoting or maintaining these higher powers. There's but one. It is good, and it's foreign good Paul says very clearly in verse five. Jesus' lordship over all means essentially two things. Will he not care for those who flee to him So Paul's really saying here by being subjection, do not be rebellious He's talking about them the civil authorities who bear the sword Is that you as Christians? And the one who followed him, Claudius. We generally like the former government we have. But Paul So these powers were called to be in subjection to But when push comes to shove, we carry the cross and we don't have on revolts And thanksgivings be made for all people The most frightening part was where I saw laws abused by those who were in power. Pay to all what is owed to them And behold, they cried out, Evangelism aims at bringing about this obedient faith to the nations That we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil. I made him drop his prey from his teeth. But it reminds you the duty upon you as American citizens under this. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. They trembled before him. They perform a divine service to mankind for your good But he also says for conscience' sake. That whosoever should believe in this Son If you were ever made a Lord of whatever and you were given people, wouldn't you care for your servants? Why does Paul write every person Colossians 1. Promoting false worship that's making persecution against Christians possible. Scary. But it's kind of frightened by those words. They even have to ask his permission where they can go. This was the apostle what we're hearing this morning, the apostle to the Gentiles teaching on this He was in subjection to them. That's not being in subjection. And the men marveled, saying, What sort of man is this? They're meant to bear his image just as much as human beings are, right? He might want to know more about this God, more about Christ, more about it. It's a lot of power to be honest. And how loving your neighbor even gets into your duty towards the state. Neither was deceit found in his mouth. They may not agree with everything, right? God's ministers. That's honor. He is the beginning. He himself bore our sins. And it may be your place and position to remind them of who they are That's your parents, and we have all the motivation in the world to love our parents because they love us, and that's true We'll get to our duty now and maybe aren't living up to this commandment. That every person or every soul It won't obey it. Because we have a direct say in these things. The good Both saying they have it, they're exercising it, therefore be in subjection to it. And he's saying by the benefit that comes to all of us The gospel has not come in this world to subvert or subvert family. How many of you think there might be foolish laws in our nation? It's going to mean voting responsibly. 16. If you rebel People stood up in his presence It's also going to mean obedience, right? Every soul. God gives it to whom He will. We'll look more of that next week when Jesus gives us the parable on the tares. You see where Peter ultimately rests. Same word there, was in subjection to his parents. That's the taxes on our persons and our properties He's provided the one for us, Jesus. Why can't you get it through your head that God loves you and cares for you? This should be an easy thing, right, for us to fulfill When Paul goes on in verse 2, he says, Therefore, whoever resists He's talking about the powers that are higher than you and I Have any of you ever lived under anarchy? Verse 4, he is God's servant. And that makes life miserable for us. And not acknowledging God's hand in everything. We can pray from it for our homes. Pay attention to the power he has. God often likes unjust government to beasts, doesn't he? Here's what my senior journal instructor always told us These are I was a father to the needy. I'm not going to get into issue about pigs or anything like that Evangelism itself is even also promoted But They may have seen people punished, but I don't want that We must go with them as far as it's not in disobedience to God. But notice the honor that he received. Our duty to our higher powers. If you look at verse 4. Now we know that Jesus' ministry as our high priest And behold. I think ours says governing authorities, but let every soul or We're not under an authoritarian kind of government This is what it what it means This word doesn't just mean fear, it means to act in a cowardly way. And He gives us all the motive in the gospel That's the force and emphasis of the passage. He has not gotten it, but by God's hand. The state is not an armoral entity. This is the word of the Lord. We may lead these kind of lives All power comes from God. It should be a moral institution You've ordained and established this. First of all, it means faith. So the state Look at the birds.