The sermon's going to file away under there. Are you homesick in your converted life? I'm sure they're mentally anguished because it's the middle of the night and they're tired and they probably just wanted to get across the lake and go to bed. We don't know if he's walking from the side. You can't compare this like. And Paul says, what then you need to do for them? You know, our own confession says something about this in chapter 10 on effectual calling, Article 3. That is, they are regenerated and saved by Christ through the Spirit, who are incapable of being outwardly called by the ministry of the Word. There's a storm and then we sort of get back to some sort of normalcy. Let's be reminded sometimes in our life we're not going to get all the answers, and we just need to do and follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Hear the word of the Lord. And we'll actually read down through verse uh fifty-six. So help us to take your word in with meek hearts that it might be engrafted there and that Jesus Christ and his great fruits might be evident in our lives. We ask this for the sake of his great name and for his glory. and keep them in greater faith in himself. These stories tell themselves, and they're wonderful to hear of Christ what he's doing. Davidic servants, he is the shepherd, in contrast to Herod, who is feasting with all the mighty men and enjoying great revelie, and not caring at all for the people, Christ gathers the sheep, feeds them, and nourishes them The Lord Jesus Christ thought it best and made his disciples get in the boat and go ahead of him to Bethsaida while he would stay behind and dismiss the crowd. And that may be the case. As his kingdom's not of this world, he doesn't need man's sword to bring it about. Parents you experience this constantly when you tell your children to go do something and rather than going and doing they want to say why? He goes out in the mountain to pray. You should be glad that I'm actually going back to the Father. prayer should be a constant part of our life as Christians, particularly in this aspect, particularly as a church corporate. Society always wants to pro pull the church away from its God intended way of spreading the kingdom of Jesus Christ Or if he came down on the shore and looked out, all we know is he looked out upon the sea and he sees his beloved disciples getting nowhere. And lived a human life with his friends whom he loved. You just can't bring it across. in his office as king and shepherd, to keep everyone whom the Father has given to him, no matter what. And that there's sort of this calmed and they're kind of back to a normality with Jesus. with a greater faith in Jesus Christ. And I rejoice knowing that you, Lord Jesus Christ, are going to do everything to shepherd them, keep them, and help them in their trials. Whom I formed and made. And we're going to read together from chapter 1, Paul's first letter to Timothy, chapter 1, and we'll read together verses 15 through 17. precious possession. To whoever they heard he was. And as many as touched it were made well. Patience and love without your help. And then we're going to give you three lessons for you. We see that Jesus last week just finished feeding the 5,000 in fulfillment of Ezekiel 34, that he is God's doesn't give them option about it, sends them ahead of them, and stays back and dismisses the crowd. You got a better view, right? And then he goes up the mountain to pray, but he's alone, right? and nice fancy ways that keeps it from the message of the cross or the sufferings of the cross, and it can be easy to compromise. We've seen churches compromise and less thing you know they're not a gospel church anymore. To our Heavenly Father, praying that we would keep faithful to the mission of the church that He's given us, of suffering in Jesus Christ and proclaiming that gospel. Navy nautical guy, but I imagine if you get your boat turned sideways right in the wind, it can be capsized so straining with all their might to keep the boat on track in it But he's walking to them and they see him. They think in their minds, we left him on the shore hours ago, and there's no way that can be him walking on the sea He God has his source, the Apostle Peter, and it must have been Peter reflecting on this sometime later in life. You're going, what, what, is there a limit to how astounded we should be at God's glory? They were in this state of being too astounded, meaning really tending towards disbelief, because they failed to understand about the loaves. Hear the Apostle Paul's prayer from Ephesians 1, 18 through 19. To which he has called you. In your life. And I got tired of being around Christians who always just want to talk about the next time they're going to sin. These men were obeying Christ. Not just baptizing, but teaching them to obey everything I've said to you. of your beloved and chosen people, to be redeemed by him in time and regenerated by your Holy Spirit. Fear not, for I have redeemed you. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers. When you walk through fire, you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. I give Egypt as your ransom, Cush and Seba in exchange for you, because you are precious in my eyes and honored, and I love you I will bring your offspring from the east and from the west. and to the south, do not withhold. Towards those who would believe on him for salvation. To the King of Ages, the mortal, invisible, the only God, the honor and glory forever and ever. And turn with me then now to Mark's gospel, Mark chapter 6, and beginning at verse 45. God promised to be with his church through all of her trials because he loves her and has redeemed her, and she is his most He is with his church through all her trials. Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he dismissed the crown. And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And he got into the boat with them, and the wind ceased. We see down in front of us the banquet prepared for us, the fruit of your Son's sacrifice, the life and joy that comes through us, this great and glorious feast of your gospel. That it might be helpful to your people that have gathered your beloved sheep to be fed by you, have come needy and hungry, wanting to know your word for their lives and to hear you speak to them. And help, O Lord, their ears, for we cannot hear also without your help, for our hearts are hard, and we don't listen. I rejoice again to speak to you in your God's great name this morning from the Gospel of Mark, chapter 6, in these verses, 45 We saw that very costly was the price that he gave for her, and we know that price to be the precious blood of his son, the Lord Jesus. If you want to file away, I don't know how your brains work. uh for Jesus Christ. as the shepherd of Israel, shepherding his people, controlling and orchestrating every event in their life to bring them to faith in himself So that you can all stay with me today and know what's going to happen in these next 30, 40 minutes, where they may be. Well, as soon as that ends, we pick up this week, and as soon as that got over, we see Jesus telling his disciples to go ahead without them. Now if you hold a position of authority at all, a parent, a teacher, in your job, you know that you know more things Well after that, and this is kind of an oddity in the gospel, right? Well here you see him alone. But as the Son of Man and as the mediator between God and man, even the Father is greater than him. But he is also committed to doing that in the Father's way. This is also the word, if you remember back to Mark 5 and verse 17, when the demon said, Do not torture me. Mark says at the fourth watch he goes out to them. The latest hours in the day, the darkest, the quietest. So in their minds, it's a ghost. Who knows what's flashing through their minds? The text is going to make it clear, we're going to get to it in a moment. He immediately begins to encourage them. In a way beyond just the glory that faces man every day as he reveals it from the heavens. And he sits down with them. They were exceedingly beyond measure in themselves, outside of themselves But the key is in those adverbs, exceedingly beyond what is the appropriate measure. Why would they be limiting what he could do? Also, your will, what you choose, also your affections, the things you desire and long for. If he's showing you that he loves you and saves you and cares for you, then you better believe that he loves you and cares for you and will save you and react accordingly. Here on earth in this body is living by faith in the Son of God, in response to everything who the Son of God declares and shows himself to be to you and the word of his gospel. To give them, to give you a mind that you might believe in him who is the true God, the real God. And do you respond to what he is saying to you? When it's all the way closed, the child's standing out there trying to get your attention, you trying to get their attention, they can't hear you. God speaks to man through the pulpit, through the gospel ministry, and nothing gets through because the screen door's shut. For our hearts to be softened, and even continuing to be softened as regenerate Christians, as believers. It all fades. To partake in his divine glory. For us who believe. You can think about Paul right on the Damascus Road. Muslim men and Muslim women, Muslim children being brought to Christ by these dreams. The trouble in your life, that's the wind, the opposition, will cease when Christ is back in your life. A wonderful sermon talking about the trials that God brings us to, that we might have that tried, precious faith in Jesus Christ. Jesus lands. That the fruit of that reality would be manifest in their lives, for he knew what work he had for them to do. What giftings and callings that you've given to each of them. Waiting upon countless people. Momentary flash and he's gone. Now it must have been later in life. Well, he can also walk on the sea. Needs to be softened in order to understand who Jesus Christ is. Nearly end it with these words. Quickly at verses 53 and 56, and this is just way to closing. And the wind and the opposition will cease when Christ is back in your life. What it means then if you're going through such a trial or affliction or find yourself tormented, what should you be doing? And after he had taken leave of them, he went up on the mountain to pray. So maybe I should start by encouraging you, I'll remind you, God loves you. That Jesus would have the least need to pray, right? needy and dependent upon God, which means prayer should be a I'm just encouraging. We're going out, and Jesus is praying, and he finishes praying. Because some great wind is against them. And the Lord sees all this. He says to them, take heart. That's who they're confronting in Jesus of Nazareth. Gives him words of encouragement and assurance and comfort. But they put together that the one who can take five bows and two little fish and feed five thousand people, men, not including women and children Manifested at the Jordan River and his baptism, whom John proclaimed to these people, and they've been following him since that day. But when it gets opened, or the glass door shut, but when it gets open, and this the screen's there, and it's been softened, right? Understanding, given us a mind so that we may know him who is true. The greatest demonstration of God's power to you believers is the resurrection of his Son. Second lesson. And he purposes to expose it through these manifestations of his divine glory. And thank him? Our gracious God and Father, we thank you for ordaining your Son and appointing him as the head and mediator Or other times, because you have wandered from Christ, you've left him, and he is not in your life. Here's one thing at least you should be doing. I give men in return for you, peoples in exchange for your life. Of whom I am the foremost. Familiar John's Gospel, John will say something like, at that time the people thought he was the prophet, promised to Moses, and they were ready to make him king over them. Jesus, right, is exalted at the right hand of God. They are feeling tormented out there on the sea as they are rowing and rowing and rowing. Out on the sea. But, because he would be certain nobody would be out at this time, because this is not a sight of glory he gives to the world, but he gives to his own. That is what Christ's intent here is this morning. A way a po a a phrase you can't really translate, it's so idiomatic. It needs to be softened in order to understand who Jesus Christ is. But this is also true, right, even for unregenerate hearts. Believingly, that means asking God, believing that we have already what we asked from Him, we should be praying believingly. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. Age or beauty fades. Don't find your worth and value in something else. Please open your Bibles to Isaiah 43. 1 Timothy 1, 15-17. That in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience. As an example to those who were to believe in him or eternal life He meant to pass by them. And immediately he spoke to them and said, Take heart, it is I. When they had crossed over they came to land at Gennesaret and moored to the shore. O Lord our God, we know what beast is here before us, that your word is sweeter than honey. Strong word here. And he's waiting because remember, he already that's probably the reason he's dismissing this crowd. And so he's waiting until these darkest hours and he comes out to them. That doesn't mean he failed in his purpose and they accidentally saw him. Where do you read about God passing by? And walking to them out on the sea, that they might see something of his divine glory. But we see what happens. But now they become even more disturbed, terrified, troubled, upset. His intention in showing him his glory was meant to give them confidence, bring them joy. But they're disturbed and they're frightened. You can't preach this gospel if you know the Lord and not be so comforted and encouraged by it. Now you might think that's the appropriate thing, right? To understand the person of Jesus and to respond in faith to him, remind you what faith is. We're not responding in faith here in the person of Jesus who has shown him, yes, I can walk on water, and this isn't a ghost story. And that requires a response. So what this passage has been all about, this is about their new life, right? This is just their new life, living by faith in the Son of God. That's their new life. Some of that might begin with exposing first their hard hearts. So unregenerate hearts, I like to think, are something like this. I can tell you, if you're a Christian, God thinks something very different of you than what you probably think of yourself. It's his. That they might know who they are to you. What do they need to happen then? Brothers and sisters, the Lord knows the hardness of your heart and mind, and he's going to manifest his glory to you in ways in which it's going to be exposed and made known to you. The risen, exalted Christ comes to them in these dreams and softens their heart and hearts, and they go find faithful pastors. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying to you. But it has a provision there that Christ is going to get to his people. When Christ is back in the boat, as we see right there in verse 51, he got in the boat and the wind ceased. There are times when Christ may withdraw himself from you, not because you've done anything wrong, but to test and try your faith. To shepherd these men into a faith in him, to fully see and know the glory of his person. The heavens may feel like brass, you may feel abandoned by God. For Christians, your pain has gain. But the pleasures of the wicked will cease. And Jesus is going to shepherd you to bring you to that faith in Him and keep you in that faith in Him. And in the promises of God, so that you can respond with confidence and joy to life's trials, and not in a faithless panic. And as you're turning there, we heard from Isaiah 43 and God's great promise. But Lord, we need your help. He's n doesn't he know the Father's will? But he's also saying right to them, as he's standing out there on the water, like no man could ever do, it is I, the Lord God. See, that has to sink into their hearts. And God came into their life. Having that sink in so it permeates every bit of their reality, every bit of your reality as a Christian. That you may understand the riches, you may know the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. Do not talk defeatedly to yourself as a Christian. Family Christians need to hear that and dwell on it and know it. So you might believe on him and you two and your soul and him be back together. But now, thus says the Lord, he who created you, O Jacob, He who formed you, O Israel. That's a huge temptation because of course he wants them to claim them him as Christ. Right, they mean it is I whom you have been laying your head down next to for the last two years going to sleep at night. Faith is a response. But we'll see by Mark's gospel through it all. Are known to Jesus. You may hear stories of the gospel ministry in Muslim controlled countries, and you'll hear accounts of I also know of a man to whom the risen Lord spoke to him in an inaudible way, because his heart was so hard and he had wandered so far and didn't know to trust in God. In my time in that part of the world, you don't everybody at night doesn't go into their nice room alone in their own bed. Understanding, right, is what happens when you put two and two together. Remind you of the true biblical anthropology, that your heart comprehends your mind. The first lesson that we see here from this passage is that your heart and my heart All flesh is grass, but the glory of God endures forever. Like the disciples did in the boat, or in excessive wonder, which is just disbelief. You can't go over somewhere el else and say, man, that's just like apple pie. So we even have need still, and here's where I would apply to you what we should all be doing then. The text says he willed, he desired, he wanted to pass the by. And Jesus saw that this is the best way to head off some sort of Galilean rebellion when they're going to make him a king and do everything they can to keep him from fulfilling his mission to go to Jerusalem and die Saying it's me. Apparently, Christians don't know that because they still live enslaved by so many things. I've already told you about Isaiah 43 and God's promise to be with his church through all her trials, because God has redeemed his church, and she is very precious to him. And third lesson the wind will cease He compels him, forces him, constrains him. You can see the goal you've got to get to. We don't know if he's walking up behind. Apparently, Christians fail because of their hard hearts to know the hope that God calls them to. Many people come to him. Because the church is in Christ, his most beloved son. Remember this is the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's dark. That no country can out so outlaw it that he can't get to his sheep? This is a sermon about Jesus Christ, the Son of God, in particular, as we saw last week and we're continuing this week. It's priceless. Go out on the sea and go across. So help your servant to declare what's here, that it might be done faithfully in accordance with your word He is walking intentionally towards we don't know if he's walking with the wind. They failed to reason from that and come to the conclusion that why couldn't he do this? And the faithful response is responding in a way that corresponds with what he's shown you. How much of this world is faced with fading and bygone things? So my prayer is that God would enlighten all your hearts to face life with a greater faith in Jesus Christ. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. And the wind ceases. And wherever he came, in villages, cities, or countryside, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and implored him that they might touch even the fringe of his garment Why should they take heart? The greatest demonstration of God's love to you, believers, is the death of His Son. And how many Christians hold on to fading things because they don't know the hope of the glory they're called to? Pray that God would enlighten their heart. Your heart, my heart, your hard heart, and my hard heart One of the things that just amazes me so much in the gospels, he'll be sitting down to a meal and someone will come up and say, please help me. Possibly he maybe just wanted to send him away because he wanted to be alone. This is time that he gets to have with his Father alone and to pray to him. Did he die? Do you desire to be with God, your Father, face to face? Notice what Jesus said Jesus immediately does. This is the word of the Lord. Isn't he at peace already? I like to think he was walking up behind. And you need to see here as well, Jesus shepherds these sheep of his to lead them to this faith. Continuing obedient to His revealed will. Bring my sons from afar, and my daughters from the end of the earth. And what I want you to note here is Paul's point about Christ's perfect or unlimited patience. So Mark chapter six verses forty-five uh through fifty-six It's cold. He gives them words of encouragement. We know also that the Son of God has come and has given us What's flashing into your mind? He gets in the boat with them. I can't speak, I can't communicate, I can't give words easily understood, I can't speak with So you can file this away when you stand up and profess, as we do every week, that you believe in him. Well, verse, starting there in verse 45. Christ's unlimited and perfect patience towards those who would believe in him for salvation. You don't often see Jesus alone in the Gospels, do you? They recognize him. We don't know how long. It can happen that that glass door gets shut it from time to time, right? It's precious. Many people want to be healed and helped, and he heals and helped. You should open a drawer and call it We Believe in Him or in Jesus Christ His Only Begotten Son. You can see the dangers that are there. They think they see a ghost. What happened to him? Mark chapter 6, beginning at verse 45, hear the word of the Lord We don't know what time of night he sees it, but we know at what time of night he does something about it. Pray that the eyes of their hearts would be enlightened that they might know what power is in them, and they need not live like that. I hear men's and women's are different. Jesus' intention was not to add more trouble to the already troubleless, troubled situation. And then the text tells us why they were so dull and slow in their mind, because their hearts were hard. Saying to you through his word, saying to you through his providence. These are not new revelations, but these are manifestations of Christ's exalted power. This is the word of the Lord. The Romans broke up from 6 p. Except it's never the same, right? But I receive mercy for this reason. In his name we pray. And it's translated here in our text, painfully making headway. That's such wonderful good news. Apparently, Christians need to hear that message. Clothes fade. Your hard heart and my hard heart are known to Jesus That is an amazing sign. God says something to you. What does he need to pray about? It's windy. See, this is why we didn't want to leave him. And that's through suffering in the and the cross. Are you going to Exodus 33 and Exodus 34 when God passed by Moses and showed him his glory? Your duty as Christians is always to obey the revealed will of God and His Word. And they were utterly astounded, for they did not understand about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened. They means by they all see him. I will gather you. Because he gives them those words of assurance. The one you laid your head down next to these many nights. What should you be doing? He meant to show them their glory. God. Jesus Christ came into their life. All those things we see in those verses, there's sort of a back to normalcy, right? When they saw him walking on the sea, they thought it was a ghost and cried out, for they all saw him and were terrified. We might think, right, out of all human beings Take heart. He is an unchanging, eternal person. No, that's not what it's saying. That is denying the power of Christ. ESV, he makes him. So Mark doesn't tell us, and I'm not going to dwell there, but Jesus puts these men in a boat We know that Mark is Peter's interpreter, so Mark's gospel. I pray for them, O Lord, that you would enlighten the eyes of their heart. I have called you by name. All of the understanding comes from what does to pass by mean? This and this, oh they come. So this is their new life living with Jesus Christ, the Son of God. They're like your back screen door that has a sliding glass That's who you are to him. How was his hard heart exposed to him? And isn't that often how it is in our trials in the Christian life? So I'm going to tell it to you, then I've got three lessons that I want to draw out and seek by the Spirit's help to apply it to your life. God governs everything in this world by him And when evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and he was alone on the land. Synagogue is saints, so we could all be in prayer You see that Jesus dismisses the crowd, takes leave of them, and departs They want their bed. His intention is not to frighten them. But an idiom is a language of speech, a phrase or word that's so embedded in one language it belongs to it Your heart and my heart. Here's how you can pray for the church, because it needs it in every age. Already life's hard, and now a ghost that looks like Jesus is walking towards you People are gonna be like, What what's like apple pie? One of the purposes of Jesus Christ's coming is John says, remember he was in that boat. Speaking to Christians, I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope. Yeah, it may happen, but why are you dwelling there? They're heartless at this point. Because it's never intended to be the same. So that's what we see this morning because God has redeemed these people. We'll read the first seven verses. And he will be with you in all of your trials. And I he doesn't say, but I understand that he waits until this time of night, not just to torture them to the extreme. He can't take care of himself. This is no ghost. You need this faith, brothers and sisters, in the Son of God. Amen. That is your new life as a Christian. If you need encouragement, I encourage you to listen to Pastor Tom Tyson's sermon on 1 Peter 1:7. And about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea The underlings don't always see as much, right? Because the wind would be blowing against him to see the wind does nothing to me. You can see them speaking to you. We can set that aside, but if you have a category in your brain, a filing cabinet It's like because you don't see everything, I see everything, this is not the time to ask questions what to do. Doesn't he have it all together? He doesn't want the miracle too generally known because then people are going to do things they ought not to do, because they're too carnally and worldly minded. Paul's going to go on in the next verses talking about that same power in the resurrection is what is at work. And we read, the text says that they were utterly amazed. I will say to the north, give up. Now the text says he meant to pass them by. But notice that is not Jesus' intention. What is the application here? m. Their God. So also are all other elect persons. That's the whole goal of his showing you his glory and exposing himself to you. Do not be afraid. See that in verse 48, he meant to pass them by. And he puts you through severe trials that might feel like you are being tormented. This story is pretty straightforward. That should call for some kind of wonder because that's God's glory on display. Your possessions fade. They have these vivid dreams of Jesus Christ. The wind will cease when Christ is back in the boat. Obeying His revealed will. So if you find yourself in that kind of situation, what is God doing with me? You see some men not quite with that understanding yet. They shall not overwhelm you. Well, if this was the situation that these people were wanting to make him something other than he is. And following Jesus has got them into a situation where they feel tormented It says they all saw him. Because Peter says, oh, and Jesus does one final thing after he God does something before you. We should pray There's this great dark storm, this great trial of faith. He became a man, and as a man, that means to 6 a. Paul goes on and prays, and that they might know, these are Christians, his incomparably great power. John in his first letter Fads fade. For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. And he looks out on the sea. We don't know what's going through these men's minds. It is I. Turn with me in your Bibles to Paul's first letter to Timothy. Okay, so they're following the Lord Jesus Christ, they're getting in the boat, and they're crossing the sea. But this is what following Jesus at this point in their life looks like. I don't think he's walking with the wind because it's probably hard to look into it. I get it. That's their new life. God calls you to something imperishable. Your trials and real sufferings and afflictions have gain. Paul goes on. And how is that going to get through to them? It's talking about infants there, it's talking also about maybe deaf and dumb people It's intended now that you face your life As soon as he realizes that this revelation of his glory to them is scaring them out of their mind. Let me focus that for you because you see it here fulfilled today. And when they got out of the boat, the people immediately recognized him and ran about the whole region and began to bring the sick people on their beds. Whatever Mark doesn't dwell on us and tell us, but whatever situation arose there Because what does he make use of this alone time? He is pulling back a bit of the veil of his person to them. All of that falls under your heart. Even in areas where the Bible is outlawed. He will get through to them and lead him them to himself, lead them to churches, lead them to feed on the Word of God. You are mine So I I am certain what Jesus wants and needs probably more than anybody because he's probably the most homesick person who's ever left. And then he comforts them and says, Don't be afraid, right? m. But the text tells us what it means. These men were fishermen at one time. Just the knowledge of knowing that God took upon the flesh and dwelt with man Congregation, the Lord's word is opened up before us. He didn't even ask by your leave. In all the ways that God speaks to us. Because that's what Paul, writing to the Ephesian church, says. I'm going to first tell you what this does. Is there any yearning and longing to you to depart and go back to Him as Jesus talks about? Child closes it on accident, you know you're supposed to leave it open so you can talk and communicate while they're playing in the backyard while it gets shut Apparently, Christians undervalue themselves in God's eyes. Because it's remember, as God, he is not in need of anything I know it it reads like that. So don't try to find it from somebody else. and to four three-hour watches. Ghosts don't walk up into a boat. Ah. Don't you know of some power in you where you can actually not sin now Fear not, for I am with you. I'm sure it's familiar to many of you. Some people are shaking their head. Their God is the one who lays his head down with them at night next to them. Your life is lived with God in Christ. The hard glass is taken out of the way, it can communicate effectively to you. I remember when I was converted, I said, now I actually have a free will. Isaiah 43. Beloved in the Lord. I know it's part of your life. They don't get any sense because it's not American. And oh God, you know what work you have for your servants gathered here before you. But But utterly astounded is the ESV's way of translating He is always doing, even how this verse ends, ministering to countless people. We don't know if he looked out on the sea from the mountaintop. God speaks to man through creation. Rejoice. As what Paul says in Galatians 2, your whole new life. This wasn't a We should be praying. I want you to see that picture. You pull out rugs and cushions and you put 'em down in a common room and you lay down next to each other and I just think that's a wonderful way to do it. Every one who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, This is the second article, the Apostles Creed Not overcoming by faith in Christ. If I could say this way God shows you something of Himself. By the church praying, oh God, enlighten their eyes. Put into practice in your life the commands of Jesus, right? Understanding happens. And what is that hope? I'm not a What is stopping him from this? Jesus Christ came into their life. He loves his inheritance. The risen Christ coming to him. Isn't he perfect? So 1 Timothy chapter 1, beginning at verse 15 I can just walk out against it. You need faith in the Son of God. This is a sermon about him and his office as the King of Israel And he goes. It might seem like he's driving. We thank you for sending Christ as we saw this morning A fuller understanding of what you're saying when you believe in him It's the thing that's stuck to me all week So this is sometime between 3 a. Well, besides searching your heart, continue obeying Christ, right? They don't understand the saying, it's not from the South, whatever. We're just going to tell this story because one of the great things about preaching the gospel is And that leads me then to these three lessons I have for you. Here's what he says. I've come back to you. Now these words mean a lot here. In Jesus' name we pray. Putting two and two together. Amen What does he do? Well, they are slow of mind So let's He came. It is his glory. Let's bless him and ask his blessing now. It's fine. Same truth, because it is I. They're not putting, they didn't put two and two together. Amen. m. and 6 a. Coming behind them to help him. I'm here. Isn't that the Great Commission? Let's pray. m. But it's saying something like Amen. So I'm going to tell it. Let's pray together. We don't know.