Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, I'm sure that I don't have to tell you uh how important and essential the Lord's Supper is to the Christian church. It has formed the center of the church's worship since the beginning. It's the heart and center of the gospel, and since we as a congregation uh celebrate it here weekly, it will be good for us to spend uh these next few weeks uh considering it that we might grow together in our understanding of what it means and appreciate it and be edified for Many, many, many strands of God's word, his self-revelation to us, his redemption and salvation accomplished for us by Jesus all find their way weaved into it. And it forms a very central part of our identity as individuals, and never just individuals, but as the people of God and members of Christ's Church. So we're going to start this morning and we're going to look in Matthew's account of the Lord's Supper and start there and understand these words as they've been given to us. Uh our Lord Jesus there, you know, is speaking on the eve of his um betrayal and his uh Arrest is trial is unjust trial, but his willing sufferings and then death, but followed three days later by his resurrection. On the eve really of his departure. From his disciples, having finished the work that he was sent here to do, uh, he institutes this meal. Uh he speaks here to instruct them. He speaks here to cheer and encourage them, but he speaks here to give them something, to remember him by uh after he is gone, that they may constantly be reminded and come back to what it means uh to be a Christian I uh and then after looking at that, we'll consider the the catechisms teaching. I I had us read uh the the verses before and after Um, because I think they are insightful. We we know that um the gospel writers put scripture together for a reason and put things in certain orders to to tell us things We read the words of Jeremiah 31 and God's New Covenant with His people, and you heard him declare as fixed As the uh ordinances of the stars and the sun and the moon are, I don't think any of us has ever woken up and you know we saw the sun rising in the west So fixed uh is this covenant that God has made with us. So fixed is it that uh God would redeem his people and restore them as a people. And of course he's speaking to the The Jewish people there, but uh we see now in Christ that he's talking about all believers in Christ. Uh Gentiles have been grafted on to the vine, and we make one church And God declares how unimmense and unchanging his faithfulness is by challenging us to measure the heavens. And I think we just keep seeing that they go on. And we've hardly gotten to the back of it, no matter how big our our telescopes get and and and the depths of the earth If someone can measure those, then God would cast his people off. His love is unchanging. And his faithfulness is insured. And that is the whole point of this leal. You know, when Jesus sat them down and instituted it, he grieved them all to heart first with the question, one of you betray me. And none of them trusted to themselves, did they? He removed all grounds of self-trust. Is it I? Is it I? Now we know one was a hypocrite, Judas. And then after that our Lord declares, you're all going to fall away from me tonight. And they all said, No, we most certainly will not fall away. And they all did they all were living like they were shepherds and they forgot their sheep. When God strikes a shepherd, the sheep scatter, but When the shepherd rises, he'll go before them in Galilee and gather his flock there. He's teaching us you're not the Savior. I am And when you come to this table, it's not your faithfulness that you should be focused on and your love for me, but my faithfulness for you. My unchanging love for you, my grace for you, because that's what's going to keep you. That's what's saved you. That's what's going to bring you into the promised land. So let's let's look together at these verses. It starts by telling us as they were eating. That means that it was during the Passover meal that Jesus instituted this supper. I'm sure you know your Bibles, but Passover refers to God saving and redeeming his people out of Egypt by providing a Passover sacrifice, a lamb And that blood that they could spread on their doorposts and that meal that they would eat so that when God went through the land of Egypt at night, he would literally pass over their doorways as the destroyer of the firstborn came in judgment upon uh the Egyptians and through that mighty act of God his people redeemed and brought out and he gave them this annual reminder every year that they would remember that event, they would remember their God They remember his salvation, and though they are separated by generations from that actual Exodus event, by this meal they were to identify themselves with them And this God would be their God. They would be his people and enjoy and experience that salvation. And so And a meal in which form the heart and center of the Jewish people's identity, well then Jesus institutes this meal To do the same purpose for his people today as it forms the heart and center of our identity as believers in Jesus Christ. Jesus took bread. During the Passover meal, there were key elements, the bread, the lamb, and several the cups. They all had symbolic meaning Uh and the person who was the head of the feast and the host, it was his job to give the instruction on what these means during the meal. So Jesus is taking on uh that aspect of this meal, except here he's really interjecting a new element and he is taking bread, most likely unleavened bread And after blessing it, uh blessing it is another way of just saying giving thanks for it. Uh when we bless things, we don't bless the actual object. It means we bless God, where we give thanks to God Who has given us that food. Most likely the the form of the prayer use is pretty set. And I imagine if you if you visit English speaking synagogues today or English speaking Jewish homes Uh the prayer would be something like this, Blessed are you, O Lord our God, King of the universe, who brings forth our bread from the earth. That would be the blessing given at mealtime over their food I would encourage you, as Paul says, our food as God's holy people today is made holy by the Word of God. He's declared everything good In prayer of Thanksgiving, don't give up the practice of giving thanks for your daily bread to the Lord it is made holy to you, and you may eat and enjoy all to your nourishment. And after blessing it, he broke it. Breaking it was a symbolical action for his death. So Jesus is here in symbol, giving a picture for his coming death by breaking the bread And he gave it to the disciples. The form of the verb give here implies the idea he was breaking it piece by piece and continuing to give it out as a repeated action. So he'd break it and give it to the disciple, he'd break it and give it to the disciple, he'd break it and And give a disciple. This part of the celebration is not central to how we uh participated. It's important that uh we go through the actions of breaking it, but distribute it in a good and uh orderly manner And he said to them, Take, eat, this is my body. And here Jesus is informing them that His coming death, they were to have a part and participate in that death, symbolized by their receiving it and eating it. He instructs them to take it, receive it as I give it to you, and eat it, participate in it You are to have a part and share. By this action, Jesus is binding them to himself and his covenant, which he's about to ratify in his blood, and giving them a share and part in his saving death And all the benefits and blessings that it comes to have Jesus die for you, and all the blessings of redemption that we have through our Savior's death. He's giving them to share in it by these words. After that, how much more the meal went on, we don't know, but the next thing we're told as far as what Jesus did is that he took a cup. In the Passover meal, there were several cups on the table. The meal was opened with the Blessing Over Cup. And there was two or three different cups after that Most Bible commentators, scholars agree and think that this was the third cup during the meal. And the importance of this cup is that it was a cup over which a blessing was given to God for redemption. uh where they would in particular thank him for redeeming them as his people out of Egypt. And since uh by that time in history they had the prophecies of Isaiah and Jeremiah and they were looking forward to the coming Messiah, to the coming kingdom of God, to salvation, uh to bring broad outer the oppressive powers, uh they also gave thanks to God uh for his coming redemption. And so how fitting then the Lord Jesus would take The third cup, the cup for blessing of redemption, and then use it to refer to his own blood by which we have redemption and the forgiveness of our sins Today. Same thing after he took the cup when he had given thanks, he gave it to them The form of the verb here implies that it was just one giving, so probably a common cup. Gave it to one, they drank, passed it to the next, drank Again, that's not essential to how we partake of the Lord's Supper, but it's just there in the text. And he said to them, Drink of it, all of you. For this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. Now, the Lord Jesus is telling them three things about this cup. Three things about his blood he specifies for them The first one is that a new covenant was going to be ratified upon the foundation of his blood. The language here, my blood of the covenant, refers back to Exodus chapter 24. In verse 8. You heard something of that this morning. We read the law and Moses was referring to the covenant that God entered into with the people of Israel at Mount Horeb. That was forty years prior. But in Exodus 24:8 we read this. And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, Behold, the blood of the covenant That the Lord has made with you in accordance with these words. And so here we see Jesus as he's told us to be, in particular in the letter to the Hebrews, as the mediator. of a new covenant. God mediated through Moses the covenant with people at Mount Sinai, but it's through the Lord Jesus Christ that he mediates with us a new covenant, and that new covenant isn't ratified, it isn't valid, it doesn't come into effect until his blood is shed, and then it is now legally enacted. And we had been going through uh Hebrews uh in the evening for the past year or so and we saw that As the pastor there writing that sermon letter to the church really emphasizes that part in chapter seven that that old covenant made nothing perfect In fact, it has been abolished and taken out of the way by a better hope being brought in, by which we today draw near to God, and that better hope is this new covenant. And all that it has brought us in saving blessings from our God. And so, you know, the thing to see here is that these people were men already in covenant with God They had a covenant with God, the old covenant. That was a covenant that they were in. That was a covenant which all of God's people were in at that I love the words of Jeremiah, right? The covenant which they broke, even though I was their husband. You know, God doesn't cast off his unfaithful cheating bride, but he comes to her in grace. He promises to forgive and yet even lays down his life to make her a very chaste and holy, splendorous bride, as we read in Ephesians 5. These men were already there in covenant with God by the blood of bulls and goats. And ever since Mount Sinai, God had been dealing with his people according to that covenant. God only deals with people according to a covenant. God deals with every human being according to the covenant that he made with Adam as the day of our creation when he made him the head. It's given various names of it by different traditions. In the Reformed tradition, we call it a covenant of works What we call it a covenant of life, some will call it a covenant of favor to distinguish from covenant of grace. It gives a bunch of things, but the the point is very clear as Paul teaches us in Romans five and first Corinthians fifteen. What Adam did He did for all men, and it was disastrous. He disobeyed, he sinned, and now all die in Adam. Why? Because he's our covenant head. He stood for us But he tells us the good news, all men are made alive in Christ by those who are in Christ and believe through Jesus' obedience unto death. He's the covenant head. And that's really the next thing he's telling us in these words when he says, My blood of the covenant which is poured out for many. The second thing Jesus is telling us about his blood is that his bloodshedding would be vicarious. I know vicarious is like a big-sounding word, but it's a very important word, and it just means Taking the place of another or substitution. Jesus is telling these men that he is going to be taking their place. The judgment curse that they deserve would be falling upon them Blood in Scripture, as I've mentioned to you several times, is shorthand for penal substitution. Penal because it's a punishment, right? You break a law in any land, you get punished according to it. You break God's law, He punishes you according to it. The punishment of God's broken law is death. But substitution, God gives this blood, this life in place of your life. Really, he's offering up his life for you. And so Jesus is saying, This blood is shed for many, the one For the many. He is substituting himself for the many, for the multitude, and what he is about to endure and undergo. Uh these words actually refer us back to what we read last Lord's Day from Isaiah chapter fifty three in the fourth servant psalm. The whole song about the sinless, holy, innocent, willing substitute, the suffering servant. And the last two verses it reads, Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one my servant make many to be encountered righteous. Jesus justifies us through his shed blood. And he shall bear their iniquities Therefore I divide him a portion of the many, he shall divide the spoil of the song, because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors, yet he bore the sin of many And makes intercession for the transgressors. That's the second thing Jesus teaches us in this meal as we come. He has taken our place Under the judgment of God. He has gone doing this for the many, that he might bear the sins of many and justify the many through his sin bearing. I want to go back and stress this point that it is very important for us to understand that God only deals with us according to a covenant. Because if you are not in covenant with God by faith in Christ, that means uh you're in the the covenant of the law And since you can't keep that law, cursed are all who uh do not continue to do everything in the law, then then your end is curse and destruction and death. And so if you've not believed yet on the Lord Jesus You need to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. You need to take him as he offers himself here, as a new covenant for you. between God as a willing substitute in your place. And as he goes on here in the third thing, that you might receive uh the forgiveness of sins through his shed blood. That's the third thing that Jesus is saying here. His blood would bring his disciples, the forgiveness of their sins. Or redemption. As Paul says, we have the forgiveness of sins in him, or redemption. Jesus in the Gospels teaches us about God's forgiveness by liking it to debts being canceled. And we have a debt that we just can't pay. It is immense. But God cancels it. But why does God cancel it? Might better say, how does God cancel it? Does he just say ex vital gone? And as an act of a sovereign, really arbitrary, because he wants to do it Is there anything in the divine nature, is there anything in the being of God that demands Jesus' death? And we've already it's been a while because we we've been going through this for a year, and that was early in the catechism, but if you could maybe sing back nine months, we dealt with this uh question, but In order, uh let me put this way, Jesus didn't have to die, because God doesn't have to forgive our sin. But given that God wants to forgive our sins, then he has to die Because God cannot forgive without a satisfaction being made to his justice. That's not my word, that's God's word, Hebrews 9, 22. Without the shedding of blood. There is no remission. In that letter, the the forgiveness of sins is described as having our guilty consciences, our conscience is being purged of dead works. We are aware of our sin as sinners. We we have consciences. And they are guilty. And they are burdened because they're guilty. How can we ever draw near to our God in any peace? Any assurance, any close, loving, restored relationship without forgiveness. But what is the ground though? Jesus has shed blood. We see there that God has dealt with your sins. He has punished them in Jesus. And Jesus wanted to take them That punishment. And he wanted to bear that punishment, as it says that we might draw near and serve the living God and might know that our sins have been forgiven. But the only way that can take place is by the shedding of blood. And so we see that our entire salvation, best on what Jesus None of us put him to it. Jesus put himself to it. The Father, Son, and Holy Spirit planned to do that. Jesus came. did this. Put himself to death. He might be our willing substitute. Through his shed blood, we may have the forgiveness of our sins. This is what the Lord Jesus wants these men to get at this table. This is what he wants you and I to get when we come to the table. That our salvation is not found in ourselves. We come as covenant breakers. We come as unfaithful people to the Lord. Become as sinners who have not kept his law. What hope then? Because God has made with us a covenant of grace in Jesus Christ. That God has promised to forgive not some of our sins, but all of our sins by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. That when we come to the Lord's table, we're not coming as people who are saving ourselves. We're coming as people who trust Jesus to save us. Who trusts Jesus every day to feed us with His grace, to provide for us what we need every day of our life, that we might live and serve God and grow in Him. But this whole meal is designed to remove all foundation of salvation from ourselves. And put it in the only sure place, God's grace, to give it the only foundation that can stand, what Jesus Christ Has done for us, that it is his faithfulness, his faith, his love, his grace that is saving us as a people. I love this idea that as Jesus is giving these elements to these men, he is including his people in his covenant. And he is symbolically by the receipt of them, giving them to share in that covenant that he was going to the cross to make and he as a risen Lord and head of sovereignly administers it through his gospel. When we preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, we're bringing people in the work of the Spirit by faith into a saving relationship with Christ. That means into a saving covenant of grace where God forgives all and gives all. That was not the covenant at Sinai. It was a fine covenant. There's nothing wrong with what God did there. But it didn't have the forgiving grace of this covenant. And it didn't have the giving grace. Look what it says. I'm gonna write my law. Everything that was wrong with that covenant, the people In their unfaithfulness, God is taking care of it in this covenant by promising to give us everything we need to stay faith. Everything we need to belong. All the grace that can take us from when we first come to know Jesus So when we pass the glory, do we deeply get it and understand, Congregation, that the only foundation we have is grace? And that we're under grace. That God is not dealing with by you, works, and anything. He wants you To trust your soul to Jesus the Savior. He wants you to rely upon His Christ. to nourish you. And I'm not going to get through the catechism because I don't want to go fifteen more minutes. I'm going to sum up the catechism's teaching to you here. He wants you To rely upon the Lord Jesus Christ to feed you like God fed his people in the wilderness for man. That's what it means, that he feeds our souls for eternal life. God, when he brought them and redeemed them out of Egypt, took him out into the wilderness and he provided them with manna, but the manna was to get them to a certain place, Canaan. A land of promise, the land of rest, where they would live with their God and have festival celebrations with their God and serve their God and be a light to the nations. How is God getting you and I to that heavenly Canaphite? How is he getting us to our eternal? The manna we partake of is the crucified body and flood of the That one sacrifice is sufficient in its grace to nourish us and equip us and keep us and bring us. As Jesus ends this supper here with, my Father's kingdom, his father's kingdom. There's a twofold promise when we eat the Lord's Supper. When you if you're partaking this morning or if you're a child and you're considering should I partake of it and think through it? There's a twofold promise when we take the supper. There's kind of two parts there. There's the seeing part of the Lord's Supper. We see the minister pick the bread up and break it and bless it and give it Well, you see the minister sometimes pour out wine into the cup and give thanks and give it. That seeing part as it's given to you is Jesus saying, This is for you You would receive and say, this is for me. Jesus, this is a pledge from Jesus that his death on the cross was for me. They promised to you that what Jesus did, he did for you But then the other part of the s of the meal, right, is not the seeing part, it's the tasting part. You receive the bread, you receive the wine, and you taste it. You eat it. And that part means that as surely as I tasted, the Lord Jesus is nourishing and refreshing me and keeping me, bringing me to eternal life. And when we eat and drink, there's a twofold meaning to it. As we sit down and have that meal, you can eat this meal without faith and get nothing, but you cannot eat you let me put this way, you can have faith without eating and drinking But you can't eat and drink in this meal without faith. When we eat the bread, the Lord Jesus and drink the wine, it symbolizes our accepting Jesus' atoning death, his work As the sole basis why God forgives us. He doesn't forgive you because you repent. He doesn't forgive you because you do good works. He doesn't forgive you because you go to church. He forgives you By his free promise I promise to forgive all your sins for what Jesus did, and you receive that promise. And when you receive that promise of grace, you will turn sin. And you will live a new life And second, the meaning of it is that we are also not only participants of the Lord's death. We're also participants of his blessed body. And the catechism means something by blessed body, it means his resurrection. And I love this part of it. This is going to be a head scratch here. How does sharing in Christ's death ensure that we share in Christ's present body? The answer to that is in Romans 7. 4. Paul likens our relationship before we are in fellowship with Christ as being married to the law. And the law's a good, fine husband. We're unfaithful spouses and transgress it. But we're also weak in our flesh, and the law stirs up our lust, and we can do nothing but actually serve God rightly by it So what does God do? Through the body of Jesus. He severs us from that. So as we participate in Jesus' death, it's as if we died, because Paul says, right, the law of the husband, the law of marriage is severed when the husband dies, the spouse is free, she can marry again. We're no longer in union. When you die with Christ, you're no longer married to the old covenant. You no longer have Adam as your head. You no longer are under the law in that sense as being a covenant by which God will save you or condemn you But Paul says we have been severed by that through the body of Christ that we may be married to another, the risen Lord Jesus Christ. And being united to our head, we share in his spirit and therefore enabled to serve God in the Spirit and live for him. If you've ever seen a corpse, you know that it takes the soul to make it alive. We're not just physical and material. It doesn't just take blood pumping through our veins. It takes an actual soul and the body to give it life and to govern it. It takes the Spirit of Christ and the body of Christ to give us life. and govern us so that we submit to Christ you and we trust in him in his word of promise to save us That's the teaching of the catechism. I just want to end because I've been feeding on this part a lot this week. And that is the final words that the Lord Jesus says to us. I tell you, I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. So I just love how the Lord goes from this supper immediately to his father's kingdom, which meaning at the end of the age. The Lord's kingdom has come If you have been redeemed and born again, united to Christ, you live in the Spirit, you're in the Messiah's kingdom and righteousness, holiness. joy and peace. But here he's talking about the the re his return and and and glory and the consummate kingdom. But He's telling him that his fellowship with his disciples is coming to an end in this regard. I will not drink again of this fruit of the body. So he's saying to them, you and I, my disciples, are not going to have bodily table fellowship of this vine again. Why? Well he laid his life down You see, you only get one life here. It's a sad thing when it ends and separated and departed. But his one fleshly, earthly life, he sacrificed. I did bring an end, sad end, to that bodily fellowship that they enjoyed. But it was in the hope of a lasting Because he says that it would one day resume again, right? On another day, and in another place, and of another vine. They would drink again with the Lord Jesus. So it sees us that Jesus did not think he would be staying dead in the grave, and he did not think his disciples would be staying dead And I asked myself, how can he be so certain? Notice what he says. I drink it new with you until that day when I drink it new with you. How can he be so certain he's going to be drinking with those men? Those women, there were any women there, but you know, now today, how can it be so certain that he is going to be drinking with his disciples of that new wine in his father's kingdom? How can he be so certain? Just go back to the beginning. During the meal, took bread, he blessed it. He broke it. He gave it. All for whom Jesus came and died will live and eat with him. His keep. He didn't die to possibly save you. He died to save you. And therefore he can tell you at this meeting, if you receive him, you believe on him. I will drink again with you of that wine on that day. When you come to this meal congregation, you need to come remembering that you are under God's grace. You don't you need to come not hiding your sinfulness and sins from him, your failures and thoughts and facelessness You need to come remembering that you are not in federal headship with Adam and you are in federal headship with Christ, and He's alive, and you have a new covenant with God And God deals with you according to that covenant. So that means if you are a bit worn out If you're a bit weak and wary, if you're still struggling and you want to deal with that sin problem in your life, you want to love that spouse better, you want to love your neighbor better, that child better a friend better, and come hungry because God says, I'll write it on your hearts and come and ask for him for that food. This is not a covenant where we depend upon ourselves. This is a covenant where we depend upon the mediator Jesus. to feed us, give us what we need, to serve. That way when as he says, I will drink of this vine again with you on that day. So let us never partake of this Lord's Supper without us partaking in the assured hope. That we will live and feast with Jesus. Not because of what you do, but because of what's being offered to you at the table To receive Christ and not be assured of salvation is a strange thing. Who is a better Savior? You or Jesus? Let us always eat this meal in the assured hope that as I eat and drink and receive Christ In the shore hope that I will rise and eat and drink with him and his king. May God keep you, congregation. In His grace. May Christ feed you and nourish you all the days of your life. And bring you to be with Him in His Father's kingdom. Amen.