Psalm thirty-four, go ahead and turn there. Um have you ever experienced something so uh fantastic that that you wanted to describe it to somebody else but you really couldn't find the words. You um it was just such a great experience you know, a beautiful sunset, something like that. You saw it and you wanted to tell somebody else how great it was, but were just unable to do so. No matter what words you used, it just couldn't capture how great this experience was. And so if you weren't there, if you didn't also experience it, you couldn't really understand it. That in our text tonight is the kind of experience that David has had. One like I just described. Although his experience is with the goodness and graciousness of God, and he cannot contain himself, and so he invites you and I to taste along with him and see So let's go ahead and read Psalm 34, and then I will pray after. Psalm 34, of David, when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, so that he drove him out and he went away. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul makes its boast in the Lord. Let the humble hear and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name together. I sought the Lord and He answered me and delivered me from all my fears. Those who look to him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him. And delivers them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. O, fear the Lord, you his saints, for those who fear him have no lack. The young lions suffer want and hunger, but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing. Come, O children, listen to me. I will teach you the fear of the Lion. Lord. What man is there who desires life and loves many days that he may see good? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit. Turn away from evil and do good. Seek peace Peace and pursue it. The eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous, and his ears toward their cry. The face of the Lord is against those who do evil, to cut off the memory of them from the earth. When the righteous cry for help, the Lord hears and delivers them out of all their troubles. The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. He keeps all his bones, not one of them is broken. Affliction will slay the wicked, and those who hate the righteous will be condemned. The Lord redeems the life of his servants. None of those who take refuge in him will be condemned. Let's pray Father, we come before you in the name of your Son Jesus. We thank you, Lord, that you've given us this opportunity to hear your word. I pray That we will understand it, believe it. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So before we get into the content of the psalm, especially since this one does give us a historical reference, I thought it would be a good idea to look at that reference to get a little bit of the context for that. That's all. So in this psalm, David has been chosen as Israel's king. Hold just a second, excuse me. David's been chosen as Israel's king. He's been anointed king over Israel. But Saul, who has been rejected by God, doesn't see things the same way. So he is Saul's being slowly driven mad by uh demonic oppression and by the sins that he's committed and has tried to have David killed. So David leaves Israel and goes into exile and he seeks refuge among the Philistines. He goes to Gath and tries to seek refuge there. And the ruler there, whose title is given as Abimelech at the beginning of this psalm, which just means the son of the king. has heard of David and knows that he's uh considered a greater warrior even than Saul. So in the text in 1 Sam or I believe it's 1 Samuel. Yeah. And the text in 1 Samuel, which we'll be reading in a little bit, he even references the song that the people sang about David. You know, uh Saul has killed his thousands, but David has killed his tens of thousands. So he knows that David is a great warrior. So David realizes that he's in trouble when he comes to Abimelech, and Abimelech recognizes him. So David pretends to be insane. It says that he lets Jeruel come down on his beard to so that Abimelech thinks he's crazy. And so Abimelech basically says, get rid of this guy for me. And they throw David out. and let him go. After this, David travels east to some caves and begins to hide in the caves in exile from Israel. And while he's in these caves, his father's household comes to him, and many of the dispossessed of Israel come to him. um those who have debts, who are poor, who are afflicted, they all come to David and camp with him there. while he's hiding in exile. And that's kind of the context for this psalm. It's believed the Psalm 34 is written while they are in that cave in hiding. And the psalm itself is sort of unique in its structure. It's made up of twenty-two verses in our English translation, and that reflects twenty-two lines in the original poem, each beginning with the next letter of the Hebrew alphabet. the first first the first line begins with the letter aleph and then the next bet and so forth throughout the Hebrew alphabet. So it's similar to Psalm 119 in that way except much shorter. Obviously. And so the way I've sort of broken this song down as we are going to look through it tonight is In six different stanzas. And I'll outline them as we go through. So the first stanza is going to be verses 1 through 3. And that's going to be David's call to the people to join him in praising the Lord. This call to worship, as I said, comes in the midst of David's exile. From the land which he is rightfully king. And it comes in the midst of his escape from King Saul and from the King of Gath. And it comes while David's people, really, the people who actually have accepted him as king are family members and people that nobody else really wants. So he's not in a great spot here. And yet, in the midst of all of these circumstances, David still recognizes that the Lord is due blessing and honor. David's circumstances might seem like they're depressing or dismal, but in all of these things, he recognizes that the Lord is worthy of praise. So how can this be? David's supposed to be the anointed king. He's supposed to be in charge of Israel, he is God's anointed, and yet here he is, hiding out in the cave, with With people that no one would really want as subjects. What could he possibly have to praise God for? So let's go ahead and turn to 1 Samuel 21 and read that passage just so we more clearly understand the circumstances. David is in. I've given sort of a summary of that, but I think it's a good idea to read the passage as well. So 1 Samuel 21, starting in verse 10, and I will wait for you to turn there. Yes. That day David fled from Saul and went to Akish, king of Gath. So this is the person that the Psalm calls Abimelech. But the servants of Aish said to him, Isn't this David the king of the land? Isn't he the one they sing about in their dances? Saul has slain his thousands, and David his tens of thousands. David took these words to heart and was very much afraid of Akish, king of Gath. So he pretended to be insane in their presence, and while he was in their hands he acted like a madman. making marks on the doors of the gate, and letting saliva run down his beard. Akish said to the s to his servants, Look look at the man. He is insane. Why bring him to me? Am I so short of madmen that you have Must this man come into my house? And then continuing into chapter twenty-two. David left Gath and escaped to the caves the cave of Abulon. W when his brothers and his father's household heard about it, they went down to him there. All those who were in distress, or in debt, or discontented, gathered around him, and he became their commander. About four hundred men were with him. Yesterday morning at the men's breakfast, we read from Revelation chapter 4. And in that passage, it describes God's throne room. Where he reigns and oversees all of creation. And one of the things the interesting things about that passage that I've always found interesting is the way it's juxtaposed with Revelation 2 and 6. three. So in Revelation 2 and 3, you have the letters to the seven churches, which Jesus writes and John records. And when you look at those letters, it shows kind of the terrible shape that the church appears to be in the You have the churches like Laodicea that are being overwhelmed by sin. You have the churches like Smyrna that are being persecuted to the point of death. And it looks like things are really bad for Christ's church. From a human perspective, everything seems lost. And as though this new Christian movement is going to be a complete failure, and that the Roman Empire is soon going to wipe out But Revelation 4 reorients the vision of the reader. So now we see the situation from God's perspective. And from God's perspective, everything is under control. While things might look bleak from a human perspective, In reality, God is watching over his creation and his people, and nothing takes him by surprise. He's working out all things. according to his will. And I think Psalm thirty-four gives us an example of David looking at a s situation and circumstance that seems bad, but looking at it from God's perspective. Where even though things seem bad, he recognizes that God is working even in very difficult circumstances to bring about his will for David. And so it's this realization that calls David, causes David to call those with him to worship and magnify the Lord. And I want you to consider these things. And I want you to think of them in your own life. It can be easy to get caught up in our troubles, trials, our struggles, so that we lose focus on things from God's perspective. We lose eternal focus. If you limit your vision only to your own eyes To your own fallen, sinful human perspective, you're going to miss the big picture. And that picture is going to be what God is doing in your life is far greater than what you see Even today, earlier this morning, Daniel, if you were here, he showed us the same thing from Psalm seventy-three. Though it seems like the wicked prosper and the righteous are persecuted. That's not the end of the story. I have heard the illustration before, though I can't recall where it came from that our perspective of God's plan in this life is like looking at the back of a tapestry or a sewing pattern. Everything kind of looks like looks like a mess, the shapes aren't clear, there's loose ends. But when we see things from God's perspective, it's as though that pattern has been turned around and now we see the picture that God has been making which is complete. So I want to encourage you to put away fears and doubts, to not despair when it seems as though you're as though your world is coming crashing down around you. did for David, but to reorient your vision to an eternal perspective. And remember that today you can only see the back of the tapestry. But that your God still reigns over all things. The next stanza of the Psalm Verses 4 through 7. I'm going to call it David's Testimony. I'm not going to reread each stanza as we go through them, so if you want to, keep your eyes on it so you can follow along. In this stanza, verses four through seven, David explains the cause for his praise. He recognizes that the Lord has so far protected him. Not only from Saul's treachery, but also from the Philistine king. And he shares the good news of what God has done for him with those he is calling to worship. And again, this is evidence of David's eternal perspective. Look especially at verse 7. The angel of the Lord encamps around those who Now consider again what David's camp looked like. You have this Frag Tag group of a couple family members, David's David's house, his fathers and brothers. And then you have this group of poor, distressed, discontent people. Not exactly the kind of army you want. But David recognizes with the eyes of faith that his protection is not merely the visible company around him. But rather that the angel of the Lord himself defends and delivers those who fear God. So I'm I'm reminded in reading that passage of the story of Elisha and his servant when And the armies of the enemy surrounded him. And the servant says to Elisha, What are we going to do? We're surrounded And Elisha says, Don't be afraid. The ones who are with us far outnumber those who are with the enemy. And, you know, Elijah's servant is confused because there's this huge army around and there's only us here. But Elisha prays to God and asks him to open his servant's eyes and he sees the angelic force, the angelic army. Covering the hills, protecting Elisha and his servant. And you get the sense in Psalm 34 that David had also seen by faith something similar Similar, he knew that the Lord was protecting him, even though the visible army he had was very weak. At the beginning of tonight's message, I use the example of trying to describe a great experience to someone who's never had it. And then the next stanza. Verses 8 through 10, which I'm going to call David's Invitation. David invites the people to taste and experience for themselves the goodness of the of the Lord. So before he's just described what God had done for him, but now he wants to invite the people to appropriate all of God's blessing for themselves, not just to See what he's done for others, but to enjoy that blessing for himself, for themselves. So David invites the people to taste and see. That God is good. He recognizes that it's not enough simply to describe God's goodness, but it must be enjoyed. So along with David, I also want to exhort you to taste and see that the Lord is good, if you've never sought refuge in him, or if you have found yourself seeking the strength in yourself to overcome the trials and circumstances and troubles of your life. Then turn from that thinking and put your trust in the Lord, because those who seek the Lord will lack no good thing. Just like Elisha was protected from his enemies. by heavenly armies, just as David was defended in his exile by the angel of the Lord, so too when you seek refuge in the Lord and fear him, he will certainly protect and defend you. But I don't want to give you any false impressions here. Don't think that just because the Lord protects and defends you, that you are without trouble. Later on in this very chapter, if you remember, in the same Psalm, David will tell us that the afflictions of the righteous are many. So don't think that because you've Believed in the Lord, you've trusted in Christ, you're faithful to church. Don't think that that means your life will be carefree. The afflictions of the righteous are many. However, the Lord is able to protect and defend the righteous even through these many afflictions. Moving on to the next stanza, verses eleven through four. 14, which I will call David's wisdom. David said that those who fear the Lord will lack nothing. And now the voice of wisdom speaks to instruct us in the fear of the Lord. So listen closely to wisdom's instruction in this passage. What man is there who desires life and loves many days that he may not that he may see good? Keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit, turn away from evil and do good. Seek peace and protect You can almost think of this passage as a Davidic catechism question. Do you desire a long life in which you will see good? Do these things. Seek after peace, repent of your sin, turn from it, to trust the Lord in obedience. And you will receive the blessing of God. If you desire to fear the Lord, the answer is simple. Do what he says. Remember what Jesus said in the New Testament. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. So the question is, do you love him? Do you fear him? Then, if so, by the power his Holy Spirit has given you, put to death the sin that reigns within you The book of James tells us that the one who says he has faith, but does not obey, his faith is dead. So also if you say you fear the Lord, and if you say you trust the Lord, but this fear and trust doesn't manifest itself in obedience. You can never truly say that you trusted in him. And this has been Israel's mistake from the beginning. If you remember in the prophets, even, I can't remember exactly where it is, it says that That uh God is speaking to Israel and says, Uh, your lips are near me, but your hearts are far away. They said they trusted and feared the Lord, but in reality they did not, and their actions proved it. So don't be like Israel, who spoke one thing and did another, but rather believe and obey both in word and in deed. So that you might have life. David's Comfort. And it's verses 15 Now, with this passage, I'm going to go off on a little tangent, but that's okay. Usually I'm very happy with the way the English Standard Version translates things. But sometimes, especially with Hebrew poetry, there's a difference between translating just the words of a text and what the text means. Um so the ESV is great because it it tries to maintain the form of the original, the function of all the words, and the meaning of the original words. But there are times where it fails to do this, and one of those places is the idioms of Hebrew language. And idioms in general are difficult to translate from language to language. So for example, this is one that my Greek professor always uses in both college and in seminary. If you tell an Arabic woman that you are pulling her leg, she'll probably slap you because they don't understand that idiom. When we say I'm pulling your leg, it means I'm joking with you But the it doesn't translate into their culture and language. And so one of one of my favorite ways to explain or illustrate this problem is to use a the example of a song lyric. If you're familiar with uh the movie Rocky, or if you're an older person, you may know the song Eye of the Tiger. And in that song, one of the lines goes like this. Went the distance, now I'm back on my feet. Now imagine trying to explain that line, because I think we all know what that means. I went the distance and now I'm back on my feet in the context of the song. Now try to explain that to someone from a different culture. In a different language, and try to translate that line word for word. I traveled some and now I'm standing up. It doesn't make any sense at all. So you have to translate it in a way that the meaning is preserved. Now I I'm saying all of this because I really dislike the way the ESV does these first two verses here, verses 15. I think a much clearer way to say what's being said is something like this. The Lord sees the righteous, and he He listens to their cry. The Lord confronts those who do evil to cut off the memory of them from the earth. Do you see how it becomes more clear? I think we all understand what the ESV says because we're familiar with biblical English, the kind of English that It's really only exists in translations of the Bible. But if you read that to someone who was not familiar with the Bible in English, what does it mean to say the eyes of the Lord are towards something or the ears of the Lord are towards I think it makes much more sense and it makes it much more vivid when you say the Lord sees or he hears the cries of the righteous. So the Lord hears your cries, and he sees your affliction, and he will deliver you from trouble. When your heart is broken and your spirit is crushed, seek refuge in him I don't want to belabor the translation point too much, but I think it's important because there's a vividness to Hebrew poetry that gets completely lost when we don't actually translate these I want you to recognize not simply to hear the words, the Lord's eyes are toward you and think, well that's nice, but the Lord sees you in your affliction. He sees what you go through. He hears your cries. He really hears you. His ears are toward you, okay? But he hears you Anyway, I don't want to go off too much more on that point. So the final stanza of this psalm begins in verse 19 and goes to verse 22. to the end of the psalm. And I'm going to call this stanza David's Promise. And I want that to be taken in two ways. First of all, this is a promise that David is declaring to the people, but also And more importantly, this is a promise for David and for you. Notice first what the promise in this stanza does not say. And I've said this earlier, but it bears repeating It does not say that the righteous will not be afflicted. Nor does it say that the affliction of the righteous will be easier than the affliction of the wicked. But rather the promise says that the righteous will be delivered from their affliction. David juxtaposes this end for the righteous with the end that the wicked will meet. And this is another of those common themes throughout the Psalms. We've talked about it this morning and we've talked about it before when I we Exhorted and if you think about Psalm one as the interpretive grid for the rest of the Psalms, you have the the righteous man and the wicked man, and how do they end up? And this is another example of that theme in the Psalm. There's a promise of redemption for the righteous, but the afflictions of the wicked will slay them. And the righteous So this promise of redemption for the righteous is really the centerpiece for the entire psalm. All that has come before this, the blessing of the Lord, the protection of the angel of the Lord, the goodness of the Lord, all of that has its foundation in this promise. God will not forsake the righteous one. Which is great news. Except none of us are righteous. So we have a problem. We failed to live up to the demands of God's law. We've all sinned. We've all turned away from good and embraced evil instead. So, how can there be a redemption for a wicked people like us? Why aren't we forgotten like the wicked in this psalm? Well, to the praise of God's glory, he has provided us with a righteous advocate in Jesus Christ. The Gospel of John, when it describes the crucifixion, says of the Lord Jesus, Now these things happened so that the Scripture would be fulfilled, not one of his bones will be broken. Does that sound familiar? It's from Psalm 34. So John here is citing Psalm 3420 not merely as a promise for the righteous. but as a prophecy of the only truly righteous one who was crucified on your behalf. In this light, the psalm now takes on a whole new meaning. Again, we reorient our vision when we look at the psalm through the light of the New Testament. The righteous one of whom this psalm is speaking is the Lord Jesus Christ. And all the blessings which David sings of are blessings offered to Christ. In this psalm, David is serving as a type of Christ. And if you even think of the Excuse me. If you think of the historical context of the psalm, David, the anointed king who's rejected by the people and is now in exile, Jesus, the king of Israel, who comes to his people and is rejected. Both David and Christ brought to the court of this ruler. David, however, feigns madness and escapes. But the scripture tells us Jesus went before the rulers as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before his shears did not try to defend himself. So in closing, because of Christ's sacrifice as God's truly righteous one All the benefits of this psalm are yours as well in Christ. If you have died with Christ If you have died with Christ by faith in baptism, surely you will be raised with him as well. So in Christ you too will be seen as God's righteous one, whose afflictions the Lord sees, whose cries he hears. And it's that union with Christ in his death and resurrection that allows you to claim for yourself all of the promises of Psalm 30. These are not just promises offered to Christ, but to you in Him as well, if you are indeed in Him. If you are apart from Christ and have not believed and have not trusted and have not died with him and been raised with him Then the waters of baptism and the covenant meal of the Lord's Supper are not a blessing for you. And they speak words of judgment, and like the wicked of Psalm thirty-four, all memory of you will be forgotten in the last judgment. But don't despair. Turn to Christ. Repent of your sins. Believe that He is a refuge for all who fear Him. And if you do, Christ offers his very body and blood received by faith to you, and like David, he invites you to take refuge in him As David's greater son and as the true King of Israel, Jesus Christ invites you to taste and see that the Lord is good indeed by feeding on him. So as you consider these things, I'm not going to give you points of application here. I want this to be the main point of application You've heard what God did for David, but now I invite you to come and experience the goodness of the Lord for yourself in Christ. Let's pray as we consider these things. Father, we come before you in Christ's name. And we thank you that you have given us this invitation to taste and see that you are good. We pray, Lord, that we will by faith indeed taste of you And see the goodness that you offer us. We are so thankful, Lord, that you hear our cries and you see our affliction in this life because of what Christ has done for us. see these things. And so we thank you that you see them. And we ask that you save us from this world, save us from our afflictions, give us rest and peace in Christ. Christ and in His name we pray. Amen.