Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the book of Micah. Micah chapter four, the first five verses. Micah four, verses one through five. It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains, and it shall be lifted up above the hills, and people shall flow to it. And many nations shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of God, of Jacob. That he may teach us his ways, and that we may walk in his paths. For out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. He shall judge between many peoples, and shall decide for strong nations far away, and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. But they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree, and no one shall make them afraid For the mouth of the Lord of hosts has spoken. For all the peoples walk, each in the name of its God, but we will walk in the name of the Lord our God for ever and ever. New Testament reading is from Hebrews 12, 12 through 24. From the Micah passage, the mountain of the Lord will be established as the highest of all. People will flow up to it. And then we just read this Psalm of Ascents. That will be the preaching text. And let us also now hear from Hebrews 12, 12 through 24. Therefore, lift up your drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather healed Strive for peace with everyone, and for holiness, without which no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God, and that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble. and by it many become defiled, that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears. For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness, and gloom, and a tempest, and the sound of a trumpet with a voice whose words may the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them. For they could not endure the order that was given, if even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned. Indeed, it was so terrifying with fear that Moses said, I tremble with fear. But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God. the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels and festal gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant And to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you that you have given us this your word. We pray now that you would illumine it as we hear it preached. Be with the preacher, be with every hearer, by your Spirit, that we may profit from this your holy word. Amen. Well today, you may not have noticed, or you may, but today is the last Sunday of the church year. So next week is New Year's. And it is also the week of Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving comes this Thursday. I think you probably do all know that, no doubt. Let me just rehearse for you quickly how this works, how we remember God's great acts, his revelation of his trinity nature through the seasons of the church year. As we come to Advent, God the Father is sending God the Son. So now we have the two persons of the Holy Trinity revealed At Christmas time, of course, the Son is made incarnate and comes born into the earth. During the season of Epiphany, we remember how he was made manifest first to the three kings. And then through his preaching and teaching to all the nations, we move after that into the Lenten season, the lengthening season in the northern hemisphere at least, the lengthening of days. Which leads us through the sufferings of Christ up to his cross and death, and then his resurrection at Easter, his ascension Back into heaven and the right hand of the Father, and the Father sending to us the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity And then one Sunday after the Pentecost, the Trinity Sunday is remembered. So the whole Trinity is now completely in view And we celebrate that fact, that wonderful, glorious fact of the revelation of a glorious Trinity for 20 some weeks. Today is the 27th Sunday, I think it is. During Trinity this year. So we're at the end of something, and we're at the beginning of something And I wanted to think about that and decided to preach from Psalm 121 while I figure out what we're going to do next. Psalm 121, you see, is at the end of a journey. It's near the end of a journey. It's one day before the end of a journey It is one of the Psalms of ascent, as it says right at the very beginning in the text. Ascent means steps upward, going up. Going up to where? Going up to Jerusalem. Going up to Jerusalem from any direction, Jerusalem is up. I know we think about going up to Washington because it's north or going down to Richmond because it's south, but this is a elevation that's in view here. Going up to Jerusalem. From any direction, Jerusalem is up. Just let me remind you of the geography of Jerusalem. Jerusalem is situated on the ancient Mount Moriah where Isaac was offered by Abraham. It is the elevation of 2,593 feet. Now, if you're coming from the east, Jericho is 700 feet below sea level So you're having to go up 3,293 feet. That's quite a bit of climb and a very short distance from the for Jericho from the east. If you are a pilgrim coming from the west, from the coastal plain, it uh it it Ranges from zero at sea level to about a thousand feet. So your climb will be at least fifteen hundred and ninety-three feet. That's quite a bit of climb. especially for people walking and carrying things. From the south, similar, about 1,593 feet from the Negev. And then from the north, from the Jordan Valley and Perea, which is elevation about a thousand feet, again, another 1,593 feet or so. So it is up from any direction. So you ascend to this ancient city, Jerusalem. It is also up in the sense of politically We read from Micah chapter 4 that all the nations will come up to the mountain of the Lord and it will be raised. Does that mean that somehow This this Mount Moriah and Jerusalem is going to be pushed up geographically? Probably not. But what it is referring to is that politically, in the Old Testament political entities are figured as mountains. And so God's kingdom, God's nation, God's capital will be the highest, the greatest, the most. important of all capitals in the world when history has been completed. And so it is figured there in Micah chapter 4. Also it is the highest place spiritually, isn't it? Because it is called the city of the great king. Now, sometimes people thought King David, right? Yes, but no, because King David is just the figure who precedes the greatest king, the son of David And that's what they cried on Palm Sunday when he was coming into the city. Hosanna to who? The son of David. the one who is promised, who will rule and reign and be the king of the whole earth. So it is it is high and elevation spiritually as well as politically and geographically. So pilgrims would come up to Jerusalem. And this psalm would be the psalm that they would sing on that last day's journey. This would be the psalm that they would sing before they make their final camping. And then the next day they would go into Jerusalem. And what would they sing then? They would sing Psalm 122, the next one, and they would say, I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. Our feet are standing within your gates, O Jerusalem. So that would be the next psalm. But until we get there, we're on this psalm. And what are they singing to each other about God? Well, first I want to call your attention to a corporate focus. Theologically a corporate focus here, which is particularly clear in verse 4. Verse 4 says, Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. Israel here is the corporate name for the people of God. And God's covenant faithfulness to Israel, his corporate people, is in view. God is always faithful to his promises. Even in the New Testament, the Apostle Paul says that God is still faithful to to his covenant people Israel. In Romans chapter 9, Paul teaches that God has made a covenant with his Israel, his chosen people. And in chapter 11 of Romans He states that the gifts and calling of God are irrevocable. So this covenantal election is in view in this verse. It means they, Israel, only, of all the nations of the world, were given God's law. They were given his revelation of himself. They were given a form of worship that was acceptable to him. They were given the covenant sign of circumcision. And the promise of the Messiah, the King, the Redeemer, was given to them. And that was still in place even in the New Testament age. Era. This was given to them, Israel, as a corporate entity, not the Egyptians Not the Angles or the Saxons or the Ethiopians or any other nation, just to the Israel. And so the Israelite, on their way to Jerusalem, could hear these words. He who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. And they can think to themselves, I am a member of that people. Israel Israel that God is faithful to. I am born into the chosen people, marked out, privileged. And they would also need to remember, I must embrace this gift of God by faith. Just because you're born into something doesn't mean you have no responsibility, but you have all responsibility ability to embrace what is given to you by birth, to embrace it also by faith. The promise made to Abraham was exceeding expected to extend to all nations and it did in the New Testament era. At Pentecost all nations were gathered and the gospel has gone to all nations. And Paul was the apostle to the Gentile nation. So God's promise to Abraham was fulfilled. And now we, in a similar fashion, as the church, and each one of us can say, I was born, if you're born into it anyway, I was born into the chosen. People marked out, privileged, and still I must embrace this gift by faith. You can be born into it, you can be baptized as we do, but you must embrace it by faith. It has to become not only corporate, but personal. You can rejoice in the corporate promises and the gifts that you've been given, but you must personally embrace this faith and follow Jesus Christ by faith. So that's the thing in verse 4. Now I want to go back and talk about the individual and personal focus that we see here, because that's really sweet and precious for us. Verse 2, let's look at that. My help, individual, my help, personally, my help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth As the Israelite is going on that day's journey, the last day before arriving in Jerusalem, his focus is not on the geographic hills. I lift up my eyes to the hills, he says. And then the answer is no, my help comes from the Lord, not from the hills. in general. And by the way, the pagans typically thought of gods as living in the hills. That was where the gods dwelt. And the Israelite is saying, no, I'm not a pagan. I don't think that way. My focus isn't on geography, because God isn't geographically local. God is the maker of everything of heaven and earth. My help comes from him. He's the creator of everything. And his help is limitless, you see And then in verse 2, he will not let your foot be moved. Again, they're on a journey Going up this at least 1,500 feet, perhaps thousand a thousand more, and it's a steep path sometimes. And it's not paved, it's not nice steps like in our park systems He will not let your foot be moved. God's going to keep you on this journey, both personally and geographically. He who keeps you will not slumber. He's not going to go to sleep. And the translation could be here, may he. not let your foot be moved. May he who keeps you not slumber. And if that is the case, the other Israelite that you're walking with, or maybe they're in groups, answers back. So one sings this, he will not let your foot be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber, or may he who keeps your foot and not slumber. The other one answers back Listen, look, behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. So they're singing back and forth antitonally, encouraging each other in psalms and hymns and spiritual psalms, you see. And then in verse 5, the Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade on your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. And what is that talking about? The sun, we we kind of get the sun thing, don't we? Because it gets hot here and you're outside and you start sweating. And you you don't know what to do about it. But what about this, nor the moon by night? Hmm. That is an interesting one. Well, after doing some research I found out that there is a very clear understanding of that thing here. And it reminds me of the fact that our son Timothy is in Northern California And he works on the flight line at Travis Air Force Base there. And they have a similar climate to the climate of Israel. It is a Mediterranean climate, It's almost always breezy. And May through September, the days generally range from 85 to 95 degrees with bright sunshine, very little rain, the hills become golden. They're green in this in the winter, and they can become golden because it's dry. So 85 to 90 degrees, blazing sun every day, clear and hot, but then what happens? Sunset comes And there's a clear night every night during that period, pretty much. So the moon shines, right? What happens to the temperature It drops. It gets down 85 to 95 in the day, it gets down to 50 to 60 degrees at night, and the wind still blows. So there's a 35-degree swing sometimes, and the wind is blowing. What happens? You're out in the cold, you're you're camping, you're on this trip, you're on this journey as an Israelite, the sun is smiting you in the day. And the moon is smiting you at night because the cold and the wind and the moon shining, but it's not warming you up at all, right? So that's what's figured here The Israelites are singing God's praise and God's honor as he protects them. He covers them and guarantees their safety in the sunshine as well as in the the moonlight. And then verse 7, the Lord will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life Verse 8, the Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forever. Now, commentators will say that these phrases are sung back and forth. One group sings this part, the other group sings that part. One group says the Lord will keep you from all evil. The other group says he will keep your life First group says, he will keep your going out and coming in from this time forth and forever. And they keep going back and forth this way. And what is the meaning of the keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forever? Does that mean God guards you when you go outside and he guards you when you come back in? Well, in some sense, yes. We don't think of that as being any kind of uh we that doesn't register with us very well, but it does register for these people Because they're thinking of themselves as in terms of Psalm 23, the Lord is my what? My shepherd. And I am his sheep, the sheep of his hand. And so we see that what happens with shepherds and sheep. It's described for us in John chapter 10, and I'm going to read it. Jesus says this, truly, truly I say to you He who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in another way, that man is a thief and a robber But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens, the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name, and he leads them out. When he has brought all his own, brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, and they know his voice And then Jesus says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. Jesus, you see. Is the keeper of his chosen flock. And he guards their going into the sheepfold at night. The gatekeeper opens to him, and they go in and find safety from the night issues, the night hazards, and then he comes to the gate and he brings them out and takes them into the pasture. He is the shepherd of his chosen flock. That's what these Israelites are singing about. That relationship where God guards their going out and guards their coming in and keeps them. He keeps them, he keeps them. Now, I want to draw just a couple of more points of interest to you here. How many times Do you see the word keep or keeper in this eight verses? How many times do you see it? Six times. Six times Yahweh is your keeper. Strong possessive here. These Israelites are singing about God's security. The Lord knows his sheep. He knows all about every one of them. And we can apply that to ourselves. The Lord knows all about every one of us. He knows all our thoughts. He knows our words. That we say in secret when no one else is listening, perhaps. He knows our deeds, and we can know that he will keep us. Now, you're frail, you're creaturely, you're frail in body, you're frail in mind, and you're living in a dangerous world And the world and the flesh and the devil conspire against you. These Israelites on their way up had all kinds of hazards that could come along, robbers and thieves, and beasts that could attack. And God was promising that He would keep them. He promises that He's going to keep us too. And He knows all about us. He knows what's what's attacking us from inside as well as what's attacking us from outside. Side. God knows everything about us, and yet He promises to keep us. There's nothing hidden from God. Let me just pause to ask you this. Would your friends. Keep you if they knew everything about you, every thought that you've had, every carefully covered attitude. You put on a pretty good game face sometimes Would your spouse keep you if they knew everything you've ever thought in anger? It would be something to overcome, wouldn't it? Nothing can be hidden from God. Nothing about you surprises God. And yet He's promised six times here to keep you. He's promised to keep your going out and your coming forth from this time and forevermore. And so what that really means is this. In all of the motions and movements of life. In youth, when there are many snares and dangers, Educational institutions that teach us false views, ideas This happens, parents, if you don't know it, when you send your children off to the university of this or that or such and such college, your children are presented with false ideas. And they're challenged by those false ideas. I'll just give you an example. I was texting with my son Aaron this week And he was surprised and appalled that some of his friends from here, some who attended the Christian school, were expressing ungodly philosophy and unbiblical views about the world. On Facebook. The only explanation for this is that they have gone off to these liberal institutions, these colleges and schools where they have been attending and have been taught false ideas. Now, I expect that these friends will return to clear thinking and right principles in time because of God's keeping power. I know they will if they truly belong to Christ So there are these dangers in various parts of life, and one of them is youth. There are also dangers in the workplace. There are dangers in travels. There are dangers in sickness. When we are ill, we are tempted to despair sometimes There are dangers in prosperity when we have so much and it just looks like it's going to be our salvation. It will not be. It's a danger to think so. There are dangers in grief. There are dangers in old age. And what we have here is that the Lord will keep you. He'll be with you. He'll shadow you. He'll protect your soul as you listen to his voice and follow him. In verse 3, he will not let your foot be moved. You won't fall on the climb up to God's kingdom. He who keeps you will not slumber. You can rest easy at night. God won't go to sleep on you, even as some of Jesus' disciples went to sleep on him in his darkest hour. He will not go to sleep on you. And there's protective language heaped up here. God's people singing it back and forth to each other. God will keep you so many times, so strongly stated here. But I pause to ask, why will God keep you? Why? But you say because He's promised to, that's true. But why will he keep you? Is it because you deserve it? Is it because you deserve it? It is not because you deserve it. If you think about God, the true God, he is described in the book of Isaiah and elsewhere as holy, holy, holy. Why three times? Because that's the Hebrew way of emphasizing something and underlining it and making it absolutely unforgettable. God is holy, holy, holy. And when Isaiah saw this vision of God in the temple, and he said, God is holy, holy, holy, he saw the cherubim and the seraphim crying out, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory. And what did he say? What was his response? Woe is me. Woe is me, I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell among a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the Lord as he really is. the Holy One. He is holy. And we see in Psalm 2 what what happens to unholy people. Before God. In Psalm 2 verse 4, the wicked, this is the picture of judgment, the wicked are like the chaff that the wind drives away. The grain is thrown up, it's heavy, it falls down, the wind blows away the chaff, the worthless little pieces of roughage. Therefore, the wicked, he says, will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. God will keep you, but not because you deserve it. Not at all. Now I want to pause and ask the children to think with me for a moment. Children, Think of the pilgrims going up on that last day's journey to Jerusalem, going to the temple They know about the temple. It's the place where God's name dwells. This is the holy, holy, holy God. And there at the temple is the outer court where the Gentiles may gather to worship God. And there is the inner court where only Israelites may worship God. And then there is the holy place where lambs were slain for the sacrifice of atonement. And then behind a great heavy curtain is the Holy of Holies, where the blood of that lamb must be spread. Sprinkled on the mercy seat so that God can be propitious to the worshipers. The pilgrims knew that they deserved to die because they know who God is. But they also know that for a time a lamb would be their stand-in. A sweet little lamb. Would die in their place. And so, children, each pilgrim family would have with them on this journey a lamb. A lamb from home, probably. If the journey was too far, they might have purchased the lamb on the way. But if it was a lamb from home, it might be nearly a pet to them. They might have remembered when this little lamb was born, and it might have become nearly a pet to them. They would know the lamb. They would pet its woolly head. They would call it by name. Children, imagine yourself on that journey leading your family lamb up the road to Jerusalem. Going up to worship God, but knowing that that lamb, the one you feed and water, that little pet of yours, will have to die. For you, in your place. You see, folks, we need the Lord as our keeper. That's why it's emphasized. Here so much because of our sins. Because of God's holiness and our sinfulness, we need the Lord as our keeper. And that is how God bought us God so loved the world of sinners that he In the incarnation that we will be celebrating in the next month, he added human flesh to the Godhead. Not temporarily, but forever In order to save us. And that one, Jesus, the Lamb of God, died for us, bought us. And now at the right hand of the Father intercedes for us. And that's why John could say in John 1:29: Behold the Lamb of God. who takes away the sin of the world. And that's why Paul can say in Romans, what shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, the Lamb, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is the condemn? Jesus Christ is the one who died. the Lamb, more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who intercedes for us. God is your keeper. That's the emphasis of this psalm He has no intention of failing to keep you. He will not disown us, though we are sinners. When I was at Moody Bible Institute many years ago, I had a professor named Robert Goddard. And he said in his class several times, repeated this quip, if God can save an enemy, he can surely keep a friend. God is your keeper. The sun won't harm you, the moon won't harm you. He'll keep your foot from sliding. He will keep you from all evil. He will guard your life Let us rejoice as we continue our journey for God our Keeper. Let us pray. O Lord, Maker of heaven and earth, our help in ages past, our hope for years to come, our keeper in all of life and death. O Jesus, Lamb of God, Savior, Shepherd, keep us your church and each individual listening. In true Spirit-given faith. Keep us by your atoning blood, your resurrection, your ascension, and rule. Keep us by the gift of the Holy Spirit Keep us according to your promises. Amen.