Turn in your Bibles to John's Gospel, chapter 1. And as we have been celebrating this season in the church's calendar, Advent. And that's why, just so you know, we've taken a break one more week from Mark to Mark Advent on our calendar. As we see that as Christians, we live between the first coming of Jesus Christ. And because of that coming now find ourselves in Christ, and we live waiting for him to come again. And that determines our existence here on And John's message here and his testimony given is that coming one is not him, but he has come. And if he's come once, he's going to come again. So hear the word of the Lord from John chapter 1, beginning at verse 19. And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you? He confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. And they asked him, what then? Are you Elijah? He said, I'm not. Are you the prophet? And he answered, no. So they said to him, Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? He said, I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. They asked him, Oh, then why are you baptizing? You are neither the Christ nor Elijah nor the prophet. And John answered them. I baptize with water, but among you stands one you do not know, even he who comes after me. The strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan, where John was baptizing. The word of the Lord. Let us join together and ask now his blessing on the preaching of his word and hearing. Let us pray. Almighty God, we confess before you That your son, when he came into this world, he came into a dark one. In a world where the eyes of man were shut, and their ears closed, and their hearts hardened. And I did not want to receive this word. But it is by your grace that our eyes have been opened and ears to hear the message of our salvation in Jesus Christ To see in his face the glory of God, and to have our hearts softened, that we might desire their A place for you in our lives. And you have become all of our lives, and you are all of our longing and desire. And Heavenly Father, we ask now your blessing Upon the proclamation of your word, and upon its hearing, that it might do its work in us, and bringing us to completion until the day of Jesus Christ In his name we pray. Amen. I mentioned already, I was going to say one or two things, just so you're wondering why all of a sudden are we in Philippians and John, what's that about? Church calendar is not necessary to the existence of a church, and no way it needs to be followed. The apostles never laid it down. It's not an ordinance of Christ. But the church has found it useful in the history. Why is it useful to have a liturgical calendar if you so want to follow it? Because it follows what the narrative of the Bible is. The narrative of redemption is a history, a story of what God has done And here you can mark your whole calendar year around the story of God's salvation in Jesus Christ. But I also wanted to say to you. How greatly refreshed I have been and helped this week. And reading Paul's letter to the Philippians. Because you remember what Paul says in here, right? What is to live for Paul? Christ. Samuel Rutherford, I don't know if you know who Samuel Rutherford is. A Scottish divine in the 1600s I commend you heartily. Besides the Apostle Paul, he's probably the only other man I know who more for life is Christ than anybody I've ever read. Buy a copy of his letters, you can find them easy. His heart is absolutely enraptured with Christ And he has a wonderful saying in there. He was kicked out of his own church and locked in prison for his Presbyterianism, and the bishops didn't like it. And he had this wonderful saying, I forget the name, I think it was Ainsworth. But we could make it modern. Let's just say authorities come in and Pastor Damon can't preach here. I hope I could say with him: Grace and Peace Or Southern Maryland isn't heaven. And preaching isn't Christ. Preaching isn't Christ. I needed to hear that this week. It's the only strength I found where I could actually get up and preach out of is a heart that doesn't first want to preach, but that wants Christ. And I was humbled again this week. I think I had turned aside a little bit from what the Christian faith is. You get caught up in your duties. You get caught up in church activities and performing, and you forget one thing, what the gospel is: rejoicing in the Lord. Being apprehended by Christ, by God's grace, and living your whole life for one reason: to know Him now in Christ. And to look forward to the future, well, that will be consummated. So Paul wrote this letter to the Philippians. To encourage them. This is the first church in Europe. There's a history lesson. The very first church of Christ planted in Europe was here at Philippi. And Paul's second journey. He hasn't seen them for some years, and he's locked in prison, and he's afraid that's going to discourage them. That their founder might be taken from them on this earth He doesn't know their exact status, that's why he wants to send Timothy to them, but he writes to encourage them in the faith. He writes and assures them, God will keep me here for your furtherance and for your joy of the faith. And he gets to this section here in this letter. He began it in 3. 1, but had to pause when he said, Finally, my brothers, and I'll say again in verse 8, Finally, my brothers, he is concluding to them the final matters that he wants to speak to them about. And what you see in verses four through seven, which I know are familiar to you, saints He's writing to the saints in Christ at Philippi. God speaking to you today as the saints in Christ in Southern Maryland. I know that these verses are familiar to us all. He's dealing here with life in Christ. You see how verse 7 ends. Keep your minds in Christ Jesus. I mentioned already what's the big redemptive and historical context for this letter? What's the big theological context? Well Christ has come. That's the only reason we could be in Christ. His body was broken that we might have it and partake in it. He is risen in heaven and poured out his spirit that we might be joined with him in a one-spirit union. But Paul also mentions here again, this is why this is considered an Advent passage, the Lord is near. He is coming again. Our life as Christians lived out between those two comings. And Paul wants to speak to the church and give them these four exhortations, or three, to rejoice. To let your gentleness be seen, and to live in prayer. Because those things aren't done naturally. Let us attend to this word, and you're going to see here a very counter-cultural picture as we understand what the light of the church is to be in the world, what our fellowship together is to look like. Paul is first dealing with here, you might say, in these passages four through seven, Christian piety. What is our devotion to God? Because piety, or or he's going to get in verse 8 and he's going to talk about Christian ethics and how we're to live, but ethics As one commentator said, without piety is just religiosity. If your heart is not given and devoted to God. So look at me and hope you have your Bibles opened. It will be helpful to you. Look at verse 4 in Philippians chapter 4. We see the command to rejoice. Now I find it interesting to command anybody to rejoice, right? Because usually that's not how it works, right? To say, be happy and rejoice. Because Often, right, joy is something spontaneous. Right, if I take my son uh somewhere where there's tractors and big equipment, I don't have to say rejoice. He is singing and dancing and very happy. Or whatever it is, right, where your joy comes from. So what is Paul doing here? He's giving a command by as a way to remind them that our joy as Christians isn't in a place Our joy in Christians isn't in a season or a time. It's not in anything changing. What is our joy in as Christians? The Lord. Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forevermore. Paul is reminding us that our joy, and this is what I was so vividly reminded of this week, is in knowing Him. Christianity is about knowing Him. Christianity is about knowing God and Christ, not about performing, but about having a deep, abiding joy. Because the greatest love union you might say has taken place. Okay. I I think of the illustration for me here, right, is Uh when I met my wife Elizabeth and I was visiting back in Kentucky when I'd served there in the Appalachians for two and a half years, I went off to seminary, met someone and came back and visited them. They all knew You met somebody, didn't you? I'm all smiley and happy and have a a face on me, right? You don't have to command somebody to be joyful, right? But you might have to remind Christians to not find your joy in things that change. But to find your joy in the Lord, who is unchanging, whom you have a union with and a communion with. Paul says here the verb is plural. So he's speaking to the gathered church and he's reminding us there's not a time we're to come together. It is not to be filled with joy in the Lord. All of our fellowship is to be marked together by finding joy in the Lord. That's what our fellowship as Christians is centered around. We all know the Lord. We find first and foremost joy in him. But it's also, because he's speaking to everybody, we're to have individual joy. Paul will say earlier in verse 8, I want nothing else but to know Jesus Christ, my Lord. So it isn't enough to gather the body and rejoice just corporally. He has to be your Lord. You have to have your own faith in him. That's how you have this joy, by the way. You believe the gospel. Let me remind you here of just a couple things about the Lord in this letter that probably causes Paul great joy. Right? He's that God who emptied himself. He's that man who humbled himself to the point of death for us. He's that Lord now who has a name above all names, who every knee will bow before. He's that Lord that forgives all your sins and walks with you in all your life. He's that Lord that Paul says, I now know him, and whatever I had before is meaningless, is refuge. Nothing compares with knowing Jesus Christ. But it's also important, because he adds that word always, does he mean that we're to be walking around with smiles on our face always? You can if it's real joy. But he's reminding us that circumstances don't drive our joy, right? The circumstances here in Philippi was their beloved apostles in prison. They live in a Roman colony where Caesar is professed as Lord. And they're persecuted because they say, no, Christ is Lord. So that whatever comes and goes in our life together here at Grace and Peace, it should never be devoid of joy. Because our joy is in the Lord. And Paul seems to be rather emphatic about it because he says, again, I will say, rejoice. Joy functions here in Paul's letter as a sort of nevertheless I'm locked in chains. People want to preach Christ to make my life more miserable out of contention. And what does Paul say? Nevertheless, I will rejoice because Christ is preaching. You're persecuted for your faith. I'm persecuted. Nevertheless, let us rejoice together, because that is a holy offering in God's sight, and my suffering with you is like a drink offering poured on top of it. Finding cause to joy in Christ no matter what. What is going on in your life? I know we've all gone through a crazy this has been the craziest year and a half in my life. Afghanistan didn't really ch upset in that war my day-to-day life so much as COVID has upset our day-to-day life. And supply chains, everything's waxed. Some of you older ones may have lived through things more disruptive than this. What's going on in your family? What's going on in your schools? Are you able to still find joy? Maybe you need to take time and to hold the Lord Jesus Christ before you Maybe you need to open up the gospels. Maybe you need to sit quietly with him in prayer. And remember what Christianity is all about. His coming and loving you. And calling you to know him. You can see then what a counter-cultural picture Paul's talking about here, that the church is always this joyful entity. It always finds re- Isn't that the you know not that there's not a place for sorrow. Paul says we can joy and sorrow at the same time. This is not a denial of the reality of sin and suffering, but it's the mark that God's grace triumphs over that Even at burials, right? Even at death. And the hardest thing we will face, because who wants to be separated from those we love? God in his gospel has still given us reason to rejoice. And if it's in a Christian barrel, it's because they're gone with the Lord, and we're happy for them. And we'll be back with them again because we're together in the Lord and that's never broken. So you understand then how it's because of the Lord that we can always have joy together. Paul goes on here in verse 5. And he speaks now then of what their attitude and demeanor is to be to everyone. And this word is given there as reasonableness in the ESV. There's a footnote for gentleness. Other translations give it as forbearance. Older ones give it as moderation. As you can see It's not an easy word to bring across. There's not one word in the English tongue that gets it. It's probably the best saying is a gentle, forbearing spirit. Paul will plead with the Corinthian church in the meekness and gentleness of Christ And what we're talking about here is a signal quality in Jesus that Peter paints in his letter in 1 Peter 2. 23. When Jesus was reviled, he didn't revile back. When Jesus was suffering, he didn't threaten back and say, Yours is coming, and you'll get yours. But he was a meek man and a gentle man. I also can't help but see that this attitude comes out of having a joy in the Lord. How many of you find yourselves being harsh? And not forbearing, and not gentle when you're happy and joyful. But we know that if your attitude is one of gloom and of sadness and of depression, and it's very easy to not be gentle and forbearing What a picture too, right, of the Christian church here. This word is often, it's given in Paul and what are known as the pastoral epistles. as chief qualities by men who hold office, where it's contrasted with quarrelsomeness and and a and a fighting attitude. It's contrasted in James's letter as a picture of that wisdom that's come down from heaven, which is but just the Lord Jesus Christ and the Spirit. Contrasted the envying and selfish striving and self-interest. Jesus came knowing he was going to suffer. Jesus tells followers, you're going to suffer. So why be bitter about it? He's put together a bunch of sinners. We're going to upset each other and hurt each other and do things maybe not by intention. Why not why be harsh about it then? Because we don't want to be we don't want to be treated by a harsh Lord, do we? We like a gentle, forbearing master. But what a picture too against the culture. Who forbears from pushing that enter button and sending that tweet? Or that post that didn't need to get said, that's just going to stir up fire. That retaliatory response. That's what we're talking about. There it is, pictured for you, what it means. To not revile when revile, to not threaten when suffering, but to be gentle with each other. Paul thinks that that message is important. And I think one commentator did really nail it why this message is central to evangelism today. Our culture has left God. So our culture lives in nothing but fear. We're going to get to that in a minute in prayer and anxiety. It lives in all kinds of depression and sadness. It lives in all kinds of harshness and bitterness and strivings and quarrelings. That what a picture, then, when those who publicly name the name of Christ. At work, at home, at school, here together on the streets, look absolutely different then. What an opportunity then to say, why are you different? Let me tell you about the Lord Jesus Christ then. Let me tell you about God's gospel and his grace that has changed us. I think he's absolutely right. This is this practice of Christianity, this piety of Christianity, this living out the life of Christ is central to evangelism today. to show the marked difference between those who depend and trust in God and what the quality of their life looks like in comparison. To tangibly able to say, here's why you don't have joy. Here's why you're ready to bite everybody in the face and bite their heads off. And here's why your life is overcome with fear and worry. So we'll go on and look here. Oh, let me I can't skip over this. Paul says here to everyone, that's to those inside the doors of the church. That's to those inside the doors of your home, the doors of your school, but also in the context, right? to those who would persecute you for your faith. Nobody's accepted There's nobody you get to say, but that one I'll be harsh towards and bitter towards. And I won't be patient and gentle towards them and forbearing in my words and actions. Paul says everybody is to receive that from you. And why? The Lord is at hand, Paul says. That is a tricky phrase to interpret. See, there's no connective here Paul doesn't tell us, he doesn't give a word to tell us, does this go with what goes before? So the reason we should be Living in this joy and forbearing towards each other as the servants in the Master's house is reminded the Master's coming Jesus taught us that in the parables. You don't want to be found in that day beating my people. Here's what it looks like: behaving in that kind of way towards your brothers and sisters. You won't take kindly to it? Or does it go with what is the follow? And so that the Lord is at hand is means the Lord is near, like in Psalm one forty five, verse eight, to all those who call upon the Lord, he's near them So then it becomes an encouragement to prayer. And I agree with the commentators that say, well, you don't have to pick. Paul very well could mean both, and in and when it's unprecise, let's just take it as meaning both. The Lord is coming again. And that must determine, because we will all give an account before Him, our life. But the Lord is near us in this life and has not left us alone. And let's go on then what Paul encourages us to do. He says in verse 6, do not be anxious about anything Let me pause on that word, anything, lest we think Paul gives us room to be anxious about something. Paul says, do not be anxious about anything. Do not let one thing eat away at you. Do not let one thing keep you up over some at night, you might say. But in everything Every circumstance, every situation, by prayer, and that's a general word that means offering up your desires and your will to God. And supplication, that's a more specific word meaning a particular request for a need in your life, a want in your life, something's missing that you need to have. And to do it with thanksgiving. Now the thanksgiving there isn't just thanksgiving for answered prayer. But the thanksgiving there is the mark of that humble attitude that determines our entire relationship with God. In Romans 1. 21, what does Paul say? The first sign of idolatry is that do not give thanks to me as God. Something else in their life has provided their wants. Something else in their life is saving them. Something else in their life is keeping them afloat, is satisfying them They found something else to return thanks to, but it isn't me. That the thankful heart before God is an expression of our realization that He is our God. And that we are in dependence upon, and that's what it means. Here is the attitude that Paul is encouraging us to dependence upon and trust in the living God. Dependence upon him, because he can supply our wants and needs. Trust in him, and it's the trust in him. That takes away our anxiety and gives us the peace of God. It's not answered prayer He may not answer your prayer, and he may not do it in the way you want it to be answered. The peace comes from your trust in him That you go to him in prayer and you pour out your heart to him in prayer. You make known your wishes, your wills, you ask for the things you need, and you do it in grateful acknowledgement towards him. That will be the peace of God which guards your heart. That's where the peace of God comes. that Paul says surpasses all understanding. And again, that's one of those phrases that can be interpreted a few ways. Does that mean it's beyond our comprehension? Yeah, it can be that. It definitely is. It can also mean because the word there is the Greek is mind. It surpasses all mind by that meaning a mere human mind, a mere unbelieving mind. Because an unbelieving mind doesn't trust God An unbelieving mind doesn't pour out to God his heart and make known his petitions and prayerful attitude and thanksgiving. So, therefore, an unbelieving mind can't find this kind of peace. Because it doesn't believe in God. It doesn't believe in Christ. It's not in Christ Jesus. It might also mean surpassing can also have the sense of excelling. And what he might mean then is that this peace that God gives Which comes from our pouring out our hearts to him in prayer. Excels any human endeavor to find solutions to their answers. Apart from God. Mind there taken in the thoughts of those minds and the intentions of their minds. So he's offering to us a better solution. Than finding our own human solutions to our worries and anxieties, but to find God's solution in prayer. And Paul says that this peace will guard your hearts. And not just minds, but that word means thoughts. I think we all know what it is to have anxious thoughts. We all know what it is that our thoughts go over and over and over in our mind. And Paul's saying, this attitude of dependence and trust in God. And a prayer to him in Christ Jesus will guard our hearts, our emotions and our thoughts from all this fear and worry and keep us in the peace of God. It will be the garrison around us, God's peace. What then a picture of a Christian society? What then a picture of a church here in Christ Jesus? What a picture here then of the Spirit's presence among us. As you're reminded, right? Joy and peace are fruits of the Holy Spirit What a contrast to anything else we'll find merely human. Yes, you can find joy for a time in the world, I suppose. I tried, thought I did. I found bitterness in the end. Oh, stolen water is sweet, the proverb said. It's very bitter in ashes, when it all goes down. And the joy is gone. And remember that we have something that is eternal: a union, communion, a knowing of the Lord Jesus Christ. That fills our hearts with joy. What a different picture then of a society that bears an absolute gentleness towards each other. An absolutely forbearing spirit, ready to acknowledge. Because don't we know it in our own hearts? Our own infirmities and weakness? Shouldn't we be ready then to show the kindness and love to each other that Christ shows? What a different society. That doesn't respond in haste, doesn't just smash the enter button and say whatever, but puts a check on its mouth What a different society that's not burdensome and dragged down and is lived in fear and anxiety. But isn't that the classic picture? And I no means speaking against psychological and psychiatric practices, but What a picture of a society laying on the couch. And what are we but a people upright rejoicing in the Lord? Because we've found a solution to give us peace. Humble dependence upon God, bringing everything to Him in prayer. What concluding matters then to the Church of Jesus Christ? What a life. What is is that us that grace and peace? What do you think? If people visit us, would they be marked and say, wow, this people have joy when they're together? All they want to do is talk about the Lord. They hardly ask me my name. Is that us? Does talk of the Lord Jesus Christ fill all of our fellowship? What do you think? Is that us as far as when they meet these people? Wow. I met that person out in the street the other week at the supermarket, didn't know he was here. He was so patient with me as I cut him off in line or something. So forbearing and kind. Would they come in here and know, wow. These people told the Lord in their time of prayer everything going on in their lives They didn't keep one thing back. And what peace they have. Let us ask God and thank Him for the coming of Christ. For his second coming in Christ. Let us ask now for forgiveness that that does not mark us as a church, corporately, individually, and ask for the Spirit's help That these important matters that Paul wants to encourage the church in would be ours. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you that the Christian life is not a life of earning and working anything towards you for our acceptance and salvation. But an opening up of our hearts in faith to receive Christ To know Christ, to live in a union and communion with Christ, to have our hearts ravished by Christ, to say with Paul, to live is Christ. And we rejoice that to die is gain, for we shall then fully apprehend what we have been apprehended for by Christ. Heavenly Father, we thank you that by your Spirit you have made this a possibility for us to be a people of joy. A people of gentle forbearance and a people of prayer, guarded by your peace in any circumstance Forgive us if this does not mark us. Forgive us if joy is lacking in our fellowship because it's not in the Lord. Forgive us if we strive towards one another and have envy in our hearts and quarrel, and are not ready to be gentle and forbearing towards one another. Forgive us that we continue one moment in anxiety and fear, hindered and hampered then in our love and service towards each other, because we do not bring everything to you by prayer. And pour out your spirit upon us, that this joy may be found amongst us in our gathering. This gentle, forbearing spirit might be shown to all who know us. And that your peace may so pervade our lives together that they must say, these people are in Christ Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen