Please open your Bibles to the 30th chapter of Deuteronomy, where we'll read verses eleven through twenty. Deuteronomy 30, verses 11 through 20. For this commandment that I command you today is not too hard for you. Neither is it far off. It is not in heaven that you should say, Who will ascend to heaven for us and bring us it to us, that we may hear it and do it. Neither is it beyond the sea that you should say, who will go over the sea for us and bring it to us, that we may hear it and do it? But the word is very near you. It is in your mouth and in your heart, so that you can do it. See, I have set before you today life and good, death and evil. If you obey the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you today, by loving the Lord your God, by walking in his ways, and by By keeping his commandments and his statutes and his rule, then you shall live and multiply, and the Lord your God will bless you in the land that you are enter entering to take possession of it. But if your heart turns away, and you will not hear, but are drawn away to worship other gods and serve them, I declare to you today that you shall surely perish. You shall not live long in the land that you are going over the Jordan to enter and possess. I call heaven and earth to witness against you today That I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse. Therefore choose life, that you and your offspring may live Loving the Lord your God, obeying his voice, and holding fast to him. For he is your life and length of days That you may dwell in the land that the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. To give them. The word of the Lord. Reading is from Hebrews chapter 12, 1 through 13. The text of the preaching is Psalm 107, and you find it laid out for you in the worship folder. And I will ask you to hold that psalm because we'll be reading part of it together as a congregation in the midst of the psalm. Sermon. So take that out and hold it and be ready to read with me. 1 Hebrews chapter 12, 1 through 13. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which cling so closely. And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or fainthearted. In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves And chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall not much more we be subject to the father of spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as seems best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share in his holiness. For the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it Therefore, lift up your drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees And make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather be healed This is the word of the Lord. The psalm that we have before us today expresses the dynamics of what we call God's covenant relationship. Covenant relationship with his beloved Israel. Now, covenant can sound kind of legal and formal, like something you see on a property deed. About the covenant, the use of this property, and how it can and can't be done, and so forth. Or it can seem like something between an employer and an employee So that if you do the job, you get paid. And if you don't do the job, you get fired. But the covenant relationship being discussed here is between God and Israel and between Christ and his church, and it is fundamentally a relationship Of a perfect father to his children. The father wants to bless and encourage and gives gifts, but sometimes he We must discipline. This is expressed very well in the passage that was just read from Hebrews. In verse 6, we read, For the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every Son, whom he receives. Remember this then. All that the Father does in this relationship, this covenant relationship, is done in love. God as a sovereign Father first chooses his people and makes promises of redemption to them And God is the very best Father, defines the relationship and its sanctions, we say, Sanctions, its rules, its blessings if you obey, and its curses if you disobey. And this is especially important to have clearly in mind, listen, the foundation of this relationship. is the electing grace of God rooted in the coming then work of Christ It is rooted in God's choice and God sending Christ as an atoning sacrifice for our sin. That is the bedrock, that is the ground, that is the foundation for this relationship. It is not based on human performance. But, did I say that clearly enough for you? This relationship is based in the electing love of God and the work of Christ, not in human performance. But your performance will make a difference in how the relationship is experienced. Your good and gracious father delights to bless his children, but this does not mean that he indulges all of their foolish appetites, since he knows what is in their best interest Friends, some of your appetites are foolish and sinful and will ruin your life. Others, though not sinful, may lead you to sin as you make them your priority. Anything that is not putting God first, even if it's a good thing in and of itself, is sinful. So let's begin this psalm, and I want to go through it with four descriptive metaphors that you have in the outline there. First is the weary traveler experience. Secondly, the prison experience. Third, the experience of sin-sick fools. And fourth, the life-threatening voyage experience. The kids can find their answers there. But we begin with the theme introduction first. Verse 1. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Let's take that apart. Give thanks to Yahweh. This isn't just any God. This is the God who revealed Himself to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. Who told his name to Moses, this is the God who we are dealing with. And then it says, give thanks to the to the Lord or Yahweh, for he is good, for his steadfast love. Endures forever. Steadfast love is the word chesed in Hebrew. And it means that God is always faithful to his Covenant. Whenever you see that phrase steadfast love in the Psalms or anywhere else, steadfast love, behind it is that word chesed, which means faithful to his covenant. So let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he has redeemed from trouble. Redeemed is another important word here in the theme introduction. Redemption means to purchase out If someone is imprisoned somewhere, and then someone pays their bail or pays their penalty, more likely. They are purchased out of that prison, redeemed. And we have been redeemed out of the fall down, as Pastor Tom Tyson calls it. The fall down out of every peril. We have been redeemed ultimately out of the troubles that come with being fallen people living in a fallen world. And then verse 3, part of the theme, gathered in from the lands from east and from west and from north and from south. Now you, it just sounds like, well, compass being discussed here, no. It meant something to the Israelites, because in the Old Testament to be scattered To the east and west and north and south, to be scattered around like that is a clear curse. It means that you have violated God's covenant and he has scattered you as a result. But he's being gathered in now And then being gathered in is a blessing, God's blessing. So that is the second part of that. Now we're going to begin with the first metaphor. We've got the introduction. Here's the first metaphor. The metaphor of the weary traveler experience. Verse 4: Some wandered in desert waste, finding no way to a city to dwell in Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He led them by a straight way till they reached a city to dwell in. Now, looking back at Israel's history, the Israelites who left Egypt camped in the desert for how many years? 40 years, as a sanction for their rebellious attitudes and actions against God's covenant. Is that what's in view here? Probably not, because the word wonder here in the Hebrew is a word never used to describe that wilderness experience following the Egyptian captivity. But it is used very frequently to describe the Babylonian captivity as recorded by Isaiah and Jeremiah. So it's probably referring to the Jews who were exiled to Babylon and stayed in that desert for 70 years. And oh, how they cried there. Oh, how they were sad. Oh, how weary they felt as travelers on a long journey A trackless desert where there was no place for them. They cried it out in Psalm 137. By the waters of Babylon, we sat down and wept when we remembered Zion, our home. On the willows there we hung up our lyres, for there our captors required of us songs, our tormentors mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion How shall we sing the Lord's song in a foreign land? Weary travelers. But they called upon God in the Psalm in verse eight. They let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love. There that word is again for his wondrous works to the children of man, for he satisfies the longing soul, like we sang from Psalm 42. two a few minutes ago. And a hungry soul he fills with good things. So that's the first metaphor. The second one is the prison experience versus 10 through 16. Here they are in Babylon, and it says in verse 10, some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, prisoners in affliction and in irons. For they had rebelled against the words of God and spurned the counsel of the Most High. So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor That's the experience in Babylon. They fell down with none to help them. Then verse 13. Then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He brought them out of darkness. And from the shadow of death and burst their bonds apart. These verses are a metaphor of the way it was with the Jews in Babylon. When they were in Babylon, their experience was like the experience of a man locked away in prison, wrapped in darkness and gloom, not like modern prisons today, where they're clean and And heated and lighted and all kinds of amenities, no, but wrapped in darkness and gloom and unable to free themselves. And note the reason for this imprisonment is in verse 11. They rebelled against the words of God. Israel's captivity in Babylon was directly and solely related to their rebellion against the Word of God. The prophet Zechariah had warned them of this. In Zechariah 1, verse 4, he says to them, Do not be like your fathers. To whom the former prophets cried out, Thus says the Lord of hosts, return from your evil ways and from your evil deeds. But they did not hear and pay attention to me, declares the Lord. Don't be like them, but they were like them. And so they ended up in this prison in Babylon. But then they called upon the Lord. And they now say in verse 15: Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, his covenant mercy. Mercy, love. For his wondrous works to the children of man, for he shatters the doors of bronze. We're going to talk Take a look at that in a moment. He shatters the doors of bronze and cuts into the bars of iron. Now, Lupold, the famous Old Testament scholar. says the bronze prison doors in this passage uh are not doors of some jail, which is indicated here, because jails never had, nor do they need, bronze doors What is mentioned here are the famed 100 bronze gates of the city of Babylon, especially the gates that went over the Euphrates River And here's the historical background. When the Medo-Persians under King Darius and later King Cyrus invaded Babylon, this is at the end of the 70 years of captivity. The river, they diverted the river that flowed right through the city and had these bronze gates over it. They diverted the river, made it flow in a different direction. And the soldiers then just walked under the bronze gates on dry land and invaded the city. of Babylon. And that was the beginning of the setting free of the Jews from Babylon. So he actually refers to that here. And then Cyrus later let the Jews go home. So it's a beautiful thing. He shatters the doors of bronze. They don't hold back anymore. So that's the second experience. The third then is the experience of sin-sick fools, verse 17 through 29. Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction. They loathed any kind of food, and they drew near to the gates of death. The commentators here say the word fools is key to this paragraph. The sickness here is a moral and ethical sickness resulting from wickedness of the chosen people. Which led God to send them into this captivity. Fools here, by the way, it's important to know, does not refer to intellectual feebleness I know that we tend to think of a fool as wearing a funny hat and doing jesting and so forth and so forth. That is not what the biblical concept of fool is. is. It is not intellectual feebleness or but it is moral perversity. So we could say this: our nation's universities today are staffed with hundreds of thousands of tenured fools Thankfully, there are exceptions. But all sin is folly. And nothing is so foolish as to deny what God says is good and to do what God says is wrong. And anybody, no matter how many degrees they have, who teaches people to do what God says is wrong or to deny what God says is true, is a fool. And leads to moral perversity. And the metaphor here is that of a sick person, Israel being the patient. But the emphasis is not on the nature of the sickness, but on the cause of it, which is sin When Israel came out of Egypt long before, there were 600,000 fighting men ready to take over the land of Canaan and take possession of it as God had promised. But now that nation is near unto death because of their sickness, because of their walking away from God. But then in verse 19, here's the wonderful answer and solution again. They cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them in their distress. He sent out his word and healed them and delivered them from their destruction. So let them thank the Lord for his Hess said, his steadfast love for his wondrous works to the children of man, and let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving and tell of his deeds in songs of joy. Joy. So that's the third metaphor. And now we go to the fourth. The experience of a life-threatening voyage, verses 23 through 30. Now we usually don't think of Jews going sailing because the Jews were a land-loving bunch of people. They did not, they were not a seafaring group. But it says in verse 23, some went down to the ship to the sea in ships, doing business on the great waters. They saw the deeds of the Lord, his wondrous works in the deep, for he commanded and raised the stormy wind, which lifted up the waves of the sea They mounted up to heaven, they went down to the depths, their courage melted away in their plight of evil. They reeled and staggered like drunken men, and were at their wits' end. What's this about? Well, the sea is frequently in Old Testament literature a reference to the Gentile nations You think sea nations? Yes. That's the way it's taken. And we see that in Revelation chapter 21, when things have been made right. that the that the the description is that there was also no more sea. No more sea. Imagine that Now, R. C. Sprohl says, for people who have a love for the seashore and all that it represents in terms of beauty and recreation, it may seem strange to contemplate a new earth without any sea But to the ancient Jew it was a different matter. In Jewish literature, the C was often used as a symbol for that which was dominant. And sinister and threatening. Earlier in Revelation, we see the beast emerging from the sea in Revelation 13. And likewise, in ancient Semitic mythology, there is frequent reference to the primordial sea monster that represents the shadowy chaos. So the Old Testament commentator commentating on this verse, loophold, says this. It's a description of the ship about to be lost here. is the ship of Israel. The ship of the state of Israel. Remember the promises that were made to King David? The promises that all Jews held dearest. All Jews held most wonderful. In 2 Samuel, God had said to him, When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up Your offspring after you, and he shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name. You know, Solomon did that. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom. How long? Forever. And I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And when he commits iniquity, I will discipline him from the rod of men, and with the stripes of the sons of men. That's God's disciplinary love But my steadfast love, that's Hesed again, will not depart from him as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you And your house, he says to David, and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established for ever The ship of state for Israel will never sink. God will keep his word of promise to them. And yet here they were in Babylon, in exile. Their national future has been threatened. Their very existence has been threatened. And it's like a sailor or a ship on a terribly stormy sea. But then verse twenty-eight, in the midst of that anguish They cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He made the storm be still, and the ways of the sea were hushed. Then they were glad that the waters were quiet And he brought them to their desired haven. So that's the fourth metaphor of this redeeming, wonderful love that God has for his chosen redeemer. Now I want you to join me in saying the next verses 31 through 43 which you find printed there in your folder. This is a general praise for God's covenant blessings. So read it out with me, beginning at verse 31. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man. Let them extol him in the congregation of the people and praise him in the assembly of the elders. He turns rivers into a desert. springs of water into thirsty ground, a fruitful land into a salty waste, because of the evil of its habitants He turns a desert into pools of water, a parched land into springs of water, and there he lets the hungry dwell, and they establish a city to live in. They sow fields and plant vineyards and get fruitful yield. By his blessing they multiply greatly, and he does not let their livestock diminish When they are diminished and brought low through pressure, evil, and sorrow, he pours contempt on princes and makes them wander in trackless waste But he raises up the needy out of affliction, and makes their families like flocks. The upright see it and are glad, and all wickedness shuts its mouth Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things. Let them consider the steadfast love of the Lord. Thank you. Now we go back just for a moment to verse two, which is part of the introduction of this psalm. And it says this. You did it just now, but do it more. It says, let the redeemed of the Lord say so. It doesn't say let the redeemed of the Lord keep their mouths shut. God's redeemed are to go public about it, to say so. Our temptation is to keep quiet, except perhaps in church, but no Christian has the right to remain silent about the salvation that God has given through Christ. One commentator some long time ago said Satan has tried to foster a campaign to the effect that it is impolite to speak of Religion. These days it has nearly become a hate crime to praise God in public. You might spoil someone's pagan safe zone or something But God's saints must be vocal about their redemption. If it was required of the Jews that they should extol the wonders of God in delivering them from Babylon, it is equally binding upon the Christian. Church, the new Israel, to proclaim the wonders of our salvation in Jesus Christ. So this psalm is suitable for all believers at all times. And it always has been. I will close with this bit. Led by Governor William Bradford, the people that we call the pilgrims landed at Plymouth, Massachusetts. They came ashore on Monday, December 11th, 1620, after having spent the prior day in the worship of God docked in the harbor. Their text was Psalm 107. Governor Bradford clearly refers to this psalm in his written remarks on this occasion. Here's what he says. May not and ought not our children rightly say, our fathers were Englishmen, which came over this great ocean and were ready to perish in this wilderness But they cried to the Lord, and he heard their voice and looked on their adversity. Let them therefore praise the Lord, because he is good, and his mercies endure forever Yes, let them which have been redeemed of the Lord show how He hath delivered them from the hand of the oppressor. When they wandered in the desert, wilderness out of the way, and found no city to dwell in, both hungry and thirsty their soul was overwhelmed in them. Let them confess before the Lord his loving kindness and his wonderful works before the sons of men. This is from William Bradford's Plymouth Plantation And yet they lost many at sea on that great voyage. But they praised God. To recap, God's redemption For you and me is like a lost traveler being led to a safe city. In Adam and at other times in our own experience, we have been lost You were that lost traveler, but God redeems you. God's redemption is like a captive prisoner in a dungeon waiting for execution. But he cried out to the Lord, you were that prisoner, and God set you free in Christ. God's redemption is like a sick person with no appetite, on the brink of death. Crying out to the Lord and being given a recovery to full health. You were that sick person, made sick by foolish and stubborn and rebellious ways And God's redemption is like a doomed traveler on a ship being rescued from a life-threatening storm. You were about to drown in the sea and be lost forever. But Jesus Christ, by his incarnation, his perfect life, his atoning death, his glorious resurrection, has provided for you the ultimate. Redemption. So this week, dear friends, as you gather and celebrate Thanksgiving, be thankful for many things. Be thankful to many persons. But most of all, thank God for his immeasurable love and the redemption of your soul by our Lord Jesus Christ. Be thanking him for the means of grace. We have set before us here the table of the Lord, the means of grace, for the hope of glory. It will not be lost. It will not all be destroyed. God's covenant will stand forever, and his people will be saved. His kingdom will come fully. The hope of glory. And pray that God will give you such an awareness of his mercies we so easily forget. That with truly thankful hearts you may tell forth his praise, not keeping silent, but saying so, not only with your lips, but in your life. Giving yourself up to his service. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this psalm which you inspired to be written Remembering the experience of redemption under these various metaphors. And we pray that you'll help us to remember our redemption and to Say so, Amen