You just see them whacking balls around, right? They were seeming to live for themselves, but they had their way of life. I can confidently say to you, you've not yet fully learned Christ. And I did that. And they're going to be fueled by that. And notice Paul gives two all-encompassing qualifications, designations, descriptions of this new man. If you just open up Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John in the New Testament, Jesus Christ has not taught you as a darkened, deadened, debauched individual. Now this is not the fullness of how we walk. And he's also aggrieved at their hardness of heart, when they seek uh when they're so callous in their self righteousness, thinking they're so right before God, utterly turning the Lord's day in the Sabbath day when it is That's not what that means. So again, this is putting on Christ the labor to have to share with those in need. Then you pick up the second letter to Corinthians, and Paul's rejoicing at their godly repentance. What he is talking about our walk now in Jesus Christ is God's called and converted people. What's the Paul's saying? But they don't have any compassion for a man with a withered hand to see him restored whole so he can provide for his family and stop living in the shame of being crippled. Whacking the balls wherever you want and throwing the sticks and maybe hitting them with each other. When he says testify in the Lord, that's a legal term, he's not bearing witness here so much as he's telling you the solemnity and seriousness which Is now because of the redeeming work of Christ God in us. They're not sensitive to even what is right and good in society or anything. The things that have been hardened, you can't push through and get through to them. And Paul says, What is the way? We take on his joke and you start saying, Well, hey, Jesus said we should be kind to the unthinked. Is cognate well actually it's the same verb uh in the Great Commission, which we translate, go and make disciples or go and teach the nations, Paul saying, You've been discipled is what he's saying. Hear about them, right? We're going to practice it together. Krupp's a good word. Make it a hot topic thing, then everybody gets riled up again, so we get all lost on the hot topic, riled up thing, and then we won't actually deal with the truth, because we're all angry at each other. If you are not leading a righteous life according to God's commands, living a holy life like the life of Jesus Christ, you have not put off the old, you've not been renewed in the spirit of your mind, and you've not put on Christ. I wish I did this more. It's what God says is right. But let me also tell you what that doesn't mean either. And think things through before you do anything else. of something that happened, doesn't it? Anyway, has something to share. And if it promotes and leads to the kind of life Paul says you didn't learn, a darkened, dead, and debauched life, that's not an honest job. I just want that to be clear. Wrath that it's not dealt with, it's not dealt with going to lead to anger or rage, a settled sort of angry state, and you're just on a rampage. Men, they had not this light, these unconverted nations. in verse seventeen, and that is to walk as the Gentiles do. And yet, utility, there's this purpose of just vanity and pointlessness into. God made man with a glorious purpose of serving him. We've all seen like extraterrestrial movies, E. That's what he's saying. deadened in their hardened state. He is the light of men. And now, right, he shares that with us, so in Christ we've been redeemed from futile living to fruitful living. Now Paul can make this assumption because uh this is a believing church uh planted by him, and I think we can confidently say Paul taught them the way. And to hear the commands and precepts and teachings that he gave to his followers, and to walk in those by the power of his spirit that he gives to us. Older, mature Christian, you need to join a disciples group, a Bible group. Have you ever gone through your week and sat down and just going through what you know God requires of you and sat down and said, Okay, I got up this morning and I did this and then I did this, I went and did this If you've had something like software or anything that's been corrupted, you can't use it according to its purpose anymore. Notice that they're deceitful desires. If you have not the truth in you driving what you do, you are going to be fed and fueled by those deceitful desires. That's why we as Christians feed on the truth. Any covering, any concealing, you're as good as telling that hand there's no fire there. How many of you get angry and do not sin? Create some rift and dis distance and Satan's like great this place. You're gonna do things, you may even do things, you will suffer the consequences of till you die. Doesn't have to be your best and favorite one right at first just get honest work because you need to work not only to provide for yourself but That's how our fellow darkened, deadened, and debauched neighbors live, who need Christ, need God's grace. Please do not hang on to the bitterness. As he looks briefly and we'll look at it and cast a glance upon the Gentile world and can give a definite, that is not the way you learn Christ Deadened and debauched people. Now Paul is very serious about this, so if my mode sound if my manner sounds solemn and serious this morning, I was told uh pastors should adopt the tone of the text. going back to people unconverted without the light of the Torah, and now with the gospel coming, God incarnate without the lights of Jesus Christ, with how men should live as Here is how you better be walking by God's grace. How is it that Gentiles walk? In a darkened state like that, futility, you are not living according to God's purposes. What does that word alienated mean? This is like an alien. And you've put it to sleep. And then they fall asleep, and then you can't get them up. Because their lusts do not ultimately satisfy them. Paul says, God called you out of that. A brotherhood, a society, living together, supporting each other, working for the common good, praising and glorifying God. No, now we just war, bicker, fight, argue, and go more and more into our heedless passions, not caring for each other, not looking after one another. That is, but Paul says definitively, you did not learn Christ that way. In no way can it be ascribed to Christ that he was darkened about the character of God and the will of God, who he was as a man, who he was as the Messiah, and walking in God's way. sweating drops of blood to go through God's will and to do everything his God asked of him, no matter what the call. As we offer to God what our mouths were made for is praying, building each other up, what our hands are made for, not to strike each other. Has a man ever lived a more fruitful life than Jesus Christ? but to maybe hug and embrace and comfort what we were made for, to live fruitful lives in Jesus Christ Because I will show you how to live. Came and dwelt amongst us? Christians learn Christ. But loving your enemies, that's learning Christ. So just real quick, if you've never heard about Christ, and if you've never read through a gospel, never had somebody take you through a gospel, never sat down and said, What did Jesus teach? God finds pleasing what God says how we should live, and God says how we should live through his law, but also through the gospel of his son, Jesus Christ. That's how you learn Christ. And wrong use of your bodies and fornication, all those things are wrong, deceitful desires. I'm the creator of all those people. He is made after God in true righteousness and in holiness. right. Too much for everybody. As we continue to walk as God's people, walk together, we are putting off that old, being renewed in the spirit of our minds, and putting on Jesus Christ. As you see it displayed in Jesus, you're seeing a mirror then that God is making and fashioning you so you more and more reflect Jesus fully and perfectly in all that you do. And your lies do hurt. Now, the Gospels do present Christ gets angry and he doesn't sin. One thing we gotta put off, we gotta put off away falsehood, beloved. You need to be renewed. Everybody getting all they can and getting wealthy and rich as we want, and never thinking I have any obligation to share with somebody in need. But that you might be your brother's keeper and have something to share with somebody in need. Unhealthy talk. And the identity of our self-created selves of the utterly rejected God, that now we have to shut out every voice that says other than what we say we are. I preached a sermon on this and the canons adore. That is not ultimately harmful to them but for their good. Whatever it is, as the need and occasion fits, only what's that come out of our mouth is what builds each other up, that through it God may impart his own grace. Please deal with it. All of that darkened, deadened, and debauchery we once lived in has tenderly and kindly received us They are under the judgment of God and the way they keep the supper, they need to be adorned and admonished. All slander that's speaking to harm a person, harm their reputation, harm their name, all of it we have to put away along with all malice. And has raised us to new life with Jesus Christ. And put on this wonderful new man, created after God, in his righteousness and in his holiness And walk like that. Futile. Utterly morally unrestrained people. But then that raises the question, well, how did you learn Christ? Because God is. I'm just giving you things that help you with that. Let me make it very clear to you. Beloved Aish, to my shame, used to walk as this Gentiles walk, darkened, deadened, and debaucked. Putting on the new creature. And then notice what Paul says. Became poor that he might keep us poor or make us rich. Paul says confidently, but that is not the way you learned Christ. And then he be then he goes on and he e explains more what that means. To shepherd, rule over, build cities, build nations, build empires. Pretty pointless to do anything in a dark room, right? They have no excuse for why they remain in ignorance, but they've hardened their hearts. They don't feel anymore. Why can Paul be so searched and you haven't learned Christ that way? We all know the agony of the cross, the agony of the garden, right? So that's not the way you've learned Christ, beloved, as the Gentiles walk, to walk in that manner of life, to lead a kind of life like that. No, that's not true. How do you get up in the morning and when you go before God and pray? Well there's a three-step process. Paul says that this process, as we look in verses 22 to 24, it has a threefold step to it. This old man belongs to your former manner of life. Paul says, notice what they're corrupt through, because this is what we got to put off. There can be no dealing with your sin without dealing with its root that you actually desire it. If you think you came from monkeys and there is no God and there is no purpose and you can live however you want, you're going to have desires that match that. But their desires that they have strengthen those deceived. When I prayed, I was going to get married, I said, God, heal my mind from sexual sin like you've never done before. That would hurt the hand, wouldn't it? We see Jesus, the Bible tells us he gets angry there. No, you're not a man who has transgendered into a woman and tell them the truth. But they don't want to hear the truth. It's important in the manner and way in which we speak, and we need wisdom, but we are not speaking to each other, criticizing, mean, angry, all those ways which we tear each other down with our words. As he has made the unity and brought us together, how we speak about each other and to each other. has no place in your Christian life. It is the most wonderful thing to be around Christians who have learned Christ, walk in Christ, so tender, so compassionate. So encouragement, so strength. Tenderheartedness we put on. God does live amongst the nations today in his church by his spirit. You can't get things through other things that are hard, right? Though, as Paul says, there are synagogues in every nation and people walking in that light before them, and now there are churches across the globe. Paul is saying because of that ignorance and not knowing God, they look at the life of God's people, they look at the life of God, and they think it strange. Your mouth's not working like it should. My conscience is pricked when I don't walk in your ways, when I don't give you the glory you deserve. You need to put off that old man. Fifthly and finally you just get a kind of catch-all here. I mean it's pointless. to tend to care and under the loving hand of the family of man and Adam and Eve That's the first thing Paul says. But this ignorance that's in them, they're culpable for. Dead in, Paul goes on to say. That's the word debauchery. That is what God has saved us out because brother, that is a state as Paul says. Vain, no way reaching the purposes that God made man for, to be a common people No way can we say Jesus is deadened to God, deaden in his sin. In no way could Jesus ever be described as debauched, given over to sensuality, he who denied himself his whole life. Offer himself out to others, sacrifice himself, deny himself for our good. What Paul can say about the life of Christ and what must be said is for rootful. Because the Pharisees presented one way to please God, the Essenes assented another way to please God presented. Have you ever stopped to examine your life by the light of Christ? Worthless. Of being baptized, professing, believing Christian. And that needs to be washed away and put in the grave because that life is corrupt through deceitful desire. I have never walked free of a sin until I told God I desired that. I did want that, as nasty and mean and shameful as it is, that was my desire. You need the truth to be put back in you, to bring your desires in line with the truth. Because if you can keep people in the dark, you can keep those corrupting desires. Now the third part of this is Christ the way. How do you think your hand would like it if your eye told lies to your hand that that is not a fire in front of it, but a block of ice? You, we, are members of the body. So but here's the thing, beloved. Deal with it quickly. You didn't learn Christ by looking at American culture. He toiled, sweet, labored, shed his blood, that he might share an eternal inheritance. No corrupting talk come out of your mouth. We need to be renewed in our minds, beloved. Your words, God can use your words to impart divine grace that brings about godly repentance to the saving of their soul. But if it's the truth spoken in love, as the occasion is meet the occasion there was they are getting themselves into sin, they need to be admonished. I think 39, verse 30 goes very close to 29. But beloved, you have now learned Christ. That's why you need to be, secondly, renewed in the spirit of your mind by the truth of God's. This new man is the creation of God, and this new man is created after the likeness of God. And they lost that light as they turn from God and wish not to keep it. Giving themselves over to their passions, to sensuality, to lasciviousness, to licentiousness, right? Now, let me make it very clear. Greedy to practice every kind of impurity. Because how else do you justify how you live? Prophet is not the chief end of our labor. Part of our having work, beloved, doing honest work. To do another person harm. used uh I forget the word I'm thinking of as a grammar term, but uh price sounds like croquet a little bit. We're told explicitly by Paul and Romans that he did not live on this earth to please himself. I don't know if you're aware of this, but before the religion of Christ got the name Christianity, this is what we go by today, it's a good name, it was known as the way. Always remember, God has begun this work of grace by pardoning you They are deadened like that. Assuming you've heard about them. Let me just say what it's not saying real quick. See, here's how we need to be renewed here. Krupp gets again at this idea that God made us good because of sin we've now been corrupted. Of course, as we do as a body, so we are instructing each other as we live with each other. It's dead in now. God does exist. Worthless. When food gets unwholesome, right, it's not only um just doesn't taste good, it can be positively harmful, right? They don't pass the test. That's one way of learning. How do you learn about Christ? Because we live in a therapeutic society today because we've made self the most central and important thing. And Jesus is the great exemplar of that, as Paul says, the truth is in him But we you did not learn Christ that way, beloved, walking as Gentiles. It's saying it's putting a limit on your anger. If I've done if I've wronged you, if the obsession's wronged you, if your brother and sister in Christ is wronged you. I no longer find you strange, unattractive in your manner of being, your worship, and who you are. So let's then look first at that is not the way that you learn Christ. Cut this corner and get rid of it, right? Behind your sin, I mean your actual loud speaking or shouting angrily and uh mean words This idea that you can be God. We've got a few more sermons here, but here are five key ways of showing us Christ. You're a member of the one body of Christ. Has everybody here heard about Christ? They're deceitful in two ways. That's what righteousness is. It's like a blow to the vital. This next thing, I think we've all probably heard this, we probably all live by it, and it's probably all saved our marriage and friendship. Well, he sums it up in one phrase, the futility of their mind. And then have you been instructed in him? We've been instructed in Christ. Forgiving one another we put on. We don't live like this dog. Well I mean you've been to the dentist and got your mouth worked on, they numb it. You need to be renewed in the spirit of your mind through the reading of God's Word, through prayer, and you need to put on Christ. And throwing sticks. But they justify how they live because they have their science, they have their knowledge, this is just the way things are, or I can do what I want. So, you know, conversion happens and there's a big break and it's different for everybody, but this is also a process too. Don't give the devil any place in this body to come in so we can suffer those woes that Jesus talked about last week. Meaning he's the one who shows us how to live. You ever tried to um I don't know reboot your computer, get it running again, it's not working, you just go through all the steps and all these things with just no effect. If God would appear to them, God's life would seem strange to them. The next thing he says with that is in verse 19, they become callous. They're not sensitive to God's rule. And you can't even lift it up. They're not operating as men and women as God made them to operate. They're more like Gentiles. Well a build on the other English word we got alien, right? It doesn't mean you get the whole day to stew in your anger. Please come and talk about it. T. Because it is easy to just get into a rut, or it's just easy to assume, well, I've always lived this way, so God must find it pleasing. This is God's grace. True righteousness. So I will say there's a place to get angry. I think they're right. That's the futility Paul is talking about. But Jesus said we should love our enemies because everybody loves their friends If you've ever picked up fool's gold, right? It's a member of the body. No, God made man with that glorious purpose we read in Genesis to be his godly lords of his creation Darken. So go ahead and get angry, but don't sin. , right? Reprobate. That's why Satan works so hard to confuse the truth. And Paul says, that is not the way you learn Christ to walk as an unconverted, darkened And the life of God can be seen in the church of Jesus Christ on the earth. So we're not here going, Yea, for me, I'm so righteous. I'm the way. How do you learn him? They belong to me. Because what's the danger? Again, make it very clear. Only such as is good for goodness, that's we've got to put off. Why does Paul harp on this? Let me put it that way. I know we always sort of don't like the pragmatic, easy, three-step fix-your life thing, and I get that. As Christians, washed and baptized, we need to recognize squarely that was a former lifestyle that I used to live, darkened, dead, and debotched. And we need to put on true speaking. So then be instructed in Christ is to see the example that he set and walked How many get angry and sin? We need to have our well first we need to put off thieving. That's not the game. And you have you ever gone through your day and examined it by the law of God? Not just actions, desires, beloved. I think it's right because if you read Paul's first letter to the Corinthians, he admonishes them all through that letter I just want to be very clear that speaking the truth in love is what we must do. All bitterness. That is not the way you learned Jesus Christ And you need to be discipled. There's no just right and wrong. How many of you have seen an intoxicated person? And you might say, if you're a parent who's taught your kid that game, that is not how you learn croquet, right? One, they never give what they promise, but two, they come because people are deceived by the lie. I do want to get to them. The truth doesn't harm. But other speech, speech that is just now you might speak the truth not in love and do it in a way that harms and doesn't build up Why? Is bump into everything? Not what God made man for. What is the way that we learn Christ And it's not that way, because you didn't learn that. Their life is not like human life's is it, right? Well how how do you learn him? It's not trying to to necessarily give us wiggle room to justify our anger. Paul's saying, but what he means more though is this God did not make man to walk futile. You hear of Him and you be taught in Him. So you need to go to Scripture and find out how does God say I should live as a man, a woman, a child, a parent, a Christian, because that There may be some things in there that look like Christ. Futile. Their hearts have been hardened in their sin. Well, let's start real quick with who Christ is. How sensitive he is to God's will And just so you're also aware, just so you can get the usages of the words there, that word learn Paul says, This is how you learn Christ. Capitalism is not God's kingdom Probably no other sin than using our words to harm each other grieves the spirit. Let us always give Him the praise for it. The Gentiles meaning nations, the heathen nations. Of course you're probably thinking of, well, God did come amongst them and then Have you heard about the God man, the Son of God, who's taken on flesh? And you can make yourself into a woman if you're a man. There used to be a reconciled body living together. 28. Please deal with it. So if you see me out there doing it, I don't know better. And the eyes telling lies to a member of the body. Let me make it clear again. That's not speaking the truth, but you can speak it in the wrong way. And in that darkness, what's resulted is they are alienated from the life of God because of this ignorance. You need to learn. Righteousness is not an empty standard. Things that are soft that you can push through and get through. You're hanging on to the past because something happened. Because God in Christ forgave you. And then Jesus came and said, right, follow me. No way is it the goal that God would have us is the leading people in Jesus Christ. We can put that on, be renewed in the spirit of our mind. That arm is like good and must not be there. You tell lies, any falsehood, any shifting of the truth Be kind to one another. It's in them because of the hardness of their heart. Because the nations justify how they live because, well, God doesn't exist and evolution is true. I have given you the truth of one woman who's for you forever If you haven't, I know you have, because I live along a bunch of people that have learned Christ and it's a joy. You better do everything you can if you get upset. Who is more needy than a sinner dead in a sin? In their darkness, they're not operating as men and women made in God's image. There's no limit anymore. You see in verse 2, excuse me, verse 22, you've got to put off your old man. You give room for the devil. So don't get angry and sin. Sometimes the occasion may be, as we see our brothers, they just need encouragement to need picked up. And Paul says, then here's how you learned Christ. And say, am I really walking as a disciple here, or am I lost the way in this area and I'm not back? Well, that leads to the next step. Just tell falsehood. And there's this wonderful statement in the canons of Dorf that grace is bestowed through admonition. It's on and on to more drink, more drugs, more sex, more money, more whatever. God gets angry, and of course God never sins, but Jesus Christ is here in the world, the Spirit of Christ. Let the thief no longer steal. He just sums it up in one word. Maybe I can get down in five minutes. That's putting on Christ. But let's just ask real quick, well what does the word futility mean? Not much living you can do, right How many of you keep fool's gold around? If you're doing a job that is fundamentally built on a principle of dishonesty, How many of you ever tried to walk around in a dark room? You ever go try to eat food after that? Because I hope, beloved, that behind everything you do is a commandment and example of Jesus. This is the second Adam. And you need to deal truthfully with each other. Steving's wrong. That might harm them. Look what he says there in verse, in the verse 29, that your words may give grace to those who hear. Because this bitterness is going to lead to wrath, some outburst of anger. This is how Jesus says the what? And at eleven fifty nine fifty nine you get to send an email, a text, go upstairs, do whatever, and make things right with that person. We see in him and his light and reflect that back. They are beyond feeling and callous. Yeah. Desires. Unwholesome talk This is what we put on How are you properly discipled in Christ? You need to read Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Often it's now worthless and you've got to throw it away. He just loves to see God's good creation corrupted in his worship and service. And you're just doing harm. He gets angry at the Pharisees. You tell a person You hear about them because he's preached to you, he's taught to you, but you're also instructed in him. And what do we need to be renewed and what seems to be lacking in our minds? So let me make this real clear Greedy, they just want more of it Please wash me and renew me. And if you have been baptized, right, if you've made that public profession of faith, if you come to the Lord's table You know what he did? That's good and true. There's some similar letters there. They've just given themselves to. So and no full if if if Paul can say to the heathen unconverted nations, futile. No longer leading a debauched life, just given up to satisfy my desire. We need to have our minds renewed that You can't do anything to that arm 'cause it's dead. We're going, Thank you, God, for your grace and Jesus Christ to me, that I'm no longer darkened in Christ. You need to be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Something's happened. They might not want to hear, but that's not the harming talking about here. Humans live one way, you go to their alien planet, and they live one way, and it's all really weird and strange That puts us at about 35 minutes. He did the work of our redemption. I appreciate the uh King James saying of it, past feeling. This is the new humanity in Christ. And as we look at this, beloved, let's remind ourselves real quick. As God said, He is not darkened, he's the very light of God. No, you can't. And it hurts it. Let's pray for each other, and let's put on Christ. You could convert me to the game of croquet because I don't know it. That is what God made for, as the tenders of his creation. That's why the truth is so important. And thirdly, then that leads to putting on the new man. It's not the righteousness of the culture. Anger generally separates us. Rather let him labor doing honest work with his own hands. But all these other jobs are honest. Remembered Christ, he who was rich? All clamor, that's shouting angrily at one another. And I'm sure then you'll probably be thinking, I'd I'd best not get angry, right? Maybe take David's advice. And what have they done now? You can't do much with a toxicated person He denied himself in so many ways that he might pour himself out The Sadducees, I don't know if they were trying to please God, maybe they were Things you want. Nobody Second thing Paul says in kind of 26 through 27, be angry and do not sin. I'm not arguing for socialism or communism or anything. And people think that is so strange to live that way. And Paul goes through this process in each one of these of putting off, being renewed, and put on. That's what this word here means. Never They're like this. Let's pray for them. And what is that way? Part of that renewal, this happens to the word washing us. This is how we live as Christians. He renewed the spirit of my mind and the truth. No longer deadened and callous in my sins, but I'm a sensitive to you. More good has been done by him in his life than all. So if you're a believer in Jesus Christ, you cannot walk that way So I'll be careful here. Youth title. Darkened, deadened, debauched. I can give you an illustration of what he's saying, and I'll try to keep the uh So what does Paul say? So Paul says the first thing is you And the first thing that Paul says about them is they're darkened. All license what this this this this what this word is getting at is to complete Don't let the sun go down on your anger All malice, any desire to hurt and harm a person. You can make yourself into a man if you're a woman. Practice it. And we've got to go back right 2000 years before the spread and influence of the gospel. Even if it's difficult and hard, speak the truth because you're a body. I know my sin. Look at verse 21. You need to sit down with a I don't think that's He comes in and before you know it Reads the Holy Spirit, when it's not done, to build one another up. God still, Emmanuel is not just God with us Well Paul says there are How many of you have gone to sleep? Then Paul in 25 through 32 gives us five examples of Christ And though God speaks to them from the heavens They've they've just given themselves up. Go stew in your bed alone for a while and meditate I've never actually learned the game croquet. He's the source of Here's how God tells us to live well. That's nothing. He'd say So that's what it is to learn twice. It's not just three easy steps. Get an honest one. By the way, that's what the word reprobate means in Scripture All speech that harms, we must put off. I do think yeah thanks William. To learn Christ. Because that's not the game of croquet It's not the righteousness that you and I just grew up because we think that's right. Have cause to lament because Worth this Well Paul's tone here is that But we seem to forget we're members of one another. How do you justify how you live? Have no idea how you should be walking and living as a human being. That's what Paul's saying to these Christians No, you can't Amen. Fourthly, No. You slept on that arm Whereas Jews would learn Torah. This happens to the spirit washing us. But not if it's corrupting speech. But Paul does say there are three parts, three steps here. That means ill will. He's the very light of man. What do you mean? Yep. Um and usually when you see kids playing it Honest hands. What does he mean by that Look at twenty-five. I I'm just saying They had light. Now, I know each one of you here is going Anything done. But