And now our text for tonight, Psalm fifty-four. Oh God, save me by your name. And vindicate me by your might. O God, hear my prayer. Give ear to the words of my mouth. For strangers have risen against me Ruthless men seek my life. They do not set God before themselves. See Law. Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is the upholder of my life. He will return the evil to my enemies in your faithfulness. Put an end to them. With a free will offering I will sacrifice to you. I will give thanks to your name, O Lord, for it is Good. For he has delivered me from every trouble, and my eye has looked in triumph on my enemies. Beloved Congregation of Our Lord Jesus Christ. Every year for almost 2,000 years, Christians have designated December 25th as the day that they would remember particularly the incarnation. Of Jesus Christ, the moment God became flesh, a human being. Why exactly that date was selected is not clear Or even that God has anywhere revealed that He would have Christians set aside a day for that purpose yearly. Nevertheless, December twenty-five has been universally known as Christmas And Christians have been observing it worldwide as a day when they reflected upon the birth of Jesus, Emmanuel, God with us. That is, until recently. Nowadays, at least in the United States of America, and judging by recent hype Social media, and department store advertisement, the words Christmas Jesus and for sure incarnation are definitely to be avoided By design and not by accident. When it comes to what is now called the holiday season Isn't it? You know, those days between Black Friday and New Year's Eve When we give gifts to each other and enjoy our family and friends, it's all so warm and fuzzy But please don't spoil it by resorting to religious mythology. In this way, traditional Christmas has been effectively stripped Of any true Christian meaning. Do I go too far? What if anything should we as biblical Christians do about this situation? Well Some Scottish Covenanters erased the whole matter from their December schedule. Doing that would distance us from the entire secularity into which the yearly celebration has fallen. I agree. But I think it would be far better if we're going to celebrate that we do so for a clear reason. To do that, it would be good to pay attention to a key feature in the biblical accounts of the incarnation of the Son of God in Bethlehem of Judea. I'm referring to the naming of that baby. Consider this biblical repetition. An angel told Joseph, You shall call his name Jesus. Verse 25 of Matthew 1 says that when the baby was born. Joseph called his name Jesus. I'm quoting. Luke 1:31 tells us that the angel Gabriel said to Mary, You shall call his name Jesus. And then in Luke 2, 21, you see how these are all close together. Together. When he was circumcised, the boy was called Jesus. Apparently the name given that baby was important. And we can understand it, for names have family history, and in some cases a particular meaning. Gene and I named our firstborn son Micah because of its Hebrew meaning, who is like Yah. who is like the Lord. Maybe you've done that with your children also. But what about that particular bit? He was named Jesus. That's the Greek form of the Hebrew Joshua. Do you know that? Joshua means the Lord is salvation. And so does Jesus. And its meaning was not missed by Simeon if you listen carefully to the reading. When Jesus was presented at the temple Simeon took the child in his arms, saying, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have looked upon your salvation. He could have added, the bully is exceptionally well named. For he not only points to the fact that the Lord is salvation. He is himself the very embodiment of it. Jesus And that, my friends, is believe it or not, what brings us to Psalm twenty-four fifty-four. For there it is that David prefigures the true meaning of the incarnation of the Son of God. For the birth of Jesus means that the Lord is salvation. What happened in that lonely stable in Bethlehem was but chapter one of the story of salvation. From a cattle feed box on to a crucifix and out of a tomb One grand effective plan of deliverance for God's beloved people. And David, without knowing how it would all happen, believes it still. And that's why he begins his poetic reflection. Is Psal fifty four with these words O God, save me by your name He could have said, Save me by Jesus. And he ends it with, I will give thanks to your name. He could have said, I give thanks. Thanks to Jesus. Yes, Christians, if you want to think at all about Christmas Think about Jesus, please. It's about him. The Lord is salvation. And thank God that He is your salvation if you truly trust in that name by which you have been delivered from sin. And eternal death, Jesus Now let's turn to our text for this evening. But first we need to pay attention to the background of Psalm 54, as recorded in 1 Samuel 23. I'm not going to read that passage. You can look at it yourself and then but just summarize what was happening then. Soon after David had been joined by Keilah, at Keilah by Abbyathar. Who had escaped Doeg's massacre at Nob. You remember chapter fifty-two of Psalms two weeks ago. He heard that Saul was advancing upon the town to besiege it. Although David had rescued the town from the Philistines, he was warned of the unreliability of the inhabitants. So he and his men fled eastward. and got out of the town before Saul arrived. They took refuge in the wild and wooded hills south of Hebron. Where Jonathan, we're told, strengthened David's hand in God. And the two of them, David and Jonathan, made a covenant before Yahweh. David stayed there then while Jonathan went to his home without disclosing David's whereabouts to his father, King Saul. However, their presence, including its exact location, down to the very hill upon which they could be found was betrayed but to Saul by men of the adjoining township of Zif. Read that in 1 Samuel 23, 19. According to the title then of Psalm 54, the psalm expresses David's reaction. To the hatred and animosity of the Ziphites, who squealed and told Saul where he could find David. Now he does so in the psalm via three points. Not long points. Stay with me. The first one is a plea for God's help. Verses 1, 2, and 3. O God, save me by your name and vindicate me by your might. O God, hear my prayer, give ear to the words of my mouth, for strangers. Have risen against me. Ruthless men seek my life. They do not set God before themselves. David is in peril at the hands of insolent, godless men who are seeking his life. He talks about them also in Psalm 64, verse 1. O God, insolent men have risen up against me. A band of ruthless men seek my life, and they do not set you before them. And so he prays to the Lord, Vindicate me. The word identifies his complaint as a judicial one. David has been unjustly betrayed by the Ziphites, his countrymen from Judah. For strangers read insolent men. Though they are countrymen, he does not know them personally. So they are not foreigners, Gentiles, as you might have thought, but they are godless Jews. Ruthless men. Actually, they are strangers because they had taken the side against David. However, their attitude is not primarily against David, but against God, whom they do not set before them. For anyone who feared God more than man would not, as the Zipites did, lend himself to be made a tool of Saul's blind fury. This was unjust. Even Saul, particularly after those two occasions, remember, when David spared his life and could have taken it? Saul acknowledged that David one day surely would be king in his place, even admitting, you're more righteous than I am. But not so those Ziphites. The ever-present characteristic of David's Psalms is right here. In the face of adversity, what does he do? He resorts to To prayer. And he ever seeks deliverance, how? By your name, Yahweh. On the grounds of the divine character as protector. Of the oppressed, and also by means of the manifestation of his might. The name of God has marvelous power, especially The name of Jesus. Jesus, the Lord is salvation, the incarnate Savior, whose face Simeon gazed upon in the temple. And that scene is repeated in Acts 3, when Peter healed the man lame from birth. Remember that? He said, Jesus' name has made this man strong. Later, when the Jewish rulers asked, By what name did you do this Peter replied, Jesus of Nazareth, there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. And David prayed, O God, save me by your name and vindicate me by your might. He was really foretelling Christmas, the incarnation of God in the person of Jesus, the Lord is salvation. Is he not? When you think about Christmas, then, you can do no better than to think about Psalm 54. Now secondly, we observe that David is not content merely to ask God for help against his enemies. He has solid ground for confidence that God will not only grant that help, but that he, are you ready for this, must do so. Because that is the meaning of his name. And God will always be true to himself. For sure. So this is point two, a praise for God's faithfulness. Listen to it again, verses four and five. Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is the upholder of my life. He will return the evil to my enemies in your faithfulness. Put an end to them. Unlike his foes, David could point to God as his source of help In vivid contrast to the godless ones, his confidence is in God. Indeed, he had none other. The Lord was supremely his helper and upholder. In Psalm 3, David says, when he fled from Absalom, I lay down and slept. I woke up again, for Yahweh helped me. And the prophet Isaiah picks up the same theme in chapter 41, verse 10. God says to Israel, Fear not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you by my righteous right hand. So, when we overhear Mary's canticle of praise to God at the birth of Jesus We wonder whether when she said, He has helped his servant Israel, she had not only Isaiah, but I think perhaps also Psalm 15. So it isn't that God is one out of many who upheld David's threatened life. There were others who stood beside David in his hour of Need, yes. But rather, God is his helper par excellence. Psalm 118, 7. The Lord is on my side as my helper. Presumably his soul helper. God is the helper, the upholder of David's soul, of David's life. Hence it is certain that he will take action to counter the wrong done to David. God's loyalty to the psalmist. God's loyalty to the psalmist means extermination for his enemies. David was indeed rescued from this strait by an invasion of the Philistines. which compelled Saul to retreat. Actually, David says that God, and here's the hook. God in his faithfulness put an end to them. According to his faithfulness. Do you grasp what he's saying? He's saying this, that salvation is not a matter of God saving me because of my faith. It's because of his faithfulness. David prays for something that God has already done. God's promise, given long before in the Garden of Eden, that he would bruise the head of the serpent, is as good as done. Salvation is totally a matter of God's being faithful to his own covenant promise. And although David knows that he will, he still asks God to do it. Believing in Jesus. The Lord is salvation, is trusting God to forgive your sins, accepting you as righteous, because of Jesus' atoning work for you. And that exactly He is faithful to do. Please be clear about this, Christian. It's not your faith But his faithfulness that is the ground and assurance of your salvation. And David understood that quite well. That's why this portion of his psalm is not so much a prayer of faith, but a praise for God's faithfulness. He's more concerned with the mind-boggling thought of God Himself being faithful to his purposes of salvation for unworthy David and for unworthy Israel as well. than he is to profess that both he and they have faith. They do Yes, but even more than that, he is trustworthy. Now point three A promise of gratitude. Verses six and seven. It's a nice short psalm. With a free will offering I will sacrifice to you. I will give thanks to your name, O Lord, for it is good. For he has delivered me from every trouble, and my eye has looked in triumph on my enemies. When David shall have been saved by the name of the Lord, he will gladly and freely express his gratitude to that. name. In the sincerity of his Godward trust, he envisions his defeated enemies and tastes even now Of that deliverance which the good name of the Lord will bring about. Yes, Jesus. In Isaiah 20, 30, 27, the prophet writes, Behold, the name of the Lord comes from afar, burning with his anger. My friends, Satan's head is toast. See why the third commandment places such a high esteem upon God's name? And why it is such a great sin to use God's name glibly, in vain. Now for the first time in the Psalm, David uses the covenant name of God, Yahweh, capital L-O-R-D. All four. That is the name in which David places his trust, the I am. I am God, says God. You aren't. And then the past tenses of verse 7, I love them, express the confidence that the Lord will be as as good as his God had revealed his name to Moses in the burning bush. Now David goes back in mind to that momentous occasion when Yahweh saved Israel that day from the hand of the Egyptians. And Moses and the people stood by the Red Sea, remember? With the Egyptians dead on the shore, crying out, I will sing unto Yahweh Yahweh, for he has triumphed gloriously. Now David connects with that scene. This is not just Elohim, God, to which his psalm is directed, but Yahweh, the God who is Who in his grace has elected Israel and David, for he, the Lord, is salvation. And David says, I will offer a free will offering. Apparently not a regular specified sacrifice, but a thank offering brought voluntarily. David Offers a vow. The thankful praise of the psalmist will be offered as the payment of his vows, as he will say in Psalm 22:25. For from you comes my praise. In the great congregation, my vows I will perform before those who fear him. That's what you do when you go to church, Christian. In Hebrews 2. 12, this verse is applied to Jesus, who needs the praise of the great congregation of God's people, the Church of the Ages. Yes, grace and peace. Orthodox Presbyterian Church too. Jesus is the greater David, the anointed one, who passes through suffering through delivery. Deliverance from the cross to the grave, from the grave to the skies And we who are united to him by grace and through faith follow in his train. That's the gospel, according to Psalm 54, my dear friends. And it provides us with the true and only meaning of Christmas Yahuah has come to earth as Jesus. The Lord is salvation. Think of that.