Please open your Bibles to the book of Exodus, chapter 24, where we'll be reading verses 1 through 18. Exodus twenty four verses one through eighteen. Then he said to Moses Come up to the Lord, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship from afar. Moses alone shall come near to the Lord, but the others shall not come near, and the people shall not come up with him. Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord and all the rules, and all the people answered with one voice and said, All the words that the Lord has spoken we will do. And Moses wrote down all the words of the Lord. He rose early in the morning and built an altar at the foot of the mountain, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel. And he sent young men to the people of Israel, who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the Lord. And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he threw against the altar. Then he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people. And they said, All that the Lord has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient. And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people, and said, Behold, the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words. Then Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel went up, and they saw the God of Israel. There was under his feet, as it were, a pavement of sapphire stone, like the very heaven for cleanness, for clearness. And he did not lay his hand on the chief men of the people of Israel. They beheld God and ate and drank. The Lord said to Moses, Come up to me on the mountain and wait there, that I may give you the tablets of stone with the law and the commandment which I have written for their instruction. So Moses rose with his assistant Joshua, and Moses went up into the mountain of God. And he said to the elders, wait here for us until we return to you. And behold, Aaron and Hur are with you. Whoever has a dispute, let him go to them. And Moses went up on the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain The glory of the Lord dwelt on Mount Sinai, and a cloud covered it six days. And on the seventh day he called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud. Now the appearance of the Lord, of the glory of the Lord, was like a devouring fire on the top of the mountain in the sight of the people of Israel. Moses entered the cloud and went up on the mountain. And Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. This passage in Hebrews makes some comment about some of the things in in Exodus 24 and other such passages. Hebrews 9, 11 through 15. But when Christ appeared as high priest of the good things that have come. Then through the greater and more perfect tent, not made with hands, that is, not of this creation, he entered once for all into the holy places not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for purification of the flesh. How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. And then the Gospel of Mark, chapter 14, 22 through 25. As they were eating, he took bread and after blessing it, broke it and gave it to them, and said, Take, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank it. And he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. Truly I say to you, I will not drink it again of the fruit of the vine until the day when I drink it in new in the kingdom of God. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we pray that you will open to us these portions of your word, particularly Exodus 24, as we consider your relationship with your people And how that works and what it cost. Help us to think rightly and apply these things to our own situation, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. So I hope you will keep your Bible out and open, especially to Exodus 24, because I'll be referring back to portions of that reading. Covenant is a bond in blood. And perhaps the most striking thing in this chapter is the scene where Moses takes a bowl of oxblood and forcibly throws it in a shower on the gathered Israelite leaders. That's graphic in our minds. Just imagine that blood being thrown out into the air and it breaking up into thousands of little droplets and then landing all over these liters. And it's falling into their face and on their hair and down on their clothes, this blood of these oxes. Think of that Now, Dr. O. Palmer Robertson was a professor at Covenant Theological Seminary. He was also pastor at Wallace Memorial Presbyterian Church in Bethesda for quite a while And lately he has been professor at Africa Bible College. Dr. Robertson wrote the book Christ of the Covenants And he invented this phrase, a covenant is a bond in blood. The phrase A bond in blood expresses the ultimacy of the commitment between God and man in the covenant context. By initiating covenants, God never enters into a casual or informal relationship with man. Instead, the implications of his bonds extend to the ultimate issues of life and death. So it's very serious. And then Robertson says, the basic terminology described in the inauguration of the covenant relationship vivifies the life and death intensity of the divine covenants. The phrase translated to make a covenant. That phrase is literally to cut a covenant. To cut a covenant The phrase to cut a covenant does not appear just at one stage in the history of the covenants, but much to the contrary, it occurs prominently all across the entire spread of the Old Testament. The law, the prophets, the writings all contain this phrase repeatedly, to cut a covenant. In the original record of the inauguration of the Abrahamic covenant in Genesis 15, the animals were cut in half and laid over against each other, and God walked down the path between them. The covenant was literally cut. And this verb to cut actually comes to stand alone as making covenant. So Palmer Palmer Robertson, and I put it on the front cover if you want to see it and read it again later, says, a covenant is a bond in blood. It involves commitments with life and death consequences. At the point of covenantal inauguration, the parties of the covenant are committed to one another by a formalizing process of bloodshedding. This bloodshed represents the intensity of the commitment of the covenant. By the covenant, they are bound for life and death. Now, we actually have modern use of this language because people will often talk about cutting a deal. This corporation cut a deal with that corporation to merge together or something like that. Cutting a deal. Where does it come from? Well, etymology says it would appear to be likely that cutting a deal could be linked to this early form of covenant. The two parties would sacrifice an offering to seal the deal and death to the one who breaks the covenant. That's what's meant. So as I was trying to think about this and trying to see how I could preach this in a way that would be memorable to you all. I thought about the fact that in our contemporary life we don't do that anymore. We don't cut covenants. We don't sacrifice animals and pour out blood and all that. But the most serious covenantal thing that we do these days is marriage. marriage. And so I thought I could see if I could put the marriage service, the very traditional marriage service, and break it up into uh chapter 24 into portions of the marriage service and it works very well. So I hope you'll take your outline and follow along. Marriage is the most serious contemporary example. And what do we do when we have a marriage ceremony? First we have the gathering and the declaration of intent. That's the first thing. And so in verse 1, then he said to Moses, Come up to the Lord, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and the seventy elders of Israel, and worship from afar. So there's this gathering up on the mountain. Moses alone shall come near to the Lord, but the others shall not come near, and the people shall not come up with him. So these are representatives of the people, and they're coming up to this gathering. Verse 3, Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord and all the rules, and all the people answered with one voice and said, All the words that the Lord has spoken, we will do. And we have in a wedding after the people have gathered together, we have the declaration of intent. We have first the statement of purpose. It's dearly beloved, we are gathered together here in the sight of God. And in the face of this company to join together this man and this woman in holy matrimony, which is an honorable estate, and so forth. And then there's a warning. It's a solemn covenant-making. I require and charge you both, as you will answer at the dreadful day of judgment. When the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed, that if either of you know any impediment, while you may not lawfully be joined together, ye do now confess it, for be you well assured that if any persons are not joined together, Other than as God's word allows, their marriage is not lawful. And then there's the declaration of intent. The two parties have gathered together and now they're asked a question The man is asked, will you have this woman as your wedded wife to live together after God's ordinance in the holy estate of matrimony? Will you love her, comfort her, honor, and keep her in sickness and in health? and forsaking all others keep you only to her as long as you both shall live. And then he declares his intent. I'm here to do that. He says, I will. And they're not married yet. It's the declaration of intent. And then the same question is asked of the woman. Well, you have this man who's standing here. As your wedded husband to live together after God's ordinance and so forth. Forsaking all others, keep you only unto him as long as you both shall live. And she says, that's why I'm here. I will. Declaration of intent So we've got the gathering and we've got the declarations of intent parallel to Exodus 24. Now we have the preparation of the groom. Now you think, now, wait a minute, that happens beforehand. Yes. But the preparation that we have in mind here is not his getting dressed But um it's his consideration before he comes to this ceremony, before he comes to declare this intent and take these vows his consideration that he's ready to take on the duties of a husband. Both emotionally and economically. That means emotionally he's willing to forsake other things and set aside other uh things and he's emotionally ready to serve and protect and guide and love and honor this woman. And uh economically as well, economically he's he's he's calculated the cost. Can I afford to do this And in the Old Testament, as we read a few weeks ago, there's this bride price thing, which isn't buying a woman. It's insurance for the bride. It's basically giving a promise that his economic life will be hers, and he's ready to take on these obligations, and if he fails, there's an insurance policy that she won't be left destitute. So here's the preparation of the groom in our chapter 24. Verse 4. Moses wrote down all the words of the Lord. He rose early in the morning and built an altar at the foot of the mountain. And twelve pillars according to the twelve tribes of Israel. And he set young men of the people of Israel who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the Lord And here's the preparation, verse 6. And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he threw against the altar. That is the preparation of the groom. God is the groom. The altar here represents God's need to be propitiated in order to take this covenant responsibility. Of making a covenant with God's people. He needs to be propitiated, so half of that blood is thrown on the altar, which these 12 pillars represent God's people. The blood is thrown toward God's altar first to render God propitious. He has to be prepared to take on this obligation. Why does it have to be this way? Because the Israelites are sinners, and God's justice must be propitiated in order for this covenant to be made. And then there are the vows. The vows. Verse 7, he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people. And they said, all that the Lord has spoken we will do and we will be obedient. They're saying yes to the vows. And then we see something else here in verse 8, and I would call it the cleansing of the bride. We had the propitiation, the preparation of the groom. Now we have the cleansing of the bride. Now these days, a bride will do everything possible to look spotless on her wedding day. She will be bathed. She will be adorned. She will be beautiful. Her dress will be gorgeous. And how do we make God's bride gorgeous How do we make God's bride ready? Verse 8. And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, Listen to these words and remember them. Behold, the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words. Blood is thrown on the people because the Israelites are sinners and must be cleansed in order to come to God. They must be washed in the blood of propitiation. They must be, in order to be prepared to take these obligations and vows and enter into this covenant relationship with God. And that's throughout Old Testament history. David, the great king, when he sinned seriously against against many people, but against God, in Psalm 51 He's crying out to God. He says, purge me with hyssop. What's that? It's a little branch, a little brushy branch that the priest would dip into the blood and then sprinkle it on the people. Purge me with hyssop and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. And you say, yeah, that's Old Testament stuff. But does it have anything to do with marriage? And does it have anything to do with the New Testament? Well, I think there's a connection, clear connection in Ephesians 5. 26 or 25 through 27, where it says this, listen, listen to these words. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her that he might. Sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. You mean a husband's supposed to cleanse his wife? Well, this is drawing back to what happens here, where God, as the husband, cleanses his bride. As Moses pours the blood out on these people. And now we have baptism, which is not a bloody thing, but is but is symbolic of the blood of Christ by which we are cleansed. And it says, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. Isn't that the picture of the bride? Yes, it is. And so God did this as he gathered his people together and entered into this covenant relationship with them. So now the vows have been made. The people have said yes. The blood has been poured out. They have been prepared. And now what do we have after that? We have we have the wedding reception and the feast. The wedding reception and the feast. Now it's been my privilege over the years past to go to some pretty grand wedding receptions Uh some of the people uh in Wilmington, Delaware, where we used to live, uh would really put out the money for some of their weddings. I have been to wedding receptions at the Hotel DuPont. You know, that's the hotel down in the square in Wilmington, um which is set up by the DuPont Corporation. And I've been at wedding receptions at the DuPont Country Club as well. Fancy schmancy, fancy schmancy, place settings with names for everybody. You don't sit wherever you want. Favors at each table, expensive things, champagne toasts, formal speeches, public kisses. dancing and gifts. Oh, expensive gifts. So the wedding receptions are important too, you know. And what do we have here? Then we have a wedding reception after this these things have been done in verse 9 and following. Then Moses and Aaron and Nadab and Abihu and 70 of the elders of Israel went up And they saw God, the God of Israel. There was under his feet, as it were, a pavement of sapphire stone, like the very heaven for clearness. There's this this peaceful, glorious gathering. And then it says in verse 11, and he did not lay his hand on the chief men of the people of Israel. That's an amazing thing right there. You saw how terrified they were at Mount Sinai, how God warned them not to get close, how even if a beast got near it, they would be stoned. Now they're up there. Now they're at the feast. Now they're at the gathering and they're viewing God. They're seeing him with this pavement of sapphire-like and very clearness of heaven And then it says that he did not lay his hand. God didn't smash them. He didn't destroy them. He didn't touch them. They're there in peace. This is the most amazing thing. And then it says this. They beheld God and ate and drank. Now you don't You don't eat and drink unless you're in fellowship. You don't eat and drink unless there's a peaceful, calm, enjoyable gathering. But this is what we have. These elders, these people have made these vows and they've been cleansed and prepared, and they've come and they've been drawn up to God, and they see God beholding him And God doesn't touch them, He doesn't hurt them, and they eat and drink. This is the wedding reception and the great feast. And then we see the honeymoon after that. You have to be imaginative here. But verse 12 and following. The Lord said to Moses, Come up to me on the mountain and wait there that I may give you the tablets of stone with the law. And the commandment which I have written for their instruction. So here they are off together, God and his people, and Moses is the representative And there's learning, there's getting to know one another. There's, I'm going to tell you how to please me. I want to tell you how we can live together in peace. The instructions, verse 13, Moses rose with his assistant Joshua, and Moses went into the mountain of God, and he said to the elders, wait here. For us, and so we return to you. And behold, Aaron and her are with you. Whoever has a dispute, let them go up to them. He says, Don't have fights down there. Then Moses went up to the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain, and the glory of the Lord dwelt on Mount Sinai. And the cloud covered it six days, and on the seventh day he called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud. And then here's a description. And the appearance of the glory of the Lord was like the devouring fire, fire on top of the mountain in the side of the people of Israel And Moses entered the cloud and went up on the mountain. And Moses was on the mountain 40 days and 40 nights. This is that honeymoon period. Where God, having made covenant with his people, having eaten and dwelt with his people, now instructs his people in how to live with him. And for this little while, friends, this little while, all was right between God and Israel. Now, I've known couples who had wonderful honeymoon trips. Um Aaron and Autumn are planning to get married about a year from now. And uh I asked Autumn, where do you want to go? Oh, I want to go to some place where the water is perfectly clear, some beautiful tropical place. And so I I suggested some places and sent her some literature, which she thanked me for. But I've seen these couples go off on these honeymoon trips and some of them come home glowing with love. Oh, they're just so happy. They had such a wonderful time. They got to know each other and there's such joyful peace. And I've also I've also had calls from couples on their honeymoon seeking counseling, both on the honeymoon and afterward. Most are somewhere in between. It's not always as gloriously perfect as the one I described first, or as bad, thankfully, as the one I described second But whether it's that or the other or something in between, there's always a need for renewal. The honeymoon can't last forever. There needs to be renewal. And so we have, as God's people today, the Lord's Day renewal of our vows. Remember what happened in verse 8? Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, Behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words. Remember those words? Behold the blood of the covenant. And then think of what Jesus said in Mark and in Matthew when he instituted the supper of the Lord. It says, now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing and broke it, he gave it to his disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them and said, Drink of it, all of you, for this is the blood of the covenant? No, not quite. He said, this is my blood. Of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. He is intentionally echoing the words that God gave through Moses when the blood was poured out on the people. But instead of the blood of the covenant, the blood of beasts, he says, I'm the final sacrifice. And so what you have with me is this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. Because you see, as we reflect on this whole thing, Christ was the groom who was cut to make covenant with his bride. The only pure, the only worthy sacrifice who ever existed. And the marriage between Christ and his church is remembered and renewed each Lord's day when we celebrate the Lord's Supper. Baptism We don't celebrate each Sunday. Baptism is remembered, but not repeated. In many historic traditional churches, the baptismal font is actually at the entrance of the sanctuary, not in the front. To remind the people that baptism is the initiation into the gathered people of God. It represents justification. It's once for all. It's not repeated. But the Lord's Supper is remembered and is repeated. It represents sanctification. You see, brothers and sisters, Christ was torn, his blood was poured out, God has been propitiated, and we have been washed. As baptized church, therefore, each week we are reminded and nourished in that truth. Are you a member of Christ's Church? Are you a part of this washed assembly? It's in my emails if you've ever gotten an email from me from Hebrews 10. In my emails before and after the address line, I guess it is. It's Hebrews 10. It says, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean. What's that? Washed in the blood. And our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. And so, brothers and sisters, in gathered Lord's Day worship, we now remember the cutting of the covenant. God is reconciled to us. Justice has been satisfied. God has been rendered propitious. We are reconciled to God. And then we Are washed in the blood of the covenant. And we eat with God. We come up in a honeymoon. We come up in a reception. We eat with God the foretaste of the wedding supper of the Lamb. What blessing is ours. What blessing is ours? Look at where we stand in redemptive history We're not at Mount Sinai. We're not on a 40-day honeymoon which will end in all kinds of other disasters. We are secure. In the blood of Jesus Christ, which has been poured out for us. God has been rendered propitious. We have been washed, and we are renewed. What blessing is ours? Never boring. Never old. Routine? Yes. It's routine. It's routine like the love that should be expressed by a happily married couple Routine. In Christ, the deal has been cut. The covenant has been made Come today, come routinely to this foretaste of the marriage supper of the Lamb. Amen. Lord, we thank you that you have been rendered propitious by your own Giving of yourself, Jesus, as a sacrifice upon the cross for sinners. You presented your blood in the sanctuary in heaven And, Father, you have been made propitious toward your people. And your people have been washed and cleansed in the blood of the Lamb. There's no better blood. No blood that could do it except his. And we eat and drink at your table. We enjoy your fellowship, your communion. And we are renewed in our covenant vows. We praise you and thank you for these provisions of yours until we are all arrived safely at the great marriage supper of the Lamb. Amen