Good to be with you tonight. And let's uh turn our attention now to God's Word. We're going to be in the New Testament tonight in the Gospel of Luke. Go ahead and open it there. It's easy to find. New Testament, Matthew, then Mark, then Luke. And I'll be reading for us from Luke chapter 17, verses 11 through 19. Let's hear then God's word. On the way to Jerusalem, he was passing along between Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers who stood at a distance and lifted up their voices, saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. When he saw them, he said to them, Go and show yourselves to the priests. And as they went, they were cleansed. Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice. And he fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a Samaritan. Then Jesus answered, Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner? And he said to him, Rise and go on your way. Your faith has made you well. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. O Lord, we are so grateful for your word. We're grateful that we can hear it And that we can know that as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, you by your Spirit will work in us to illumine these words, that we might understand them. And that the Holy Spirit is working, that we might have power to believe it and to do it. And so we pray, Lord, that you would be at work in us tonight, that you would indeed. Enlighten our minds, that you would open our ears, that you would soften our hearts, that we might hear the words of Jesus, and that we might give him the glory and the honor that he deserved. Bless us as we hear your word tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. We've just passed the anniversary of September eleventh, and in fact our family Heather and I and at the time our baby Ethan were interning in Silver Spring over September 11th, 2001. And we remember that experience very vividly But every time that anniversary comes, it kind of pushes me to think of another event, a big world event that happened to us in Haiti in January, January 12, 2010. And the big earthquake that happened in Haiti. We were living about an hour outside of Port-au-Prince, and so we shook, we rocked and rolled, but thankfully there was no damage there. And yet the next day I had opportunity with a friend to go to Port-au-Prince to the school, and it was a three-story school, and then it flattened into about a story and a half. Uh we worked with a number of people and it was a girls school that was meeting in the afternoon and there were a number of girls that were trapped in that building overnight and so We worked with a jackhammer and just moving some of the rubble, able to rescue them out of that. Broken bodies, broken legs. But the wonderful thing as they came out of that dark hole, as they realized that they weren't going to die that day. They cried out and they said, Merci Bon Dieu, thank you, Lord. They recognized that in the midst of that event, God had preserved and protected them. Many other people had died, but he had preserved and protected them. And so they gave thanks to God for the rescue, this physical rescue that he had given. And that's what we see here tonight, isn't it? It's a physical rescue where God, through the Lord Jesus Christ, had healed these lepers of this horrible skin disease. Well you might say, why do I need to hear this? You know, many of us are relatively healthy. Many of the sicknesses It might have been rampant in Jesus' day. Now we can go to the doctor and sometimes medications can fix it. Why do we need to hear this? It's because every one of us outside of Jesus Christ, we are the ones who are trapped under the rubble. We are the Samaritan, the outsider. We are the leper, the ones who are unclean. We are the ones who need to be healed, and only Jesus can bring that healing. And this event in Jesus' ministry, and as we'll see in a minute, really every one of the healings that Jesus does, a physical healing is a physical picture of a real spiritual healing that is needed and that Jesus can bring. And so I want you to see here tonight in Luke chapter 17 that Jesus underscores his preaching of the good news by healing those who are unclean and brings them back into fellowship. with God. He underscores his preaching of the good news by healing those who are unclean and bringing them back into fellowship. with God. And that is truly our greatest need. So I just want to look at it briefly, asking kind of three questions in the text, going really big first, and saying, well why is it that Luke records Jesus healing? What's important about these particular accounts? And then secondly, why is it that Luke tells us about the healing of lepers? in particular. Is there some truth, something we can learn there? And then thirdly, why does it matter that only a Samaritan leper comes back to say thank you? So first of all, why does Luke record healing people? Well it says in verse 11 that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem and he was passing along between Samaria and and Galilee. He's on his way to Jerusalem. It's the big city, right? He comes from a smaller town, but he's on his way to Jerusalem. And one of the interesting things about this phrase, it makes me think of Haiti. When you fly into Haiti, you come into the airport, and really as soon as you come through immigration and you come down the stairs to the baggage area, you're already accosted by people wanting to help. Can I find your bags? Can I help you take those bags outside? And as you gather everything together and you get ready to exit out of that door, you have to be ready as you come out of there. You have to be ready to say, no, don't, I don't need help. Don't touch my bag to kind of shoe people away. And Like Jesus, you need to set your face to that goal. Whoever it is that's coming to meet you to say, I just got to get through this crowd of people, people that are crowding you in there. You have a goal and you have to set your face to go toward that goal. And that's what Jesus is doing here. He's completed much of his ministry. He knows that the time is coming soon. for him to die. And so he is on his way to Jerusalem. Luke records elsewhere in Luke 9. 51 that he set his face toward Jerusalem because Jesus understands That the greatest healing and the greatest need of fallen humanity can only be solved through the cross of Jesus Christ. That's going to happen in Jerusalem where he's arrested, he's tried, he's crucified, dead, and buried. And so it's the suffering of Jesus that brings healing to us. And so we need to look at these particular healings that come on his way back to Jerusalem and again ask that question, why does Luke record Jesus healing people? Well, one reason is that it shows Jesus' power over creation. He is Jesus, the Son of God. He is the one who is there at creation. And both the healings and his other miracles like calming the sea show people that he is the creator who controls all things. And the gospel writer here records all kinds of miracles, his power over unclean spirits. Healing leprosy, healing a man who is paralyzed, a withered hand, even raising people from the dead. He feeds 5,000 people because he is the bread of life. But it shows that he is the one who is in control. He is God, the Creator. And no one else is able to help these lepers. It's a lifelong disease. There was no cure for it And yet as they ask for Jesus to have mercy, he shows his power over creation by healing them. But Jesus also heals people because it represents his fulfillment of the Old Testament. The whole of the Old Testament is pointing us toward Jesus, to the coming of the Messiah. Texts like Isaiah chapter 61, where it speaks of the Messiah and what he is going to come to do, what his ministry is going to look like. And he says, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. to proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn. And then it speaks of his power to heal people. Well, all of that Jesus himself has said is fulfilled in his ministry. Because back in Luke chapter 4, he's there in the synagogue. He takes up the text And he preaches to those people. And he quotes from Isaiah chapter 61, what I just read. He rolls up the scroll and he says, Today the scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. I am the one. Who comes to heal, to give both physical healing, but that's really pointing to the spiritual reality that God can make dead hearts new. That God can bring life out of death. Those who were his enemies are now his friends. And one of the wonderful things about those prophecies, particularly in Isaiah, is that Isaiah makes it clear that it's not just for the Jews, but that promise comes for foreigners as well. Why is it that Luke records these healings? He records it to show Jesus' power over creation, to fulfill the Old Testament, but also to prove that his message is true. It shows the authority that Jesus has. Right? We can say all kinds of things. I can tell my children, go and do this. But if they don't go and do it, it brings into question my authority. If Jesus were just to say, go to the doctor and ask him to heal you, that doesn't show Jesus real and true authority. But if he gives the message, the message of good news and then shows what God can do through these healings He has that authority. It's authority against the Pharisees who were preaching a gospel of works. They thought that Jesus was the devil. But he's not. And it shows that the kingdom is at hand. Jesus comes to save sinners, and those physical healings point towards that that only God, through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, can heal us. He comes to show that the gospel comes with word and with power. And that's what the Old Testament had said, that the Messiah would come both in word and in deed to confirm his place as the Son of God. And it speaks to us because it says Jesus is who he says he is and we can trust him. So let me move on then to the second question. Why does Luke tell us about healing lepers in particular? The same year of the earthquake in Haiti, there was a cholera outbreak as well. They'd never had cholera in Haiti, but it's really a a horrible disease. It's waterborne, it's passed on by contaminated water. and people dehydrate very quickly and can die even within hours. And so they had to set up clinics. And I remember on the island of Laguanav where we were ministering at the hospital, they had set apart this area in the back uh corner of the hospital. They had set up a tent there for the cholera patients. The idea was you had to keep them away. This is a very, very contagious disease. We don't want it spreading. And so as I had opportunity to go and talk and pray with people, you would come and you'd have to wash your hands and then you'd go and There'd be a little tray with bleach water out. You'd step in it to make sure you're not carrying things in and out of there. But those people were isolated. They were away because others were afraid And that was true of leprosy in Jesus' time as well. People were afraid of leprosy. Also the Word of God itself in the Old Testament in Leviticus chapter 13, it said that those people were to live outside the camp. They had this obvious skin disease And they had to live away from people. They were unclean. They couldn't be in worship. They were living outside the community. There was a real sense of shame in having this leprosy. And of course, the guilt is a very physical sign, isn't it, of the fall? Adam and Eve, created by God, would have had perfect skin. But here now, red and blotchy and white and spreading. But Jesus is met by ten of these lepers. In verse 12, he entered a village. He was met by ten lepers who stood at a distance. You see, they're away. They knew their place in that society, that they couldn't come close. But Jesus wanted to bring them back into fellowship, into fellowship with God, into fellowship with God's people. And they lift up their voice. They cry out to God. They maybe see Jesus at a distance. And so it says they lifted up their voices saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. Somehow they found out that Jesus was coming by, and so they cry out to him. It kind of reminds me of Haiti, and as a foreigner going to Haiti, one of the things you'll constantly hear, whether you're coming out of the airport, you're in a small village walking around, you hear blah, blah. It's a word for foreigner. It's saying You know, pay attention to me, getting your attention, because they might have a request from you. That's like these men. They're getting the attention of Jesus. They knew who Jesus was, they knew the name, they knew what had been reported of him, that he was healing people, and so they held out that hope. They call him master, they recognize his position, that he is the master. And they are the servants, only able to ask for help. They say, have mercy on us. You see in that, don't you? There's really no expectation. They don't expect anything, but they just say, Jesus, have mercy on us, please. You see, you know our condition. You see that we stand apart. You see the disease on our skin. We need your help. And so Jesus responds to them. And what does he say? It's not what we would expect. We have seen Jesus, if you've read any of the other parts of the gospel, you've seen Jesus come and touch lepers and heal them. You've seen him heal other people by speaking a word. When he saw them, verse 14 says, he said to them, Go and show yourselves to the priests. He's not casting out an evil spirit. He's not saying in the name of God I heal you. He's saying, go and show yourselves to the priests. Matthew Recording the same event, saying, do that as proof to them. As proof to them. They were to go and obey the word of God, right? This is Jesus fulfilling God's word again. And as proof to the priest that Jesus is the one who fulfills the word of God perfectly, has power even over these infectious skin diseases, and they can be cured. And it says as they went, they were healed. They believed. They must have believed that Jesus could do it. By their cry, they had recognized who he was, and as they went to the priests, it says, their skin disease was healed. And so Jesus brings our attention to these lepers because there is a true and a real spiritual reality behind that. We are all fallen in Adam. We are all guilty. We are all full of shame because of our sin. Whether you can see it or not, and we need to be healed. And so Jesus brings the gospel of good news and he heals these men as a picture, saying, you were on the outside, you were away from the presence of God, you had no right to come in. But now I've healed you, and now you can come and have fellowship with me and my one and only Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Why does Luke tell us about healing lepers in particular? Because it's to bring people back to worshiping God. as a holy people, as a pure people with the righteousness of Jesus on them. And it speaks to us because we too are sick and guilty sinners, and only Jesus can save us from our guilt and our Shame. Thirdly and finally, why does it matter that only a Samaritan leper says thank you? There are other accounts, even in Luke's Gospel, of Jesus healing lepers. But this one seems to focus on this one man, one out of ten. And it says that one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice He fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks. Only one in ten. I think on the one hand God is demanding our thankfulness and saying to us, we are not thankful enough. We're not thankful enough that God has raised us from death to life spiritually speaking, that He has prepared a place in heaven for us, and one day he'll raise even our dead bodies from the grave. We need to give thanks to God for these great gifts. But the crux comes in verse 18, where this one man does what's right. He comes back, he praises God. He falls on his feet. Now this man he was a Samaritan. He was an outsider. He was a foreigner. The Jews considered them half-breeds. There was no love lost there. And this happens, if you go back to verse 11, right? He was passing along between Samaria and Galilee. The geography, as it's recorded by Luke, is never incidental. But he's right there at the very edge of Jewish territory and saying this gospel, this Spiritual healing that comes through the preaching of the gospel needs to go not just to the Jews, but also to the Gentiles. Jesus just made little forays, but he was going to send his disciples very soon on the day of Pentecost saying, you need to go everywhere You need to go to Judea and Samaria and even to the ends of the earth, even to Samaria. That's where you need to go. You know, I kind of laugh when I talk to people in Haiti and I'll talk about how we are working. We have a church in Port-au-Prince and I also labor on an island right off of Haiti, the island of Lagonav, and sometimes people's eyes kind of get big because they know the reputation of Lagonov and it kind of scares them. Lagonov historically was the place where The government sent the prisoners. You know, it was like a kind of prisoner island, something like the people being sent off to Australia. And so people were afraid, thinking that all of these people in Lagunav, they're former prisoners, they're descendants of prisoners, they're bad people. That's how the Samaritans were looked at. And so the Samaritan, as you think about him, he's really doubly outside, isn't he? He's culturally outside because he's a Samaritan. He's not part of the people of God as they would consider it. But then he's also outside because of his disease, because of what God, because of this disease that he has Only one gives thanks. But he was a Samaritan. And Jesus questions the thankfulness of the others, doesn't he? Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this? as foreigner. We need to be a people who are more thankful to recognize What God has saved us from. To understand that Jesus came to seek and save the lost. And as we are saved, it's our call as well to take that gospel to the nations that Samaritans and Haitians and Africans and Asians and Indians Whoever you can think of, that they too might hear the words of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That they might no longer have to cry out, unclean, unclean, stay away but that they could come into the fellowship of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Jesus takes our focus here to the fact that the gospel of Jesus Christ really is for both the Jews and the Gentiles. And once again, Jesus is fulfilling the Old Testament because the nations are brought into the kingdom. And so finally then and in conclusion, how is it that this speaks to us in our day? Jesus has died, he's been raised, he's given his spirit to the church. And even in our day, he's saving, like he did in this day. He's saving outsiders and bringing them into fellowship. He's healing people of their diseases, their sickness of sin that really is unto death and bringing them into his kingdom. But the Lord wants thankful worshipers. And don't we have so much to be thankful for? We have been brought from death to life. And our thankfulness in these days for the blessing that God brings to us, it really should be practiced for eternal Eternity, because what will we be doing in heaven? We will be worshiping before the throne of God, falling at his feet, giving him thanks for all that he has done for us. So many things that we don't even know and can see will be brought to light, and we will give him glory and honor, and for all eternity give praise to the King, to the one who here. Brings hope to those who were outside, who brings hope to the other nations as well. And so he said to him It records in verse 19, rise and go your way. Your faith has made you well. It's not something that He has, but just as for us, right, it's faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He trusted not only that Jesus had power to heal him, but that he was coming bringing a good news that it was even greater than a healing from leprosy. It was a healing from his true problem brought on by the fall, that he was separated from God. But now He is brought back into fellowship and now can come into the fellowship and worship with his people. Let me pray Our gracious Father, we are so thankful for your love. We're so thankful that you have loved us even before the foundation of the world. And so we pray, Lord, that By your grace, you would take these words, that you would apply them to our hearts, that we might understand that even this week we are called to serve you, to To speak words of comfort to those who need to be comforted, to speak words of rebuke to those who need to be rebuked, and to live lives that are worthy of the calling that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us to do that and to always fix our eyes on Jesus, who is the author and finisher of our faith. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.