Please open your Bibles to the book of the prophet Isaiah, the 42nd chapter, where we'll read verses 1 through 9. Isaiah forty-two, verses one through nine. Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard In the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth, and the coastlands wait for his law. Thus says God the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and what comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it, and spirit to the I am Yahweh, I have called you in righteousness. I will take you by the hand and keep you. I will give you Who sit in darkness. I am Yahweh. That is my name. My glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols. Behold, the former thing Have come to pass, and the new things I now declare. Before they spring forth, I tell you of them. The word of the Lord John chapter 13, 1 through 20. Listen to God's word. Now before the feast of Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come, To depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. During supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him, Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands. And that he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments. And taking a towel, tied it around his waist. Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet? Jesus answered him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand. Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus said to him, The one who is bathed does not need to wash except for his feet. But it's completely clean. And you are clean, but not every one of you. For he knew who was to betray him. That is why he said, not all of you are clean. When he had washed their feet and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I have done? Done to you. You call me teacher and lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I then your Lord and Teacher have washed your feet You also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you should do just as I have done to you. Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. I am not speaking of all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but the scripture will be fulfilled He who ate my bread has lifted up his heel against me. I am telling you this now, before it takes place, that when it does take place, you may believe that I am He. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one who sends receives me. And whoever receives me receives the one. who sent me. This is the word of the Lord be to God. Lord, now we pray that you will attend the Preaching of your word, give your servant right expression. May our ears be attuned to the work of your Spirit, speaking through this your word. May we benefit. May we grow. May we obey Amen. I grew up in a denomination that practiced foot washing. And uh in fact, uh mine wasn't an Anabaptist group, but just as a matter of uh historical fact. Most Anabaptists, that's Mennonites and Amish, that sort of thing, most of those groups also practice foot washing. They take this commandment of Jesus Jesus very, very literally and do it. So once a year or so, following the communion service, the men and boys would gather in one place, and the women and girls would gather in another And my dad, who was pastor, would read the story from John 13. Then there would be foot washing. Everybody would take off their shoes and socks and take turns washing each other's feet. I would usually choose another boy ahead of time instead of a man in order to avoid washing a foot with gnarly toenails. Or some other unseemly condition. I never quite understood the meaning. As far as I knew, we just did it because Jesus commanded it. I no longer think it is necessary to actually wash feet as a commandment, although it might be salutary. But the lessons that Jesus was teaching Are still very necessary. And these are the lessons. First, you must understand the nature of Jesus as God's servant. Secondly, you must understand him as cleansing sacrifice. Third, you must understand yourself as his disciple, his apprentice, and therefore a servant of God and others. And fourth, you must be willing and ready to extend service even to enemies First, understand the nature of Jesus as God's servant. And for the headings of this sermon, I've chosen passages or sections of other Bible verses, Mark 10, 45, one I memorized long ago. The first part says, for even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve. And so here we have this passage. Before the feast of Passover, when Jesus knew that the hour had come to depart out of this world, having loved his own, who were in the world, he loved them to the end. And then during supper, the devil had already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him, and so forth. So, what happened here? They gathered in the upper room to eat on Thursday of Passover week. There was a low table. That's the way they gathered around tables. A low table, and they would sit on pillows or on blankets on the floor. And there, when they came into that room, was the food, ready to enjoy. And the wine mixed with water. And there also, every one of them noticed when they came Came into the room. Every one of them noticed that there was the usual basin of water and the towel for washing their feet. But no servant appeared to do the dirty work. of washing feet. They each sat down and got comfortable. There was the traditional blessing on the meal. Jesus probably prayed this Blessed are you, Lord God, King of the universe, who creates various kinds of sustenance. And then he would name the various kinds. And then they began to eat with dirty feet. Let me just preface this by saying that when people would come to such a meal as this, they would wash beforehand. They would wash their head, they would wash their hands, they would wash their their their bodies in in a certain fashion. But on the way to the meal, their feet would get dirty. Here they are sitting here eating with dirty feet, while there's a basin and towel sitting over there. And then verse 3, Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he had come from God and was going back to God, rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied it around his waist. Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. Jesus took off his outer garments. You really need to know that he probably stripped down to his loincloth. This is what an indentured servant would have worn to wash feet. Biblical scholar John Mackenzie notes that There's general agreement that every Jewish man wore three basic items of clothing. The wool or linen undergarment, which was the first layer, consisted of a loincloth. And over that was a tunic, it's kind of a long shirt that would go down around the uh all the way below the knees. And that would be held by a leather belt or cloth sash, something like that. And then over that was draped a mantle or cloak. That's a big square cloth, a blanket almost. It was a top coat of sorts. And when it wasn't being used that way, it would be draped over the shoulder. Finally, all Jews wore sandals. These were either made of wood or camelhide, and they would be taken off at the door. Jesus took off his outer garment, his outer garments, and assumed the demeanor and work of a slave. Because nobody else would. This is truly an act of humility. This is condescension. That means coming down, kids. He came down. And Mark 1045 says, For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but To serve. Even the Son of Man, Mark says. The Son of Man. Who is that? I told you before, but it's a phrase or it's a title from Daniel chapter 7. It doesn't have much track anywhere else. But Daniel chapter 7 describes this. Daniel saw the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. There's where it comes from. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him, and to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away in his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. This is that Son of Man. Even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve. And that's what he's doing here. And so, to this point, you must understand and believe in him as the suffering servant described in Isaiah 53. And described in our reading in Isaiah 42 and other places, the ones sent by the Father to serve you in your desperate need, your pollution and filth. Before a holy God, you must understand him as this servant who condescended to Serve you. Secondly, you must understand him as cleansing sacrifice. The second part of John, or Mark 10, 45, says, and to give his life a ransom for many. So we go to verse 8 of the text in John. Peter said to him, You shall never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head. Jesus said to him, The one who is bathed does not need to wash except for his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not every one of you, for he knew who was to betray him, and that is why he said, not all of you are clean. Here Jesus shifts from a discussion of washing dirty feet to spiritual cleansing. If anyone wants to be cleansed from sin and all its effects, they must have a share in Jesus. Jesus. They must have a share in what Jesus did on the cross. He died on the cross to provide this ground, this basis of our cleansing, so that he could say You all are clean, except not one of you is not. If you want to be saved, brothers and sisters, from the effects of sin, present and future, you must share with Jesus. You must identify with Jesus. You must be in Jesus. This is by faith in him. He is the one. Who came. Faith in him and what he did. He must be your God and Lord, and you must be his disciple, his apprentice. And for Peter, this meant letting Jesus be Jesus. Letting Jesus be himself. As servant, as sacrifice, as savior, as well as Lord and teacher. Peter needed to let go of his own ideas about Jesus' future. He had great plans for Jesus, you see. But he needed to let go of those things. Brothers and sisters, you must firmly believe that he is the God man. Some prophet, the God man, and the atoning sacrifice for your sins, and the only sacrifice for any sins ever, you must believe this firmly, without doubting. It must be your commitment. Third, you must understand yourself as his disciple slash apprentice. And therefore, a servant of God and others. If you're going to be his disciple, you're a servant of God and of others. And I get the heading of this one from Galatians 5: serve one another in life. Love. That's what Paul teaches. So when he had washed their feet, verse 12, and put on his outer garments and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I have done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you ought also to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example. Amen I'm Amen I say to you a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent me And if you know these things, blessed are you if you do them, serve one another. Do it. This is one of the hardest lessons in all of life. One of the hardest things. Now the synoptic gospels describing the same scene tell us that the the disciples had just got through or were just in the midst of arguing about who was to be greatest in the kingdom. And then Jesus washed their feet. Little children are served from the day they are born. They are fed. They are changed. And they are entertained by mobiles and toys and television and iPads. As they get bigger, they are served in ever-increasing ways. And so it's easy for them to think that the whole world exists to serve them. And add to this the fact that they are born as sinners, and they will sin as soon as they have the strength and ability. Now, what kind of adults will they be? If these factors are not changed, if these factors are allowed to continue through adolescence and later. Good parents continue to serve their children as they're growing up, but their service changes. As they grow up, it entails teaching them to serve. If not, the children will be terrible human beings who are motivated only by what serves them What would have happened to the church if Jesus' disciples did not learn to serve like Jesus? There would have been no love except self-love. There would have been no outreach because who cares about people out there? There would have been no care for widows and orphans. No evangelism conducted toward the Gentiles. There never would have been a Gentile mission. In fact, there never would have been a church at all, because the church exists to serve God and others. So from Galatians 5, Paul says, You all were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh. That's selfish. But through love serve one another, for the whole law is fulfilled in one word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another. So that is our message here. We must Learn to serve. We must obey Jesus here by serving one another. But then fourthly, you must be willing and ready to extend service even to enemies Luke chapter 6, verse 35 and 36, Jesus says, but love your enemies And do good and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful, even as your father is merciful. And here's what happened. Verse two of the text, during supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas, Iscariot, Simon's son. to betray him. And then verse 18, he says, I am not speaking of all of you, for I know whom I've chosen, but the scripture will be fulfilled. He who ate my bread at that dinner has lifted up his heel against me. I am telling you this now before it takes place, and so forth. Yes. Even Judas' feet were washed by Jesus Judas who was to betray him with a kiss. Judas who would sell him for 30 pieces of silver and to eat with someone And then to betray him was the height of contempt. Eating, you see, was a sign of fellowship, of love, of communion. And betrayal is its opposite Love of enemies means service even toward enemies. It doesn't mean that we have to adore our enemies Or approve of their evil behavior, no. But service even to Judas an enemy. Why? Why do we do this? Why? Well, an enemy is made in the image of God. And so we're serving God as we serve even our enemies. An enemy who would not be converted is still made in the image of God, and Judas would not be converted. Jesus knew it. God is good to all people. That is common grace. He's good to all people While I was thinking about this and I was doing a devotional, I came to Psalm 35. You can turn there if you like. I think it's very instructive. I didn't notice this ever before in my life. Psalm 35. And uh the way it begins is David asking God for for God to protect him, God to defend him, for vengeance in a sense. He says, Contend, O Lord, with those who contend with me. Fight against those who fight against me. Take hold of shield and buckler and rise for my help. Draw the spear and javelin against my pursuers. Say to my soul, I am your salvation. And he goes on. Let them be put to shame and so forth. But I came to this other point. In verse twelve. They repay me evil for good. My soul is bereft. That's more the saying. Verse 13, but I, when they were sick, I wore sackcloth. I afflicted myself with fasting. I prayed with head bowed on my chest. I went about as though I grieved for my friend or my brother, as one who laments his mother. I bowed down in mourning. He's telling us what Jesus was saying here, what Jesus was showing here. Love even for enemies. They might not ever be converted. They might not ever repent of what they've done, but love even our enemies Jesus said that in Matthew 5, verses 44 and 45. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. So that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, for he makes his son rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the just and the unjust. That's common grace and we get to do part of it. So brothers and sister, Jesus, the very Son of Man, served you humbled himself even to the point of a humiliating death on the cross in your place to pay the debt you owe. And by the ministry of the Holy Spirit, He is still cleansing you from daily sins. He's still feeding you at His table. He is correcting you and training you and teaching you to serve. He is shaping you. You, little by little, more at certain times than others, into a servant, his image. Do what he did in your own capacity, therefore. Humble yourself. Come down. Die to self in the service of others. Serve by helping where help is needed. Serve by encouraging and blessing and being thankful to God and to others. And one of the ways that we can all serve, and I encourage you you in this is by listening. Give you a story here. When I was a student at Moody Bible Institute long ago, we had something that we were supposed to do every Every week called PCW, Practical Christian Work. We could be students and all that, but every week you had to go do PCW, practical Christian work, and you had an assignment And mine was, since I was a pastoral major, one of my assignments was at the Hines Veterans Administration Hospital in Chicago. And I was under the uh tutelage of the chaplain there. And he said, you need to go visit people in the in their room. Oh no, what am I going to say to people in their rooms? He said, Ed, all you need to do is go into the room, let them know who you are, say, hello, my name is Ed, and I am a volunteer from the chaplain. Office. May I sit down? It's their room. At least ask them if you can sit down. And then listen. If you shut up, he said, they will talk And then you listen. And when they say something and they tell you something about themselves, they begin to talk. No piggyback stories. No me too stories. Just listen. It's a Wonderful ministry. It's servant to it. Oh, we want to tell our own story. We want to tell them something. No, just listen. It's serving. It's self-denial. Listen. I'm not always good at it, but I'm trying. Serve even those who seem to be the enemies of God and of truth. even your own enemies. Love them as God does, and leave their final fate to God. Amen. Lord, we praise you and thank you for our servant, our Savior, our Jesus. We pray that you will shape us into his image, help us to serve. Serve even our enemies