The subject of this exhortation is communion and glory immediately after death. And there are a few Westminster larger catechism questions that deal with this topic. And we'll read a few of them. Starting with question 82. What is the communion and glory which the members of the invisible church have with Christ? The communion and glory which the members of the invisible church have with Christ is in this life Immediately after death, and at last perfected at the resurrection and day of judgment Number 83. What is the communion and glory with Christ which the members of the invisible church enjoy in this life? The members of the invisible church have communicated to them in this life the first fruits of glory with Christ, as they are members of Him, their Head. And so in him are interested in that glory, which he is fully possessed of, and as an earnest thereof Enjoy the sense of God's love, peace of conscience, joy in the Holy Ghost, and hope of glory. as, on the contrary, the sense of God's revenging wrath, horror of conscience, and the fearful expectation of judgment are to the wicked the beginning of their torments, which they shall endure after death. Question 84. Shall all men die, death being threatened as the wages of sin, disappointed unto all men once to die Or that all have sinned. Question 85. Death being the wages of sin, why are not the righteous delivered from death, seeing all their sins are forgiven in Christ? The righteous shall be delivered from death itself at the last day, and even in death are delivered from the sting and curse of it so that although they die, yet it is out of God's love to free them perfectly from sin and misery, and to make them capable of further communion with Christ in glory, which they then enter upon. And then question 86, and this is the focus of this exhortation today, what is the communion and glory with Christ, which the members of the invisible church enjoy immediately after death? The communion and glory with Christ, which the members of the invisible church enjoy immediately after death, is in that their souls are then made perfect in holiness, and received into the highest heavens, where they behold the face of God in light and glory waiting for the full redemption of their bodies, which even in death continue united to Christ, and rest in their graves as in their beds Till at the last day they be again united to their souls. Whereas the souls of the wicked are at their death cast into hell, where they remain in torments and utter darkness, and their bodies kept in their graves, as in their prisons, till the resurrection and judgment of the great day Beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, what happens to you the very moment your body and soul are separated? Physically, you are dead. Then what? The only factual information mankind has about what happens after death comes from the only divine revelation mankind has today, the Bible. Some of you might have heard 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 9, and let's take a look at that verse. Sometimes 1 Corinthians 2. 9 is read at funerals to make the point that heaven is going to be so amazing, so indescribable, that God has yet to tell us what is in heaven. So you'll have to wait until you get there to find out what it's actually like. That verse says, Things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard and which have not entered the heart of man All that God has prepared for those who love Him. But look at verses 9 and 10 together. Verse 10 goes on to say, For to us God revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God. You can see that when you read the verses together, the opposite point is actually being made. God has revealed to his people what happens upon death and after death. So that you don't have to wait until you get there to know. God has revealed these things to his people, verse 10 says, through the Spirit. Even though this information about God Himself and what God has in store for us does not originate with the eye, the ear, from the logic or reason of man. or from within the heart of man, these things have been revealed by God in the Holy Scriptures. If you study the Bible, you can have as much accurate information about what happens after death as God wants you to know. You can know the outline of what happens with all the intimate details to be filled in later when you are carried through the actual experience by God Himself. The Bible says that if you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, immediately when you die, immediately when you physically die, You enter a state that we call the intermediate state. This is the state between the life you are living now And the complete perfection of your unified body and soul at the last day when the Lord Jesus Christ returns Your situation right now is that you have been regenerated and have the Holy Spirit within you, but indwelling sin and its effects remain with you and continue to affect the world you live in. The intermediate state comes between this life you are living now and the complete perfection of your unified body and soul at the last day when the Lord Jesus Christ returns. Remember that those whom Christ represented in his life, death, and resurrection, those who are in union with him, are guaranteed to be resurrected on the last day You know that you'll be resurrected on the last day because your Lord was resurrected. As 2 Corinthians 4. 14 says, He who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus. So, the intermediate state is that time period between when you die and when Jesus Christ returns on the last day. What is the intermediate state like? When you physically die, you are immediately with your Lord Jesus Christ. Look at Philippians 1, verses 21 through 23. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is game. But if I am to live on in the flesh, this will mean fruitful labor for me And I do not know which to choose, but I am hard-pressed from both directions, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, for that is very much better. Without a doubt in his mind, Paul knows that when he dies, he will immediately be with Christ. Like Paul, this will be your game. Because God has put you in union with Christ. John seventeen, verse twenty-four. In this verse, Jesus says to his Father in heaven, Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me Be with me where I am, so that they may see my glory which you have given me. For you loved me before the foundation of the world Your Savior wills that you behold him in all his resurrected glory. When you physically die, your spirit immediately goes to be with Jesus Christ. And your body rests in the grave. In Acts 7, verse 59, Stephen, who is about to die, states, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. He does not say, receive my body or receive me. Receive my spirit, he says. 2 Corinthians 5, verses 6 through 8 say, Therefore, being always of good courage and knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. For we walk by faith, not by sight, we are of good courage, I say, and prefer rather to be absent from the body and to be at home with the Lord Upon death, your spirit is home with the Lord, while your body rests in the grave. You could say that in the intermediate state, your body is absent. Your spirit awaits the resurrection of your body, which will occur at the end of the intermediate stage when Christ returns at the last day. Look at Philippians 3, verses 20 and 21. For our citizenship is in heaven. From which also we eagerly wait for our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of His glory. By the exertion of the power that He has even to subject all things to himself. This body you have now will be transformed. To be like your Savior's glorious body on the last day. With regard to your soul, at the moment of your physical death, your sanctification will be perfected. Let's review the process of sanctification at this point. You can break the process of sanctification in three parts. The beginning point of sanctification is the work of God in your heart and soul, which began when you were regenerated and born of God. At the moment you were regenerated, the Holy Spirit came into your life. From that moment on, until the moment of your physical death, The Holy Spirit works to conform you more and more into the image of Christ. The Holy Spirit steadily enables you to die more and more to sin and live more and more unto righteousness. Without the Holy Spirit in you, none of this would be possible. The Holy Spirit not only enables you to believe in Jesus. But enables you to keep on believing in the promises of God, to keep on obeying his law, and to keep on being faithful to him. The Holy Spirit works on the inside of you, which produces godly fruit on the outside. And then there's the end point of the process of sanctification. The end point comes at the point of your physical death. Sanctification ends because immediately upon death you are made perfect in holiness. You are completely and perfectly conformed spiritually and morally into the image of your Lord Jesus Christ. Look at Romans eight, verse twenty-nine. For those whom he, God, foreknew He also predestined to become conform to the image of his son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. The completion of the process of sanctification is what God has always had planned for you He predestined it to happen that someday the image of Christ would, without a shred of uncertainty, be completely and perfectly renewed in you. So that you will stand in sinless perfection before Almighty God. Ephesians 4, verse 13 tells you that after death you will be From then on, what is termed a mature man, that is, fully mature, according to the measure of the stature of Christ. Philippians 1, verse 6 says, For I am confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. I believe it makes the most sense in the context of this passage to see the day of Christ Jesus as referring to not his second coming. But the moment you are with him in glory, which is immediately upon your physical death. Paul is talking about the process of sanctification in this verse. And reaching the point of completion in the process of sanctification has always been your destiny as a Christian. You see, Paul is absolutely confident in the process of sanctification reaching its point of completion. And how can he be this confident? If this whole process depended upon you, as weak as you are in your determination, your strength, and your resolve, you would indeed have a bleak future ahead. But thanks to God's word, the whole process of sanctification depends only on the power of Almighty God, and not you. This is why you are to have a certainty that gets you through the struggles of your life and through the setbacks and correction God gives you day in and day out. God wants you to know that His plan for you and your life will be reached, and you will be perfected in holiness the moment you die. This confidence means that you should never grow weary in well-doing in this life before you die. Why does God require that you complete this process of sanctification, being perfected in holiness and made sinless in your spirit immediately after death? Revelation 21 verse 27 says, regarding heaven, that nothing unclean and no one who practices abominations and lying shall come into it, the Holy City. But only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life are not unclean, and they do not practice any abomination. Nothing unclean shall ever enter there, heaven. And that is why this process of sanctification is complete upon death, which is the point which you enter into the presence of God Himself Who lives in the highest heaven and requires perfect holiness of every being who lives with him. R. L. Dabney put it this way. Quote, the king of that world, heaven, is too pure to receive sinners to his bosom. He does condescend by his Holy Spirit into the polluted breasts of sinners on earth. But This is a far different thing than a full, final admission of sin into the place of his holiness. The blessedness of the redeemed is incompatible with any remaining imperfection For wherever there is sin, there must be suffering. End quote. Look at Hebrews 12, verse 14, where it tells you to, quote, pursue peace with all men. and the sanctification or holiness, without which no one will see the Lord. End quote. Peace is the restoration of God's order in your life As opposed to the disorder that is created by sin in your life. A peaceful life is one that is lived in terms of God's revealed order. Sanctification or holiness is total consecration of your life to God, which bears the fruit of perfect obedience to God's law for Christ's sake. Thus this verse tells you, Hebrews 12, verse 14, that without absolutely perfect peace and holiness, no one shall ever see the Lord. This is why no one could be in the presence of God in all his glory as they are before death in their imperfect, frail, sinful, mortal state. And that is why, immediately upon death, you are made perfect in holiness. As William Shedd said, quote, He who upon earth has run the race and fought the fight, Will discover in that supreme moment, when he first stands face to face with the Holy God, that God's grace has truly been sufficient for him. He will find himself to be perfectly holy and therefore to be perfectly happy. End quote To say it in another biblical way, in order for you to enter into the life of glory, this corruptible must put on incorruption This mortal must put on immortality. So you see, the Bible is unequivocal in telling you that flesh and blood shall not inherit the kingdom of heaven Which means that flesh and bones, life as you know it now, your life as a frail, mortal, corrupted, dying human being. Is not able to bear the shining splendor of that eternal glory which will be yours in heaven. No mortal person can ever look upon the face of God and live The bodies of believers will put on incorruption and immortality when Jesus Christ raises you from the grave at the last day. But before that day Starting the moment when you die, your spirit must put on incorruption and immortality in order that you may enter heaven. At the moment of your physical death, God will receive you into heaven. Psalm 73, verses 24 and 25 say. With your counsel you will guide me, and afterward receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And besides you, I desire nothing on earth In this life, God will guide you by his revealed counsel. Then, when you come to the end of this life, God will receive you into glory. into his glorious presence in heaven. In Luke 23, starting in verse 42, the thief on the cross turned to Jesus and said, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. This dying man had a simple request born out of sincere faith, which cast him on the Savior's love and care. But Jesus gave the dying thief far more than he asked for. What did the thief ask? Did you notice? The thief asked only to be remembered. Jesus promised him that that very day, in the moment of his imminent death, he as a believing sinner with fellowship with Christ in paradise. Jesus' response is in the next verse, verse 43. He said, Truly I say to you, today you shall be with me in paradise. The emphasis is not, today you shall be in paradise. As great as that may be, since paradise is the home of God. Rather, the emphasis is today you shall be with me in paradise. Because the greatest blessing of heaven is knowing that Jesus is there and that we have fellowship with him. Remember what we read earlier in Philippians 1, verses 21 through 23, where Paul was trying to make up his mind about which is better and more important to stay and preach the gospel Or to die and go to heaven. He said it's far more enjoyable for him to depart and be with Christ, for that is very much better. Notice what he does not say. He does not say, for it is far more enjoyable and satisfying to depart. That would be a death wish. And that's what some people think. If I could just die free from all the headaches of life. This is a mindset many have today which leads to self-murder, which is a horrible sin against God. Paul's wish, in complete contrast to that mindset, is to be with Christ, because his life has been Christ. Paul's ultimate goal is for a closer intimacy and deeper fullness of the relationship and fellowship he has with Jesus Christ now as a sinner, as a person Is limited by his sin. That's Paul's point. Paul wants a closer relationship and a deeper fullness. And that fellowship he's had with Christ already. Look at Ephesians 5, verses 25 through 27. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her, so that he might sanctify her. having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing But that she would be holy and blameless. Christ has a bride whom he loves with all his heart, the church As an aside, do you have a love for the church as Christ did and still does? His love for his bride moved him to die for her sanctification, her growth in grace. And what was Christ's goal in doing this? That Christ might present his church to himself in all her glory without moral blemish or any physical imperfection. Christ welcomes his bride into her everlasting home, and there they will live in complete union and communion together in love. The church, his bride, will forever remain the object of his everlasting love, his joy, and his delight. Isaiah 62. 5 says, As the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so your God will rejoice over you. What's happening when you die is Christ is welcoming his bride into her everlasting home. And there they will live in complete union and communion together in love forever. God tells you that the most glorious thing about heaven and about dying and going to be with God is to be with Christ. The moment you die, you will see Christ. This is every Christian's greatest desire. What's your situation right now in life? With your physical eyes, you have never seen the God you love and worship face to face. You've never seen him face to face. Not yet. You believe in his existence by pure faith and without sight? He has never spoken a word to you that was audible. Unlike saints of old and those who were around Jesus in his time upon earth, you've never been given any visible sign or physical evidence of his existence. Be that as it may, this is the God you worship, then all Christians crave the full manifestation of Him, not through a glass darkly. All believers from the heart say, with the psalmist in Psalm 42. 1, As the deer pants for the water brooks, so my soul pants for thee, O God. My soul thirsts for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? In this life, God reveals himself to you and enables you to know him by faith by using the means of grace. Prayer, worship, the preaching of the Word of God, and the taking of the sacraments. These are the ways and means that God has chosen to reveal Himself to you before you die. But in heaven, he will reveal himself to you without any means of grace, without any sacraments. He will show himself to you directly and immediately. Matthew 5. 8 says, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Hebrews 12 15. Those who pursue peace and holiness shall see God. Revelation 22. 4. In the holy city where God lives, believers shall see his face. The moment a believer dies is the point at which Christ's intercessory high priestly prayer of John 17 is fully answered for that person. At that point, as a glorified believer, you will see God and be one with Him, just as the Father and the Son are one in love Thus, immediately when you die, you will see God face to face, in the ultimate special way. You will see the Father, the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Spirit. Seeing God the moment you die has historically been called the beatific vision of God, referring to the fact that seeing Him has the power to bless you and make you happy. Seeing God in that way has the power to give you complete blissful enjoyment. This vision of God that believers have is one that is beatific. Immediately upon death, your spiritual powers and spiritual faculties will be made far greater and far more glorious And are perfected. If they weren't, said one commentator, Thomas Ridgery, we could no more receive the immediate rays of the divine glory. then the weak and bare human eye can look steadily at the sun in its meridian brightness. Before death, sinfulness limits your capabilities to be receptive to the divine. Because of this, God condescends to reveal himself in proportion to your limits on this side of death. When your sanctification is complete, you will have a perfect and immediate vision of His glory you will be made capable of receiving complete communion and fellowship with Jesus Christ in all his glory. That will be a more intimate relationship with Jesus Christ than you have ever known in this life. William Shedd has some helpful words here. Before we die, quote, the fervency of our love and praise depends upon the clearness with which we behold the divine perfections. When our spiritual perception is dim, our worship is faint. But when we are granted in the sanctuary or in a closet, public or private worship Some unusual views of our maker and believer, our languid affections are quickened. Worship depends upon a sight of the object of worship, and it rises or sinks as that comes into our view, or recedes from it. End quote. Shedd continues. Before we die, quote, our praise is to some degree an effort. We study and we toil to give unto God the glory due unto his name. And this is right. For here in time our religion must be to some extent a race and a fight. There are obstacles to a perfect service which arise from our own indwelling sin and from the fallen world in which we live In heaven, we shall not need to urge our hearts up to the anthem. They will be drawn out by the magnetic attraction, the heavenly beauty of the divine nature. End quote. How will the saints in heaven contemplate the infinite love of God towards them? Answer: They shall be admitted to look into his heart and there have a clear, distinct, and assured view of the love he bore to them from eternity, and will bear to them forevermore For he has said, I have loved you with an everlasting love. Jeremiah 31. 3. And enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. Matthew 25, 23. And then Fisher's Catechism goes on in question 46. How will they contemplate God's unchangeable truths? Answer. The light of glory will be a complete commentary on the Bible and will disclose the whole treasure hid in that field. Psalm 36. 9 says, In thy light shall we see light. Thus, this beatific vision of God is the perfect commentary, the perfect explanation of every verse in the Bible. The revelation of the glory of God. Any mistaken notion about the Bible you might have, any incorrect or incomplete biblical doctrine you hold will at that point be corrected. Before we conclude, I want to briefly note what the Bible says happens to the unbeliever immediately upon death. Like the believer immediately upon death, the unbeliever also experiences a continued and heightened conscious state after death. But in contrast to the believer, the unbeliever's experience is terrifying because the split second an unbeliever dies, he is cast into eternal hell. He should know that. In fact, and we don't have time to look at this now, God says that during his life here and now, the unbeliever knows hell is coming. Luke 16, 19 through 31 show you what happens to the unbeliever at the moment of physical death. Notice as I read how the unbeliever, the rich man, is fully conscious of where he is, just like the believer is. Now, there was a rich man, and he habitually dressed in purple and fine linen, joyously living in splendor every day. And a poor man named Lazarus was laid at his gate, covered with sores, and longing to be fed with the crumbs which were fallen from the rich man's table Besides, even the dogs were coming and licking his sores. Now the poor man died and was carried away by the angels to Abraham's bosom, and the rich man also died and was buried. In Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham far away, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried out and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me and send Lazarus so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool off my tongue, for I am in agony in this flame. But Abraham said, Child, remember that during your life you received your good things, and likewise Lazarus bad things But now he is being comforted here, and you are in agony. And besides all this, being between us and you, there is a great chasm fixed so that those who wish to come over from here to you will not be able, and that none may cross over from there to us. Notice he is speaking, feeling, and thinking. The point here is that those who have died and are in heaven are conscious of who they are and where they are, and the same goes for those in hell. Those who have died, the Bible shows, are completely conscious, feeling either the ecstasy or the agony, depending on which place they are in. Now to conclude, everybody dies, and death is your enemy But you must see death as beneficial to you as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Because the Lord Jesus Christ died for you. Satisfying God's justice and bearing the full consequences of your sin upon himself as your substitute. Death is for you now. A complete and final dying to and separation from this present evil condition, and a transition into the immediate presence of God. Even though death may be the supreme test, the final test of the strength of your faith, as a believer, you know that death is only the loving chastisement of your Father in heaven. Because Jesus has taken the punishment your sins deserve, which punishment is death. He has left you, his child, with neither guilt to atone for, nor punishment to bear. So then, death is not the end for believers. It is the beginning of a perfect life. When you behold the beatific vision of God, you will experience pleasure and enjoyment and the satisfaction of all your godly desires and everything you've worked for in that moment. Take Samuel Rutherford, the 17th century Scottish preacher, as an example for you. On his deathbed, he said the following. Quote, I shall shine, I shall see him as he is, and all the fair company with him, and shall have my large share. It is no easy thing to be a Christian, but as for me, I have got the victory, and Christ is holding forth his arms to embrace me. I have had my fears and faintings as another sinful man to be carried through creditably. But as sure as ever he spake to me in his word, his spirit witnessed to my heart, saying, Fear not. I sleep in Christ, and when I awake I shall be satisfied with his likeness. Oh, for arms to embrace him And his final words were, Glory, glory dwelleth in Emmanuel's land. End quote It has been said that heaven was in Rutherford before Rutherford was in heaven. And may the same be said of each of you after you die. So don't be fearful about what your last moment may be. A man once asked Charles Spurgeon the following: You know that I believe in such a thing as dying grace. But I just don't know if I'll be able to die as triumphantly and victoriously as men like Rutherford died, Spurgeon replied. Don't worry, God does give you dying grace, but he doesn't give you dying grace before you need it Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, God will indeed give you dying grace because of your communion with Christ and glory in this life. And He will give it to you exactly when you need it. How do you look at your life and your view of your own eventual death? How have you looked at the deaths of believers you've known and loved? Paul said, To me to live is Christ. To die is gain. Can you say today that for you to die is gain? If you are a believer, you ought to say each day, I live for Christ. He means everything to me. He is my life, and death is gain Death is gain only because it will bring to me an even more intimate and more glorious relationship with Him.