Our text tonight is Psalm 24. We'll read that first, and then I'll read the New Testament passage with which is connected, Matthew 21, 1-11. First, then, the twenty-fourth Psalm. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. The world and those who dwell therein. For he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart Who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully, he will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors. That the King of Glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord, strong and mighty. The Lord, mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of Glory. And now Matthew Twenty One Verses 1 through 11. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, To the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, the Lord needs them, and he will send them at once. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying, Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, humble, and mounted on a donkey. And on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them. Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, Who is this? And the crowd said, This is the prophet Jesus From Nazareth. The beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. You're close to the walls of Jerusalem, actually near the gates to the holy city. And you hear the noise of a large number of people crowding close together, obviously straining to get a better glimpse of whatever that is happening there. They are more curious than ever, and they press forward with determination to see what surely must be a significant, newsworthy event. Then as you draw closer, you could actually hear what everyone was saying. The king is coming. The king is coming. The king is coming. In a matter fitting such an entrance of such a singular Dignitary. Some of the folks were tearing off their outer clothes and casting them down on the roadway leading from the gates toward the center of the metropolis. Others went further than that, in showing their excitement and jubilation in welcoming their sovereign ruler by scrambling up the palm trees and pulling down branches to strew the In his way. Children, lining the street and bristling with energy, could not help but grab up the fronds and wave them as signs of victory And their voices resounded in volume that must only be described as forte Hosanna, blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna, in the highest. Then by sheer persistence, you managed to thread your way through the mass so that you could get a good look at the one they were praising There he is. A man on yes It's a plain old ordinary donkey, without any ornamentation whatsoever. But then you remember that in Near Eastern culture such a form of travel was peculiar. to a very special certain class of people. Kings. Kings rode on a donkey, possibly signifying their humility as befitting a ruler who is gentle, not a tyrant. One that people could trust to be for them. Grabbing the nearest elbow, you point to him and demand, who is this? Overhearing your concern, the crowd answers in unison, it's Jesus of Nazareth. This, my friends, is what happened on that first Palm Sunday, the day that Jesus entered Jerusalem. gentle and riding on a donkey. But something else happened That day as well. While Jesus was making his triumphal entry, an event, by the way, that is recorded in all four gospel accounts, the Jewish priests were praising Yahweh at the temple. It was the first day of the week, and according to the ancient rabbis, they were reciting Psalm 24, our text this evening, particularly verses 7 through 10. Which we've read and with which you are very familiar. So the people at the city gates and the priests at the temple were asking the same question: Who is this king? The crowd shouted, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee. The priest said that it was the Lord Almighty. And in a way that nobody could understand, they were both right. Because Jesus is the Almighty Lord. He is the Lord. King of glory. Still, you might wonder what Psalm 24 itself was written about, and especially when it was written. It is called the Psalm of David, and so we take it to have been written by him. But we cannot be certain as to what event particularly He had in mind as he penned this song. I personally think it probable that he was referring to the time When he first brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem. The Ark, as you know, was the sacred golden chest that represented God's presence with his people. It had been fashioned in the day of Moses. You may read about it in Exodus 25. Inside were two tablets containing the Ten Commandments. God's covenant with his people. On top was the mercy seat, where the high priests sprinkled the blood of atonement. That ark had something of a bumpy ride over the decades preceding God's preceding David's ascension. Actually, it was more a case that anyone other than God's chosen people who might possess it experienced quite a bumpy ride. Once, after having been captured by Israel's traditional foe, the Philistines, discovered how dangerous it is to live in the presence of the Holy God. And when they started dying from disease, they shipped the ark back to Israel, and David brought it into Jerusalem. That may have been the occasion for his writing our psalm, which ends with God via his sacred ark making his royal entrance. Back into the holy city. And that's what Psalm 24 is all about, my friends. It is the song of the glorious King. And it is something to be really thankful for, too. It's divided into three stanzas Each of which points out a particular characteristic of this one who is the sovereign over all of time and space. Together as one magnificent canticle of praise, these three stanzas call upon you believers here tonight. Together with God's church worldwide and through all of history, to worship Yahweh by praising Him as your creator, recognizing Him. As your Savior and welcoming Him as your King. Those are the three stanzas. Stanza one: praise Him as your Creator. The psalm begins by acknowledging God as the master of the universe by virtue of the fact that he has brought it in its entirety into existence. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein. For he has founded it upon the seas. And established it upon the rivers. These verses assert God's absolute ownership of everything there is. They answer the most basic question of all. Did you ever ask it? Why is there anything at all rather than nothing? Because God, the Lord, was always there. He brought the universe into existence, and he will always be there. That's why his name is the I Am. The universe, for its part, only is Because he made it. And since he made it, it belongs to him. It is an unbelievably magnificent work of art, that universe. The work of one artist. And he has signed it right here in the first words of Psalm 24. We can take the single phrase, the earth and its fullness, as standing for everything, absolutely. The Israelites had not at that time the advantage, of course, of 21st century astronomy, which has been granted by God's common grace A mind-boggling glimpse of the utter spaciousness of the universe. We have learned that we can see stars Which actually aren't there anymore. Because by the time their light has reached us, they have burned out. That's how far away they are But they did belong to Yahweh when they existed, because He made them. And He is sovereign also over the incalculable stretch of time. From then until now. He is the king of all. He is the providential ruler over everything. He superintends everything Psalm twenty-four's earth is actually very huge That is why, dear congregation, that the debate over origins is so important. When people disagree about the origin of the speech, Especially the species man, and even about the beginning of the world, they're not simply arguing about how the universe was made, but about who's in charge If Yahweh is not your creator, then he cannot be your king. But he is both. And viewing things that way is called theism. Theism. That God is both creator and providential ruler. However, there is another viewpoint that has captured folks' attention in the past. It's called, and maybe in the present too. It's called deism Deism says that God is creator, yeah, but he's not providential ruler. He created the material, the stuff of the universe, but then he took his hands off and allowed the universe to develop all by itself. Webster, I looked it up, deism, gives this thought-provoking definition. A movement or system of thought advocating natural religion based on human reason rather than revelation. And in the 21st century, denying the interference of the Creator with the laws of the universe. That was G. F. Handel's day, and that Christian musician did not agree. That God made the world and then left it to run on its own. He said so with that magnificent chorus in his Oratorio, Messiah. Lift up your heads, O you gates, and the King of Glory shall come in. Young people, be on your guard and do not submit to the fable of theistic evolution. That's simply deism. God created Adam separate, however, and distinct from the animals. See Genesis 2. Verse 7. That's theism. In our century, the prevailing scientific worldview goes a step further Now it's naturalism, the belief that nature is all there is and all there has ever been. More than a denial of theism that God is and that he created the universe, more even than the denial denial of deism that God is, but that he has taken his hands off the running of the universe. Now it's ah theism, atheism, that God isn't And so we don't need to worry about him and any supposed sovereign rule that he exercises. He's not there, and he's not not here. Believing Christian, you need to praise God for Psalm 24 That he is there and he is here. He is both creator and ruler. God made you and claims his kingly authority over you, and you may not with impunity deny that Rather praise him with Father David. God is ruler of all, and that is essential to the meaning of this entire psalm Second, recognize him as your savior If God is king of all creation, then obviously everyone owes him allegiance. And that, of course, includes you, dear congregation, here tonight. However, at this point, there is something that should cause you to pause before saying, I give you my allegiance, Yahweh. David himself recognizes this concern, and so he raises an important question in verse 3. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord, and who shall stand in his holy place? And certainly he's not boasting, I'm the king of Israel, and surely I am welcome there. I have permission to enter God's holy temple. We know this because he goes on to explain in verse 4a just who is worthy to do that. He who has clean hands and a pure heart Sinners may not just barge into the presence of the Holy God. And David knows that he is such a sinner. No doubt the memory of what he did with Bathsheba. And with Bathsheba's husband would suffice to demonstrate that fact. And notice that David speaks both of clean hands And a pure heart. Sin is more than simply doing the wrong thing. Violating God's commandments. It involves thinking about doing the wrong thing. As well. Unclean hands are proof of actual wrongdoing And an impure heart is proof of a desire to do the wrong thing. The Bible calls it lust. And God sees both. He requires inward integrity as well as outward obedience. But there is yet another divine scruple that must be dealt with before a sinner enters God's presence. That's found in verse 4b. Who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully. Those are not the same thing. Something we merely repeated. Lifting up one's soul to what is false is idolatry. But swearing deceitfully is not telling the truth in human relationships. The one who expects to enter God's presence must have both of these two. He or she must love both God and Now, who can possibly meet that royal standard and thus gain an audience with the king of the universe? David knows that he can't, and you know that you can't either But that is exactly where the blessed news of the gospel comes in. And it's here in our Psalm in verse 5. He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Do you realize the import of that statement fully? It says three marvelous things, none of which may be missed. without failing to grasp the wonder of the gospel. And I'll get to them in a moment. First Some people are going to receive blessing from the Lord. Now I know that often preachers call upon their hearers to receive Jesus as their Savior. And there's nothing wrong with that appeal as such. But the problem is that sometimes those hearers understand that to mean Salvation is out there for the taking, if only folks would just reach out and grab it. Jesus then is seen as ready to come into their hearts, but only if they have the wisdom and the willingness to trust in him Such ones, they think, get saved because they have availed themselves of the opportunity offered them. But now here in our Psalm, David sees things quite differently. He makes clear that he, and presumably others, will, in some wonderful way, yet to be described. Receive blessing from the Lord. They won't get it because of something that they have done But because of something that he has done. Secondly That something is not unknown to David. He says that it is righteousness that he will receive from the Lord Not righteousness that he, David, has earned because of his own perfect obedience on his part, but righteousness that he will receive undeserving. As a blessing from the Lord. He needs such righteousness if ever he will be able to come into the presence of the Holy Lord God. And he simply doesn't have it. But there exactly is the gospel My friends. Like David, you too can't take it. You're going to have to be given And that stupendous need that you have is answered by the third gracious word of revelation. Revelation embedded in this fifth verse of Psalm 24. David says that this blessing he receives comes from the God of His Salvation. David needs a Savior. He doesn't need to turn on more effort somehow at last to satisfy a grim judge. That will never do because it's impossible. He needs a gracious and loving Lord to save him when he cannot save himself. He needs the Messiah, who would in the fullness of time come, pay for sin by his suffering and death And who would provide by his life the needed righteousness without which David and you Could never live. Thirdly, welcome him as your king. The Psalms Climax comes in the final stanzas, verses 7 through 10. David has asserted God's rule over all creation, and he has explained who has the right to enter Enter into his royal presence. Now the king comes into his glory. Throw open the gates. Open wide the everlasting portals. Enter the King of glory. Now, I'm not sure whether an ancient English tradition is repeated today, but we are told that at least in times past, whenever the King of England would enter the city of London, A dialogue similar to that described in our psalm would transpire. The king's staff would stand outside the gate and demand entrance in the king's name. Which would be permitted only after assurance had been given that it was indeed the King of England waiting to come in, not some imposter. That being the case, the gates would swing open, and the king would enter the city and receive a royal welcome from his loyal subjects. Well, you get a similar scene enacted here in Psalm 24. And I submit that you should understand it as having fulfillment on at least four occasions, each of which has definite biblical Support. First, in David's own day, it must have taken place when that Ark of the Covenant about which we speak Spoke already, came into the capital city of Jerusalem. For then it was that the King of Glory came in, and the jubilant Israelites could once more welcome their true king. Yahweh, the Lord of hosts, strong and mighty in battle, and the total victor over the Philistines. The ark, the symbol of his presence among his chosen people, was happily taken back in possession of the people of Israel. His good pleasure, who would once more experience not disease and death, but salvation by his blessing. But two, when we come to the entrance of Jesus into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday Again, we see the coming of the King of Glory, but this time in an even more magnificent way than that prefigured in David's. But the marvel is that Palm Sunday was only five days before Calvary. What kind of a reception was that? The only answer that will suffice is this. Hebrews 2. 9 tells us. Jesus was crowned with glory and honor Because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death. for everyone. They placed the crown of thorns upon his head A very strange crown, to be sure. But surely a crown indeed. For there on the cross of Calvary, the Lord of hosts Did battle with the hosts of hell and came out the victor, strong and mighty. That's exactly why. Did you ever think of it? As Matthew records it, at the very moment Jesus died, what happened? The curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earth shook, and the rocks were split, the tombs also were opened. And many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised. When Jesus died on the cross. Could that multitude have included David? Doesn't say so, but he could have. After all, David put his trust in the God of his salvation, and the death of the Messiah, Jesus, was exactly what he was needed. to have happen. The exciting reception granted Jesus of Nazareth into Jerusalem on Palms Sunday proved really to be quite insincere, didn't it? As the chant, He is the King of Glory! Soon morphed into crucify him, crucify him. Ah, but all along, God the Father, was raising the victim. Victory palms over his beloved son, who is indeed the King of Gory, the glory of salvation to be accomplished. Thirdly, remember I said there are four occasions? The third one is this Psalm 24 scene of the King's entrance is yet more fully revealed in what happened after Jesus' resurrection from the dead. For it was the anticipation of an even more triumphal entry when Jesus, the resurrected Lord of glory, ascended to heaven Then to be reunited with his Father in glory. That's in the Bible, Philippians 2:9 speaks of it thusly. God exalted Jesus to the highest Place and gave him the name that is above every name. The name that the Father gave the Son Was the very name mentioned in our psalm, the name Lord, which signifies that Jesus Christ is the supreme Supreme God and ruler of all. According to Hebrews 1:3, when Jesus returned to heaven, he took his seat on a magnificent throne After he had provided purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty in heaven. And I wonder, when that happened, do you think the angels might have sung Psalm 24? Lift up your heads, O you gates, and be lifted up, you everlasting doors, that the King of glory may come in. In the words of one commentator, these verses Picture the scene when, after spoiling the powers of darkness, after abolishing death itself, the resurrected God-man, the Lord, returns to heaven. In triumph. And we would add, they say, He is the King of Glory. One more. Fourthly, there is yet one more place for Jesus to make his royal entrance. It is into your very heart, dear hearer. For not everyone who sings God's praises receives him as the Lord of glory. We saw that such was the case when it came to the crowd that welcomed Jesus on that Palm Sunday in Jerusalem Because he was not the kind of king of glory that they hoped he would be. A king who would free them from Roman bondage and bring them glorious victory Of that sort. And today, it is truly not enough to simply say, Jesus is the King of Gory What kind of glory? The glory of me having a prosperous life here on earth and also, thankfully, I ticket to heaven. That, my friends, is not the glory of this true king. His is the glory of enthronement on your heart Jesus is not simply hoping to gain entrance into your life. He is demanding it. He is doing it at this very moment here tonight, saying, Open your heart to receive my grace. salvation that I procured for you. A salvation that not only relieves you of the guilt of sin It also relieves you of its bondage. So turn away from sin. Trust in me as Savior and King. Wow What a psalm this is. So rich it is in praise to your Creator, in recognition of your Savior. And in welcome of your king. Go home tonight with Goosebumps, Congregation. Lord God, we thank you for this psalm. We realize that David didn't know all the details. They would be filled in later, but the main theme is clearly there. And we catch it. And we thank you that you save us through Jesus, our King. In his name we praise you. Amen.