Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the fourth chapter of Malachi, which is the last chapter in the last six verses of the Old Testament. Easy to find. Go to Matthew, back up one page. So from Malachi chapter 4 verses 1 through 6. For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch But for you who fear my name, the Son of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall. And you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day when I act, says the Lord of hosts. Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel. Behold, I will send you Elijah. the prophet, before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes, and he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children, and the hearts of children to their fathers. Lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks. In the uh Old Testament reading in Malachi, you hear concerns and alarms and judgments. And then in Psalm 2, there's this great conflict between the kings of earth and God's Messiah. And now let us turn to John chapter 1, 19 through 28. And I am beginning a series in the Gospel of John. Not beginning at the beginning. We'll come back to that in a few weeks' time. But we're beginning with the narrative portion of John chapter 1, 19 through 28. And this is the testimony of John when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you? He confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. Then they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Are you the prophet? And he answered, No. So they said to him, Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? He said, I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. They asked him, Then why are you baptizing if you were neither the Christ nor Elijah nor the prophet? John answered them, I baptize you with water, but among you stands one you do not know, even he who comes after me. the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. These things took place in Bethany, across the Jordan, where John was baptizing. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. O Lord, illumine to our hearts this your holy word. Help us to listen attentively, not be distracted by anything, because upon your word our life depends. Amen. So they asked him questions. He's out in the country, down at the Jordan River. Down quite an elevation, as we remember from a week or so ago. From Jerusalem, so 3,000 feet they go down to this Jordan River by Bethany. Out in the country, and there is this John, this person who's baptizing, and the word is spreading about him. And so these Pharisees from Jerusalem want to know what's going on. They send press out to find out. You know. Interviewers. And so we have it here in verse 19. He is not the Christ. And the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you? He confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. The Christ. Now, we're used to thinking of Christ, and some people may superficially think that Christ is Jesus' last name. Of course it isn't. It's his title. It's like the president, you know He is the Christ, Jesus is, but not John. He says, I am not the Christ. I am not that one. Where did this idea of the Christ come from in the first place? Well, there are many and varied prophecies of a figure who would come who is called the Christ. And if you turn on the hymn in In the Pew Bible, if you want to turn to 2 Samuel 7, it's on page 259. 259 in the Pew Bible. Here's the prophecy of a Christ figure, the anointed one, the King. In 2 Samuel 7, God said this to the great King David. He said, When your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. So it's a prophecy of a king, anointed one. And he shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him and the rod of with the rod of men, but the stripes of the sons of men, but my steadfast love will not depart from him as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you Then this. And your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established forever. And then verse 17, in accordance with all these words and in accordance with all this vision, Nathan spoke to David. So it's about an anointed one. That's what Christ means, the anointed one, an anointed one who will be the king in David's line, who will live forever, or who will have a kingdom that lasts forever. And that's what they're referring to when they ask, John, are you the Christ? And he says, no, I'm not the Christ. That's just one of the places. in scripture that talks about the Christ. And then in verse twenty-one they asked him, What then are you Elijah? Elijah was a tremendous figure, a great prophet, and prophets were anointed ones as well. There's three offices that required anointing: prophet, priest, and king. And he is a prophet, Elijah is. But John says, no, that ain't me. I'm not the um I'm not the Elijah. Now, why would they even think that he might be Elijah? Elijah lived hundreds and hundreds of years beforehand, right? He's the guy who was in the great contest with the prophets of Baal on Mount. On Mount Carmel, many, many years before, the dark days of Jezebel and Ahab the king. Are you Elijah? Now, 2 Kings chapter 2 tells us about something about Elijah that would give us a reason to think they might wonder if he's Elijah. It's on page 309 if you're looking. Here it is. When they crossed, when they had crossed, Elijah said to Elisha, his understudy, What shall I do for you before I am taken from you? And Elisha said, Please let there be a double portion of your spirit on me. And he said, You have asked a hard thing, yet if you see me as I am being taken from you, it shall be so for you, but if you do not see me, it shall not be so. So he says, if you see me taken away, then you know that you got the double portion, but if you don't see me taken away, then you didn't get the double portion. Verse 11 now. And as they stood, and as they went still on and talked, behold, chariots of fire and horses of fire separated the two of them. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. And Elisha saw it and cried, My father, my father. The chariots of Israel and its horsemen, and he saw him no more. What says telling us? Elijah was taken up into heaven. He didn't die. And so since he's in heaven and he hasn't died, maybe he's come back. Maybe this is the Elijah. And see, Malachi 4 Chapter 4, verse 5 says, Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day that the Lord comes. So maybe this is the Elijah that was promised by Malachi, that went up into heaven in chariots of fire and horses of fire. And he said, no, that's not me. I am not Elijah. Okay, then they asked one more question. Are you the prophet? What is this about? The prophet. I mean, isn't Elijah a prophet? Yes, but this is a different question. Are you the prophet? And he answered no And we turn to page 161 in the Bible, Deuteronomy 18, for information about the prophet. In Deuteronomy 18, beginning at verse 15, here's what God says to the Israelites. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me, Moses, from among you, for your brothers. It is to him you shall listen, just as you desired of me. of of me from your brothers, just as you desired of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, or see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the Lord said to me, they are right in what they have spoken. I will, this is the point, I will raise up for them a prophet. This is Moses telling the people what God said. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. So this is a special designation here of some Moses-like prophet who's going to come and you've got to listen to him. You've got to do all that he commands. And the Jews remembered this prophecy, this promise, and they're saying, are you that one? Are you that prophet? And he said, no, I'm not him either So they want to know who he is. Verse 22. So they asked him, Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? And he answers. He said, I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness, make straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. Now, Isaiah 40, page 599, and we sang it in our opening hymn, Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. And then here's the voice. A voice cries, In the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. What's this picturing here? This voice crying out in the wilderness makes straight in the desert a highway. And he goes on, this highway, every valley shall be lifted up Now you know how highways are built, aren't they? The engineers fill in the valleys or go around them or something, and then they they cut through the ridges and high places in order to make a more gradual roadway. And that's what you have pictured here. Every valley shall be lifted up, every mountain and hill be made low, the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain What's the highway for? What's the highway for? And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. The glory of the Lord doing what? Releasing the exiles from captivity in Babylon. Releasing Israel from captivity in Egypt. It's a picture of a second exodus, another exodus. An exodus from captivity, from lost places, from places of gloom and doom. And that's what John says he is doing. He is that voice. That's saying a new Exodus is coming. God is going to show His glory. He's going to prepare a way. He's going to break down all the barriers and smooth out the pathway so that He can come and save us. That's what John says. That's why he's out in the wilderness. That's what he's doing. So he is the preparatory prophet. He's the last prophet of the Old Testament era. Before we go on, verse 24. Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. So these are the people who were asking, who are you? Are you this? Are you that? And he says, now I'm this voice that's crying out in the w wilderness. But who are these Pharisees? The root meaning of the word Pharisee is uncertain. It is probably related to the Hebrew root meaning separate or detach. From whom did the Pharisees separate? From those, especially priests or others, who interpreted the law differently than they did. They separated themselves from theological liberalism. These were the strict, kind of orthodox Presbyterian types of their day, you see. And there were these other liberals out here who interpreted the law much more liberally. They were much more open to the Hellenism, which is the Greek culture coming in and changing Israel and changing the Jewish people and making them a lot more acceptable to the world and the nations around These Pharisees were against all that Hellenism. They kept pure. They kept kosher. They didn't do all the bad things. They were the Bible believers. Again, like I say, parallel perhaps to the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. But they tended toward Righteousness based on works, by all their observances and their rules and all that. We have to be careful of that Verse 25. They asked him then, Why are you baptizing if you are neither the Christ nor Elijah nor the prophet? And John answered them, I baptize with water, but one stands among you whom you do not know, even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. He was baptizing. What's that about? So we looked at the Pharisees. What are they like? What is their mindset? He's baptizing. What is baptism then and there? It was ritual cleansing. To be baptized by John was to identify with John's message that God is coming. To identify with God's kingdom, putting away worldly things, putting away Greek ideas and Hellenism and secularism. And all those practices in order to align with God's ways and purposes, in order to be ready for the Christ. In order to be ready for the Elijah, in order to be ready for the prophet who will come and bring God's kingdom, the anointed one. So these people out here in this place in Jordan, on Jordan's bank, were standing on the verge of a huge change in the world, according to them. And some of these things were misunderstood then as they often are now. But here was their hope as they came to be baptized. Here was their hope that God would rule Israel and God would cast out the pagans. And he would establish everlasting righteousness and peace. That God would install his king on Zion, his holy hill, as we sung from Psalm 2. And that all nations would be blessed coming to God's word for instruction in order to live by it. Now, some of this would take a different shape than they were expecting. Jesus would come publicly and with miracles, and that would get them all excited He would come with words and fulfillments that prove that he is the long-expected one. But he would also talk of being arrested and persecuted and condemned. And executed by crucifixion. This is what the New Testament authors called the scandal. In liter literal- literally in Greek it's the skandalon, which means a stumbling stone, a rock of offense. One preacher put it this way. Would you wear, ladies, would you wear a tiny electric chair around your neck? You know on your gold chain, a little electric chair? Would you put one of those on for jewelry? Would you suspend a gold-plated hangman's noose? On the wall of the church or in your home? If you're a Christian business person and you want to present yourself as such, would you have a Business card with a firing squad pictured on it. Yet we do this with the cross, don't we? It's not a scandal to us anymore. It's pretty We have loved the cross for so long that we sometimes forget that the Bible calls it an offense, a stumbling block to Jews, and moronic to Gentiles. As Paul says in 1 Corinthians chapter 1. So this would be this would be like a presidential candidate saying I will win the office and I will have the greatest administration in history, but I will be assassinated first. What? How does that work? Here's help with this prophetic idea that we need to explore. Because you see this great kingdom coming and He's announcing it. It's being announced in Isaiah. It's glorious. As we opened our worship today, the desert will blossom like a rose. How can these things all come together in this Anyway, prophetic telescope helps us. If you're going toward Colorado, and I've done this a long time ago, if you're going toward Colorado, you come out on the high plains, it's all flat, you know But as you get closer to the mountains, you see the first range of hills. And then behind that, you see the second range of hills mountains. And then behind that you see the the high mountains, the snow-capped ones. And it looks from that perspective like one solid peak you see, kind of like steps up. One solid peak, a mountain ascending into the sky. But there are many unseen valleys, aren't there? Many, many of them. John and many who came to be baptized by him were believing God in faith. There had already been many peaks in the past and many deep valleys. There was the peak of the Exodus when they came through the Red Sea. It was marvelous and fantastic and miracle. And then there was the deep valley of their wanderings in the desert for 40 years. There was the peak, I suppose, of their miraculous supply of bread and water, but there were also many valleys of judgments and curses and plagues because of their unbelief. Later on in Israel's history, there was the peak of David's reign as the great warrior, king, poet. This came after the valley of the dark times of the judgment, the judges, when everyone did what was right in his own eyes. David's dynasty reigned in Judah for more than 400 years, but there was continual decline and division between the northern tribes. And they finally reverted to terrible ungodliness and descended into the hell of being destroyed by the Assyrians in 722 BC. And the tribe of Judah, the better, more religious people, flailed and floundered between apostasy and reform until finally they were taken captive in 586. And deported to Babylon, present-day Iraq. So how could those who came to John, baptizing near Bethany at the River Jordan, believe the promises anymore? Yet they did. They did. They came and they were baptized. They believed. And there among them, there among them was Jesus. Standing among them, ready to identify with them by being baptized. Ready to be united with their sin and their condemnation to wash it away. There was Jesus ready to be anointed as prophet, priest, and king, in order to fulfill all righteousness, all the requirements of the law. There was Jesus So how can we, beginning again to look at Advent, beginning again to think about God's kingdom And please do think about God's kingdom all the time. How can we believe that God is still going to bring about the glorious The glorious reign of Christ, the glorious things that are promised in the Bible. How can we believe that in the face of the world as we see it right now? How can we You and I live in a little span of days, 60 or 80 or maybe 100 years. You see some things sometimes fulfilled in God's promises. Or it could be That you spend the whole time of your life in an ever-deepening valley of decline, away from the fulfillment of God's promises This may also depend upon you to some extent, how you view the world, how you view events. If you only look at your immediate surroundings. The whole idea of God's kingdom coming may be a scandal to you. And things may look grim. But if you look at God's work in other places around the world, you may see his kingdom advancing in power. But you and I are always called to repent of unbelief. Just because we can't figure it out or see it, just because the valleys get in our way of seeing the great peak out in front, doesn't mean it's not there. We are always called to repent of unbelief and repent of secular pagan ways and plans for life and the world And expect God's Messiah, God's Christ, who is coming to reign and rule this world. We must always believe in him. Not in the false narratives. God's kingdom is not about your personal peace. Or your personal riches or your personal health. It is about Christ extending his rule in individuals and families and churches and nations. and continence until the loud voices described in Revelation 11 are finally heard in the whole world And there it is said the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven saying The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. He shall reign forever. So you must not doubt. Jesus stands among us today, risen from the dead. The Spirit has been given, and he is progressively drawing all nations into his kingdom. He said, if I be lifted up, I will draw all peoples unto my kingdom. Do you believe it or do you doubt it? The next big thing is the second coming of Christ, the second advent. Do you believe it? I'm going to quote from a scholar named Mordecai Ben Gurion. He says this: We celebrate the advent of Christ. Because we believe that in the Lord Jesus Christ, who is Daniel's Son of Man, the kingdom of God has come. But there is profound cognitive dissonance. For if Christ is king, why is there still injustice? and hunger, war, and evil. Why are terrorists able to strike in Paris with such impunity For that matter, why have Islamic terrorists been slaughtering Christians and people of other religions all over the Islamic world? The German New Testament scholar Oscar Kohlmann used an analogy from World War II to illustrate this dissonance. Kohlmann speaks of the period between D-Day That's the day when the troops landed on the beaches of Normandy. And VE Day, that's Victory in Europe Day. There's a period between those two events. D-Day was when the Allies landed at Normandy. D-Day decided the outcome of the war. Once the Allies won the Battle of D-Day, there was little doubt that they would have the final victory. Victory. But between D-Day and V-E-Day, between Normandy and the final victory There'd be many months of suffering and struggle as the Allied armies little by little push back the Nazi forces. Coming of Jesus as Messiah is God's D-Day. Jesus won the decisive battle and inaugurated the kingdom of God. Of God. But God's VE day isn't here yet. Though the enemy has been decisively defeated, pockets of resistance remain There are still battles to be fought. As people who have seen God's salvation, we are living in the period between D-Day and VE Day. We are witnessing bestial empires of evil kick and scream furiously seeking to resist God's victory. We are witnessing creation groaning, as the Apostle Paul said, in labor pains, in expectation of its new birth and final redemption. That is where we stand. And we must believe that Christ is among us. having won the victory, and that he will come again, and his kingdom will be made glorious. And all will cry, the kingdoms of this world have become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. And he shall reign forever. The prayer printed on the front of the bulletin is the traditional prayer for the first Sunday of Advent. I'm going to ask that we join together to pray that prayer. Asking God that we may cast away the foolish works of darkness, believe in his kingdom And put on us the armor of light. So let us join together to pray the first Sunday of Advent. Almighty God, give us grace that we may cast away the works of darkness and put upon us the armor of light. Now in the time of this mortal life, in which thy Son Jesus Christ came to visit us in great humility. That in the last day, when he shall come again in his glorious majesty to judge both the quick and the dead, we may rise to the life immortal. Through Him who lives and reigns with thee and the Holy Ghost now and ever. Amen.