Please turn in your Bibles to Numbers chapter 32. We'll read verses 6 through 23. But Moses said to the people of Gad and to the people of Reuben Shall your brothers go to the war while you sit here? Why will you discourage the heart of the people of Israel from going over into the land that the Lord has given them? Your fathers did this when I sent them from Canaisfarnia to the sea to see the land. For when they went up to the valley of Eshkol and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the people of Israel. Israel from going into the land that the Lord had given them. And the Lord's anger was kindled on that day, and he swore, saying, Surely none of the men who came up out of Egypt from twenty years old and upward shall see the land that I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. Because they have not wholly followed me. None except Caleb the son of Jephunnah the Kennesite and Joshua the son of Nun. For they have wholly followed the Lord. And the Lord's anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them wander in the wilderness forty years until all the generation that had done evil in the sight of the Lord was gone. And behold, you have risen in your father's place, a brood of sinful men, to increase still more the fierce anger of the Lord against Israel. For if you turn away from following him, he will again abandon them in the wilderness, and you will destroy all this people. Then they came near to him and said, We will build sheepfolds here for our livestock and cities for our little ones. But we will take up arms, ready to go before the people of Israel, until we have brought them to their place, and our little ones shall live in the fortified cities because of the inhabitants of the land. We will not return to our homes until each of the people of Israel has gained his inheritance. For we will not inherit with them on the other side of the Jordan and beyond, because our inheritance has come to us on this side of the Jordan to the east. So Moses said to them, If you will do this, if you will take up arms to go before the Lord for the war, And every armed man of you will pass over the Jordan before the Lord, until he has driven out his enemies before from before him, and the land is subdued before the Lord Then after that you shall return and be free of obligation to the Lord and to Israel, and this land shall be your possession before the Lord. But if you will not do so, behold, you have sinned against the Lord, and be sure your sin will find you out. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Preaching text is John chapter 18, 12 through 40. John 18, beginning at verse 12. So the band of soldiers and their captain and their officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound him. First they led him to Annas, for he was the father in law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die for the people. Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. Since that disciple was known to the high priest, he entered with Jesus into the court of the high priest. But Peter stood outside at the door. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door and brought Peter in. The servant girl at the door said to Peter, You also are not one of this man's disciples, are you? He said, I am not. Now the servants and officers had made a charcoal fire because it was cold, and they were standing and warming themselves. Peter also was with them standing and warming himself The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in synagogues and in synagogue In the temple where all the Jews come together, I have said nothing in secret. Why do you ask me? Ask those who heard me what I said to them. They know what I said. When he had said these things, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, Is that how you answer the high priest? Jesus answered him, If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong. But if what I said is right, why do you strike me? Annas then sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest. Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself, so they said to him, You also are not one of his disciples, are you? He denied it and said, I am not One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, asked him, Did I not see you in the garden with him? Peter again denied it, and at once a rooster crowed Then they led Jesus from the house of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was early in the morning. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters so that they would not be defiled, but could eat the Passover. So Pilate went outside to them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man? They answered him, If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law. The Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death. This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus answered, Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not of this world. Then Pilate said to him, So you are a king. Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. Pilate said to him, What is truth? After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and told them, I find no guilt in him. But you have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover. So do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? They cried out again, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. We have here two trials and three denials. We have here three main characters, and then finally, two gifts from Jesus to you. Two trials, three denials, three main characters, two gifts from Jesus to you. First, we come to the trials. The first one is an informal ecclesial trial. In verse 12, the band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound him. And they led him to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas Who was high priest that year? And it was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die for the people. So again, this Annas was not really a judge. He was a mere politician, and he didn't have jurisdiction. But I suppose because he was older and experienced and had this past history, and he was related to the real judge, they took him over to this Anis guy first, who didn't have jurisdiction. And as he is being interviewed by Annas, Peter's first denial comes. And I just want to remind you about that denial thing. In John 13, 36 through 38, Simon Peter said to Jesus, Lord, where are you going? And Jesus answered him, Where I am going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow after. And Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. And Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. That's what Jesus said back in John 13. to this Peter. So after this arrest, it says in verse 15, Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple, unidentified, probably John. Since that disciple was known to the high priest, he entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest. But Peter stood outside at the door So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door and brought Peter in. So this little girl, this servant, lets Peter in. Because the other disciple intervened. And the servant girl at the door said to Peter when she let him in Are you not also one of this man's disciples? He said, I am not. First denial right there. He's afraid of a little servant. I'm sure there's more to it than that, but he He answers this little servant girl with a denial that he even knows his friend Jesus as one of his disciples. And it says in verse 18, Now the servants and the officers had made a charcoal fire because it was cold. They were standing and warming themselves. Peter also was with him standing and warming himself. But I doubt very much if he could shake the chill of what he had just done after what Jesus had said about him denying him back in chapter 13. So now we really get into the heart of the first trial in the next verses, the religious charge against Jesus. So the high priest questioned him in verse 19 about his disciples and his teaching. What are you teaching? And Jesus answered him. I have spoken openly to the world. I've always taught in the synagogues and in the temple where all the Jews come together. I've said nothing in secret Why do you ask me? Ask those who heard what I said to them. They know what I said. Now listen. It was against the law to require a person to testify against themselves. It was forbidden. And yet. This religious trial, this Caiaphas is asking Jesus to testify against himself He says, no, I'm not going to do it. I've been open, I've been honest, I've been speaking everywhere. Get some witnesses if you want to if you want to try me. And as a result of that, the officer standing by smacked Jesus in the face, I suppose, with his hand, and said, Is that how you enter the high priest? Well, Jesus is in the right here. And Jesus says, if what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong. But if what I said is right, why do you strike me? And Annas then sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest. Well, I've kind of mixed up my persons there just a bit, but you get the picture. So here we have this first judge who has already admitted his prejudice against Jesus and his willingness to see him executed. And oh by the way, this Annas guy that he went to first, he was the owner of the temple shopping center. Yeah. He's relative of the pre of the guy that's gonna judge him, and he's also the owner of the The temple shopping center. You know what Jesus did to the temple shopping center. Remember that? He overturned the temples and said, You're making my father's house, which is a house of prayer, into a den of thieves. People cheating each other. So again, according to Jewish trial law, this was not to be done asking someone to testify against himself. The burden was on the accusers to produce witnesses to prove the case against him. And in the midst of that, we have the second and third denials in verse 25. Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself, so they said to him, You also are not one of his disciples, are you? He denied it and said, I am not, number two. And then one of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, he would kind of remember that, right? Asked, did I not see you in the garden with him? That's where that happened. Peter again denied it. And at once the rooster crowed. So then we get to the second trial, the big one, the civil trial. The first one was a religious trial. They're trying to catch Jesus in some kind of blasphemy. And now we have the civil trial. And it's at the house or the residence of Pilate. Pontius Pilate. Famous in our creed, isn't it? Crucified under Pontius Pilate, forever his name is enshrined in Christian confession because of what he did here. Verse 28. They led him from the house of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was early in the morning. That's why the rooster is crowing. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters so they would not be defiled. They're worried about that. So that they could eat the Passover. It's almost laughable, isn't it? They're taking liberties with all the rules, breaking all the rules to falsely convict and kill Jesus. They have blood dripping from their fingers. While at the same time, they're worried about keeping the rules about being defiled so they can eat the Passover. It's ridiculous. Well, they can't go into Pilate's house, so Pilate comes out in verse 29 and says to them, What accusation do you bring against this man? And they answered him, This is a funny answer They answered him, if this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. Wait a minute, that's not an answer to the question, is it? They're paraphrasing, we could paraphrase them by saying, he wouldn't be accused if he were not guilty. So just trust us and find him guilty. We don't need evidence, just believe us. What kind of a trial is that? How would you like to go to court that way? The Jewish law would have had it that if Jesus was guilty, he should be stoned to death But the Romans won't allow the Jews to execute anybody anymore. The religious charge against him was that he claimed to be Yahweh, if you remember from a couple of sermons back. And Pilate doesn't care much about this. He says in verse 31, take him yourselves and judge him by your own law. He's a civil guy. You want a religious trial? Do it yourself. He says, I don't care about your laws. The Jews said to him, It's not lawful for us to put anyone to death. We want you to do it. And then John tells us this was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show what kind of death Jesus was going to die. Again, if it had been found guilty of a religious crime under Jewish law, he should be stoned, but that's not what's going to happen. He's going to be crucified. That's Roman execution. And Jesus had long before prophesied this. He said that he had to be lifted up. Back in John 3, he said, as Moses lifted up the servant in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lift it up on a pole that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. Well, the Roman governor, Pontius Pilate, the famous Pontius Pilate, was unconcerned with these Jewish laws. All he cared about, all he cared about was keeping Roman peace. by preventing uprisings against Rome and riots that might interrupt his his golf game. Well they didn't play golf back then, but you know what I mean. He had to keep his social schedule. He had to go to the bathhouse and the banquet hall. And he didn't want to mess with this. In fact One commentator notes that Roman rulers like Pilate liked to get all their work done really early, like before 9 a. m. , so that they could spend the rest of the day partying and sleeping and so forth. So the Jews must have accused Jesus of trying to start a revolt against Rome, because they couldn't get him on anything else. And maybe the evidence, it doesn't tell us here, but maybe the evidence was that he had entered the city on a donkey to the cheers of people saying, Hosanna to the son of David. You remember that. So the charge was changed. We know this. The charge was changed from blasphemy to revolt against Rome. And Pilate had to consider this charge, even though it was going to mess up his day. Verse 33. So Pilate entered his headquarters again and called Jesus and said to him, Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus answered, Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world. Jesus is in effect saying this. He is saying, I am no threat to the Roman government. My kingdom is of another sort. Don't worry about me. I'm not trying to take over the Roman government. Verse 37, and Pilate said to him, So you are a king. That's not what Jesus said, but Jesus answered, You say that I am a king. For this purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Jesus is going to tell the truth. He is a king, but he's not trying to take over the Romans. He's a king of another sort. And then Pilate said to him, What is truth? After he had said this, he went back outside to the Jews and told them, I find no guilt in him. And Pilate's verdict of not guilty will be stated four times. Not all here, but it will be stated four times. Four times! But then he goes on to say, you have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover, so do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews? He thinks maybe they'll at least be sensible enough to to say yes to that question. But they cry out again, not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. So they're willing to receive a robber, someone who's a known criminal Instead of letting Jesus go. Pilate. Let's think about Pilate for a minute here. Pilate was trying to please everyone, but he pleased no one. This was his basic pattern, I'm sure. He had ordered that Roman images be installed in the temple sometime before. And many Jews had protested, and they had gone all the way down to Caesarea to hound him at the amphitheater because he had brought these images into the temple. And when he ordered them to leave, he threatened to cut their heads off if they didn't leave. And when they refused, he failed to follow through on his promises. He drew a red line in the sand, you know, and didn't observe it Here he is trying to put them in a tough spot by making them choose between a known thief and murderer and Jesus. And it did not work. They chose the real criminal to be released. Friends, Pilate, and people like him cannot be trusted to do what is right, always has his finger in the air to see which way the wind is blowing, to see which way the popular opinion is going. so that he can keep peace for himself. He just manipulates things and manages things to keep them going the right way for himself. Let's consider Peter here. Peter's usual resolve is shown here to be flagging, unreliable. And then we have Jesus. Jesus' resolve is unshakable. He does all that he should do In fact, the scriptures tell us he has always done all that he should do. He has always kept the whole law. He is holy, harmless, undefiled, without sin. That's Jesus. Pilate can't be trusted at all. Peter flags and fails. Jesus is unshakable. Christians, there's some Pontius Pilate in all of us, isn't there? We just want to avoid conflict and trouble. We just want to get by. There's some Peter in us. Peter was usually a man of grounded principle, but here we see him weak and pragmatic and trying to avoid trouble. And it leads him to do something he thought he would never do. He denied Jesus three times in one night. Maybe Peter reasoned as he was denying Jesus. I'm really afraid. I might get arrested. I might get killed or something. I have to manage this situation to save my neck. Jesus will understand. These three characters in the narrative are facing very hard choices. Jesus faced the shameful and painful death of the cross. He faced the cup of the wrath of God. Pilate faced the hard choices of keeping the Roman order or doing true justice in the case of an innocent man or pleasing the Jews, on the other hand. Who could make his life miserable? Peter faced fear of his life in Lamb. John, I believe, puts these three persons before us in these trials and denials. Jesus succeeded. Pilate failed utterly. And Peter failed too. What about you? Would you have succeeded? Christian man or woman or boy or girl? Maybe you say, in the face of trials like this, my sin weakness has been managed before. I've been able to lie or cheat or not quite tell the truth or get away with some deed. No one caught me. It worked out pretty good for me. It was dumb as stuff. I did it in weakness and fear, but the consequences weren't that bad. I got through it without much trouble. Final commitment to high principle was not ultimately required. And maybe you've gotten used to speaking out of both sides of your mouth and being two-faced. The word comes to mind is duplicitous. Duplicitus. What does duplicitus mean? Miriam-Webster dictionary says the idea of doubleness, duple, you see. It's at the core of duplicity. Duplicity comes from the Latin word meaning double or twofold, and its original meaning in English has to do with a kind of deception in which you would intentionally hide your true feelings or intentions. behind false words or actions. If you're being duplicitous, there are two U's, the one you're showing and the one you're hiding. And the key idea of duplicity is that you're hiding one thing in order to make people think something else. So if you've been like Pilate or like Peter here, maybe there have been times when your vows that you've made, promises that you've made, were fudged a bit. Whether they were marriage vows or church vows or oaths of office that you took. But if Jesus is really with you, like Peter You will soon be caught up short. You will soon be chastened and broken, and it will be good for you. And maybe after that you'll say, never again. Maybe it'll stick, never again will I do that. I certainly hope that's the case. As I was thinking about this, I was thinking of my, you've heard these stories before, but my my wonderful golden retriever, Samson, you know. I hope I don't get in trouble for saying this, but Samson has a training collar. It's an electronic fence type of thing, you know. And Samson, if when he first got the caller, if he went up to the edge of the border, the fence border, he heard the warning, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, you know. And then he crossed the boundary, and ah, pain. Yeah. And Samson learned so quickly Not to do that. It's amazing. And now, even if he doesn't have the collar on, he won't go near the boundary. He learned the lesson. It was a hard lesson, but he learned it. With or without the collar, he stays within the boundaries. As a disciple, I hope that in God's love for you and his kindness to you, when you have been like Peter and failed, that you've learned that sin hurts Compromise doesn't pay. You've learned what Moses said to the Israelites when they were going to go into the land, as it was read in Numbers. If you don't do what you're supposed to do, be sure your sin will find you out. That's the last verse of what was read earlier. The Bible warns us the way of the sinner is hard. The soul that sins shall die. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatever a man sows, he shall also reap. Sin hurts, it's wrong, and God will find you out I hope you have a firm resolve from the pains that you've suffered. I I hope so, but you need more than that. You really do You need more than the firm resolve. And John shows this more that you need in what Jesus is going to do for Peter. Listen carefully at this point. He will forgive Peter, yes, because he paid for Peter's sins by submitting to death on the cross to make atonement for the wrongdoing of Peter. That's part of this. It's not all of it This is called, in theology, the passive obedience of Christ. He passively or submissively suffered on the cross to pay the price. for our sins, to make atonement for our sins so that we could be forgiven. But the other part that we need, that you need, that I need, is the active obedience. Jesus is going to actually give Peter his own success. This is an amazing thing. His own perfect record of obedience to the law. He's going to give it to Peter so that it is Peter's. Recall this the active obedience of Christ. He's actively doing what you should have done is given to you by faith. So it's not just take away your sins, it's give you the active, positive obedience that you should have had By faith. Wayne Grudham, a theologian, says this: if Christ had only earned forgiveness of sins for us, then we would not merit heaven. Did you get that? If he had only earned forgiveness for us, we would not merit heaven. Our guilt would have been removed, but we would simply be in the position of Adam and Eve before they had done anything good or bad. And before they had passed the time of probation successfully. Then he says, to be established in righteousness forever, and to have their fellowship with God made sure forever Adam and Eve had to obey God perfectly over a period of time, then God would have looked on their faithful obedience with pleasure and delight, and they would have lived with him in fellowship forever. For this reason, Christ had to live a perfect life of obedience to God in order to earn righteousness for us. He had to obey the law for his whole life on our behalf so that the positive merits of his perfect obedience would be counted for us. Jesus does this, will do this for Peter. And now I'm not going to steal Mr. Tyson's thunder, but I want to tell a little story from One of the early leaders of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Listen, New Year's Eve, 1936, in a hospital in Bismarck, North Dakota, J. Gresham Machin Was one day away from death at the age of 55. It was Christmas break at Westminster Seminary in Philadelphia where he taught New Testament. His colleague said he looked deadly tired, but instead of resting, he took the train from Philadelphia to the 20 below zero winds of North Dakota. to preach in a few Presbyterian churches at the request of Pastor Samuel Allen. The following day, New Year's Day 1937 He mustered the strength to send a telegram to John Murray, his friend and colleague at Westminster. It was his last recorded word. I am so thankful for the active obedience of Christ. No hope without it That's that second part, you see. Christ giving to Machin his perfect record Not just taking away his sins, but giving him his perfect record of keeping the whole law for all of his life. And he says, no hope without it. He died at 7. 30 p. m. Notice Machin's taking comfort not just from the general truth about Christ, but from the doctrinally precise understanding of the active obedience of Christ. which he believed was his own obedience in Christ and would make him suitable as an heir of eternal life for Christ's sake. You need this imputed resolve of Jesus. His perfect success in doing the will of the Father, his active obedience. In Colossians chapter 2, it's it's referred to there, I believe, by Paul when he says that Christ canceled the record of debt that stood against you with its legal demands. Keep the law. Cancelled it. Act of obedience. And Galatians, Paul says, For all who rely on the works of the law are under a curse, for it is written, Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all the things written in the book of the law and do them all. And then he says in chapter 4, but when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under that same law. To redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons, that we might be heirs of all that Christ has for us, his perfect righteousness. And so our catechism says, what is justification? And the answer, justification is an act of God's free grace, wherein he pardoneth all our sin. That's the passive obedience of Christ And then accepteth us as righteous in his sight only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us. That's the act of obedience. And it's received by faith alone. You need this imputed resolve of Jesus, his perfect success in doing the whole law, all the will of the Father. You need that credit to your account. There's a song that I knew from long ago and it comes to mind at times. Because it so well expresses the passive obedience of Christ, the passive part. It says, clean before my Lord I stand, and in me not one blemished does he see. When I placed all my burdens on him, he washed them all from me. But with the active obedience of Christ, we could add a verse to that song. Obedient before my Lord I stand. And in me, perfect law-keeping does he see. Because by faith I have received all that Christ provides. This is received by faith, which is reliance upon Christ. It's saying I can't do this, I never will be perfect at it. But when you get the active obedience, when you understand your position in Christ, then you actually have the strength To obey, not just out of fear like my dog, but out of love for what God has given you in Christ. That makes all the difference in the world. Believe in these things, my friend We're like Peter, most of us. Maybe someone here is like Pontius Pilate, I don't know. But we need the whole work of Christ to save us. From beginning to end, completely, in and out. Receive it by faith. Amen. Let's pray Lord, we thank you that you love people like Peter. That in a sense you even love people like Pilate, although there's no evidence that Pilate ever repented. But you love people like Peter. At the end of the gospel, you forgive him three times to make it clear to him. Forgive us our failings, and then help us to stand up in the righteousness of Christ. And live for you with joy and gratitude out of your great gift to us. In Jesus' name, amen.