Please let us turn to the first reading, which is Acts chapter 2, 29 through 36. Acts chapter 2, 29 through 36. This is the apostolic preaching on the day of Pentecost. Picking up in the middle of it. Verse twenty nine. Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne He foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus, God raised up, and all, and of that we are all witnesses. Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, He has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For David did not ascend into the heavens. But he himself says, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus, whom you crucified. And then over to Psalm one hundred ten, the text A Psalm of David. The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter. Rule in the midst of your enemies Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power in holy garments from the womb of the morning. The dew of your youth will be yours. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. The Lord is at your right hand. He will shatter kings on the day of his wrath. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs. Over the wide earth. He will drink from the brook by the way. Therefore he will lift up his head. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks. This remarkable psalm is The Psalm and Old Testament portion of all Old Testament portions most quoted in the New Testament. James Montgomery Boyce counted 27 direct or indirect allusions to Psalm 110 in the New Testament. The letter to the Hebrews has been described by some biblical scholars as a kind of extended exposition of verses 1 and 4 of Psalm 110. With that in mind, let us look first at the character of the Messiah. This is two parts. The first part, the character of the Messiah. And the first part of that is that he was appointed and honored by Yahweh. The Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. David prophetically revealed the words of Yahweh, the Lord, to the Messiah, David's Lord. This is clear not only from the context, but especially by how this verse is quoted in the New Testament. Jesus quoted it in Matthew 22, verses 43 through 45, and also Mark 12, 36. showing how David called Messiah Lord, recognizing that Messiah was greater than David himself. Turn to Matthew 22. It's on page 828 in the New Testament. Matthew 22, verses 41. We'll start at verse 41 through 46. Listen to these words and how they are quoted by Jesus himself about himself. They didn't know he was quoting about himself at the moment, but here it is. Verse 41. Now, while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? They said to him, The son of David. He said to them, How is it then that David in the Spirit calls him Lord? saying The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son? And no one was able to answer him a word, nor from that day did anyone dare to ask him any more questions. Do you see how that works? He is David's son, and yet he is David's Lord, according to Psalm 110, Jesus quoting it. Right there. And Peter also quoted it, Psalm 110, on Pentecost as well we just read, explaining how David prophesied the deity and ascension of Jesus. It's on page 910. Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Being therefore a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne, he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades Nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus God raised up, and of that we are all witnesses, being therefore exalted to the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For, here it is, David did not ascend into the heavens. See, David didn't descend. Ascend into heavens. But he himself says, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Then the preaching, let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus, whom you crucified. And Paul much later referred to it in 1 Corinthians 15, that great passage about the resurrection. In verse 25, he explains the rule and dominion of Jesus, the Messiah, and he says, For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his That's from Psalm 110, isn't it? And the author of Hebrews quotes it in Hebrews 1 verse 13 referring to the superiority of Jesus the Messiah over any angel. Hebrews 1, 13 The writer says, and to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? So that's not about angels. It's about the sun. The sun prophesied here in Psalm 110. And the author of Hebrews also refers to it in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 13, explaining the rule and dominion of Jesus, the Messiah. Hebrews 10, beginning at verse 12, he says, but when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, He sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. Psalm 110, verse 4. this again. The Lord says to my Lord, the fact that Yahweh, the Lord, that's the first one used, Yahweh, says to My Lord, that is Adonai, the covenant God of Israel, speaks to the one that David himself calls Lord. The Lord said to my Lord, demonstrates that both Yahweh and Adonai mentioned in this verse are God. The Father, Yahweh, and Adonai, my Lord, David's Lord, is God God too. The same. Normally, when Yahweh is mentioned without a specific connection to the person of the Son or the Holy Spirit, we assume it refers to God the Father. Therefore, here, God the Father is speaking to the Messiah, God the Son. That we have we have knowledge of what was said in eternity past Boyce, James Montgomery Boyce says, Adonai refers to an individual greater than the speaker. Here is the case of David citing God's words in which God tells another person who is greater than David to sit at God's right hand until God makes that person's enemies a footstool for that person's feet. This person can only be a divine Messiah who is Jesus Christ. Spurgeon says, How condescending on Yahweh's part to permit a mortal ear to hear a human pen to record his secret conversation with his co-equal son How greatly should we prize the revelation of his private and solemn discourse with the Son, herein made public for the refreshing of his people. What does the Father say to the Son? Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Again, Yahweh, specifically God the Father, spoke to the Messiah, specifically God the Son, telling him to take his enthroned place until the Father provided the victory for the Sonia. He is sitting, my friends, but not in idleness. He is ruling from the throne until his enemies are subdued. Liam Golliger, pastor of 10th Presbyterian Church, says, when Jesus sits at the right hand of the Majesty on High, what is he doing? He's exercising rule over the universe. In Christian thought, we talk about his resurrection from the dead, then his ascension up into the heavenly realm, as opposed to his creaturely realm, this creaturely realm. We talk about his session, not the elders. We talk about his session, that is his sitting down on the throne of God. And from there, reigning and ruling history and the world and the church. That's why we sing the creed as we did this morning. Saying that he sits on the right hand of God the Father Almighty, from thence he shall come to judge the living and the dead. James Packer says about this Jesus' present role and glory. He says, the New Testament pictures Jesus' heavenly activity as sitting on the right hand of his Father, not to rest, but to rule. The picture is not of inactivity but of authority. In Psalm 110, God sets his Messiah at his right hand as king, as king to see all his enemies under his feet. He goes on to say this, that in Scripture we discover that Christ rules over all the spheres of authority that exist. That's what he said, by the way, uh as he was about to ascend into heaven. He said, All, not some or little or something, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore, go and make disciples of all the nations, and I'll be with you until the end of the age. His kingdom is in a direct sense his church, of which he is the head and the rightful king. But his kingdom is growing. We'll see that next. Verse 2: The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter. Rule in the midst of your enemies. The Messiah's authority is not to be limited to Israel. It extends to the entire world, dominating all the kings and nations of the earth, giving him rule over all enemies. Adam Clark is amongst those who think that the rod or the scepter here represents the gospel. It's not some future Armageddon and slaying uh millions of people and the bot and filling the the valley with blood. It's not that. It is The gospel, the doctrine of Christ crucified. This is the powerful scepter of the Lord that bought us. It's quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, and is the power of God. For salvation to all them that believe. It is certain that Christ is seated at the right hand of the Father and is ruling with the Father now, and the result. Will be the defeat of his enemies, the salvation of a vast, innumerable church from every nation, language, people group. There is no room, my friends, no room for defeat Here. As the old spiritual, Negro spiritual says, Ride on, King Jesus, no man can hinder thee. And so we see the result of Christ having come and having done his work. And sitting at the right hand of God ruling, we see the result in verse 3. That Christ will be recognized and honored by his people. If you were subdued to Christ and you are in him tonight, you are recognizing and honoring him by being here even and by praising him, by worshiping him But look at verse 3. Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power. His power has come. In holy garments. You're wearing holy garments, folks. You don't need to be a Mormon with special underwear. You're wearing holy garments because you're clothed in the righteousness of Christ. And it's perfect. From the womb of the morning, the dew of your youth will be yours. When the people of God see and experience the victory of their Messiah, they gladly give themselves to his work. They are willing in the day of his power. Since the Hebrew word translated power is the word for for a host or an army. The idea is that Messiah's people are gathered together as a willing army. Like a mighty army moves the church of God. Brethren, we are treading for the Saints have troy. We are not divided. All one body, we, one in hope and purpose, one in destiny. Boyce says about this passage, there are no mercenaries in this battle, no slaves pressed into the ranks of soldiers. This army is composed entirely of volunteers. Volunteers. Made willing by grace. F. B. Meyer says, Whosoever the Holy Spirit He says, Whensoever, I should say, Wensoever the Holy Spirit is supreme in the church, there will be a free will offering of young hearts and lives. There are no pressed men in the Master's army. All are volunteers. Offer your will to God. Say that you are willing to be made willing. If you're not willing right now, say, Lord, I'm willing to be made willing. Verse 4, we see that Christ is established as the eternal priest having done these things Verse 4, the Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, you are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. So here we have Yahweh, specifically God the Father, made an oath that he would never be, that this would never be annulled, this oath. You and I can change our minds and do frequently. Circumstances change us at times. They prevent us from doing what we promised sometimes. This does not happen With regard to an oath made by God. And what is the oath? This is the oath. You are a priest forever. After the order of Melchizedek. This is the oath God the Father makes regarding the Messiah, God the Son. He vows that the Messiah has an eternal priesthood and that it was after the order or pattern of Melchizedek. Who is mentioned in the single account in Genesis 14? The Genesis 14 account is brief but densely packed with information about Melchizedek. After Abraham defeated the Confederation of Kings who took his nephew Lot captive, Abraham met with a mysterious priest named Melchizedek. whose name means king of righteousness, and who was also king over the city of Salem, the ancient name for the city of Jerusalem Jerusalem, which made him the king of peace. No, Kizedek was not merely a worshiper of the true God. He had the honored title, Priest of God Most High. The greatness of God magnified the greatness of Melchizedek's priesthood. And what happened there? Melchizedek blessed Abraham, demonstrating his greatness over the patriarch. And Abraham yielded a tie to Melchizedek, part of the spoils of battle, as mentioned in Genesis 14. Recognizing his own submission to Melchizedek. There's no mention of any father or mother of Melchizedek, and he appears without any genealogy. With this oath, God revealed that there isn't another order of priesthood apart from the priestly order of Aaron, with which they were all familiar. The Israelite priests were all descended from Aaron and served in the tabernacle, or later the temple, offering sacrifices and conducting ceremonies according to God's law. But here we see that God established another priestly order, the pattern of Melchizedek. You are a priest forever. According to the order of Melchizedek. This oath was so important that the author of Hebrews refers to it in that letter five times. Hebrews 5, verses 5 and 6, and 5, 10 emphasize that this was Yahweh's declaration, not something that Messiah claimed for himself. In Hebrews 6. 20, the emphasis is on the idea that Jesus, the Messiah, serves now and forever as a living, active high priest for his people. In Hebrews 7. 17, there it is emphasized that this priesthood of Jesus, the priesthood of Jesus the Messiah, is according to the order of Melchizedek, which is better than the priestly order of Aaron, because it will never end. And then in Hebrews 7. 21, there it is emphasized that the priesthood of Jesus the Messiah after the order of Milchizedek is better than the priestly order of Aaron because it was founded on a direct oath of Yahweh, unlike the priestly order of Aaron. Now we come to the second part, the reign of Messiah. Messiah contends here with the kings of the nations. Verse 5: The Lord is at your right hand. He will shatter kings on the day of his wrath. The favor and strength of Messiah, that is right hand, is aligned with an instrument of and the strength of God. The second part of the Psalm tells about the king on the battlefield here. He comes forth from the throne where he sat at Yahweh's right hand, and now Yahweh stands at his right hand. As Kidner says, Yahweh and his king act as one. And the army of volunteers, which was seen in verse 3, is no longer in the picture. The battle here is the Lord's alone. With authority mentioned in verse 2, the strength of Messiah extends out of Zion and brings the righteous judgment of God against even the greatest kings. The Messiah will judge all the nations. We see it in verses six and seven. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. He will drink from the brook by the well. Therefore he will lift up his head. And we see in those verses, in his conquest, the Messiah will exercise his authority over all nations, bringing his judgment. McLaren says, the choice of every man is being crushed beneath his foot or being exalted to sit with him on his throne. Revelation chapter 3 verse 21, to him who overcomes, I will grant to sit with me, Jesus says, on my throne, as I also overcame and sat down with my Father on his throne. It is better to set sit on the throne than to be footstool, isn't it? While the rebellious nations of the world receive their judgment, and they will finally at the end, Messiah himself is refreshed. You see that in this last phrase. He drinks from a brook. Psalm 110, verse 7 is usually taken as depicting the king as pausing in his victorious pursuit of the fleeing foe to drink. He's been chasing them away so long that he stops to get a drink, refreshes himself like Gideon's men. From the brook. And then with renewed vigor, he presses on. And he lifts up his head. He's exalted. He's not bowed down. He lifts up his head McLaren says Psalm 110, verse 7, is usually taken as depicting the king as pausing in his victorious pursuit of the fleeing foe to drink. And therefore he lifts up his head. Spurgeon says, his own head shall be lifted high in victory, and his People in him shall be praised also. Let's see one more echo of all this. Let's see Let's look to Ephesians 1, 16 through 23. It's found on page 976 if you care to look it up. This is the last passage before the end of the sermon. Paul says, I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might? That he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion. And above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet. Psalm 110 again. And gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. It's all for you and me, and for the vast multitude that will follow us into the future It's all here, shown in these beautiful verses of Psalm 110, especially verse 1 and verse 4. But the whole thing. And I close with these words from J. I. Packer, these beautiful words. He governs by his word and by his spirit, and he rules the world for the sake of his church. Everything he does as the one exalted to the Father's right hand, he does for the sake of the church. He raises up presidents and casts them down. He raises up kings and casts them down. He raises up nations and empires and he casts them down. He moves things around in order for the sake of his church. He rules history. That is what the book of Revelation teaches: that he's ruling everything, history and the nations, for the good of his church. And Christ is going to do this until his enemies, as Psalm 110 says, are put under his feet. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you indeed that Christ has been exalted to your right hand and And he is subduing all things unto himself. And all things will continue until he has made all his enemies a footstool for his feet. And we pray that you will raise up an army of willing soldiers to participate in this great victory. The victory that you win and that you secure. And we pray that you would refresh us as you refresh Jesus with the spoils of victory, with the gladness of victory. Victory. We pray in His name. Amen.