Isaiah fifty-two, verses one through ten. Awake, awake, put on your strength, O Zion. Put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city. For there shall no more come into you the uncircumcised and the unclean. Shake yourself from the dust and arise. Be seated, O Jerusalem. Loose the bonds from your neck, O captive daughter of Zion. For thus says the Lord, you were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money. For thus says the Lord God My people went down at the first into Egypt to sojourn there, and the Assyrian oppressed them for nothing. Now therefore, what have I here, declares the Lord, seeing that my people are taken away for nothing Their rulers wail, declares the Lord, and continually all the day my name is despised. Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore, in that day they shall know that it is I who speak. Here I am. How beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who publishes peace. who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, Your God reigns. The voice of your watchmen may lift up their voice. Together they sing for joy, for eye to eye they see the return of the Lord to Zion. Break forth together into singing, you waste places of Jerusalem, for the Lord has comforted his people. He has redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord has bared his holy arm before the eyes of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. The word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning comes from Romans chapter 10, beginning at verse 1 through to verse 17. Romans chapter 10, beginning at verse 1, hear the word of the Lord. Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. For being ignorant of the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law That the person who does the commandments shall live by them. But the righteousness based on faith says, Do you not say in your heart, Who will ascend into heaven? That is, to bring Christ down Or who will descend into the abyss, that is, to bring Christ up from the dead? But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith that we proclaim. Because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved For the scripture says, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. There is no distinction between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they too believed in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news! But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. This is the word of the Lord. You might think it'd be very easy to preach on the gospel. I actually find it quite hard to preach on the title of the gospel because there's so much to say. But we're going to look at and continue looking at of the Great Commission which we began last time when we considered how important evangelism is And our Lord Jesus taught that to us in his wonderful way through parables, because he loves to teach children through parables, and we are his children and need his parables to understand these great truths. If you ask any farmer how important is it to sow seed, that will tell you how important evangelism is, right? You will never have a crop of whatever it is you want to grow if you don't plant seed. There will never be saints to inherit God's everlasting kingdom if the evangel is not sown and they are not redeemed to the might and power of that message from the risen Lord Jesus Christ. Evangelism is utterly important, as important as it is to a farmer who wants to have a crop. So we looked at that last time, the importance of evangelism. This morning, we're going to look at the evangel or the good news and really just ask ourselves the question, right, what is it? What is the evangel. And as I said, I don't think that's actually a very easy task. Because there's so much to say. As soon as you say one thing, you want to say another thing about it. I remember uh Leon Saul, who was an elder at the church, actually the man who baptized me uh in the Lord when I had been converted and confessed faith as a leader of a men's group and was helped me immensely as a young Christian So Damon, we're out at a diner. When someone says the name Jesus, your face lights up and you just engage in conversation. We can talk about the weather. You're there, but when someone says Jesus, right, you're face lights up and you just want to talk about them because that's what the evangel is like. It's like that seed. It might have been sown in you however many decades ago, months ago, but it begins to just take over your whole life. And Christ becomes to be everything to even dominate who you are. And when you say something about Christ, you want to say everything about Christ. And we don't have time to say everything that there is to say about Christ today, but we will say some things about the evangel. this morning. This sermon will also help give us a chance, uh, as we're finishing the gospel, as Mark wrote it, to review some of that. Because of course to look at the evangel will mean to look back at some important things here in the Gospel of Mark. So let me read to you these words we're going to look at this morning here in Mark 16, verses 15 and 16. And he, Jesus, said to them, Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation. Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned. That's a text then we're going to look at this morning about the gospel. So what I want to do is sort of Kind of have three phases of you will three steps to this. We're we're asking the question, what's the gospel We won't say everything about it. I remember talking to one member here, right? We want that text that just is that silver bullet, you say it, you said it all, wipe your hands, you can go away, evangelism's done, right? And we get some hints of that inscription. Scripture, right? Paul will say the gospel that Christ died for our sins according to Scripture, was buried, rose three days later, according to Scripture, was pure to many Cause we say the gospel concerns God's Son, right, who is born according to the flesh, the seed of David, who is declared or enthroned as the Son of God and power by the resurrection of the dead according to the spirit of holiness. So you get some of these statements, but you know as soon as you say that, right, you're going to have to spend the next five minutes, fifteen minutes, fifteen years unpacking and explaining and dealing with that subject. with people. So evangelism really is like a seed. You gotta plant it and and get it into them uh to get a hold of it. So what I want to do as we look at the question, uh what is the gospel? I want to make first some observations from immediate context here in these Two verses. So first looking at the immediate context in these two verses, just make some observations about it and what that says about the gospel. Then go on and make some observations about this word uh gospel or good news from the culture. As we read uh this morning, there's a biblical history to it, there's a biblical culture to the term behind good news and why it's used. There's also a pagan uh culture behind it as it was adopted and taken over from the pagan culture to get the Christian message out. So we'll make some observations from the context, observations from the culture to help us understand what the evangel is, and then finally some observations from Mark as a whole and end with that and hopefully we can go away. All of us More fully appreciating the gospel, loving the gospel, excited about the gospel, clarified on some things with the gospel, more confident in our ability to share it. I think possibly one of the things that may hinder us as Christians in sharing the good news is just confidence and knowing that I know the evangel. Confidence that, oh yeah, I I know what the good news is. I can I can state it, I can say it, I can give it to you You know, sometimes, and this is getting into maybe next week's sermon to talk about how to share the gospel. Evangelism is not conversion. We hope conversion happens by evangelism But you're done, your job's done if you just share the evangel. If you plant the seed, you go out and sow it and share the good news. That's evangelism, is giving a message, giving a message from God, giving his word to people We pray and hope and plead that conversion to take place. That's really not in our hands. Evangelism then is giving a message, and we're going to look at that so this morning. So observations from the context from culture and then finally from the whole uh canon here of Mark or the book of Mark. So some observations from the context. If you look there at our verse, the first thing you see is that the gospel is something official. Jesus, who has recently been crucified but now risen, testified that he was the Christ, God's anointed. He was the king. And the scripture declares him like the king of kings. And in uh Matthew's version of this right, he tells them, All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. He who sits in the highest seat of power there is. There's no higher seat of power. God's very throne says, go and preach this. So it's something official. The Lord Jesus, the reigning sovereign of this world, says, Go and do this, go and proclaim this. So the gospel is an official message. It has back behind it the office of the Messiah, the Lord's Redeemer, the Lord's mediator, Jesus Christ. So the gospel is an official proclamation. We see it is public, right? Go into all the world and proclaim. To proclaim something is to announce something Publicly, that is openly, not to share it in secret, but to make it known. So this is an official and public Proclamation, official and public message. Now we're not gonna it doesn't say anything yet, it just says proclaim the gospel. So we'll talk about what that is in a moment. So it's an official public proclamation of something that is cosmic in scope. Jesus says to the whole creation. What this message is, the meaning of the message, the significance of this message is something that concerns all of creation, the whole of God's created universe. So it's official, it's public, it's cosmic in scope And we see that it intends the salvation of its hearers. Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved. This message is spoken. with the intention of saving those who hear it. It is a message of salvation. It's good news. And finally We see that it spells the damnation of its despisers. But whoever does not believe will be condemned. Intend salvation? But it spells damnation, sentencing to eternal punishment. And you know what that is? Hell. if it is despised, if it's not believed, if it's not received. So we sort of put all that together right here in the context, official, public cosmic in its scope, tending salvation to its hearers, spelling damnation to its despisers. We get that the gospel then, at the very context that it's set in, is an official public announcement of something with a cosmic scope that intends the hearer salvation I don't necessarily expect you to re memorize that or to remember that, but that's just again helping Broad out for a minute, because I think it's easier for us to focus on an element of the gospel, a benefit of the gospel, maybe forgiveness of sins, maybe Christ crucified, that's all part of it, it's all there. Part of the wonderful good news. But maybe we should broaden out for a moment on what the gospel is so we can narrow down more sharply and clearly about it. Public, official announcement of something with a cosmic scope that intends salvation to its hearers, receivers, believers, but spells damnation to those who reject it And already you you may be going in your mind, you know, Jesus said something about that already in his own ministry when he spoke about the parable of the sower, right? Unless this word takes over your whole life, unless this word, it can't, it can't be, if it's just sewn on a hard heart, which Satan snatches it away Unworthy of eternal life. Despising it, hard to it, utterly shut to who God is and his message and what he's doing. And Jesus taught it, this seed, this message being sown, it can't take root in a shallow heart. It's not enough if it just grows up for a moment. And you're glad in it, but any sort of opposition, persecution, sacrifice for it, it just withers and dies. It's it's not enough You said something about that this this message is so all consuming that it can't be sown in a heart that there's also other things there with it that won't be taken out and they compete and grow up. If you this gospel does not have supremacy in your life And utterly take over who you are and control your thoughts and mind and speech and a very core and being. It's not enough. Choke down. The only heart that is ready in is that heart in which it changes and transforms and brings a crop, a multitude of fruit, thirty, sixty, a hundredfold, right? Jesus spoke something about This gospel, this message, it's serious, it's public, he proclaimed it, it's official, it comes from God, it's the gospel of God's good news, he said And it better consume you, right? Transform you. And it will bring salvation, and it does bring salvation. But if it's not received, Damnation. Because it's rejected. There's no other name under heaven but Jesus, by which we can be saved. You know the the tricky part about talking about the gospel? You know as a pastor you always want to get up here and say things that people want to hear, right? Make them smile. Cheer him up. Encourage him. All power. God wants his people joyful and cheered up. But not in our fleshly ways, right? We've got to trust in God's wisdom and God's word. And we have to talk about this side of it. And there is a seriousness to evangelism. We'll see more of that. So that's its kind of observation there in the context. Official, public, cosmic, bringing salvation to its hears, with damnation to those who reject it. What about the culture? What about um the culture, uh this word as it's used? I mention that it has a biblical culture You see it there in uh as we read this morning in Isaiah fifty two, it's also in Isaiah sixty one in a few other places. Jesus began his public ministry, right, in the synagogue in his hometown declaring that I'm the Lord's anointed to preach good news to the poor. Today the scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. God's acceptable year his day of salvation is here We see in the context that the gospel, as it's declared in Isaiah 52, which was quoted by Paul in Romans 10, is really a message of Yahweh's victory. And thus of salvation for his people, where he is affirming his sovereignty, his kingship over his enemies, and affirming and establishing his kingdom. It begins in a wonderful way because in chapter 51, verse 17 It says, wake yourself, wake yourself, stand up, O Jerusalem, you who have drunk from the hand of the Lord, the cup of his wrath. So God's people for their sin, exiled and in Babylonian captivity, have drunk the cup of his wrath. But 52 begins, awake, awake to what? Vomit and puke from your horrible sin? No. Straight. Beautiful garments. Royal status, throw off that bondage. You're redeemed. Put on the strength of the Lord. Put on his holy vestments. That's a priestly language from Exodus and draw near to the Lord But on that royal status of God's children and son, why why is it? He says, because I will redeem my people. Now Isaiah 53 explains how he does that. So Isaiah leads you in a bit of suspense here, and it's in chapter 53, which we've already seen in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, is how it's reformed. But he says in verse 7, they will see me and know it is I who speak to them. It's Yahweh coming and doing what? Verse 17. How beautiful is this good news? What are they publishing? Peace. That's that's the end of the war, that's the end of any threat. Happiness, good news. There's nothing to mar the greatness and goodness of this news that God is bringing into this world. What is it? It's salvation. Your enemies have been destroyed. They've been defeated. And in the context, there the wrath of God has been turned away. And what is the message? Your God reigns. Not the gods of this world, not the grave, but Yahweh, your God. Right, that's good news. God's a standard, God affirmed his kingship over all of his enemies But establish his throne in the heavenly places, you can trust him, you can trust his salvation. So the Old Testament culture for this world, when Jesus came preaching good news As Mark unpacks it, it's a message of Yahweh's victory over his enemies and thus of salvation for his people. That's really what Paul says, the same thing in Romans 10. It's the same message, right? God has raised up Jesus. It wasn't defeat at the cross. It was a mighty victory. Defeated all of his enemies there and overcame them And in that victory and in that moment of overcoming, also drunk the cup of wrath and redeemed and reconciled God's people to reconcile this world. This world can expect good things now from God Can expect his kingdom to come in this world, can expect it to transform this world because God has brought his holy arm has been bared and he has brought salvation. to this world and it's being proclaimed. And now everybody can call on him as he has returned victorious to his throne, right? You can call on the name of Jesus for salvation. So it's biblical culture is a message of Yahweh's victory, Yahweh's kingship, Yahweh's salvation for his people, for his world, as he establishes his kingdom in it. But what did it mean in the pagan culture? This word had a currency and had a coinage in Mark's day. Its chief meaning or usage and belonged to the imperial cult. If you and I were living in that day and we saw on the public notice board in the forum or flashing across the screens of our tablets or whatever, saying, good news, good news, you would expect some emperor has been born. You would expect some emperor has come of age. You would expect some emperor has ascended to his throne and has brought salvation and good to his people. I'm gonna read a it's a quote, it's a few sentences long. I think it's very helpful. It comes from a theological dictionary of some brilliant men who've studied this and it helps elucidate. What the gospel message was and how it would have been heard and why Mark and Paul chiefly in the New Testament use this term. John talks about truth. John talks about witnessing. They're one and the same thing. But Paul and Mark ministering the Gentiles, particularly in Rome, use this word gospel. Here's what gospel meant to the pagan world. The emperor is a divine ruler. See if you see parallels between the Christian gospel. The emperor is a divine ruler who controls nature. dispenses healing, serves as a protective God, and brings good fortune His birth being accompanied by cosmic signs. Imperial messages then are joyous ones Since what he says is a divine act implying good and salvation. The first gospel is news of his birth, then his coming of age, then his accession, it's taking the throne in power. Offerings and yearly festivals celebrate the new and more hopeful era that dawns with him. His accession to the throne is a gospel for his subjects. You see what it is. Finally, a savior has come. There's actually an inscription in the year 9 BC, roughly around then, that was found in Asia Minor, the era of Pyrene, that talks about Augustus. And Augustus being born, and the man who was writing it was talking about a Savior has come to bring us peace. And the glad new the glad tidings of his birth is the beginning of this to them. If you and I were in the world we heard the gospel in that day, we'd expect, yay, some right, divine emperor who's going to bring salvation, who's going to destroy our enemies, right? Those barbarians that are living on the f friends, he's gonna bring us economic success, he's gonna bring us new water conduct and life and health, whatever emperors do to bring salvation, to make life for their people, right? That was a gospel. That was a Good news. In other words, right, Caesar was a gospel and good news being proclaimed to the world. The the Roman peace. The civilizing of Rome. That was good news to be heard. And here comes, right, the Christian gospel. Another C word, right? Christ. What's being proclaimed about the salvation and the dawning of a new age has come with him. So we kind of put together, we we saw from the context, public official announcement, the cosmic scope Bring salvation or damnation, depending on how you respond to it. You kind of look at it observations from culture and understanding what this message or what the word good news means kind of put these two together, then good news would be something like an official pub or the official public announcement to the whole creation That the hoped-for new joyous era of peace has been inaugurated with the coming of Jesus Christ, God's Son, into history As it's being proclaimed, proclaimed good news is hopeful, right? That's uh that's how Mark begins his gospel. It's as it was written, telling us God had put the world in hope. There is prophets and telling the coming of this day This is the hoped for dawning of a new era of joy Why do your disciples not fast? Well, because the bridegroom's here. They should be happy that the Messiah's here, like a wedding day. Peace? Have we got to make sure we understand this peace? It's not as the world gives it, but he's made peace with God with him? What did he say to the woman who came to him with healing who thought God had been plaguing her for a decade? She was cast off from God. Said, daughter, your faith made you whole. Go in peace. Claim in peace. Peace with God. Salvation. Paul calls this new era, right, the new creation. God has begun utterly starting his new creation in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Bringing joy, peace, salvation to those who receive it. So that's kind of his observations from culture as you'd understand what's being proclaimed in the gospel. Somebody's come to the throne. Somebody that can bring us good. Somebody that can bring us salvation. Somebody we've been hoping for. You know, really, and this will let us transition to the last part on observations from Mark. Mark borrows this word. Mark takes the concept of glad tidings and he transforms it or redefines it By introducing his own gospel with the phrase, right, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of Good, saying, saying, You want to hear good news, Ro? It's not in what's being published from the Imperial Court, what's being published by these fishermen. It's what's being published by these poor despised people. It's what's being published by Yahweh's childlike messengers. Remember And they thought they should get in heirs in Jesus' kingdom. And they were so worried that they had to have some great worldsly clout if the people are going to take them serious He brought the little child and said, you need to be like this. Because if you receive this child in my name, you receive me. Because I'm childlike. Oh, by the way, you received the one who sent me my father. He's childlike. You can be meek and childlike, proclaiming the greatest news there possibly is. Christ. is coming to the throne and the peace and salvation he has bringed and brought to the world and will be. So what what Paul's or what Mark's doing is taking this concept redefines it, and I'm quoting here from a biblical dictionary, implying that it is really the birth and subsequent actions of Jesus That will change the face of the world in a cosmic way that no earthly king could ever do. He saw that cosmic dimension to it and go tell the whole creation. They talked about a God being born, right? That's a mock deity, right? And what's the Christian gospel proclaiming? The incarnation of an actual God. Talk about him ascending to his throne. Well, where is Christ ascended? Not to an earthly throne, to the heavenly throne. What kind of salvation does he bring? Something for a moment? Bread to fill you for today? Health that will last you for a few years and the latest technology, the latest advancements of whatever man comes up to make life a little bit more comfortable, is that what he's brought These might be the fruits of some of it. I'm not going to get into debate of how much Christianity in Christ has done for whatever we develop or anything like that. But no, no, his hope does not end of the grave, right, because there's still the grave, isn't there? There's still death That will take away your iPad, take away your expensive facial surgery. Not downing it is just a simple thing. His hope's not for a moment. Not preaching hope for today, but for all of eternity. The message of eternal salvation that's being proclaimed. Really? That's why Mark says it's The good news, you see, gospel is always plural in the Roman world. Here are gospels to you. He was born, he's ascended. They took the term and said, here we have the gospel We have the good news to be proclaimed. And really the challenge today for us is are we going to proclaim the gospel to the culture, right? Are we going to still stand up and say, no world, we have the good news? We have the message of salvation, the only one, and proclaim it. So let me Wrap up with some observations, Mark. As I said again, the challenge of preaching this is you you just want to start preaching the gospel and everything about Jesus. But I'm trying to not say all that today, but See what this word means in its context. Official and puzzle public, cosmic and scope. A new heir has been gone, a king has arisen, a king has come to his throne. He's brought salvation, he's brought joy, he's brought peace. That's what this word means. Well, let's look then at Mark real quick to fill out a bit of that content of of the gospel for a moment. What is the heart and center of this announcement. I think maybe, again, not to be simplistic, but try to be a little simple. Mark's message sort of centers around three things. But the gospel, the gospel is telling us about, right, the King, God's Son. That's a descent of the gospel, right? Is the King. And and Mark has made a point in writing his gospel, leading us along all the time, asking, right, who is this man, right? Who is this man that can command the winds and the waves? You know the gospel, you've heard this. Since they are proclaiming of the Christian gospel, right, is the king. God's Son. So to share the gospel is to tell people about God's Son, to tell them about Who's the king? Who's in charge? Who's reigning right now? See to leave off that part is a not show the gospel because it's really good news that Christ can control everything. It's really good news that Christ can defend you and keep you and help you and bring you safely to His eternal kingdom. And he can reach into your heart and transform you because he's God. Because he's king. So you're preaching God's Son, all of his glorious power. It's a message about the King, God's Son, and it's a message about his achievement. Because we looked at Mark, and the big part of Mark's gospel focuses on the redeeming death of Jesus Christ. It ends kind of abruptly, right, on the resurrection, and Luke will fill out about the ascension and and Acts will fill out about Pentecost and evangelism that's happened and come since then. You want to talk about salvation? You want to talk about achievement of what a king has done for his people? How about atoning for sin? How about taking and bearing away the wrath of God so that nothing in this world need be feared but God and that holy fear and odd love that we have for Him You see, that's the importance and Jesus always spoke about, so when you share the good news, you need to tell them about God's Son the King. But you need to speak about his death and resurrection together. See, Jesus always kept them together. It's very significant that they come together That he died, was in the tomb three days, and rose. That is to show as clearly as God can possibly show us That an actual satisfaction for sins has taken place, that an actual atonement, that an actual wound that have brought healing to us have happened, right? Because Jesus died very marred. Covered in sin, if you will. You know, Luther in his bold way said Jesus is the most sinful man. Now we have to say that rightly, right? There's a wrong way in saying that. But there's a right way Because he took all of our sins. You and I just have all of our sins on our head until we come to know Christ. And he took every sin of this person, this people. There's a lot of sins. Utterly marred, utterly cursed of God. Though still loved at the same time because he was doing a holy work, but made a curse. That's where the cross ended, right? Like three days later He looked very different, didn't he? He looked nothing like a sinner. He looked nothing like a man under the curse. He looked like a blessed man. A man near to God. He looked like the Son of God, like he's never looked at until that time, right? That's why you keep him together and you can say, see, the chastisement of our peace was on him He was wounded for our healing. Because look at him, how holy he is. How alive he is. That can be you too. Receive this gospel. Believe it. So you gotta preach the King, God's Son, you gotta preach his achievement, what he has done in bringing salvation. He's accomplished it on the cross. His reigning and glory assures us of it because he's there. He's immortal. And he's not going to leave his people in the grave, right? He's immortal. He's going to bring his people to that same immortality. He's not interested like Caesar to rule over you for a moment, right? That's the secular kingdoms. That's the temporal kingdoms and it's Theological usage in the church, right? We got the temporal kingdoms we live under. He's interested in an eternal kingdom. And he brings his people to immortality. And finally, it's about his promise, right? It's about the king, it's about his achievement, about his promise to his people. Jesus says, in this life, if you follow me. You commit yourself to me. You'll have goods and your concerns taken about here. There will be persecution too. But in the world to come, eternal life. And why can he promise that? Because he's borne the sins away. Because he's purchased it for you. So he can promise it freely and you to receive Freely. That's what grace means to take it. Accept it as it's offered, as freely as it's offered to you Eternal life. So it's about the King. It's about his achievement. It's about his promise. It's about living now under his life under God's grace. He gives you forgiveness of your sins now. He promises you eternal life then. But what's in between? Life. New life. Under God's grace. Christ can assure us his promise, as he is the risen Lord, reigning at God's right hand. Nothing can keep him from fulfilling it. What what what could keep the risen Lord from fulfilling his promise to raise you? What could stop anything, right, from keeping one of his sheep from reaching Immortality. It can promise it because he is the risen kuslo. That seems to me, if you if you look at the New Testament outside One of the chief messages we read today from Paul, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, the sovereign reigning Lord. Nothing can stop him from fulfilling his promise. And all this, I think, serves kind of finally to leave it here. That for Mark, the gospel is about the establishment of God's kingdom here on earth. The gospel is about God establishing his kingdom here on earth, even now. Jesus preached it. Kingdom of God's come. He called men into it, he called them to himself. He healed and fought against the powers of darkness as the sovereign Lord. He's risen victorious. And he's poured out his spirit on his people who live in his kingdom here on earth. He reigns the world's kingdom belongs to him. Life, new life, can begin now. The kingdom of God isn't just a message for tomorrow. The gospel doesn't say tomorrow you'll live. The gospel says the kingdoms come now. One of the things that's striking about many people point out about Jesus in the Gospels, he demands a decision, doesn't he? Something definitive has happened and come. He says, leave everything else. Why? Because he wants you, he doesn't like those things? Well, it depends on what you're doing, yeah, obviously. There's nothing wrong with being a galleon fisherman, it's just he's got something else for you to do because he's the king. He started something new. You need to get on board. You need to join the life and come to him. It's a call to new life now. It demands a decision now. Am I for Christ or not for Christ? The kingdom begins today. That's what he preached It has a tomorrow, but it begins today. And Mark wrote his gospel. Remember, Mark is in Rome. They're being persecuted, but they're joyful in the power of the Spirit, preaching this message and wrote it because Jesus reigns. His kingdom has come, and that's what we're calling people into his kingdom. You can know peace with God, you can know God, you can have life with God If you believe in Jesus Christ. So I think maybe the final definition then is gospel, beloved, is really an announcement. It's a summons. It's an invitation. It's an urgent appeal to come and enjoy the new life of God's kingdom through repentance and faith in Jesus Christ. That's what the gospel is. It's announcing something's here. God has done something definitively. It's a summons. An appeal come to Jesus Christ. He can save. And that's where I'm going to end this morning. If nothing else was conveyed to you and all that. Know this. The name of Jesus gets all evangelism started. The name of Jesus. Gets all evangelism started. There's one thing I know with absolute certainty. Whoever calls on the name of the Lord Jesus We'll be safe. I'm so thankful I grew up in a church that taught me the name Jesus. I wandered far into sin. I fell on my knees and I cried out, Lord, help me. I can't do it anymore I've lived under his reign and power since then, and praise God and hope by his grace hope to always live under it. I don't think I could ever testify to something most more certain to you, beloved, than that truth. Ever calls in the name of Jesus Christ will be saved. That's the name. That's the message we've been given to share. Jesus. Who he is, God's Son, what has he achieved? Salvation. Peace of God. Redemption. What does he promise? Life now. Life tomorrow Come and enjoy this salvation. Come, know the king. Come live. That's the gospel. And you love the gospel. May you love the name of Jesus. May you delight in that name. May you always talk about that name. May we always share that name. Again, it's a seed. Don't be discouraged if you don't see an immediate conversion, lightning bolt, Martin Luther on the spot with everybody you share the name Jesus to I was encouraged at the Gideon Luncheon the other week where they shared testimonies, handing out a tract to a man who went to Iraq, was shot, called on Jesus in the failed hospital, saved. Just plant the seed. Jesus. He'll do the work. Alright, beloved. That's the gospel. Jesus. Amen.