Ephesians 5, 15 through 20, which is the text of the preaching. This is the final installment in the short series here about Pentecost. Ephesians five, fifteen through twenty. Look carefully then how you walk. Not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery But be filled with the Spirit, addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart Giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, you have inspired this word of yours to be written down and copied and passed on. In your providence, we have multiple and varied but all good copies of your word. So help us not to take that lightly, but to listen carefully and consider carefully what you have to say to us today as your Spirit speaks through your word. Amen. Well, our life is very busy. Very, very busy. We are probably the busiest people um in society that have ever been. I don't know that as any kind of I can't demonstrate that, but it would appear that we're quite, quite busy. We hardly have time to rest. Much less time to think about life. God has given us in His Word the Sabbath And in the New Testament, the Lord's Day, which was ordained to give us rest and time to think about life. That has been combined with the phrase weekend and swallowed up with all kinds of busy, busy, busy, busy plans. And even some people who have plenty of time because of their life situation often live day to day without thinking much. about life. They fill life up with other things instead of the thoughtfulness that needs to be given to life. God, speaking in Paul's letter to the congregation in Ephesus, says, Look carefully how you walk. Not as unwise, but wise. So he invites and encourages and commands careful contemplation of life. Walk is a metaphor for life, you see. Paul commands us to examine life, to put things in eternal perspective. Philips translation says this: Know the meaning and purpose of life. That's the way Philips puts this same phrase from verse 15. Yet in many people's lives there's a dreadful emptiness at the center. Such persons do not want to ask questions about life because they have no core. And questions just bounce around in their interior, echoing and rioechoing, mocking the hollowness and emptiness. But the Apostle Paul sees something far better for the Christian. A glorious fullness to life. He knows that there really are answers to life's purpose. And he shouts this: that there is a glorious fullness that we ought to enjoy in our life. Paul said this even though he was very busy, even though he was persecuted and imprisoned and beaten and threatened. He encourages a life that is brimming full of excitement and satisfaction, a gloriously full Christian life Now, in these few verses, he offers some commandments, some imperatives that would get us there. The first one is this: He says, Life in Christ is a life filled with the Holy Spirit. Verses 16, 17, and 18. Make the best use of the time, because the days are evil Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is, and we'll get to some of that. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled. with the Spirit. Be filled with the Spirit is a command. It's in the imperative mood. And then there's a contrast, a negative, don't get drunk with wine, which leads to debauchery, moral emptiness. He's commanding a fullness, and he contrasts it with an emptiness, a moral emptiness. People fill their emptiness, which exists when they don't have the Spirit, they fill that emptiness with drink and with drugs and sometimes with leisure and pleasure and other such things to fill up the emptiness of life. Now, few of us here, if any, I don't know of any, are given to too much drink. But it's possible that we just sit in front of television or games as a way to fill life This may never land you in jail for a DUI or in substance abuse rehabilitation, but it can be debauchery just the same. Emptiness. And it is certainly not making the best use of the time, as Paul commands here Concerning this idea of the best use of the time, James Montgomery Boyce said this. He said, most Christians do not consider time as important as it really is. It is one of the two things we have going for us in our calling to serve God. They fix us at a particular point in God's vast plan of salvation. Number one, he says, space fixes us as to location. We are in, and he was speaking of himself, in Philadelphia rather than in Los Angeles or London. What we are going to do for God, we must do here while we are here. But we are not here in the 18th century when the country was forming, or in the 19th century with its great movements Our problems and opportunities are unique. It is almost impossible to overemphasize the importance of time in biblical religion. Because the biblical religion is an historical religion, and history means time. And then he explains that all other religions of the biblical period were nature religions, and they celebrated cycles Cycles going around and around and around. The sun, the moon, the wind, the rain, the seasons, cycles of life going nowhere. Just repeating. But biblical faith is linear. Biblical faith has a goal and has an end in sight. Biblical faith is quite different. Therefore, we must redeem the time. The time is important. This modern syncretism, which is ancient secretism, is coming back in modern forms And I saw this on a news article that at the next general synod of the Episcopal Church, they're proposing some new prayers Honoring the God of creation. And here's one of them that just caught my attention. It says, Great Spirit, God, we give you thanks for another day on this earth. We give you thanks for this day. We enjoy the compassionate goodness of you, our Creator. We acknowledge with one mind our respect and gratefulness to all the sacred cycle of life. Bind us together in this circle of compassion to embrace all living creatures and one another. Amen. Did you hear the paganism in that? Again, the biblical understanding of history is teleological from the Greek word telos, which means end. Many in our society, even in some of the churches, are living as on a treadmill in a cycle of meaningless life. And many are rarely quiet. And never think about life as Paul commands here. We Christians need not live in this awful emptiness. In fact, what we're commanded to do is to be filled with the Holy Spirit. That's the third person of the Trinity. It's commanded in the place of such emptiness, such debauchery. And the concept of being filled with the Holy Spirit deserves a few minutes of explanation. The phrase, be filled with the Holy Spirit, is a present tense verb. In the middle or passive voice. This means that even though you are, as a Christian, indwelt by the Spirit who regenerated you, if you are a Christian, And he was addressing Christians here. He says, you must continue to be filled with the Holy Spirit. It's an active verb and a command and an imperative. And you could translate it this way. Continue to be being filled with the Holy Spirit. Something we must continue. Now, I tried to think about how to illustrate that and came up with this one When we lived in Minnesota in the middle 1980s, we lived in an old two-story house next to the church. The house was called the Mance. That's the Presbyterian name for where the pastor lives, if he doesn't own his own home, which they didn't back then, a lot of them didn't. Mance is short for mansion, and it's short of a mansion, too. Minnesota is known for its cold. But it can get really hot. And we living in the manse had no air conditioning. When the heat wave started, with daily temperatures of 95 to 100 degrees and lows in the 80s, we closed all the windows For two days to preserve the cool air inside the house. After that, the air inside got increasingly warm and very stale. I remember during that period one night after Jennifer had taken care of little baby Isaac for a while, she got tired of it because he wasn't getting his peace. And she said, she nudged me and said, your turn. So I found myself outside pacing up and down the street. with a baby sweating and crying at 1 a. m. That's how hot it was But inevitably, it's Minnesota. Inevitably, a new air mass blew in from Canada. A cold front with the fresh north breeze. The new air surrounded the house. You could go outside without breaking a sweat, but the air inside the house was still stale. An old sail with cooking odors and baby diaper smells. We used to use cloth diapers and other such things. What did we need to do? We needed to open the windows. We threw open the windows downstairs. Then we went upstairs and threw open the windows upstairs. And finally we propped the doors open and let the breeze blow through. To push out all the old stale stuff and fill the house with a new air mass The house was being filled with the Spirit, you see, replacing all the old, stale, miserable stuff. Brothers and sisters, in regeneration, the Holy Spirit initiates new life. But we are to be more and more and continuously filled. As we open up the areas of our life to Him. Could it be that there are still closed rooms in your house? Dark closets where the Holy Spirit needs to come in and fill, replacing the old sinful foolishness and emptiness. There is no lack of power. No lack of power. This is the same Spirit that raised our Lord Jesus from the dead. The same Spirit who is given to us as a guarantee of our inheritance. When he fills your life, he fills it with purpose and meaning. He shows you that your time and your place in life matter in the great plan that he has for the salvation of the world. So therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is, and this is it. To count the days and understand the time and to be filled with the Spirit, opening the doors and windows of our house to let the Spirit in. Do you want to be filled with the Holy Spirit this way? Open your life to the fresh work of the Spirit. Ask him to blow out the stale emptiness, the debauchery of sin and death, and ask him to keep filling you. And if you don't get some experience, as soon as you do it, don't give up. Pray diligently. Ask continually. Say it every day, Lord, come in and fill my life and blow out the old stuff. There's a second command here. I'm not sure whether it's given in order to be filled with the Spirit, or because we are filled with the Spirit, probably both. And it is the command to sing. The command to sing My former colleague, Bob Letham, really believed in the command to sing. He preached it. He would even stop the accompanist sometimes and say, wait, you're not singing out there. And then everybody would perk up and okay, okay. And we'd start again and it would be a lot better. Bob Letham was absolutely monotone. If you heard him sing holy, holy, holy, it would be on one tone. But he sang anyway, because he believed the word of God that singing is commanded. It says it in verse 19, addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart. Sing what? There's three things here. Psalms, that probably refers to the book of Psalms, the Hebrew poetry. And Jesus was completely familiar with the whole book, 150 Psalms. Jesus quoted the Psalms more than any other genre of scripture. Did you know that? So sing the Psalms. Our Trinity hymnal has a lot of psalms in it. I know they have titles at the top and so forth, but you look down there and you'll see that some of them are psalms, really psalms. And a committee in our denomination is working together with another denomination to produce a new Psalter hymnal that will have all 150 Psalms set to pretty good tunes, I hope. And then there'll be a nice selection of hymns as well. It'll be done in a couple of years. But we're also to sing hymns. What are hymns? We know what psalms are. What are hymns? It comes from Greek-styled songs about heroes and gods in festive lyrics. So festive lyric verses, Greek-styled songs about heroes and gods that are now used to praise the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. That's what a hymn is. We have some examples of hymns that are not psalms. In Ephesians, I'll just give you a couple. In Ephesians 4, the chapter before this, verses 4 through 6 Paul starts bursting forth into song, quoting a hymn. He says, There is one body and one spirit Just as you were called to one hope that belongs to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. That's a hymn. Lyric Greek poetry about God. Our great hero God. Another one from 2 Timothy, there's many These are just two. Second Timothy two, eleven through thirteen, Paul says, the saying is trustworthy. And then he starts If we died with him, we will also live with him. If we endure, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he will deny us. If we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself. That's a hymn in the Bible. And we're to sing hymns about our great God, as the early church did And then spiritual songs is the third category. And I think, and most scholars think that this refers to other lyric poetry that is not the Psalter. such as the Song of Moses in Exodus 15, where there's this great celebration of Pharaoh's destruction. And the armies that drown in the Red Sea. I will sing unto the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and rider were thrown into the sea. And it goes on. And the Song of Miriam, which is a shorter version of the same theme right there as well. And there are New Testament spiritual songs. We have in Luke chapter 1 the song of Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist. And he begins by saying, Blessed be the Lord God who has visited and redeemed his people. And it goes on, and you can read it. And then there's the song of Mary in the same chapter. My soul exalts in God my Savior, for he has cast down the strong and the mighty, and lifted up the weak. He has promised and kept his promises. And the song with Simeon, which we often sing here, Luc Dimitis in Latin, Lord, let your servant now depart in peace, for my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared before the face of all people. a light to lighten the Gentiles and for the glory of your people, Israel. That's a spiritual song Music, music, song is of the Spirit. When we sing, perhaps we are more filled with the Spirit, but when we're filled with the Spirit, we must sing. We must sing. In the first century, a Roman fellow named Pliny wrote his friend Vespasian, the Roman Emperor. Describing the Christians. He says this, they are accustomed on a fixed day to gather before daybreak and to sing a hymn to Christ as to a God. Yeah. And then much later in the 16th century, I have a bunch of great quotes from Martin Luther. Here's what Martin Luther says: Next to the Word of God, music deserves the highest praise. The gift of language combined with the gift of song was given to man that he should proclaim the Word of God through music. He says, in another quote, music is the art of the prophets and the gift of God. He says in another quote, My heart, which is so full to overflowing, has often been solaced and refreshed by music when sick and weary. And then he says this final one, the devil, the originator of sorrowful anxieties and restless troubles, flees. Before the sound of music, almost as much as before the word of God. And then he says: music is a gift and grace of God, not an invention of man. Thus, it drives out the devil and makes people cheerful. Then one forgets all wrath and impurity and other devices. Song is commanded. Song is of the Spirit. And we are commanded to sing. George Butterick, a missionary, tells About a pagan man in a village in Pakistan who offered free land to the little church that met next door to his house. When he was asked the reason for his offer, it seems he was afraid that his wives would be influenced by the Christians singing. Singing. And it's not just in church. You know the story of Paul and Silas who were singing in jail in the middle of the night in Philippi. And this brought about the conversion of the jailer and the baptism of his family that very night. One final. Years ago, there was a vessel called the Ocean Monarch, which was wrecked in the English Channel during a storm. In the middle of the night, there was a steamer cruising nearby, and the captain began to hear something. And as he continued on the journey, he heard it louder and louder First it was faint, but he heard it more distinctly later. People floating on the sea in the night, in the storm, were singing Jesus, lover of my soul, let me to thy bosom fly, while the nearer waters roll, while the tempest still is high. You see, Christians, knowing who they are and knowing the meaning and purpose of life and filled with the Spirit, sing even in the darkness. When they are filled with the Spirit, they sing because they know the meaning of life and they understand the times. And they redeem even the time that they're floating in the storm. Song breaks forth as the Spirit fills you. So I hope that your life, brothers and sisters, is filled with song. Filled with song, but not just any music. There's music everywhere. There's music in the grocery stores. There's music everywhere. But filled with God's song. Something to really sing about. Your life will be filled with God's song when you first open your life to Christ, turning away from sin and death and vanity, and it will continue as you're more and more filled with the Spirit. And sing God's songs. And then there's a third, a third command here, an imperative, a result of all this, and it is thanksgiving. Verse 20 Paul says, giving thanks always, listen to this, always and for everything, to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. If you believe that life really does have meaning, and it has a goal and an end, it's not just some crazy cycle. If you believe that, even suffering, which is given or allowed or permitted by a wise and good God as part of his sovereign plan, if you believe that, then you'll be able to give thanks always. And for everything. Some believers lack a sense of gratitude To them the glass is always half empty, and nothing is good enough. They have the gift of criticism. Brothers and sisters, criticism is not a spiritual gift. I have known and seen many Christians filled with thanksgiving even in dire circumstances Even suffering chronic pain and cancer, and on deathbeds, still praising God with doxology. Such persons admit that we do not know why God permits suffering. But we also, here's the converse of the question of why God permits suffering. We also do not know why God permits so much pleasure And so much enjoyment and so much comfort for those of us who fain love him and care for him. We know that we deserve hell, but that God sent Jesus to free us and to save us and to bring us into a renewed paradise. Therefore, therefore We sing and thanks God. There was a godly father who always led his children in prayer at dinner time. And he was a man who majored on Thanksgiving. This is a pulpit story, by the way. I don't have a reference for this. He came home from work one miserable cold day and announced to his wife and children that his job had been eliminated and that he was now unemployed. His children wondered aloud to each other what dad would say at dinner. Dad, who was always so thankful. And as he began his evening prayer at dinner, he said, Lord, we thank you that every day is not like this day. When we awaken to life in Christ and open up the areas of our life to the Spirit, We will sing and we will be thankful always, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. And going back to the beginning of the passage, we will be able to look carefully then how we walk, not as unwise, but wise. Keep on being filled with the Spirit. Sing. Fill your life with the songs of God's grace. And be thankful for everything and always. Noting the sovereign purposes of a good God and Savior. Amen. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you for these reminders, these commandments to keep on growing. To open up the stale areas of our life, to sing your songs of praise, and to be thankful. Help us, Lord. In Jesus' name, amen.