Please open your Bibles to the 58th chapter of the book of Isaiah, where we'll read the prophet Isaiah's word on true and false fasting. Isaiah 58, verses 1 through 14. Cry aloud, do not hold back. Lift up your voice like a trumpet. Declare to my people their transgression, to the house of Jacob their sins. Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways, as if they were a nation that did righteous and did not forsake the judgment of their God. They ask of me righteous judgments. They delight to draw near to God. Why have we fasted and you see it not Not. Why have we humbled ourselves, and you take no knowledge of it? Behold, in the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure, and oppress all your workers. Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice be heard on high. Is such the fast that I chose to a day for a person to humble himself? Is it to bow down his head like a reed and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him Will you call this a fast and a day acceptable to the Lord? Is not this the fast that I chose To loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, and to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke. Is it not to share your bread with the hungry? and bring the homeless poor into your house when you see the naked to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh. Then shall your light break forth like the dawn. And your healing shall spring up speedily. Your righteousness shall go before you. The glory of the Lord shall be your rear guard Then you shall call the Lord and will then you shall call and the Lord will answer. You shall cry and he will say, Here I am. If you take away the yoke from your midst, the pointing of the finger and speaking wickedness, if you pour yourself out for the hungry and satisfy the desire of the afflicted, then shall your light rise in the darkness, and your gloom be as the new. And the Lord will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scorched places and make your bones strong. And you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water, whose waters do not fail. And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt. If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight, and the holy Holy day of the Lord, honorable, if you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly, then you shall take delight in the Lord And I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. The word of the Lord. Luke one, beginning at verse forty-six. Reading through verse 55, Luke 1, verse 46. And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. For he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed For he who has is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers To Abraham and to his offspring forever. This is the word of the Lord. The portion that was read is Isaiah 58. We're in Isaiah 59 today, and Isaiah 58 is important to serve as a backdrop. You have to get the context, the whole situation And at the beginning of chapter 58, it was read, cry aloud, do not hold back, lift up your voice like a trumpet. You think, oh, good news, trumpet sounds, right? Not in this case. Because it says, declare to my people their transgression, to the house of Jacob their sins. So not such good news being trumpeted here. And we get down to verse 3, which was read. And Israel is saying, we've been doing our religious stuff. Why aren't you listening to us, God? We are having trouble here. We're doing the religion. We're trying to do the fasts and so forth, and you are not listening. They say, why have we fasted and you see it not? Why have we humbled ourselves and you take no knowledge of it? And then what God says is, Behold, in the day of your fast, You seek your own pleasure. You're doing this for yourself, not for me. Behold, in the day of your fast, you seek your own pleasure and oppress all your workers. In other words, you are not walking the walk. You're not doing what you should. You're sinning at the same time as you're doing the religious stuff. And then he talks about injustice and greed and oppression of the poor. That's not good fasting, you see. And then he says, by the way, you also have neglected my Sabbath. That I ordained from creation. You're doing what you want to do on the Sabbath instead of what I want you to do on the Sabbath. Verse 13. If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath from doing your pleasure on my holy day. If you call the Sabbath a delight and the holy day of the Lord honorable, if you honor it not going your own ways, how many times have people People gone their own ways on the Lord's day and done their own thing on the Lord's Day. Well, he's telling these people that's what they did. He says, or seeking your own pleasure Or talking idly, just flittering the day away with things that have nothing to do with the Lord's day, the Sabbath. Well, that's, he says, that is not fasting. You can do religion if you want, but if you don't do what I want you to do from your heart, if you don't honor me and honor my day and love me and serve people in my name, then it's no good It won't work. And so that is the situation of the backdrop here. And the people speak up again. Well, Isaiah speaks up in chapter 59, verse 1. And he tells us about their miserable condition, but that it is not a problem with God. He says, Behold, look, he says, behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened. That it cannot save. Or his ear dull. You know, I have to do this sometimes. Tell me again. His ear is not dull that it cannot hear. God's people wondered why God did not seem to rescue them from their trials. They were doing the religion stuff, at least outwardly. They wondered if perhaps God had lost some of his strength after all, if his hand of power had become kind of weak. Or shortened. You couldn't reach out anymore. The Isaiah prophet assures them that this is not the case. This suggests one of the greatest problems in practical theology, by the way. How can there be a God of love and all power and there still be human suffering? Because if we loved someone and had the power to end their suffering, wouldn't we do it? Isaiah addressed those who wondered if maybe God was not all-powerful after all. And that's why their suffering was continuing. Rabbi Harold Kushner, some years ago, wrote a wide-selling book titled When Bad Things Happen to Good People. When bad things happen to good people, even the title has error in it, doesn't it? It sold more than a half million copies before going to paperback and And a lot more after that, and it was on the New York Times bestseller list for a whole year. And the whole point of the book is to say: God is all-loving, but not all-powerful. That is, God is good but not sovereign. So when bad things happen to, quote, good people, it is because events are out of God's control. Rabbi Kushner advises his readers in the book to learn to love God and forgive him despite his limitations. Wow. This is certainly not the God of the Bible, because the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save. Isaiah simply says, behold, look, this is not the case. And his ear, he doesn't have any hearing problem either. Or maybe they think he lacks knowledge of the situation. No, that is not the problem either. God can hear, God knows all things at all times. So the theological problem still remains, as with Job, who was never told what was happening to him or why. We are left to trust God without having answers to some questions. We are looking forward in faith, however, to a new heavens and a new earth. Regenerated and healed bodies and minds, and an eternity of joyfully searching the mysteries of God in his inscrutable ways. That is our solution. But back to the test. There is a cause. There is a cause why things aren't going their way And Isaiah tells them what it is in verse 2 through 15. But your iniquities, that's the problem. Sin, your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God. Your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear you. You know that beautiful ironic blessing that we receive here sometimes from Numbers chapter 6. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you, lift up his countenance unto you, and be gracious unto you and give you peace. They weren't feeling it anymore. That's what Isaiah says, so that your sins have hidden his face from you. The problem was not The inability of God to hear or his lack of interest in hearing, it was their sin. And by the way, looking ahead, far ahead, we see why Jesus was when he was on the cross, said, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? God's face, at least in some sense, was turned away from him for a moment as he bore our sins, the intolerable weight of our sins. Then Isaiah goes on to expand. He didn't just say this, he gives them plenty of details. Your hands are defiled with blood. You know, if you if you talk about a murder scene or something and you see blood on the hands of someone, you wow, they must be the one, right? Your fingers with iniquity. Your lips have spoken lies. Your tongue mutters wickedness. No one enters suit justly. Law problems here. No one goes to law honestly. They rely on empty pleas, they speak lies, they conceive mischief, and give birth to iniquity. They hatch adders' eggs, snake eggs. They weave the spider's web. He who eats their eggs dies. Very graphic. From one that is crushed a viper is hatched. Their webs will not serve as clothing. Men will not cover themselves with what they make. Their works are works of iniquity and their deeds of violence are in their hands. What a bunch of description. You can't go around wearing spider webs, can you? And spider webs are for catching bugs, and spiders eat bugs. It doesn't sound very helpful or beneficial. And then he says one, a few more things, beginning at verse 7, which are quoted by the Apostle Paul. He says, their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity. Desolation and destruction are in their highways. The way of peace they do not know, and there is no justice in their paths. They have made their roads crooked. No one who treads on them knows peace. Paul quotes those verses A little different in wording, but generally the same. He quotes those verses in Romans chapter 3, where he's making a case at the whole human race is a sinner. Man is a sinner from start to finish, inside and out. And he quotes those words And then he goes on to describe more. Therefore, justice is far from us. Righteousness does not overtake us. We hope for light, but behold darkness, for brightness, but we walk in gloom. We grope for the wall like the blind. It's so graphic. I get up in the night sometimes. You know? And uh if if I don't watch out I'll trip over something. So I kinda feel for the bedpost and then this other bedpost and then so forth and so on. Need a night light if you want to get me something for Christmas Christmas. We grope like those who have no eyes. We stumble at noon, as in the twilight. Doesn't matter whether the sun's out, we're in darkness, he says. Among those in full vigor, we are like dead men. The strongest and best athletes are weak like dead men. And then this is really good stuff here, verse 11. We all growl like bears. We get up and we grumble and we growl and rah-rah row. Life stinks We moan and moan like doves. Some people growl, other people moan. We hope for justice, but there is none. For salvation, but it is far from us. And then he gives one of these four reasons why, verse 12, for our transgressions are multiplied before you Our sins testify against us. Our sins are like witnesses coming forward in the court of law saying, he did this, he did that, she did this, she did that. They're testifying. Against us. Our transgressions are with us, and we know our iniquities, transgressing and denying the Lord, turning back from following our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart lying words. Justice is turned back, and righteousness stands far away, for truth has stumbled in the public squares. And uprightness cannot enter. Then verse 15, truth is lacking, and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey. What does that mean? It means someone who tries to do the right thing. Is a target by the others. He who departs from evil makes himself a prey. This is not only a description of Israel and Judah's corrupt society, but a description that I think you would agree fits all human history, all nations, all societies, all of them. From time to time in history, there may be leaders who are raised up and make some reforms for a time, such as King Josiah. We've got a child in the church here named Josiah? Or as when Scotland covenanted with God to make Christ the King of Scotland For a time, not so much now. They're as bad as any place in Europe. Or as the time when our nation was founded on biblical principles But all tend to degenerate and grow worse. And we know this is also true on a personal level. David Gutzik says, sin separates us from fellowship with God. Because at least at the point of our sin, we no longer think like God thinks. Sin separates us from the blessing of God because at least at the point of our sin we are not trusting God and relying on Him. Sin separates us from some of the benefits of God's love. Because even at the point of our sin, we are turning to other things to benefit us instead of God's love. And God's grace. Sin separates us in some ways from the protection of God because He will allow trials to come upon us to correct us. When we sin. Israel was languishing under God's corruption, as were individual persons in that people. And then we get to point number two, the initiative of God, his action. And that's the second half of verse 15. Isn't this beautiful? Listen. The Lord saw it. What is the it? It's all this mess. The Lord saw it, and it displeased him that there was no justice. He saw that there was no man, no, not one, and wondered that there was no one to intercede. Now God had sent prophets, priests, and kings. But as he looked at the prophets, even the best ones like Isaiah and others And he's looked at the kings, the best ones like David and others. None was qualified to mend the breach. None was able to reconcile God and humans. He saw that there was no man and wondered that there was no one to intercede. God waited and waited for disobedient Israel to turn to him. He waited for a man to lead them back. He waited for an intercessor to plead before him, but none arose. So the Lord did it himself. That's what Christmas is all about. The Lord did it himself It says then his own arm. We talk short or weak or whatever, then his own arm brought him salvation. As you think of that baby Jesus in the manger with his little tiny arm, you need to think of the arm of God. In the manger. His own arm brought him salvation. And his righteousness, he was the only one righteous. No man. His own righteousness upheld him. Then it says, these beautiful words, verse 17, He put on righteousness as a breastplate. What's he dressed like in the manger there? You need to see him. He's got a breastplate on. And he's got a helmet on, too, and a helmet of salvation on his head. And where do we hear that elsewhere in the Bible about breastplates of righteousness and helmets of salvation? Where do we get that? You find it in Ephesians 6, where we're told. Finally, be strong among Lord in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against rulers, against authorities, against cosmic powers over this present darkness. Verse 13: Take up the whole armor of God. Take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand. Therefore, put on the breastplate of righteousness. And the helmet of salvation and so forth. Why can we put these on? We're told to put them on. Because first God put them on. In that baby in the manger. He put them on. It's told to us right here. God's wonderful initiative. He put on garments of vengeance for clothing. There's some more stuff he's wearing. He wrapped himself. You you see say in a swaddling cloth, right? No, he wrapped himself in zeal. That's determination. As a cloak. That's what he's wearing. And then verse 18: According to their deeds, so will he repay. Wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies, to the coastlands, he will render repayment. And that tells us that justice finally will be meted out to the devil and all those allied with him. And the wonderful result of God taking initiative, God taking action, is this, verse 19. So they will fear the name of the Lord from the east to the west, everywhere. From the glory of the rising of the sun, that's the east, for he will come like the rushing stream which the wind of the Lord drives. And then verse 20 gets It's really specific here. And a redeemer will come to J to Zion. A redeemer will come to Zion. To those in Jacob who turn from transgression, declares the Lord. That word Redeemer is in Hebrew the word Goel. And it has a very specific meaning. A goel was Defined in Israel's family life as someone who was a kinsman, this is your kin, and his Redeemer who is responsible to buy a fellow Israelite out of slavery. described in Leviticus 25. Kinsman Redeemer is supposed to buy you out of slavery if you get stuck in slavery for some reason. He is also responsible to be the avenger of blood. That is, to make sure that the murder of a family member of yours is answered with justice. He is responsible to buy back family land that had been forfeited. Leviticus 25, 25. He was responsible to carry on the family name by marrying a childless widow to make sure posterity goes forward. Deuteronomy 25, 5-10. In these we see that the Goel, the kinsman redeemer, was responsible to safeguard the persons, the property, and the posterity of the family. And so when our English Standard Version capitalizes the word Redeemer here, it's doing it rightly. Because Christ is our Near kinsman. He took on human nature for us. He has added perfect humanity to his deity for us. He is the one who bought us out of slavery, so poignantly described here in these earlier verses. He is the one who avenges wrongs done to us. And he protects our inheritance and blesses and guards our posterity, our children's children, as the text says. Someone has said the promise of the Lord here in verse 20 is this. It could be paraphrased this way: I will send my Messiah, the Redeemer of all humanity, Jesus. Emmanuel, God with us. But this is for specific people, described in the next phrase, to those who turn from transgression We can't just say, oh, it's great that God did it. Yay! It's for those who turn from transgression. Not everyone turns from transgression. Transgression. Millions and multitudes don't turn from transgression. They keep going the same way. But by God's sovereign grace working in our hearts Many of us have been turned to God. Many of us have been given the gift of faith, to trust in God's promises in Christ. To those who turn from transgression, it's not that we worked ourselves up to turning. It's that God in his wonderful grace turned. us. And now we are turned. And he sends his Redeemer, His Goel, His Messiah to us us, to save us, to deliver us, to preserve our posterity, to give us life forevermore. That's why we can sing as it's paraphrased in that Psalm 98: no more let sins and sorrows grow, nor thorns infest the ground. That's the curse. He comes to make his blessings flow far as the curse is found. How far is that? Everywhere. He rules the world with truth and grace and makes the nations prove the glories of his righteousness, his saving power and righteousness, and wonders of his love. And so the end result of him coming will be indeed wonderful. Verse 19: So shall they fear the name of the Lord from the east and west, from the rising of the sun. This is a picture of his ultimate victory when he will come to share with us. The glory of the Lord will be known from east to west. This is what has come in the advent of Jesus Christ. Now maybe In fact, I know it's the case. Some of you are still suffering. Maybe it's physical suffering, maybe it's emotional or mental, maybe it's suffering under the load of sin in your life. Please know that by faith your suffering, though it may continue, can be suffering in hope now. Now, because of what God has done. There will be so much more blessing in the future There will be complete healing. We have substantial healing now through faith in Christ, but there will be complete healing. All of our memories, all of our hurts, all of our pains, all of the injustices done to us or done by us will be completely mended when he returns. That leads me to conclude with one more Christmas carol. It's from it came up on a midnight clear. And it speaks to our present situation sometimes. And ye beneath life's crushing load. Do you feel like life is a crushing load? Sometimes, whose forms are bending low, who toil along the climbing way with painful steps and slow. Look now, for glad and golden hours come swiftly on the wing. Oh, rest beside the weary road and hear the angels sing about Jesus. One more stanza, For lo, the days are hastening on by prophets seen of old, when with the ever-circling years shall come the time foretold. When peace shall over all the earth its anxious splendors fling, And the whole world send back the song Which now the angels sing My dear friends, the Lord is not weak. The Lord is not deaf or blind, even though He came as a little baby The Lord is dressed, swaddled in a cloak of zeal to save you. Now in this life, substantial healing, but finally complete and perfect. Healing. He is dressed in battle garments. He wore the helmet of salvation for you. He is your kinsman. He came in human nature for you. He is your Redeemer. Hallelujah. Amen Lord, we pray that you will use your word, which in many places was dark and grim. But that darkness is contrasted so beautifully with the light of your coming to save us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.