We will read the Song of Solomon, chapter 3, verses 6 through 11. What is that coming up from the wilderness like columns of smoke? Perfumed with myrrh and frankincense, with all the fragrant powders of a merchant. Behold, it is the litter of Solomon. Around it are sixty mighty men, some of the mighty men of Israel, all of them wearing swords and expert in war, each with his sword at his thigh against terror by night King Solomon made himself a carriage from the wood of Lebanon. He made its posts of silver, its back of gold, its seat of purple. Its interior was inlaid with love by the daughters of Jerusalem. Go out, O daughters of Zion, and look upon King Solomon With the crown with which his mother crowned him on the day of his wedding, on the day of the gladness of his heart. This is the word of the Lord. 2 Peter 1, 3 through 11. 2 Peter 1, 3 through 11. His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life. and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted us his precious and very great promises So that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control. And self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection And brotherly affection with love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, They keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to confirm your calling and election. For if you practice these qualities, you will never fall. And then the reading from the Gospel of Matthew chapter 25, 1 through 13. This is the passage for the preaching today. Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps and went to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were foolish, and five were wise. When the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them, but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. But at midnight there was a cry. Here is the bridegroom. Come out to meet him. Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the wise answered, saying, Since there will not be enough for us and for you, go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves. And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast. And the door was shut. Afterward the other virgins came also saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered, Truly I say to you, I do not know you. Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour. This is the word of the Lord. We sang this psalm just a few moments ago. It was a it was a reminder to me that uh when we sing the psalms Uh it's it's not uh always a joyful a joyful upbeat uh happy psalm about how wonderful things are. It was a very grim But you know what? When we sing that we're s we're we're getting in touch with God's view of the world and sin and the situation and uh his judgment that comes. That's what that was about, wasn't it? And in the same way, this particular parable is a warning parable. Not really a most cheerful thing, the way it ends. But uh we need the whole steady diet, don't we? Not just the things that are happy and uplifting and pleasing, but the steady diet of God's word to remind us and to keep us on track. So that's what we have here today. The parable here before us was preceded in chapter 24 of Matthew by the foretelling of events by Jesus. Which events culminated in the destruction of Jerusalem and specifically the destruction of the temple? including this amazingly specific predictive statement that Jesus made in 24 verse 2 when he said There will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be cast down Not one stone shall be left upon another. And then some forty years later, after Jesus said this, there was the widespread Jewish revolution against the Romans in Palestine. And the Jews enjoyed many early successes, but ultimately the Romans crushed the rebels. And in A. D. 70, Jerusalem was leveled, including the temple. And just as Jesus said it would happen. Titus, the commander in charge of this whole operation, would have been glad to preserve the temple as one of the world's great wonders built by Herod. But his soldiers burned it. It is said that at the fall of Jerusalem, the last surviving Jews of the city fled to the temple because it was the strongest and most secure building in the city, and Roman soldiers in their anger surrounded it, and it's told that one drunken soldier started a fire that soon engulfed the whole building And the ornate gold detail work on the roof of the temple melted down into the cracks of the stones of the temple. And to retrieve that gold, the Roman commander ordered that the temple be dismantled stone by stone. The destruction was so complete that today it's hard to find or discern exactly where the foundation of the temple was. That whaling wall that you see is a retention wall below the foundation. And about those stones, Josephus says that the stones were white. And they were strong. They were fifty feet long and twenty-four feet broad and sixteen feet thick, according to Josephus Antiquities. Not easy stones to dismantle. But the prophecy that Jesus made about not one stone being left but another was literally fulfilled 40 years after he made it. There was a real temple that was really destroyed. Literal fulfillment of this prophecy establishes the tone for the rest of the prophecies. And the prophecy and the parable that we have today. We should expect a literal fulfillment of these also. So Jesus described the events preceding this great destruction of Jerusalem and the temple in chapter 24 up to verse 35. In answer to the question as to when these things would take place. That is the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple. And then in verse 36 of chapter 24, he took up the answer to the second half of that question. And the time of your coming, the time of his final coming, the one we're still looking for And so, in answer to that question, he uses three parables, and he hammers home the need to be ready for his coming. It's a time that no one knows, you see. So we're going to look at that first parable briefly. The ten virgins go out to meet a bridegroom at a wedding. Then the kingdom of heaven shall be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. Weddings were wonderful affairs. And it reminds us, as Jesus tells this parable, it's about the kingdom of God, he says, that the kingdom of God is a big party. It's a wonderful party. It's a wedding feast. Not boring. It'll be festive. And there were three stages to a Jewish wedding in that day. The first was the engagement. Where a formal agreement was made between the father of the bride and the father of the groom. And then the second was the betrothal, the ceremony where mutual promises are made. And then the third was the marriage itself. Approximately one year later, when the bridegroom would come at an unexpected time for his bride. That would be party time. The really big event. When the bridegroom came and the parable, the bridesmaids who were attending the bride went forth to meet the bridegroom with lamps lighted to conduct him to his companions into the house and to the bride. That's what they would be waiting for to do Talmudic authorities said that there were usually ten lamps in a bridal procession, and it was common that that was the size of the wedding. That little bit of Song of Solomon that was read earlier is showing this this procession of the the groom coming in to meet his bride for this phase of the wedding. In this parable, the first two stages have already taken place. Now, the wedding party, that is, the ten virgins and all the others, waits for the coming of the bridegroom for the bride. To see the bridegroom here as Jesus himself is warranted in light of Matthew 9, 15, where he calls himself the bridegroom who will go away. This would be a very bold figure for him to use, since in the Old Testament, frequently the bridegroom is God, not the Messiah. And Israel is the bride. So he's really taking on the role of God here, isn't he, as the bridegroom in this particular case. And we can see that described those images of God being the bridegroom and Israel being the bride in Isaiah 54, if you want to take notes, Isaiah 62. Jeremiah 2, Hosea 1 through 3. Second part, verses 2 through 13, the virgins, that is, young women. are caught unprepared and are denied entry. Now five of them were wise and five were foolish. Those who were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. But while the bridegroom was delayed, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight A cry was heard. Behold, the bridegroom is coming. Go out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their laps. And the foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the wise answered, saying, No, lest those should not be enough for us and for you, but go rather to those who sell and buy for yourselves. And while they were Went to buy the bridegroom came. And those who were ready went in with him to the wedding. And the door was shut. Afterward, the other virgins came also saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and said, Assuredly, I say to you, I do not know you Watch therefore, for you know neither the day or the hour in which the Son of Man is coming. Just to summarize, some of the wedding party were wise and prepared for the coming of the bridegroom, and some in the wedding party were foolish and unprepared. While the bridegroom was delayed, they all slumbered and slept. Nothing wrong with that. All ten of the maidens slept, but the bridegroom Came and in the parable both the wise and the foolish were sleeping, but the wise ones were prepared to wake up and take their torches and have enough oil to take in to the procession, to the wedding feast. They're waiting to escort the bridegroom in this wonderful procession. The five foolish virgins appear to be ready for the bridegroom. Because they have their lance in hand, but they're not really ready because they took no oil with them. F. F. Bruce says, in this torchlight procession, their torches consisting of a wooden staff held in the hand with a dish at the top. in which was a piece of cloth or rope dipped in oil. That's what we have here. It'll only last a certain amount of time before you have to put more oil in to keep the fire going. The wise virgins have an extra supply of oil. At midnight was heard the cry, Behold, the bridegroom is coming. At an unexpected hour, the bridegroom came for the wedding. And all those virgins immediately began to prepare their lamps for lighting, but some were not ready. To whom is this parable addressed? R. T. France says It is a warning addressed specifically to those inside the professing church who are not to assume that their future is unconditionally assured. Can I say that again? It is a warning addressed specifically to those inside the professing church who were not to assume that their future is unconditionally assured. All ten Are expecting to be at the feast until the moment comes when there is an apparent difference between them. It is a crisis which will divide the ready from the unready. Give us some of your oil for our lamps are going out. The foolish virgins were unprepared because they lacked oil for their lamps. And in the Bible, many passages depict oil as an emblem of the Holy Spirit, such as Zechariah 4, 1 through 7. Without oil, the wedding party was not ready for the bridegroom. Without the Holy Spirit, no one is ready for the return of Jesus. Being born from above, being regenerate, having the Holy Spirit, not mere outward profession, you see. Oil may have an intentional symbolic link to the Holy Spirit. In a parable, not everything has a meaning, but it's very likely here. Oil, you see, heals when it is used as a medicinal treatment in biblical times. The Spirit of God brings healing and restoration. Oil lights when it is burned in a lamp, as in this parable, where the Spirit of God is, there is light. Oil warms when it is used as a fuel for a flame. Where the Spirit of God is, there is warmth and comfort. Oil adorns when it is applied as a perfume or as a salve. The Holy Spirit adorns us and makes us more pleasant to be around. And no one can be a true Christian without the indwelling Holy Spirit. As it says in Romans 8:9. Now, if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not his. If so, a key to the Christian readiness is to be constantly being filled with the Holy Spirit As we're told in Ephesians 5, 18, where Paul says, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be being filled with the Spirit. That in mind, much of the weakness and defeat and lethargy in spiritual life can be explained if we're not constantly being filled with the Spirit. Again, the distinction between the unwise and the wise is likely between members of the covenant community, that is the visible church. in history versus members of the eschatological or final church. So we could apply it in these ways Covenant children in the church, baptized children in the church, who have not yet made a profession of faith. There are some here, lots of them actually. Uh they are called by the Apostle Paul and First Corinthians seven, they're called holy. It doesn't mean they're saved Doesn't mean they have the Holy Spirit. It just means that they're set apart covenantally. They're part of the visible church community. And baptism is the mark of that. They're holy. But that doesn't make them final members of the eschatological church. They must Have the Holy Spirit. They must profess their faith. They must be regenerate. They must be born again. They must live and be filled with the Holy Spirit. And persevere in it all their lives, by God's grace, by God's power, not by their own hard efforts This also could be addressed to professing Christians, that is, persons who are baptized and communicates in the church. Our confession of faith in chapter 18 tells us that the assurance of salvation, the assurance of entering the wedding feast, that assurance is not always absolute. So listen to these words. And I'm going to use the the words from the parable in in I as I read the Confession of Faith. Listen from the Confession of Faith with my additions. Although hypocrites, that is, unwise virgins, and other unregenerate men may vainly deceive themselves with the false hopes and carnal presumptions of being in the favor of God and the estate of salvation which hope of theirs shall perish. Yet those as truly believe in the Lord Jesus, that's wise virgins, and love him in sincerity Endeavoring to walk in all good conscience before him may in this life be certainly assured that they are in the state of grace. And may rejoice in the hope of the glory of God, which hope shall never make them ashamed. Going back to the parable for a moment. When the bridegroom arrived, the wise virgins with ample oil accompanied him into the wedding feast. But to the unwise, the door was shut. Assuredly, I say to you, I do not know you. Wow. The penalty was severe for these foolish maidens They were not allowed to come into the wedding, and the door was shut against them in the strongest terms. At the final judgment, to which we are all headed, there will be no opportunity to change the status of those who are merely professing Which are you? That's the question. That was the question then. That is the question now. Which are you? Wise or foolish? Professing or possessing? And how can you know? We can know by the constant and faithful use of the outward and ordinary means of grace. That is repentance with amendment of life. That's the outward signs of what goes on inside. Repentance and amendment of life. And it is marked by being filled with the Holy Spirit, ongoingly, who bears witness with your spirit that you are indeed a child of God. That you belong, that you're going on in to the feast. The unwise virgin's appeal to be admitted to the party and the bridegroom's response are very much like the chilling words Earlier in Matthew 7, 22 through 23, here's what Jesus said back then: Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name? And do many mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Oh, my friends, believe me as a preacher. That is chilling. Did I not prophesy on the Lord's day in your name? Yes, I did. And do other spiritual things. I don't want to hear Jesus say to me, I never knew you. Depart from me, you worker of iniquity. That is the decisive formula of rejection. I do not know you. I do not know you. I do not know you. In contrast to that, listen to these words of Jesus in John chapter 10, verses 14 and 15. He says, I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me, just as I know the Father, and the Father knows me, and I lay down my life for the sheep. John 10, 25. Jesus answered, I told you, you do not believe. The works that I do in my Father's name bear witness about me, but you do not believe, because you were not among my sheep. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand Will you be known at the door of the wedding feast? Spurgeon, Charles Spurgeon says about this, when that door is once shut, it will never be opened. There are some who dote and dream about an opening of that door after death for those who have died in penitence, but there is nothing in Scripture to warrant such an expectation. Any larger hope than that revealed in the Word of God is a delusion and a snare, says Spurgeon. So again, the application. Is at the end of this parable. Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming, and he's still coming, my friends. He's still coming. The point in the parable is to be ready by being real. The price for failing is too high. That's why the Apostle Paul, I believe Paul in Hebrews says, Let us cast aside everything that hinders and run with endurance the race that is set before us. Looking to Jesus. the author and perfecter of our faith. So again I address the covenant children, the baptized, the holy ones here. You, children, must must truly profess faith in Christ and make use of the means of grace and live in repentance and faith Your parents and elders should encourage you to do this as soon as possible, given your understanding of the faith But there is no age of accountability, as they say, during which you're free from responsibility to obey the gospel. Covenant children, you need to trust in Jesus, turn to Jesus, profess your faith in Jesus, truly. And for those who are maybe here living in unrepentant sin, professing Christians who live in unrepentant sin and hoping for a future time of opportunity to repent. There is no guarantee that you will have such a time. You could die at any time by sudden illness or accident. You should not presume upon the grace of God. Upon your supposed election as Calvinist, unless you bear the marks of election, which is first repentance and a changed life. Because you're not saved by your changed life, but you're not saved without a changed life either. And for those who outwardly observe the church's ordinances and moral standards But perhaps conform merely for social reasons. That's your case. You're risking low oil or no oil at the decisive hour. And it could be that at your funeral you will be assumed to be with the Lord. But the reality might be the voice of the Lord saying, I do not know you. That's the grim message. But, beloved, I believe better things concerning you. For you who sincerely love Jesus Christ as he is presented in Scripture Your lamps will burn bright. And you will enter that joyous wedding feast with innumerable others in great joy, in that festival procession, which goes on and on, as the old spiritual says, Oh, when the saints go marching in, Lord, I want to be in that number, and you will be in that number. It's also described beautifully in Revelation 19, 6 through 9. Listen to these words and hope to hear them yourself, believe that you will hear them yourself. Then I heard what seemed to be a voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters, and like the sound of mighty peals of thunder crying out Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come. His bride has made herself ready It was granted to her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure, for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. The angel said to me, Write this, Blessed are those who were invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Blessed are you. Who go in to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Let us pray. Lord, make us ready, ready people, not just in outward ways. Not just in our connection with a visible church, but by true regeneration, the gift of the Holy Spirit, constantly being filled with the Holy Spirit, living in repentance. running with patience the race that is set before us. It's all by your grace. We can't do it at all by ourselves. It's not by works, lest anyone should boast and help us to do what you have put before us. And may we all enter that marriage supper, Amen