Please turn your Bibles to Deuteronomy eighteen. We'll read verses fifteen through nineteen. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers. It is to him you shall listen. Just as you desired of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God. Or see this great fire anymore, lest I die. And the Lord said to me, They are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. And then in Isaiah 25, verses 6 through 9, on this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples A feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death forever, and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. It will be said on that day, behold, this is our God. We have waited for him, that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. This is the word of the Lord. And then we hear God's word from John chapter 6, 1 through 15. After this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias. And a large crowd was following him because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. Lifting up his eyes then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, 200 denarii would not buy enough bread for each of them to get a little. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish. But what are they for so many? Jesus said, have the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, about 5,000 in number. Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted. And when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples: Gather up the leftover fragments that nothing may be lost. So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who had eaten. When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet who is to come into the world. Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. This is the word of the Lord. We're in the sixth chapter now, but we go back a bit to the fifth chapter at the very end. Where Jesus was dealing with the Jews not in Galilee, but in Jerusalem. And he's speaking to them, and he says in verse 45 of chapter 5, Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you, Moses, on whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? And then we have this situation developing in chapter 6. And we go to think of it this way: after telling the Jews in Jerusalem that he is God, He is God who does everything that the Father does, who is in perfect coordination with the Father, after telling them that he has life in himself, that is self-existence. the property of Yahweh, the self-existent one, after telling them that He will raise the dead and he will pass judgment, and after telling them that John the Baptizer And the father's voice, and Moses are his witnesses, they are ready to kill him. So sometime later, he returned to Galilee for safety. And then we find him here at this place, selected by John, to underline the message of Jesus Chapter 6. After this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberius, and a large crowd was following him. You have to picture this in your mind. Because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. Now, we don't have a record of that in this gospel, but he tells us that's what was happening. So that's why these crowds are following him. And this is one of the seven signs that John pulls out of all the miracles and signs that Jesus did to convince the readers and hearers of the deity of Christ, of the saving work of Christ. And this is sign number four in the signs. The feeding of more than 5,000 men, as well as at least 5,000 more women and children. Now, this is by definition one of the signs. It's the fourth sign, and a sign has to be a miracle, otherwise it wouldn't prove anything And I look at Baker's Evangelical Dictionary of Biblical Theology to find out what is a miracle. And he says this, or they say this. Although English speakers regularly use the term miracle to refer to a broad range of wondrous events, and we do too, by the way, we talk about the miracle of a baby being born. But it's pretty ordinary, really, isn't it? So that's not the term, that's not the way the term is being used here. English speakers regularly use the term miracle to refer to a broad range of wondrous events The biblical concept is limited to those not explainable solely by natural processes, but which require the direct, listen, the direct causal agency. of a supernatural being, usually God. John pulls this thing out, this situation out, and says it's a miracle, and it proves something important about Jesus. Otherwise he wouldn't have chosen it in the first place. And the dictionary also goes on to say, these miracles occur throughout all major eras of history. but do appear with greater frequency at key periods of God's self-revelation. Well, the ministry of Jesus Christ is one of those key periods of God's self-revelation, if ever there was one. And so the situation of this miracle is no leisurely picnic or outing on a camping trip where people would have prepared to be away from in the country for an extended period of time. No, it is not. That is it is these people are following Jesus in a hurry They didn't have time to pack up and go out like people camp these days. And so attempts to explain the miracle of multiplication here. By supposing that these people had packed feasts of bread and fish, which they pulled out and shared, simply does not fit the urgency of their situation or the purpose of John's defining it as a miracle. Now, if you had heard that there was a miracle worker in the vicinity, and you or your loved ones were suffering from some terrible disease which many were in those days. You would drop what you're doing, and you would join the throng of people following him. And that's what happened here And if that weren't enough, John and Matthew and Mark and Luke all say that this is the miracle of the feeding of the So it is. Verse 3. Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples. What mountain is it? Well, mountain is the term that is used in a general way. There is a hill on the northeastern shore of the Sea of Galilee. And people can go there and see it in the springtime. It has lush green grass in the springtime, but it is not a mountain by topographical definition. I learned a long time ago that a mountain, by topographical definitions, has to have a relief of 2,000 feet from the base to the top. So this is not a mountain by that definition. In fact, recently I took Stephen to visit Mount Vernon. I'd heard of Mount Vernon for years, and I assumed it was in Virginia. I assume Mount Vernon must be out by the Blue Ridge somewhere, right? Mountain, right? Mount Vernon. Well then I learned that it's not. It's next to the Potomac River. I thought, how could it be called Mount Vernon when it's in Eastern Virginia And then when I got there, I saw that George Washington's estate is situated on a bluff about 300 feet above the Potomac River, and it's the highest spot around. It's the same usage here. The place where Jesus went is the region of what is now called the Golan Heights. It's a bluff or a hill overlooking the region, and Jesus could look west from there, and he could see the northern half of the Sea of Galilee and all the north shore of the Sea of Galilee. So that's the situation, that's part of the setting. And here's what John tells us in addition to that. He says, verse 4, now the Passover of the feast. of the Jews was at hand. The Passover, the feast of the Jews. Now this is no small detail. Passover was a huge event. Passover for the Jews is like Memorial Day and Independence Day and Christmas and Easter all rolled into one, both a civic and a religious holiday. So it's a really big deal. Everybody is thinking about this date. It's at hand. It was Israel's annual remembrance of the original night of feasting. and preparation to be delivered from Egyptian bondage by the mighty hand of God. And it reminded them, as they were thinking about Passover. It reminded them of the lamb that was slain and eaten in each household. They were thinking of the blood that was put on the door. And the passing over of the death angel for those who believed, as well as the death of the firstborn of everything and every one in Egypt, right up to Pharaoh's house. Passover reminded them of who they were as God's chosen people. And it reminded them of the defeat of the enemies, their oppressors And it also reminded them of this thing, which is relevant to what's going on here. It reminded them of an endless supply of food in the wilderness. So this is no small matter that the feast of the Jews, Passover was at hand in verse 4. And here we go to verse 5. Lifting up his eyes then and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he knew himself what he would do. Now, Philip, he turned to Philip because Philip was from that place. He knew what was what and where was where and where things could be bought. At the same time, Jesus, or Philip had seen the miracles that Jesus performed. Philip had seen the 120 to 180 gallons of wine made from water at the wedding feast in Cana. He had seen that. And Jesus wanted to know, evidently, whether Philip believed that he could take care of this need. So what does Philip do in response to this? Situation. Philip answered in verse 7, 200 denarii worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to get a little. Philip's reply is skeptical and calculating He looks at the advancing army of men and women and children coming up the hill and states the non-feasibility of feeding all these people with even a little snack for each. with 200 denarii. 200 denarii, by the way, denarii is is one day's wages for an average working fellow. So 200 days' wages wouldn't go very far. In today's terms, I suppose, I checked this out on the internet. The average American salary in 2015 was about seventy thousand dollars per year. And a Big Mac costs four bucks And there were at least 10,000 people coming up the hill, so that would be a $40,000 check. I don't suppose the disciples would be fighting each other to pay the check, even if they could. Verse 8. One of the disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are they for so many? Now this is not fine food, by the way. Barley meal was not good flour. It was very coarse. Barley bread was the poor people's food. And these loaves were not big loaves. They were six-inch round loaves. And then these two fish were probably two dried fish. small according to Mark in his gospel. And there was really nothing here that would feed very many people, just a smidgen. And if that vision were passed out, it would disappear among the first 10 or 15 people quickly. But little is much in the hands of Jesus. And I want you to pause to think about that. Little is much in the hands of Jesus. Remember, when you're evaluating your own gifts, when you're evaluating your own talents. Children, when you're taking some of your allowance and putting a bit in the offering plate, you may say, it's little, it doesn't matter. But little is much in the hands of Jesus. Jesus and gifts and talents and resources and prayers, folks. Prayers. Little is much. I'm not saying pray little. I'm saying if you pray a little, God makes it much if it's real prayer. And to underline this, the Apostle Paul says in Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20, he says, now to him who is able to do Far more abundantly than all that we ask or think. How? According to the power at work within us. Little is much in the hands of Jesus. And then he goes on to say, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. Little is much. Move on to verse 10. Jesus said, have the people sit down. And then he says. Now there was much grass in the place, so the men sat down, about 5,000 in number. 5,000 men, and then as many women and children, maybe 15,000 total, we don't know. So these people are spread out on a carpet of green, like a flock of sheep, but they couldn't eat the grass. And then verse 11, Jesus then took the loaves, those five loaves. And it says this very carefully. John puts it very carefully. And when he had given thanks, He distributed to them to those who were seated. Many commentators, both ancient and modern, observe that Jesus' taking the part of the Father at a Passover feast. Remember, the Passover is at hand. And he prays a prayer of thanksgiving. Eucharistine. From which we get the word Eucharist. And he breaks the bread and he distributes it to those present And we're going to see a lot more about this as we go further in the chapter 6 of John. But what is Jesus doing here? He is taking a created thing and using that thing for sacred purposes. He is ordaining, as it were, a means of grace. God still takes material things, created things, and purposes them for sacred use and gives them to us even today, even here in this assembly this morning. What is Jesus doing here as he acts as the head of the family at Passover? He is acting as the new Moses also. The deliverer of God's people. He is, for anyone who has the eyes to see it, he is being Moses about to deliver his people, about to bring them to Exodus. This can hardly be missed by the disciples and perhaps others in the crowd when he does this. Some would get excited by it. They would say, Look what he's doing. Others would say, I can't believe what he's doing. How arrogant to pretend to be Moses. Later the early church would remember how Jesus transformed the Passover into the Lord's Supper and called it by its nickname Eucharist. Because he, as it says there, took bread and broke it and gave it to his disciples after giving thanks. And then the scripture says, so also the fish, as much as they wanted. From two small dried fish, as much as they wanted. Again, little is much in the hands of Jesus. And this, all this food, this little bit of food, instead of disappearing into the first ten or fifteen mouths, was extended John doesn't say how it was extended. He doesn't tell us any phenomenal about it. He just says it was extended. And this is a reminder to those who are listening. A reminder. Who is this Jesus? And they're watching these things and they're seeing what happens, and they remember. This is like the the time of Elijah and the great prophets like Elijah in the days of 1 Kings chapter 17 Where Elijah was told, the word of the Lord came to him, arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow there to feed you. It was a time of a great famine. So he arose and went to Zarephath, and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow was gathering sticks. And he called to her and said, Bring me a little water in a vessel that I may drink. And as she was going to bring it, he called to her and said, Bring me a morsel of bread in your hand. And she said, As the Lord your God lives, I have nothing baked. only a handful of flour in a jar, and a little oil in a jug, and now I am gathering a couple of sticks that I may go in and prepare it for myself and my son, that we may eat it and die. That's how lacking they were. And here's what Elijah says. And Elijah said to her, do not fear Go and do as you have said, but first make me a little cake of it and bring it to me, and afterward make something for yourself and your son. For thus says the Lord the God of Israel, the flour of the jar shall not be spent, and the jug of oil shall not be empty until the day that the Lord sends rain upon the earth. And she went and did as Elijah said, and she and he and her household ate for many days. You see, that's what it would remind them of: this kind of thing, the great prophet. And in verse 16 of that chapter, the jar of flour was not spent, neither did the jug of oil become empty, according to the word of the Lord as he spoke by Elijah. So as they see this miracle taking place, they would think, wow, these are the days of the great prophets. Something wonderful is happening here. And some of them would also remember what was read from Isaiah 25, where God says about the day of the Messiah. On this mountain. And mountains were figurative for governments, establishments of authority. On this mountain, the Lord of hosts. It will make for all peoples a feast of what? Rich food. Of well-aged wine. A feast of rich food full of marrow. Of aged wine well-refined. It keeps making the point. And then, not just food, and he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples. That is the sin and unbelief cast over all peoples. The veil that is spread over all nations, in verse 8, he will swallow up death forever. The wages of sin is death, and God will swallow it up forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth. For the Lord has spoken. It's a wonderful, wonderful thing to remember And to think that this one coming, who's before that grassy knoll with all these thousands of people spread out here, is doing these things. He must be, he may be, he might be one of the great prophets. He might be the Messiah. Verse 12. And when they had eaten their fill, and that's emphasized, a little bit has filled them He told his disciples, gather up the leftover fragments that nothing may be lost. So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets. These are not little baskets, these are big baskets. With the fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who eaten. Now I want to be very careful here about making too much of the numbers. But in the Bible, twelve is one of those numbers that usually refers to Israel Jesus acting as Moses, leading his Israel out of bondage, feeding them in the wilderness. Shows that he is the leader of Israel, God's Israel, God's Messiah. And then in verse 14, we have one more very important hint. of what's going on here. Verse 14. When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, what'd they say? This is indeed the prophet. Who is come into the world? Now what are they talking about? The prophet. That's what we get from Deuteronomy chapter 18. Where in the middle of talking about the future, in the middle of sending the people toward the promised land, Moses says, the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet, like me, like me the leader, from among your brothers. It is to him you shall listen. He's going to be someone that you must listen to. And then verse 18, I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I'll put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. Isn't that what Jesus said in chapter 5 he would do? And whoever will not listen to my words that I shall speak, that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. They perceive that he is the prophet that was to come into the world And so they're very impressed at this point. Very impressed. And verse 15, perceiving that they were about to come and and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. Now we come to an end here. Not the end of the narrative, but we cannot cover it all today. What do we see? We see in this last verse the people wanted a king. They wanted a Messiah to deliver Israel from the Roman oppressors and to restore the kingdom to the days of glorious days of David and Solomon. They wanted an Elijah and an Elisha to kill Ahabs and Jezebel's of their day, the Herods who were ruling. They wanted freedom. People are not very different today. These days, people will vote for anyone who offers the promise of a free lunch or free education and health care, and the promise of security from foreigners. Stronger military, build a wall, things like that, or what other grandiose campaign promises you want them to make, they will make them and hope you vote for them. That's fine. Vote for whomever you will, whomever you think will do the best that they can under God. But don't expect salvation or paradise. From mere temporal rulers. They cannot deliver. They will not deliver. And even if they deliver something, they'll take an awful lot for it These people wanted something. They wanted a prophet like Moses to deliver them and to lead them But they did not really want the word of God. And that's what was promised in Deuteronomy 18. A prophet who will speak God's words. And if you listen to him, you'll be blessed. And if you don't, you'll suffer the consequences. Verse 19 said, Whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. They didn't want that prophet, you see. But here he was, the great true prophet and deliverer. And they were ready to kidnap him. And take him to Jerusalem and sit him on a throne, but they didn't want to listen to him. Listen to him Folks. He has the words of eternal life. He is the word made flesh. They just wanted more free stuff rather than God's saving word. But as John said in the first chapter, To all who receive him, who believe in his name, he gives the right to become children of God. He is therefore the Lamb of God, who gives his flesh and blood to save you and to nourish you to eternal life. He is the Son of Man who must be lifted up on a cross to deliver you and to tell you about the Father who so loved you that he gave. And then to invite you to an unending feast, not just a temporary filling of your stomach. But a feast of rich food, a feast of well aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, aged wine well refined, and the end of death and tears wiped away. way he invites you and me to that feast. That's what he's doing in this, the fourth sign. Signs point to something. This sign points to a love that never ends. A king that never fails his people A feast that is more than enough forever. Believe this good news. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this wondrous sign The sign of the new Moses, the greatest deliverer, the one who delivers from sin and death and hell. Help us to believe this good news and to live in peace. Amen.