Now we turn to our text for this evening, 1 Peter 3, verses 1 through 7. Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. Do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair, the wearing of gold, or the putting on of clothing. But let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart, with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit. Which in God's sight is very precious. For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves by submitting to their husbands. As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, and you are her children, if you do good, and do not fear anything that is frightening. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel. Since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. The Word of God Beloved Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, it's been a few weeks since we last looked at this letter. From the Apostle Peter to the new believers in Asia Minor, converted from strict Judaism to faith in Jesus Christ for salvation. It is surely a word of God also to you believers here in Southern Maryland tonight. But it will be well for us, before diving into the text of chapter 3, verses 1 through 7, to review briefly the context In which the whole letter is written and received, and especially the theme of its contents. Lest we lose sense of the purpose the inspired writer had in mind when he transitioned Into a discussion of this most foundational of human institutions, the marriage of one man and one woman. Especially is this evident when we notice the word that Peter employs at the beginning of each of the two sections of our text. One about the role of the wife, and the other about the role of the husband. The same word in verse 1 and in verse 7. Likewise, we could translate it in the same manner or similarly What that word implies is that the thing that he is going to address, both to the female partner in marriage And to the male partner in marriage is not only common to each, but that it is common to what he has been saying so far in his letter. And in fact, what he will say to them throughout the rest of the is missive. Likewise Like what? You ask. For the answer to that question, you need to note What Elder Huckabee pointed out to us in his sermon last Sunday evening, when he directed our attention to what he called the theme verse of Peter's entire letter. That verse is not at the beginning of his letter, but at its end, chapter 5, verse 12. By Sylvanus, a faithful brother as I regard him, I have written briefly to you, exhorting and declaring That this is the true grace of God. Stand firm in it Peter makes very clear by these words that his whole purpose in writing what he has written to these new Christians was to urge them to recognize, take very seriously, and act according to what is going on in their lives. And what is going on in their lives is exactly summarized in just four words. The true, the grace of God, the grace of God. That's what becoming a Christian is all about, folks. And that's exactly what living as a believer in Jesus Christ is all about. The grace of God The unmerited favor of the living and true God, and as he particularly wants to emphasize in his entire communication, How the grace of God impacts you in your struggle, suffering trials as believers in Jesus Christ. That this is the common theme of the whole letter is evidenced in a number of places, of which a few might be cited. Chapter 1, verses 3 through 6. God has caused you to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, as was necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. Chapter 2, verse 12. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers They may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Chapter 2, verse 17. Fear God. Honor the sometimes trying Emperor Chapter 2, verse 19, to servants. For this is a gracious thing when one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. And finally, verse 21 of chapter 2. For this you have been called to this, because Christ also suffered for you. leaving you an example so that you might follow in his steps. You get the point You cannot help but observe the common theme throughout all these examples. Peter is explaining how Christians ought to respond when they suffer Suffer trials because of their beliefs, especially. And his primary message is: keep your hope fixed then on the grace of God. Now, with that background, we come to chapter three and our text for this evening Wives and Husbands. And when we do that, the question will not down. Dear Peter Have you left your theme of persecution and putting up with suffering when you turn to the subject of marriage? Surely you must have left it. Would that our marriages not be suffering, but be happy, fruitful, steady, and unbreakable Well, I'm afraid that Peter is more a realist than a sentimentalist. And he knows that the depravity of sin has successfully invaded this most sacred of human relationships, marriage. Mates sin against each other, even Christian mates. And Peter wants the grace of God to be found to conquer sin's sorry impact upon Christian wives and Christian husbands Consequently, he turns next to God's word, to them, married people. And that brings me to site my proposition for tonight. And it's this Whether marriage is a struggle or a bed of roses for you wives and husbands, in either case. You are commanded by your God and Savior to exercise faithfully your privileges and responsibilities to each other. Trusting in God's grace to enable you to glorify Him in this most fundamental relationship So we look now tonight at the wife's place, verses one through six. The first thing we note here to take of, to take note of, when it comes to both wives and their husbands. Here in this text is the status of each of the individuals about whom he's speaking. So we have wives and their husbands in view first. This is verses 1 through 6. And then later in verse 7, husbands and their wives. So two and two makes four. Four individuals in two marriage relationships Now we need to understand, don't we, whether Peter is referring to each of these four people as necessarily one who is a believer or not A believer, that is, at present, and not necessarily one in the past. Something may have happened since you got married Are you with me? We will consider the wives first. Peter does. Here in verses one and two, especially. Obviously, these wives are believers, aren't they? Because Peter is writing to Christians in the churches of the dispersion. As far as their husbands are concerned, many of them might be believers also with them, who, along with them, have received and accepted the gospel message. But Peter qualifies his word of command to those wives by saying, even if some of them, your husband. Do not obey the word. He says, even if that's the case, the command I'm about to lay down still stands. In fact, he happily anticipates that perhaps these yet unsaved spouses might come to Christ. They, in his words, may be won without a word by the conduct of your lives, you wise So the husbands of these wives, so addressed in verses 1 and 2, may be believers, or they may not be. And in either case, Peter's word to their Christian wives is identical. And what is that word? Just this. Be subject to your own husbands. So it remains for you to understand what he means by that command. For it comes by inspiration from God. Now, at this point, as I was preparing this message, and I realized what I was going to still do here tonight. It became clear to me that adequate handling of this text, verses 1 through 7, will need more time than we have available in one sermon. So I intend to continue with this text the next time. And we're dividing parts one and two between verses six and seven. So tonight We'll settle for looking at verses 1 through 6. The role of the wife in marriage. And leave the husbands alone. Until the next time I stand in this pulpit. But man, please don't turn tune out For I suspect that you need to know just what you brought that fine young lady into when you knelt down and uttered that memorable question, will you marry me? According to the Bible, what you were asking when you asked that was nothing less than this. Are you willing to be in subjection to me in marriage? That's the truth. Whether people realize it or like it or not At least that's what our text says. Now, does Peter say here that the wife's position in marriage is one of inferiority? True it is, later on in verse 7, which we'll get to the next time, he will describe the white as the weaker vessel. I quote him. The world doesn't like to hear this. One time I was called upon to officiate at the wedding of s of two people, a man and a woman And the uh they were unwilling to have me have her vow to be in subjection to and obey her husband. And I said, okay, you're going to have to get yourself another boy. I'm not going to do it. And so they were willing to compromise and they they settled on the word respect. And I bought it, even though it was only halfway, and did the marriage. We will deal with that next time when we have something to say to you men So please be here two weeks from tonight. Well, be here other than that, sure then. Or you're only going to get half of this sermon. But for tonight I say in God's name to you, dear girls and women, be subject to your husband now or later when you marry. If you marry. In other words, be subject to your husband if you have one now or later. I remind you, submission to authority has been a theme so far and will continue to be throughout Peter's letter. And it is surely the case here too. Some people think that the wife's position is one of inferiority. And then they naturally rebel, the wives do, against that. Our society today lives in the general backlash of that rebellion. For ages, it is thought, men have oppressed, degraded, and treated women as mere slaves, little more than pieces of property I hope we've done better than that in 21st century America. But in the past this was the case. And sad to say, there is more than just a grain of truth in that assertion that it happened. But now I'm afraid the worm has turned. Now the woman may be independent if she chooses. Call the tune in marriage and boss her husband around This has not, however, produced happier wives or more stable marriages, to say the least. It is therefore time. To get back to the Word of God and pay serious attention to what Peter actually does say here in this text. And it is the Word of God. He says, Wives, behave submissively to your husband. In this way, your life will be pure and reverent. You will be a holy woman. You will be of great worth in God's sight. You find all of those phrases in this text. And in a word, you will do what is right. Finally, in line with that theme of submission when treated unfairly or undergoing trial. You will, quote, not fear anything that is frightening, unquote. How is that possible? You ask. Remember the theme verse of Peter's letter. By standing firm in the true grace of God. It's his way, his ordering of things, out of perfect love for his redeemed children. Never doubt that. Now, as we have noted, the idea of the wife's submission to the husband is not a very popular one in our day. Sometimes antagonism to wifely submission arises out of sinful rebellion against the will of God. Sometimes, however, it may arise from a false picture of what it truly involves. To correct this false picture, We need to state some things a biblical wife submission is not. One, it is not merely a concept for women. As Peter will say in chapter 5 and verse 5, clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another. Two, submission does not mean that the wife becomes a slave. Actually, the wife is never more free than she is when she is in submission to her husband For then she is free to become all that God intended her to become. Three, submission does not mean that the wife never opens her mouth. Never has an opinion, never gives advice. The ideal wife described in Proverbs 31 speaks with wisdom. 4. Submission does not mean that the wife folds up and allows her abilities to lie dormant. Again, listen to Proverbs 31. She is an importer, a knitter. A real estate developer, as well as a home engineer, a teacher of her children, and a mate. She even manages some diaconal work in her spare time. 5. Submission does not mean that the wife is inferior to the husband The Bible says that God is the head of Christ. Certainly, this does not imply that Christ is inferior to the Father. Rather, it teaches that there is a division of labor and responsibility in the Trinity itself. In like fashion, the submission of the wife in no way implies inferiority. Instead, it teaches The necessity for order and structure, for a division of responsibility within the home. The Father does not die on the cross, the Son does. Galatians 3. 28 puts to rest any lingering doubts about alleged inferiority. With these plain words, listen, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus Now, having stated what the wife's submission does not mean, we will now look at Peter's words from a positive point of view. One, it is the wife's responsibility to make herself submissive. Did you get that? The husband is not commanded to make her that way, to physically or ever any other way force his wife into submission. Rather, Peter says, wise be submissive. Two, the submission is to be continuous This is not something that just happens occasionally, like once every ten years or so in your marriage. The wife has to submit to her husband. The Greek verb in our text is in the present tense. That means that submission is to be the continuous lifestyle of the wife and not something rarely required. Three, the submission is mandatory, not optional. Again, the verb is in the imperative mood. Do it. Not if you please, do it. The wife's submission is not based upon the way her husband treats her, anyway. Nor is it to be conditioned upon the husband's abilities, talents, wisdom, education, or even spiritual state It comes by way of the apostle's letter to believers in his time, but it is surely a word of command to you here today. 4. Wifey submission is a spiritual matter. It is the Lord who issues the command through Peter the Apostle And the submission is practiced by women who Peter says put their hope in God Who submit likewise, that is, in the same way, as the good citizens addressed in the previous chapter, who were called to submission to rulers. For the Lord's sake. So here. Refusal to submit to the husband is therefore rebellion against God Himself. And submission is an act of obedience to Christ and not merely to the husband Still further, wifely submission is a spiritual matter because it must be performed in the power of the Holy Spirit by women whose hearts have been cleansed by the blood of Christ. Who are being strengthened by the Holy Spirit, and who are being filled up to all the fullness of God. 5. Wife sufficient is behavior according to God's created purpose and structure of authority in the marriage bond. For that, you have to go back to Genesis 1 and 2. God created the man first, but without Eve, Adam had no mate to love. To live with in the joys that marriage brings, to work with in the fulfillment of the cultural mandate Adam without Eve was incomplete as far as life's fulfillment was concerned. By the way, this is in general. It's not saying that all marriage, all women must marry, or all men must marry. But this is generally the case. God created the woman to be the helper of the man. She would help him to be prophet, priest, and king before God, bear their children. Make their house a home. Give him the comfort of her love and care, so that he would be better able to fulfill his place in the world Naturally, she was not his inferior, but the subordinate partner in a relationship in which God intended the man to take the lead. That, by way, is what Peter means when in verse 7 he refers to the wife as the weaker partner. She is the particular partner who is helper, not leader. Under authority, not exercising authority. Weaker, that way. And in no other. So mission means that she sees herself as part of her husband's team. She is not her husband's opponent, fighting at cross purposes or trying to outdo him. She is not merely an individual going her separate way She is her husband's teammate striving for the same goal. She has ideas, opinions, desires, requests Insights. And she lovingly makes them known. But she knows that on any good team someone has to make the final decision and plans. The Phillies just fired their manager, and they're going to have to get another one But the players are going to have to be in submission to him, the new one. She knows that the team members must support the team leader, his plans and decisions, and no progress will be made. And confusion and frustration will result. She or her is her husband's complement and not his carbon copy. She used to him what a key is to a lock, indispensable Just lose the key to your safely deposit box, and you'll know what I'm talking about. Wise, how does that grab you? Your key. Peter has one more word about submissiveness, speaking of the unbelieving husbands. Notice that. So that even if they do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. By those words, the apostle makes clear that his message to wives about submissiveness applies whether their husbands are believers or not. In either case, the command stands and applies. Well, in conclusion. Finally, we need to notice Peter's final words about the wife's outward attraction, contained in verses 3 through 6, which we don't have to say a lot about, but I think you get the point. The world preaches to us from all sides that the woman's attractions are outward Be young, if you can possibly do that, somehow or other. Be glamorous. Use this eyeshadow and lengthen your lashes Wear those jeans, and you'll be a real temptress. Copy the actresses and look like them insofar as is possible. That's the way to succeed outwardly. But how different is this from Peter's and from God's word? They would have women resist the temptation to become pawns of style and vanity and personal conceit. They would say, ladies, looking like the woman of the world will not win the respect of your husband or the kind of man you would like to marry. Just the opposite. For character is something that is inward, not outward. The apostle is not so much against outward adornment as he is for inward adornment. A quiet spirit. That's what it is. A quiet spirit is absolutely necessary if you are to be a beautiful person. However, tailored your suit might be, long your lashes, or compatible your shoes. Meekness, a gentle spirit Is an especially Christian virtue because no one is perfect. It accepts advice, even correction. For it is less interested in its own rights than it is in being well pleasing to God. Meekness, a quiet spirit, is beautiful. And unfading. If you have it, if you show it, you don't have to lose it with age. In fact, it ought to radiate with even greater luminescence as the years roll along. Ask any husband, privileged to have had his wife by his side. For say 50 years or more, whether she's beautiful or not, most that I've known sure acted like they thought their wife was something else A woman cannot be in submission to her husband unless she has a gentle and quiet spirit. Sarah had it when God called Abraham to immigrate to Canaan. This is a thing which in the sight of God is of great worth. And it is yours, believing woman, by God's grace. Make yourself beautiful. By way of his command. God in heaven, we all pray, especially for the ladies, the girls, and the women among us. Whether we are those females or whether we are males. It makes no difference. The same word of God, especially for the women, is true for us to seek and pray about, yearn for. And compliment when it is observed. We thank you, God, that it will only come their way by your grace So let your grace be with our female Christian people.