Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, you should know by now if you've been attending these services for the last four weeks. Pursue love. That is what God wants of us. That is what He has pursued with us in the gospel of His Son. And that's what he wants us to pursue with one another, that same love. The pursuit of love is the Apostle Paul's goal in these verses or in this chapter. Chapter 13. And it is by the showing of love here in this chapter is the means by which he gets us to follow it. You can show love by talking about it as he does here. You can show love by doing it to get others to pursue it. Paul here is showing us love. It's necessity which we looked at. Without it, we are a noisy nuisance. Without it, we are nothing and nobody. And without it, we are doing ourselves no good as Christians. Love is essential. Here in these verses, he's showing us its character. And when we get to the beginning at verse 8, he'll show us its greatness. And the reason he's doing this is that we might pursue it as our way of life. The many gifts of this congregation, this one, but Corinth, the many gifts had not brought them together. And now in their disunity, Paul sets love before them as the way back to unity. And to the peace and joy and effectiveness from such a union when we're united in love. Here in these verses, verses four to seven, Paul lists fifteen do's and don'ts of love. We have seen six of them already, and this morning we're going to see another three of them. Three don'ts Love does not insist on its own way. It is not irritable or resentful. And I think there's a bit of a connection between these three, though maybe not always, but I have found in my life that these three often go together. I am most irritable when I am most selfish, and I'm often resentful of it when people point it out to me. Now I'm convinced that what is true about our Lord's life is also true about love. That is what John says in the end of his gospel. For everything to be said about love, I suppose the whole world could not contain the books that would be written about it. There is more to love than these 15 do's and don'ts. It is not Paul's purpose to say everything about love here. These fifteen are contextual The congregation isn't doing these do's and they need to. And the congregation is doing these don'ts and they need to stop I think it is a very helpful way to think of these verses, then, like a stoplight or a traffic light. The do's here are the green light, the don'ts are the red light. Go forth in the do's of love. Always a green light. Stop doing these don'ts of love. There's always a red light. And of course, expand even further. You know what happens when people run red lights? A mess. Pain. Death and hurt and harm. So what you and I need to do then is to memorize them. I don't think I've ever really pleaded with you out of personal pastoral privilege yet. So it's four years now, haven't done it yet. Please memorize these. If you haven't, please Use a song if you need to. I'm sure somebody here knows or somebody could quickly find a really great song with a really catchy tune and it will never leave your brain We need to do it right so that we'll have this working traffic light of love in our hearts and minds And I think also another way too is you could think of them that same road analogy, think of them as lanes and also as guardrails of love, right? The dues are the the lanes of love. Go on them. The don'ts are the guardrails that keep you into the lanes of love and off of harm and out of where you don't need to go and colliding into others. By memorizing them again, you'll erect those lanes of love and those guardrails of love in your brain, in your heart. And since we have so many engineers here, I don't foresee this being a problem. Now let me give you an example, right? You're going about life and you're in a situation, you find yourself insisting on your way, right? These verses can call you back to love, which is not selfish. Or another example, right? It's the umpteenth time so-and-so did or said what so-and-so does or says Well you go on down the lane of love, bearing it all, because you know they just ain't gonna change. You've brought it up with them before multiple times. But for the sake of love, they ain't gonna change, and you just bear it on so you can hopefully stay together. And by God's grace, change. So let's look at our first don't of love. Love does not insist on its own way. Now growing up and I remember the very legendary arguments between my dad and uncles over who was going to pay the bill at the restaurant. I got it. No, I got it. No, I got it. And inevitably, when the other wouldn't let the other get it, the other got irritated and maybe resentful. And you would think, right, the one who paid the bill was the loving one here, because love's kind. And it is, but not true. The loving one here is the one who lets the other one pay. Because love does not insist on its own way. And that's why, since I always insist on loving, I'm going to let you pay when we go out to eat and you offer to pay. Love congregation does have a way. You have a way that you want to do things. Whether it's decorating your home, spending your free time or evening time, educating your children, organizing church ministries or projects, and on and on. You have a way And you have a way that you want to go in your life. You want to get over there and you want to get here. You want to be this or to do that. And these are all fine and good as long as they're not sinful. Love has its way, always in subjection to the Lord, but it has a way. But love does not insist on its way, it's not selfish And that's what we're talking about here, Congregation. We're talking about being selfish. You and I weren't born selfish. And Adam originally, but as sinners, we weren't, let me back up, we weren't made selfish in Adam. We are born sinfully. We're selfish. But by God's free grace to us in Christ, we're being made unselfish or God-centered and other thinking in our way of life now. Because selfishness is a matter of the heart. You and I can try to discern another's motives, but only God and you, and sometimes not even you, know your own heart. You know when you're just being selfish, when you're not considering others, and you're just insisting on your own way. This doesn't mean that you should be a doormat for everybody to walk over. As I said, love has a way, and you should lovingly try to get that way if it's good. Right? Nor does this mean that all insisting on a way is unloving. For example, I insist my children go to bed at a certain time because I love them, because God has entrusted them to my care. So it won't work if they call me selfish for insisting on my own way, which they've not, and hope they won't. When ways collide, always yield to the person in authority. If it is not sinful what they're asking you. But not insisting on your own way does mean check your heart, beloved, when you are insisting on your own way. And let us all remember that we have a good and gracious Heavenly Father and an elder brother, our Lord Jesus, who watches over our way. Who delights to give us good? You are not the best person to take care of yourself. So take care not to be self-centered. Think of others. Seek their good, for right hopefully they are also seeking your good. Consider that without your maybe knowing it, your ways may be harmful to another person. They may seem innocent enough to you and right enough in God's eyes and according with His word, but without knowing the other person, it may be doing them harm. So take the time to get to know one another. And even if you have the right theological principle like the Corinthians had, the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. The right thing isn't to insist on your free and lawful way going to pagan temples and eating the meat offered there if it harms another person. Because you are a congregation, your brother's keeper. You must consider one another in all that you do. We are a body, and individualism has no place in the congregation of the Lord. It doesn't have a place anywhere. It definitely doesn't have a place here. Most importantly, if you've been selfish, admit it, ask forgiveness, and get back on the lane of loving others. For there is no other way to learn this way of love than within the gracious confines of the church of the God whose grace abounds towards sinners. And beloved, there is only sinners to love on this earth. There's only one righteous man, Jesus Christ. Let us show one another that grace, even when they're being selfish Not because we want them to stay selfish or approve of it or because it's pleasant for us when they are, but because this is the only way we change. We sin. We repent. We see others' love. We learn what love is and so pursue it towards others. God's house is a school of grace. And if you want to check my reference there, read Titus 2, 11 to 14. Congregation, if you are someone who just does what you want without consulting others, or insists that you're not insisting, but you know, just saying. Or always kind of pseudo-suggesting things in a direct way or indirect ways. Be mindful of what you're doing. Other people here have a way too. And if it's always your way, it's just not enjoyable for anybody else. Because love does not insist on its own way. Secondly, love is not irritable. You are irritable, congregation, when you respond quickly to a stimulus. And usually that response is anger. I like the King James translation: love is not easily provoked. Love can and does get provoked. Being provoked to anger is not necessarily sinful or unloving. I had us here this morning from part of Deuteronomy 9 and had us sing part of Psalm 78. For us to see that our God who is love gets provoked to anger by the sinfulness and rebelliousness of his people. And yet, our God who is love. Does not get easily provoked to anger by the sinfulness and rebelliousness of his people As we sung in the opening hymn, his wrath is ever slow to rise. And I really like that phrase because there's a measuredness to God's wrath. You can watch the level of it rise, if you will. That's not often the case with ours. We often jump from cool to hot in a flash. And when we do that, others get hurt. James chapter 1, verses 19 to 20. Know this, my beloved brothers, that every person be quick to hear. Slow to speak, slow to anger. For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Quick to anger, more often than not, fails to produce God's righteousness in his image bearers. I've learned to say in trying to follow this lane of love and to be guarded by this rail to my children after a prolonged period of disobedience. Something like this, Daddy children is losing his patience. Daddy children is beginning to be provoked. And I say it like that You need to stop disobeying. I wish I always did this with everyone, and I don't. But you and I can know that we are on the path of love when we are not quick to anger. But saying that, I also have to say I do not necessarily think love must always rise to anger at a measured pace. I don't think I'm wrong. When I see a child recklessly endanger the other one and get upset pretty quickly about it. My children know that if I see one of them strike the other or harm them in any thoughtless or foolish way, I get upset pretty quick. And I tell them why. God did not make you to harm them. God loves them. Daddy loves them, and you need to love them, because their life matters and it's precious. Because beloved, I don't want and you don't want a world of people growing up thinking it's okay to recklessly harm one another. Or people growing up quick to anger and blowing up on everybody. Anger has a God-given place. It is good. It is a God-given emotion when properly used. God gets angry because he is love. The opposite of love congregation is not wrath, but apathy, carelessness, just sitting by and watching it happen and couldn't care less. That's the opposite of love. You know, if you love somebody, you can't sit by and watch. Praise God that his attitude towards us in this world, his whole creation, is not one of couldn't care less. But of love. He cares deeply about the injustice and wrongs of this world. The ones you've experienced. The ones you've committed. But as we've heard and sung, he is patient, he's kind, so that they'll repent. Not because he is impotent or incompetent and doesn't care. So that they'll repent. We shouldn't think that just because a person is upset, they are unloving God gives us that emotion of anger to move us to do what is right when we see injustice, because sometimes we need that bit of push to get on the right track. But as James already warned us, very often our anger is very unrighteous. So slow to anger is a good principle. Because as we must always remember, love builds up, but explosions tear down. Only you know, congregation, why you're irritable. Only you know, well others might know too. Might not be a big secret. Only you know why you're easily provoked to anger. But make sure that it's not because you're just being selfish. And so irritated when someone interrupts or doesn't like your way. Nor because you've forgotten that you're not better than anyone else in this world. You're a sinner too. And so irritated when someone does something wrong or foolish and lose your cool. Don't accept that wrong. Or fail to address it if you can, don't agree with the falling, or fail to correct it if you can, just don't get easily provoked about it. Because you do the same. And lastly, congregation, love is not resentful Resentment is the deep sense of injury we have, which proceeds from the wrongs done to ourselves or our family members or friends. And it's usually directed at the author of the affront, though it could also be directed at others who are involved in it in some way. Let's be clear, though, about what this passage says here. It does not say love feels no wrong. Love, beloved, as you well know, is not impervious to wrong or hurt. Love can be deeply wounded But love doesn't hang from the roof of its hut items to remind itself of wrongs done, whether real or imaginary. As William Barclay in his commentary remarks on a people in Polynesia, I don't know if they still do this or did this And a helpful footnote here, the ESV, that's the translation of the Bible we're using here, English Standard Version. It gives an alternate translation. It says, love does not count up wrongdoings. Does not resentful, or love does not Count up wrongdoing. And the Greek term here has several meanings, and one use of the word pertains to accountants And as you know, accountants keep books as a part of their job. They store figures in them so as not to forget them or that they won't be forgotten. But that's not what love does. It's not a bookkeeper keeping the account of everybody's wrong so that you never forget them. Because that is not what the Apostle Paul says, love does. And Paul, as you know, was a man quite wrong. In his ministry to save others by preaching the gospel to them. My neighbor remarked to me the other week as we crossed paths walking. How she was surprised that she never knew, she just read it recently in the Bible, that Paul was stoned to death, yet didn't die As a Christian congregation, you're going to be wronged as you seek to save others with the gospel. And you may be wronged very badly. And those whom you love dearly may also be wronged very badly. As you bring them this good news. And if you are resentful towards them, who wronged you, or your friend, or your family member for any reason, it is going to hinder your witness. Because we testify to a God who forgave and forgives. We testify to a God whose grace abounds where sin increases. So you need to ask yourself, if you are here this morning and resentful, what wrong has God not forgiven you? And what is it about this wrong, that wrong that that person did that makes it impossible for you to forgive them? But I must tell you that I love you in the Lord. Our Savior meant what he said when he said For if you forgive others their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you, but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, Neither will your father forgive your trespasses. And there's no theological wrangling around that. That's a plain statement. If God does not keep a record of your wrongs, congregation, but remove them as far as the east is from the west, then so should you. Now it doesn't mean you trust that person who's wronged you right away, or that things will return to how they were right away or immediately. That doesn't mean you shouldn't seek justice for the wrong done or restitution that's the right thing to do. It means that you can't nurse the wrong done to you. You need to take it out of your books. You can't be resentful because love builds up and builds together forever And I am aware of how hard this is. I read a story this past week Of an unspeakable wrong done to Christians in Pakistan. I won't repeat it. It is so atrocious. And yet we are told to pray for our enemies and for those who persecute us. And what if God is pleased to hear that and grant that person repentance to life? Who's wronged you deeply? The one you love deeply. You know what that means? You will live forever with them in God's kingdom. As his children, and as brothers and sisters. Let us praise our God that he is not resentful. Let us praise our God that He has forgiven us what we did to His own Son on the cross. And that's where I'm going to end this morning. Looking at Jesus on the cross, God's Son, the gospel. We saw in our gospel reading Jesus on the cross. And yet I saw no insisting on his own way there, because he had just prayed, not my will done, but thine be done. I saw no irritableness there, though nails had been driven through his body. And I saw no resentment, though mocked and scorned and murdered, but hear the words Father, forgive them. But they know not what they've done. What they do. I think we struggle to love in this way, congregation, because we struggle to carry the cross. This is it. Our Lord's way of life here, this way of love, carrying the cross, at first seems only to be rewarded with shame, pain. And a humiliating death. And if you've ever loved somebody this way, you often know that that's how you're treated at first. Who wants to be treated that way, right? Yet the true reward of the cross is to bring life to others through your death. Through your self-denying love, which always is putting yourself to death. The cross is the way of love Will it be your way, congregation? Jesus has pursued you with this love Pursue him and one another with the same. Amen