Now, here I want to first remind you that the apostle is speaking here to Jewish Christians Living in the times when the new covenant began to replace the old covenant. Later in this letter in chapter 9, Paul will refer to this as the time of reformation. And like the 16th Reformation of the 16th century, changed things for the better for God's people. So God has truly changed things for the better with the coming of Christ and the new covenant. Paul is speaking to these Christians about Christ because they become dull of hearing about him. Sure, they memorize the apostles' creed. He reminds them that Jesus you profess. Good. And you should all do that too. Sure, they've made their profession of faith according to their OPC vows. Good. You should too. But for whatever reason, Christ, his glory, his claim upon them, they have become dull to it. So Paul is giving them another look at Jesus And here in this section of his sermonic letter, that's just a fancy way of saying a sermon that was sent as a letter, because that's what Paul says it is Paul is showing them the significance of Christ's new priesthood. The one God, that is the one, the priesthood that God spoke about through the prophet David. Yes, Peter calls David a prophet. In Acts 2, it's Pentecostal Sermon. And the very great things he wants you and me to learn about is that Christ's priesthood is forever. That's one of the great things. That God wants you, you and me to learn about Jesus' priesthood is forever. God has sworn an oath to it. Now to get at what Hebrews 7, 20 to 22 are saying. I want to give you an illustration. It's a bit of an involved one, so you're going to need to stick with me. But I think it will make the point better than me trying to explain. Explain it, because I spent a lot of time this reading, wrapping my head around. I'm just gonna give you mine. And I think this is what I'd say Imagine living in a place where everybody dealt only with everybody else's shadow. That's all the interaction you have. Just dealing with a person's shadow. And I know it seems strange to imagine and hard, but try. Business in this place, of course, would not be sealed with a handshake Is you're dealing with people's shadows. Victories would not be celebrated with high-fives. You just have people's shadows. Cool moves would not be rewarded with dispunce, because you just have people's shadows. Children wouldn't wake up and snuggle with their parents, because it's just a shadow. Lovers would not exchange kisses because you just have their shadow. Reunions would not be sealed with a hug because you just have their shadow. All you had was the other person's shadow. Imagine living at a place like that. And imagine living this way with the promise that one day things would be different. That one day someone would come and give substance to everything. You would be glad, of course, for the life that you have, even if it's kind of shadowy, but you would be looking forward to the life to come. And then imagine that this promised person did come. And now there are no more shadows, and everything is reality. For the first time, you've seen your child's face, your spouse's face. You've felt the warmth of their hand, the warmth of their embrace. All that you did before is now enhanced by the better, substantial way of doing it now. And of course, with this new way of living, there would also come new kinds of living. There are things you can't do with the shadow that you can do with a body. Would you ever want to go back to how things were before? Would you be desirous of some kind of assurance? That things will never go back to how they were before. For how could you live any other way? After tasting the goodness of this new, fulfilled way of life And I'm sure that you are getting the hint that this illustration is about life before and after Christ's death. Which always means his resurrection. That there is a real substantial difference between BC and A D. The world is not and will not ever be the same. Before Christ's death, to take away the sin of the world God's people lived under a shadow of Christ's coming, which meant also that they lived with a shadow of God. Not that God is not always and forever real. I'm speaking metaphorically But after Christ's death and resurrection, people, God's people, now live with the very substance and presence of God and enjoy his eternal reality and even the new human reality of the new creation in Christ. But what assurance has God given us that things won't go back to the other way? He's given us his oath found in the prophecy of Psalm 110, verse 4. The Lord has sworn And will not relent or change his mind. You, and the you here is the risen and ascended Lord Jesus. Are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek. Now I say it's arisen and ascended because Psalm 110, verse 1 says, the Lord said to my Lord, sit. at my right hand. And when Peter quotes that in his sermon in Acts 2 on Pentecost, he reminds the people, David did not ascend to heaven. That's a truth only for somebody who's ascended to heaven and has sat at the Lord's right hand. So that's why I say it's the risen and ascended Jesus who has received this oath. So the way then to understand Hebrews or what Hebrews seven twenty to twenty-two is saying Is to first understand that the new priesthood of Christ is what has brought about this new way of living with God. That they are inseparably connected. That's why Paul can reason in verses 18 to 19 of Hebrews 7. That the new priesthood has brought with it a better hope, which he identifies here in verse 22 as the better covenant, and in chapter 8, the new covenant. It has brought in this better hope to replace the old one. And that if the old one is out, which it is because there's a new priesthood, so is the covenant attached with it. They go together. When the priest goes, it goes. When the new priest comes, a new covenant and way of life comes. And separately joined together. So to understand, begin to understand what Paul is saying here in these three verses. As you have to understand that priest and covenant separably tied together. He starts with calling them a hope because of the Old Testament perspective, that's what they hoped for. They were promised when Christ came He calls it in a covenant, that's the form and shape of this hope, God's new covenant, which then he calls it explicitly that when he quotes it from Jeremiah in chapter 8. Inseparably linked. To Christ is his covenant, the new. Jesus' priesthood is what is responsible for this new approach to God. This new way of living with God, which we just call Christianity, this new way of drawing near to God. Inseparably attached to him, Jesus, the new official high priest of God's people, is the better hope. The better covenant, which both mean the better way of living with God. The new covenant is the new and only way today, and as you'll see, and forever The only way that God relates to his people in Christ. No other way does God relate to anybody. But in Jesus Christ, in a saving covenantal way, with access to him. The new covenant is the triune God's free Gracious sovereign arrangement between himself and his people in Jesus Christ Now keep this in mind, as I said, priests and covenant, inseparably tied. So then you see When God, as we heard, has said that the priest responsible for this new way of his people living with him and with each other, when he God has said he will always be priest But he has sworn an oath about it. And let me remind you, when God swears an oath, it's not because his speech is doubtful. God swears an oath so that you and I will know more abundantly how unchanging his purpose is. That was Hebrews 6. God has purpose to make Jesus a priest forever, and that purpose isn't changing. It's not changing now, it's not changing for eternity. It is as unchangeable as it is for me to be you and for you to be me. Jesus will always be a priest because God has said it. God swore it, adding his oath to it. So they're linked together. And if God has sworn an oath to his priesthood, and here's the point. As an oath, add security to something. Because we can always give right our naked word and just promise. But some words you add an oath to to give extra security to what you're saying Well, it's the same thing for God, and the benefit is for us. God only gives to us a priest for a way back to Him. Priest and way to God go together. You cannot have a true priest without a real way back to God. It wasn't like that under the old covenant. It's not like that under the new covenant. God only gives a priest, so we can have a way back to him. Well, if Jesus is this priest forever, guaranteed so by God's added oath, then the covenant that Jesus He'll use the term mediate, as we said, that means manage it, runs it, operates it, does everything to affect it, carry it out, bring it about. It's equally secure If one has secure by an oath, then the covenant it that and it's de facto, then the covenant he's attached to is equally as secure. Jesus, who now sits at the Father's right hand, who when he sat down there 2,000 years ago on Ascension Day, Heard this oath from his father. The Lord has sworn and will not relent. You, the risen and ascended Lord Jesus, are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek. When the father swore that oath to his newly enthroned son, back from the dead Our ascendant Lord Jesus, by that very fact, he became surety, or that's just a word that means a pledge, a promise, a guarantee, an assurance. Of the new way to God with its real substantial living with God I think we could say is as the Apostle John said it, truly, the law was given through Moses. But grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Just as much as an oath adds security to assure us of the truth of something So is the ascended Lord Jesus the added security to the new covenant. He's the pledge that as the forerunners made it, so will the rest of the body make it. As he has been perfected in glory, so will his people be perfected in glory. Now it's important to understand that, as the passage says, That Jesus became the surety when he rose again from the dead and sat down at the Father's right hand. Now let me say this. We're used to hearing about Jesus, and he is. And you can read other interpreters of this passage. When they read Shorty there, they're thinking, our substitute, representative, and the covenant of grace. And so they're wanting to bring that in here in the exposition. Some do that Others don't, and I decided that so Jesus is the surety of the covenant of grace. He is our head, covenant head, he is our representative. He did fulfill God's law for us But Paul's speaking figuratively here. He's not using shorty in its full legal sense where you promise yourself or something else He's just using it as the way he u understands God's oath. God attaches his oath to give extra security. We as God's people who see Jesus risen and ascended have that almost attached to it saying, look, he made it. It's done. It's secure. You'll be there. Jesus is only surety to this covenant In the way that Paul's using in this figurative sense, after having become a man like us in his wonderful love and humility, After having loved us men on earth, after having taught us and prayed for us and worshiped next to us, as a man. After having healed us and rebuked us for our evil ways and preached to us the good news of God's grace. Warned us of the coming judgment after having poured out his life and selfless service for us. And only after having without complaint given himself to be exposed to the cruelest mockery To the most abject humility and shame, and to the greatest torture of the body that men have devised. And on top of that, after having endured the piercing pain of his father's face, turned away as he bore his people's sin on the cross. Only after having been separated from his God-given and good body in death. Which laid helpless in the grave for three days while he went to the place of the dead, all this to satisfy the curse of God's law against sin And to redeem his people from that curse, expiating that means removing the guilt of our sin. Propitiating means appeasing God's wrath Only then after doing that and after risen from the grave, only after having been taken into heaven and glorified bodily Only after having sat down at his father's right hand has Jesus become his people's pledge of everlasting access to God. Fellowship with God, union and communion with the living, triune God. For there, Jesus, our forerunner and priest, went into the Holy of Holies. To be surety that they too will be with him in glory everlasting, that their experience of God in him will never go away But will only get better and perfected when he comes back. So the point of all that this passage is saying, and all that I'm saying to you is this The Christian way to God is forever. The Christian experience of God is forever. It is realized now. It is perfected at Christ's coming. And this way, this Christian way, our passage calls the better covenant. And which, as we read in chapter 8, is identified there as the new covenant. Those four promises which you heard there Those four promises are what give shape to your Christian experience of God, that fill it out That tell you what your access and experience of God in Christ is and will be So I want to go through those four with you. First, that promise about writing God writing his laws in your heart and putting in your minds, what does that mean? It means that God's ways are now your ways. He's put them in you, his ways, in you. His ways in Christ are now your ways. You have union and communion with God. You are becoming one with Him. Not dissolved into Him in a pantheistic way. The same kind of union that's in the eternal Trinity, where there's still three distinct persons. The same kind of union that is in our Lord Jesus Christ, where there's still two distinct natures. The same kind of union you are being brought to with your God, where he and you remain distinct but one. How he thinks, you're beginning to think How he acts, you're beginning to act. How he loves, you're beginning to love. What he loves, you're beginning to love. What he hates, you're beginning to hate His ways are now your ways. That's the Christian experience of God in the new covenant Provided by Christ, secured forever, by his having sat down at the Father's right hand. Second, that promise about Um which one is it? They all know me. Yeah. No one will have to say, know the Lord. What does that mean? It means you know him as he knows you. Realize now, perfected at Christ's coming. Apostle John can write because of this truth, beloved, now we are the children of God. And it has not yet been revealed what we shall be. But we know that when he is revealed we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is, like him. And the Apostle Paul, after spending many verses in 1 Corinthians thirteen talking about love, And remember that God is love. Paul says this about true spiritual living in Christ. For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face, you still see Still seeing the same object, not a different object, not a different Christ, not a different God, just a different mode. Dimly in a mirror, in face to face Now I know in part, but then I shall know just as I also am known. When God says nobody will have to say no the Lord, he means it, nobody in Christ will have to say to another person in Christ, no the Lord. You will know him as he knows you, all of us. You know God as he knows you. That's your Christian experience of God in Christ. Provided by Jesus, pledged forever by Jesus, when he sat down at the Father's right hand. Third, when God says, I will be their God, and they will be my people He means to say, he is yours, and you are his. Paul writes, because of this truth But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit with him. That's the goal of an earthly marriage, one flesh, a union, oneness. That's also the goal of the gospel. That's the promise of the new covenant. That's the eternal reality of the new covenant, being one spirit with the Lord. He is yours, you are his And really, because I can call you this in Christ, you are the betrothed of him. And I am so happy for you as the betrothed of Christ. Because I know that you are looking forward to these words being fulfilled. Hallelujah. For the Lord God omnipotent reigns. Let us be glad and rejoice and give him glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come. And his wife has made herself ready. And how have we done that By relying upon Christ, our present high priest, and drawing near to God daily. Fourth, when God promises I will show mercy to their sins and not remember their iniquities anymore. Your Christian experience of God is this. You are forgiven. And don't take that, we hear that all the time, but pause with me for a minute and understand or remember what that means. It means you are loved of God. When I address you with the Greeting in the beginning of the service. Those aren't my words. I'm quoting from 1 Corinthians or Romans. I can't remember now. I think maybe it's Romans. Beloved of God called to be saints. It's not my word There's a word of God about you in Christ. Because you're forgiven. You are beloved of Him. You are loved like a lost child back from the dead. That is what it means. That's what God's forgiving love means. And I want you here To hear the thoughts of God, his thoughts, as this comes from the prophet Jeremiah, and prophets don't speak by their own movings of their hearts, but only what God puts in them I want you to hear God's thoughts towards you. I want you to know the yearnings of his heart towards you while you were in sin. Truly, Ephraim is exiled at this time, and he just means the whole nation of Israel. Truly, this is what God is saying. Truly. Ephraim is a dear son to me, a child that is dandled. Whenever I have turned against him, my thoughts would dwell on him still. That is why my heart yearns for him. I will receive him back in love. And so you have been. Beloved, when you turn back to God and believe into Christ, Do you want this way of life to end? Do you want to go back to the old way of living before you knew God and He knew you? Do you want a different arrangement? I was going through the chapter three of our Westminster Confession of Faith on Saturday. As I was preparing the men of the church to serve as your future office-bearers here, chapter 3 is on the eternal decree of God, and I came across these words. So shall this doctrine, the doctrine of predestination or eternal election, so shall this doctrine afford matter of praise? Reverence and admiration of God, and of humility, diligence, and here's the word I want to focus on: abundant consolation To all that sincerely obey the gospel, which is believe on the Lord Jesus Christ to be saved, I say to you That if it were possible, and I thank God it's not, for me to be out of Christ, there is not one thing you could say to me? Give to me, do for me, that would ever put a smile back on my face. That would ever rouse me out of my bed, I will be forever inconsolable to lose this favor of God. To lose this experience of God. To no longer have this access to God inconsolable. And that's why the doctrine affords us great consolation. Because he will never take his love from us. Ever. Beloved, with this teaching, that Jesus is your pledge of perfection and life with God forever. Here is what you should say to yourself, if you're a believer in Christ. So long as Jesus is priest. Which, as we've seen, is forever assured by God's oath, so long will I enjoy God in this new way. So long as priest and covenant go together, priest and way to God go together, so long as Jesus is my high priest. So long as he is high priest, for so long will I enjoy this way back to God So surely as Jesus sits in power, which is incontestable by Pentecost and living in the Holy Spirit, The Spirit, as John said, was never given until Jesus was glorified in the way in which it dwells in the New Covenant way. So surely as Jesus sits in power, so surely will I live blameless and holy before the Lord God forever. So you should speak to yourself about being in Christ and having Jesus as your high priest forever. If you're not a believer in Christ yet, which means that you've not become one with him yet, here's what it looks like. You look into the heavens, and you see your Savior there at the Father's right hand, because the gospel declares that's where he's at, and you say, I'm there. Because I was also there when my Savior died for me in my place on the cross. Because the gospel says it. When he rose from the dead, I rose from the dead. When he ascended to heaven, I ascended to heaven. When he sat down next to his father in power, beloved, accepted, and expected there. I sat down and am beloved, accepted, and expected. When he comes, I'll come with him. I will always be with him. As I said to you this morning, that's sticking faith. That's the faith that unites yourself to Christ and makes yourself one with him. Because that's the gospel. That's what we are baptized into. Union with Christ. And if you can say all that and truly mean it, and do it rejoicing with a conscience that is that peace with God, that draws near to God intimately, you are one with Christ. Let me close in these words. Beloved, I urge you, find your peace and assurance in the gospel. Let go of anxious living, trying to keep up with this world. You have what they do not have, an unchanging way of life. Communion with God. That's yours forever. Make your life about drawing near to God, not a television. Not a cell phone, not a computer screen, not a retirement destination, but to God Himself. Your Heavenly Father wants you home. Your elder brother wants you there, Jesus, just as much. He has work for you to do. And if I could say it this way, I think he just wants to hang out with you. Turn your back on this passing world with its corrupt desires And seek your Father's kingdom and his righteousness, and you will live forever. Amen.