We come now to the eighth Psalm. The eighth psalm is our scripture reading and sermon text. To the choir master according to the Gitti. A Psalm of David. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. You have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouths of babes and infants, you have established strength because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers The moon and the stars which you have set in place, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care of For him. You have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, and crowned him with glory and honor. You have given him dominion over the works of your Of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the seas. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. Let us pray. Or we pray now that is we preach about Psalm 8, that you will speak through our preaching. Edify your people. Jesus' name. Amen. Well we first here see the glory of God in Creation. The glory of God is seen in the heavens and the earth. That first verse, O Lord, our Lord is O Yahweh, our Adonai. In Hebrew. How majestic is your name in all the earth, everywhere. God's name is seen, God's glory is seen You have set your glory above the heavens. David recognized both the covenant name of God Yahweh. And the position of Yahweh to his people, Lord or ruler, Adonai. It was a simple and straightforward, common way of saying that our God is the man Master of everything. And then how majestic is your name in all the earth? David also recognized that though the Lord was Israel's covenant God, he was also the God of more than just Israel. He is the God of all creation, in all the earth, majestic, everywhere. And then he says, you have set your glory above the heavens. The earth is not the limit. God's glory is above what we can see even from here in heaven. Heaven. The glory and excellence of God is above the heavens, according to David. So that's significant the way he puts that. Then he says in the second Verse that the glory of God is also measured in his strength over his enemies. His strength over his enemies. Out of the mouths of babies and infants, you have established strength because of your foes, to steal the enemy and the avenger. Out of the mouths of babies and infants. In this verse, David considers the greatness of God by his evident power and glory But more than that, he now considers the power and glory of God that can be seen even in small children Babies and nursing infants. Why? How? Because they bear his image. That's how and why. Babies and nursing infants God's strength is evident in them because they are not mere animals, but they are God's image. Bearers. These little image bearers display the glory of God. They are awesome because they are in His image. When we look at one of these little ones, We should marvel at the glory of God and see beyond what seems to be a very, very weak and small and insignificant being too To an image bearer of God, sent to bear his standard in the world, an amazing person. Then he says this. We'll get back to that in a moment. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have set in place, that's back to the glory of God in creation. When I consider that Then I compare in verse four, what is man, puny? What is man that you are mindful Mindful of him and the son of man that you care for him, human beings, the son of man. Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly being. kings, and crowned him with glory and honor. That is the status of image bearers of God. You have given him dominion over the works of your hands. You remember that back from Genesis don't you classify everything, name everything, have dominion over everything, care for the creation, dominion. You have put all things under his feet, this image-bearer man. All things are under his feet because God has given all things To be under his feet. All sheep and oxen, also the beasts of the field, which sometimes are much bigger and more powerful, the birds of the heavens that fly way higher The fish of the sea, much lower than man ever gets to go, whatever passes along the paths of the sea. The main impact of the image is that God has given to man some of his divine attributes. That's what makes this so amazing. The creator of everything, the Lord of all the world, has given to man, little babies even, some of his attributes, thereby separating and making them different from the beasts. What are these special godlike qualities which man is permitted to show share. Well there are six that can be mentioned, and I will confess that I get these from uh from answers in Genesis that gave a very comprehensive uh study of the of the the attributes that God shares with man. Language is part of the image of God, language, creativity is part of the image of God, love, holiness, immortality And freedom. All this can be summed up by saying that man, like God, has an intelligence, a mind. All these things go into that picture of an intelligence, a mind. According to Arthur Kessler, the emergence of symbolic language First spoken, then written, represents the sharpest break between animal and man. Symbolic language. Now Uh I think my dog smiles at me. He certainly wags his tail. When he wants in, he taps on the door. Uh, but it's not symbolic Language. It's just something that he's learned to get what he needs from me. Language, the origin of speech. Speech happens because the infant is human This little infant, the one that will be born to Tom and Teresa, will learn to speak because that That is a human being. And it's already there. Not the language, but the ability to have language. It's already there. It's part of his heritage or her heritage. In Genesis 2 and three and four we have the record of the words spoken by the first humans mentioned in Scripture, Adam and Eve, and their eldest son Cain. These utterances are not illiterate baby talk. How did they learn to speak? The only possible answer is that they were taught by God. How does a newborn baby learn to speak? It is now accepted by linguists. That speech is innate, inborn. That is, speech happens because the infant is human. It's part of his or her heritage. Someone else says, this tells this well-known story of a well-known psychologist who attended a four-day conference on the acquisition of speech by infants. Four days. How do infants learn to speak, right? At the end, he was heard to say, I prefer the miracle theory. It's a striking fact about the Judeo-Christian God, the one here in Psalm 8, the Lord of the Bible, that he is a communicator. Although the Christian, like the Jew, worships one God only, and has no place for polytheism, he also believes that God is three persons in one substance. True unity in diversity. In Genesis we read that God said, let us make man in our image. Note the plural. Another reason we know about the three, the Trinity, is because there is communication between the plural. persons. The Lord said, and we read, to whom did he speak? It could only have been to another member of the Trinity. As soon as man was created, God spoke to him. Constantly throughout Scripture, we read the phrase, the word of the Lord, God speaks. For this reason, the Bible is known as the Word of God, as though to underline the importance of communication. God sent his Son, Jesus Christ, into the world with the name Lagos or Word. John writes, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. All things were made by him, and without Him was not anything made that was made. So there is the written word, the Bible, and the living word, Jesus Christ. God is a communicator. God is a speaker. With such a prime communicator for his maker, it is surprising that innate speech was part of the image of God given To man, no, it is not surprising. The atheists can give no satisfactory reason for the origin of speech. How did it evolve? That the Christian can give a satisfactory answer. When a baby talks, he is showing one of the gifts that God has given him: language. That's part of the image of God. The second characteristic of the image of God, which shows the glory of God, is creativity. God is creator, the great planner of the universe. He brought his plan to a triumphant conclusion when he saw everything that he had made and pronounced it good. God made man and woman, male and female, he made Them. And God blessed them and said, Be fruitful and increase in number. So God has given to men and women the ability to procreate new beings in In his image. Little humans with bodies and minds. We have an insatiable desire to be creative, an urge increasingly emphasized in schools and recognized even by business and management. An industrialist writes this there is more stability Among garage mechanics to whom every repair job is different, who meets the customer, who sees the job through, who has the satisfaction of putting the car on the road again, than there is in the motor production Day or every week or every year. Animals, by contrast to man who is creative, is not creative. They endlessly reproduce a stereotyped design A particular spider constructs a web of a constant pattern. The song of a bird is species specific. Or mimicry of another bird or human. No originality is demonstrated in these. Man alone can reason and act act upon his original thoughts. John Steinbeck puts it this way. The last clear function of man Muscles aching to work, minds aching to create beyond the single need, that is man, to build a wall, to build a house, a dam. And in the wall and in the house and dam to put something of manself. And to manself take back something of the wall. the house, the dam, to take hard muscles from the lifting, to take the clear lines and form from the conceiving, for man, unlike any Anything organic or inorganic in the universe grows beyond his work, walks up the stairs of his concepts, emerges ahead of his accomplishments And this you can know. Fear the time when manself will not suffer and die for a concept, for this one quality is the foundation of man-self. And this one quality is man distinctive in the universe. Scientists would agree. They consider the ability to use tools. Tools and tame fire, the hallmark of Homo sapiens. Man, in the image of God is creative. Creative Love is the next quality. Can animals love? That adoring look on the face of your Dog as he waits for his daily walk, or that conditioned reflex. Maybe that's just all it is. Is love purely human and characteristic There is room for some difference of opinion here if you're a if you're a pet owner. But love is the quintessence of God's God's character. God is love, 1 John 4, 16. His love for man far outstrips human comprehension. It is the major theme of Scripture. Even when man sins again and again to the extent that God must chasten him. Man, because of the given image of God, has the capacity to love, a virtue of completely different order from just reflex or learned response that you find in an animal. Man loves because he is in the image of God Holiness. Before sin, Adam and Eve walked in the garden and communed with God until the fall. Only the faintest afterglow of that holiness is left in natural man now. As a fine carving on a gothic cathedral which after years of buffeted being buffeted by storm And abuse of man is now defaced, yet still shows something of its past grandeur, so man still retains the remnants of his original no Nobility. Man is still man, even in ruins. More than that, because man is made in the image of God, whether he acknowledges it or not, he still seeks after beauty and holiness. But beauty of body is what is often sought rather than beauty of character And the personal esteem rather than the glory of God. A man recreated in the likeness of God puts on true righteousness. As it's described in Ephesians 4. 24, holiness still glimmers in man, even the worst. But in those who are recreated, we put on true righteousness and holiness after our Creator, our image maker. image giver. Then immortality. Immortality. Struggle for survival is the basis of Evolution. Animals flee death. They crawl to food and water to stay alive. Animals in Africa will travel miles to just lick a salt block. to obtain essential sodium chloride. Furthermore, the instinct to breed and nurture offspring shows that it is not only the individual but the race which has an urge to live. The ability to exist and replicate is the essence of life even at the cellular level The magnitude of cell growth is staggering. If the fertilized human ovum were the size of an orange, the full-grown baby would be as large as the world. And this is accomplished in nine months. Wound healing is usually rapid and complete. If you bite your tongue or your lip, it will heal in a few days Why this universal pulse? Not just to maintain a tenacious hold on life, but to re reproduce more of the same kind of cell Why? What is the dynamic which drives life on and on in plants and animals and man? And he says I I know no biologically valid answer. Such an impulse can only come from God, the author of life Yes. Yet man who has been given this life, this urge in full measure, desires something more. He yearns for immortality Immortality. When man is estranged from God, the desire for immortality often takes strange forms. The salutation to the Peruvian monarchs was, O king, live forever. And that's because the kings wanted them to say that. The medieval alchemist brewed concoctions of toad's liver, mouse's dung, and the hair of a dog as a potion to hold back the spectra of death. Death and failing the hope of personal immortality, kings needed a male heir to ensure the continuity of the dynasty, an heir and a Fair usually. They want two. Henry VIII took six wives before he achieved his desire. King Faruq of Egypt divorced several queens because they would not give him Him sons, only daughters. Graveyards often boast massive monuments erected in honor of non-entities, or if he can afford it, an oblique oblique long you know one of those big long tall uh spires built on a prominent hill the top of some gravestone to mark the lifetime of the owner God was before the beginning immortal. He has no end. He is With him it is always the present. He is outside of time. God is immortal. Man in his image Jesus said, A time is coming when all who are in the graves will hear the voice of the Son of Man and will come out. Those who have done good will rise to live, and those who have done evil will rise to live To be condemned. God's elect, God's chosen ones, will live with him forever in his newly created earth earth. Those who have rejected Christ still linger on, punished with everlasting dis Destruction, shut out from the presence of the Lord and from the majesty of his power. Second Thessalonians 1 9 tells us that. And one more Attribute or mark of the image of God is freedom. Freedom. Adam was created only a little lower than God, Psalm 8. As a free spiritual being, a responsible moral agent with a thinking mind and powers of choice and action. Able to commune with God and respond to Him, He could love and worship God or not as He chose. Man could rebel against God. And the tragedy for the human race is that Adam and his wife, tempted by the serpent, did just that. Man, with such a great start, used his freedom to turn against his creator. Man now misinterprets freedom as independence. Satan's lie was to trick man into believing that to be independent of God was to be free You'll know all this. You'll gain the upper hand if you just do this one thing. But there is no such thing as freedom. We are all slaves, either to Christ or to Satan. Since the fall, man remained A free agent in the sense that his decisions and conduct proceed from his inner character and not from external constraint. But because of his very nature, which is now sinful, his decisions and acts are sinful too. That is what we call total depravity. When we do wrong, it is because we have been tempted by our evil desire. James 1, verses 14 and 15 says, and when desire has conceived, it gives birth. sin. Even our best good is defective in the sight of God. Even our righteous deeds are described by Isaiah as filthy rags from a corrupt tree which cannot be Bring forth good fruit, according to Jesus in Matthew 7. No wonder Paul cried out, I know that no good thing lives in me. That is in my sinful nature. For I have a desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out. What a wretched man I am who will rescue me from this body of death. Man desperately desires freedom, but often he seeks it in the wrong place. If you've lived a little while, you might remember that beginning in the 1960s. University students sought freedom by protesting the establishment of a state. Take it on, tear it down, blow it up In the 70s, they sought freedom from drugs and promiscuous sex. Freedom lately can even mean freedom from being offended by others' opinions. Opinions or freedom from hate speech, always seeking some kind of freedom. But only Christ can set People free. Paul says in Galatians, it is for freedom that Christ has set us free. The cost of that freedom was nothing less than the death of the Son of God. No wonder Peter says, You, my brothers, were called to be free, but do not use your freedom to indulge the sinful nature. Modern and postmodern man has got it all wrong. Freedom is not, freedom is liberty, it is not libertinism. We are called into the glorious liberty of the children of God. Adam was created free, but became enslaved to sin. All men and women since have been in bondage, but Christ. came to set us free and his service is perfect freedom. Remember that his service is perfect Freedom. The yearning for freedom is part of the image of God. It remains unsatisfied unless the slave has been redeemed and set free by Christ. Also notice here in the Psalm that David touched on the familiar theme in the Bible, the idea that God uses otherwise weak things to display his glory and his his strength. Because man has these attributes of the image of God, even the little tiny baby, the nursing baby Shows the strength and glory of God. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1:27, God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame. Shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things that are mighty. It's hard to think of anything more More weak and helpless than a baby. And that is why the babies put here in Psalm 8. You have the same God who can ordain strength out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants. Can give strength and support to you and me in our weakness. I have a couple of quotations Here on this line. The praises of the Messiah celebrated in the church by his children have in them a strength and power which nothing can withstand They can abash infidelity when at its greatest height and strike hell itself dumb. Babies can do that. Because They bear the image of God, according to Charles Horne. Jesus quoted this passage, Psalm 8, to his indignant accusers in Matthew 21 one verse six As Jesus did wonderful miracles in the temple area and as he received the praise of children who cried out Hosanna to the son of David Jesus Jesus quoted Psalm 8 and says, Out of the mouths of babes and infants you have ordained praise. Because of your enemies, that you may silence the enemy. The reason why God displays his strength in unlikely vessels is because it works to the silence of the enemy. Satan and his fellow adversaries have nothing to say when God works so mightily in an otherwise weak person. In quoting this passage, Jesus told his accusers who he was and who they were, since the babes and the nursing infants praised God. Jesus identified himself as God. They were praising God incarnate, Jesus. And in this Jesus identified the indignant scribes here as the teachers. who were the enemies and the avengers of God described in this psalm. Then we get on to where David David says, I I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place. What is man that you are mindful of him, and the Son of Man that you care for him? And David again goes back to considering the glory of God's creation, the starry sky that great God has made Two more quotations, one from Spurgeon. Satan is no doubt filled with scorn of man when he He looks at him and measures him with himself. Quote, Satan might say this, is this the creature that is to be set over all the works of God's hands? made of earth and water, phosphates and metals? I am nobler than he. Can I not flash like lightning whilst he must create And Kidner says this. David understood that the position of man in creation says far more about the glory of God than saying anything about the glory of God. Man. Understanding it all should make us praise God, not man. For man's dominion over nature, wonderful though it is, takes second place to his calling as servant and worshiper. To those very children, the name of the Lord has been revealed. In conclusion, there are three wonderful and important truths about about man found in this psalm. When these truths are denied or neglected, man never is what God made him to be These are the truths. God made man in his image. God made man something glorious in his image God made man for a high and worthy destiny in his image. All three of these principles are rooted in what God God has made man. They do not exist or are they fulfilled from the plan or work of man. That is why this glorious psalm about man is even more So a psalm about God. And so the psalm ends just as it began. Verse 9: O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name! In all the earth. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for the glory of your creation. And your power. And we thank you for the glory that you put into humankind. Men and women, little babies, even made in your image. which far outshine all the beasts, all the other created animals in the world. As we bear your image in newness because of Christ's redeeming Redeeming us, we pray that you would help us to live out that image, becoming more and more godlike as we grow in the likeness of of Christ. Forgive us our failings, our lapses, our turning back, and seeking devices that cannot get Give us satisfaction. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth, and may it be majestic in us as well. Amen.