Verses 65 through 72. You have dealt well with your servant, O Lord, according to your word. Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. You are good, and do good. Teach me your statutes The insolence smear me with lies, but with my whole heart I keep your precepts. Their heart is unfeeling like fat, but I delight in your law. It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes. The law of your mouth is better to me. Then thousands of gold and silver pieces. And now from the Book of Romans Chapter 5, verses 1 through 5, and then chapter 8, verses 26 through 28. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. More than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. And endurance produces character. And character produces hope. And hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. Romans eight, twenty six through twenty-eight Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know What we to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. Actually I wanted to also read verses twenty-eight through thirty. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks to be to God. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. You probably wondered at my choice of words to entitle this sermon, thinking, isn't it rather self-evident that suffering is bad? When I've said the amazing goodness of suffering. How can I say that suffering is good? Well the answer to those questions is that this text from Psalm 119 that we approached tonight says so. And what it says is indeed amazing. We wouldn't have thought that suffering, pain, and affliction is ever good Actually, come to think of it, the pain of childbirth is clearly good. Look at its outcome. Perhaps other occasions when suffering falls to be our lot are also good. And in truth they are. Apparently, all of them, according to the Word of God, delivered to us tonight in this portion of Psalm 119. Take a look at verse 71, in which the psalmist makes this startling confession. It is good for me that I was afflicted. And it is that amazing truth. The goodness of suffering, revealed to David by inspiration of the Holy Spirit. That expresses in clear and unmistakable terms the theme of this entire stanza, verses 65 through 72 of Psalm 119. Entitled Teth Teth If you have been in attendance for any of these Sunday evening worship services, you know the purpose of those strange words heading each one of the 22 stanzas of the This time we get Teth, the ninth letter of the Hebrew alphabet, equivalent to our T. So the heading indicates that the first word of each of the eight verses of this section begins with Teth. And I assure you that they do. I checked it out on my Hebrew Bible. And perhaps even more interesting, because it takes us through the contents of that text tonight, is this. The first word of five of the eight verses, 65, 66, 68, 71, and 72. Are identical. That word is Tove, the Hebrew word for good. Now I know that in our English Standard Translation, as we read it, the first word in each of those eight verses. So named and declared, is not our English word good. But in Hebrew it is the word good, to Thus, we could translate those five verses in a way faithful to the Hebrew text using our English word good as the first word. It would come out something like this, and you can look at your English translation as I have reordered the words a little bit, but faithful to the Hebrew text. 65. Good you have dealt with your servant. 66. Good judgment and knowledge teach me. It sort of sounds like that guy in uh the movie who changed the words of the sentence, what was his name? Yoda. Yoda, yeah. He did something like this. Verse sixty-eight Good you are, and do good. Seventy-one good it is for me that I was afflicted. And lastly, seventy-two. Good is the law of your mouth. And that's what the Hebrew children, young and old alike, would understand to be the point. Of this section of Psalm 119 test. What the psalmist is insisting by inspiration of the Holy Spirit is that affliction of all sorts, including pain and suffering, is not bad but good And he does it by a powerful and amazing rhetoric, doesn't he? That's why he begins five of the lines of this standard with that powerful word code. He wants every member of the Covenant Nation, and that includes you English-speaking Christian believers here tonight To know, confess, and hopefully embrace this sure truth. Suffering is good It is assuredly true that the suffering Jesus endured on the cross is good because it brings about the forgiveness of sin for all who trust in him. And it is also true That believers grow in sanctification through discipline, both to learn and obey God's perfect word of command, and that's good also. Our sermon tonight has only two points in exposition of this theme. The first, why suffering occurs, and the second is what suffering accomplishes. So, first, why suffering occurs? Suffering occurs because it is the result of the sin of our first parents, Adam and Eve Who, even in the face of God's warning, forbidding them to eat of the fruit of one particular tree in the Garden of Eden, saying, In the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. They disobeyed God's command. As a result, the inescapable verdict of their guilt And its resulting punishment is the lot of all their descendants. This sad but sure truth is underlined by the Apostle Paul In Romans 3:23. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And again in Romans 5:12. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin. So death spread to all men because all sinned. And we heard about that this morning in the sermon, didn't we, very clearly? There it is. Death is the law of every person. With just a couple of exceptions. We heard also about that this morning. Enoch and Elijah. And since death constitutes the final affliction of every last person except those two, descending from Adam and resulting from his fall That supreme sufferer said, Man is born to trouble as surely as sparks fly upward. Job 5. 7 Suffering occurs because it is the unavoidable prelude to death by sin. Now, you are aware that the revelation of this truth found in God's Word, clearly stated in the Bible's Old and New Testaments. Is both disliked and denied by many today, as has been the case throughout all of history. The argument goes this way. And is summarized by James Boyce. And I quote him. If God were good, he would wish to make his creatures happy. And if God were almighty, he would be able to do what he wished. But his creatures are not happy. Therefore, God lacks either goodness or power or both. Unquote. That's the argument summarized by Boyce. But David disagrees with this humanistic denial of God And makes his disagreement clear in verse 68. Speaking of the Lord God, the psalmist says. You are good and do good. Suffering occurs not because God is either not good or weak or both. Suffering a curse because God is both good and powerful. Correct. He is good because his divine nature is such that whatever he says is right and true, conforming with his eternal plan. And he never goes back on what he says. And that, my friends, is supremely good. And David asserts that all human beings may, if they are able, confidently trust that whatever God decrees is good. Fully and undeniably good. For the sole reason, the sole reason that it springs from God. And God is good. Therefore The presence of suffering, of affliction, of pain in the world, since such has not caught God off guard, as it were But is, as a matter of fact, the direct decree of God our good Those things ought to be, and they are, because they spring from God's eternal will And there is no sense for wicked, sinful people to object that they don't like the way God has ordained things, especially suffering. They are not God. He is. So object only one. The hard fact remains He does what he will. And what he wills is, here's the point, not only sure to come to pass, It is good that it comes to pass. These are things most surely believed, my friends. They are self-evident to crib Thomas Jefferson's phrase in the Declaration of Independence, though for an entirely different purpose. God is God, and God is good. Suffering occurs because both are true. When he created mankind, God said that it was very good. In fact, Genesis 1. 31 says, and God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. The reason why suffering occurs is not that God failed to ensure that people would never suffer. Rather, suffering occurs because God is good. And he does good. When people sin, suffering is the inevitable consequence Otherwise, if God would see to it that their suffering would not occur, He wouldn't be God. At least he wouldn't be good because he wouldn't be true to himself. Do you see it, Congregation? David does, and he makes that very clear in his poem. That's why in verse 66 he prays, Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments. He wants to make good judgments, David does, not judgments formed out of his sinful and fallen nature. Not judgment that they call, that would call upon God to be a god, small g, formed out of David's own desires Not knowledge based upon his own faulty philosophy of how he wants things to fall out and transpire. No. He prays for understanding that whatever God is, and whatever God does, is good. That applies to whatever affliction, suffering, and pain falls to be his lot. Nevertheless, he says, I believe. In your commandments. Like his predecessor Job, David confesses, I know That you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be forted. Job 42, 2 Yes, the combined judgment of all of Holy Scripture is that suffering occurs and that it occurs because it is the will of God. Wishing it otherwise will not make it. go away. And denying it is even worse because it involves denying both the sovereignty and the goodness of God. It replaces God with another deity, one fashioned out of man's own desire and judgment. One that will make people happy. Free from all suffering. But the first commandment of the Decalogue is this. You shall have no other gods before me. That's exactly how serious the psalmist considers his need For the Lord to deal with him in such a way that he might, in the words of verse 70, be light in your law. Yes, he wants pain and suffering to go away. Who wouldn't? But he doesn't want that at the cost of God's honor. He knows that the Lord brings pain and suffering his way for good. That's the first point, why suffering occurs. But the second and last point is this: what suffering accomplishes Going back to verse 71, that key to our text, once more we hear the psalmist exclaim. Is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes. And we cannot help but ask him, David, please tell us, how is it that suffering is good? His own answer to our question has already been given in verse 67. Before I was afflicted I went astray. But now I keep your word. Before suffering came his way, David had been taught God's statutes He was aware of them. He understood what they required. And he realized that he ought to live in a complete accordance to them. But he hadn't really learned them until he obeyed them. Suffering was good for David because it brought him to the place of keeping God's word. And I must say to you believers here tonight, and ask you this: of what value is your knowing God's law if you don't keep it Perhaps by means of suffering affliction, the Lord would be bringing you to keep his word. And if that is so, it's a good thing indeed. It's called discipline, isn't it? And God knows how to administer discipline for the blessing and well-being of his dear children. Sometimes you might plunge into deliberate and willful sin, and then you surely need reproof by God's deserved discipline. That might be administered by someone in authority over you. Perhaps a parent. A church elder, or even a civil magister. And that would be good for you, in any case. But maybe you might go astray purely by ignorance. That happens too. What then? Well, God might bring affliction into your life because you trusted your own judgment and wandered into vain and harmful paths. Then it was that you needed to turn to God's word and learn the right way to live. If you did that, then you will confess with David that suffering was surely good for you. You will say in the words of verse 65, You have dealt well with your servant, O Lord, according to your word. Yes, suffering is good when it is part and parcel of the Lord's discipline of his children. So much is that true that the Bible says, even of Jesus Think about it. Hebrews 5:8. Although he was a son, he learned obedience from what he suffered. Jesus did. Isn't that incredible? Jesus never sinned, ever. Yet he learned God's decree in the face of Calvary's affliction. In fact, there he prayed that God's will, not his own, be done. When we note that prayer of Jesus while suffering mind-boggling affliction on the cross. We are led to confess the supreme example of the amazing goodness of suffering. Yes, it was good that Jesus died. But I'm referring to David didn't know as you do. In light of the New Testament revelation, that the suffering Jesus experienced wrought the very salvation that both David and you, me, and have. He suffered and died in the place of all God's redeemed children. And that is indeed a very good thing. Without it there is no suffering and there is no salvation for anyone at any time and everywhere to make sense. The gospel is not more clearly announced than it is in the most well-known verse in the Bible. You know it, John 3:16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish. But have eternal life. That amazing goodness of the suffering endured by Jesus, by which we are saved If we trust in him alone, brings us into a state of peace with God, as we read in Romans 5. Justified by faith, according to the Apostle Paul, and thus according to the Holy Spirit. He then goes on to say in that same chapter: more than that, we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. And endurance produces character, and character produces hope. That's exactly what David experienced as he writes in verses 69 and 70 of our text. The insolence, smear me with lies, but with my whole heart I keep your precepts. Their heart is unfeeling like that, but I delight in your law. He suffered affliction at the hands of his enemies, but he did not return evil for evil. Rather, he kept God's word with his whole heart. Committed to following its statutes, he forbidden. And endured the lying attacks of the wicked. His character was strengthened as he walked according to God's precepts, wasn't it? And perhaps chiefly his hope in the goodness of God brought him David to delight in the law of the Lord. That law made David the richest of men, and enabled him to write verse 72. The last verse of our text. The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces. And I ask you, congregation, are what was suffered for you? by Jesus. And what you suffer, both gracious gifts, making you truly Rich. Heavenly Father We pray that we might go right against our natural inclination to want suffering to go away because it hurts and wonder why you do it that way. If we do, we didn't listen to this text tonight, and now we've listened to it. And now we've changed our mind and it's okay with us that you are God and you are good. And we are made good in your mercy through Jesus. Help us in all of our afflictions, sufferings, and pain To remember it. To thank you for it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.