Uh as you know, John was hesitant to baptize Jesus because he recognized you are in no need of a washing from sin. And all of your walk as Christians on this earth, because you need this Savior tried, and you need to call upon him now as your high priest. That's that's the God Jesus knew in his humanity, right? And yet it is the hardest thing for us to trust and isn't it? And as Matthew makes clear to us, God most certainly fulfilled this promise at the end of his trial. If that's true for anybody who trusts, certainly for you, the Son of God. Because it's going to encourage us that we're all still in the fight and none of us have made it yet. And it might be very encouraging if you say, Let me tell you what the Lord's put me through. Usually when we read our Bible, we import things we know, other truths, into, and we don't really actually listen to what that text is telling us. our Sidna Seder. He said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, seeing that you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Here am I, my son. As I've been thinking on this all week and meditating, something of just what that righteousness is, that true when I'm talking about But it also could be taken in the sense of the judgment waters right have come upon our Savior. who have lived really an unknown life in Nazareth. I'm going to walk you and walk us through these verses. God did not put the Israelites in a test. In which Moses on the doorstep of the promised land is reminding the Israelites, don't forget these forty years important lessons were taught to you in them as your father brought you up in his educative process Is it a temptation? Why don't you just show us that you're actually really God's son and turn these loaves into bread and solve your problem, right? That's how I study the Bible every week. I don't know if they ultimately have to compete against each other. Talks to the woman at the well and evangelizes her. I love David's words. You as any person who takes refuge in God, any person who says, You are my God, you are my refuge, in you do I trust. Neither shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Sounds good, right? He has a power. Think about it. Do we do it perfectly? to the cross. Not because it was some just abstract property put upon him, but because there's only one thing in his heart. So they went both of them together. So Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide, as it is said to this day, on the mount of the Lord it shall be provided. declares the Lord, because you have done this, and that have not withheld your son, your only son, I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring, as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand that is on the seashore. The righteousness of purely divine. Uh what appeared, the dove and the new creation as that Holy Spirit's coming down the dove. God. plain, to be tempted by the devil. Bringing you to not lack anything. So it's better to call it a test or a trial. These tests are for to show us that God might show us what's in our Savior. So I think Jesus willingly entered into this fast too, in preparation for what's to come. Thank you, Lord Jesus. This is divine-willed. Tell me what every word, what part of speech it is, how it relates, made them construe every phrase, every clause, every sentence Put every sentence together in its paragraph and understand that paragraph in its whole and that whole thing. Now, Jesus makes this point several times as you're aware in his ministry, right? So that has the place. In Deuteronomy chapter 8, we hear that God humbled you and let you hunger. If you want to give an English transliteration of this, we would just say or translation, we'd say, what's that? So you know what the appropriate way to pray would be, Oh Lord, I don't know why you've taken the world's bread away, but all you have to do is speak and give us some what's that and you'll feed us. God made a promise to his people, I'm going to bring you out from this bondage and I'm going to take you into a holy land. I hope as the gospel is preaching to us, yes, we all know life under the curse. And God has pledged himself to that person who trusted him to protect him from all evils. Thank you, Jesus, that you didn't just read part of your Bible, but you read the whole Bible. They ultimately won't have any lasting harm. Um, on the other hand, Jesus calls him Prince of this world three times in John, Paul does refer to him as the God of this age. Trusting in the Lord. As we are triumph over him and do not succumb to his temptation. He said, jump off, the angels will pick you up and carry you out. Yeah, that's a great light when you meet an Israelite without sin, right? It's a great light in Christians. On the third day, Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar. I and the boy will go over there and worship, and come again to you. Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by his horns. And he said, Here am I. So they went both of them together. And your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies, and in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. For he says, In a favorable time I listened to you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. Command these stones to become loaves of bread. Throw yourself down, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. Is that God has truly given us a sinless Savior. There is a few things to say for us just to help to understand and come to terms with the text as it's here. There's sort of three things that we need to know about the baptism to understand the temptation. Because he has come to be the representative of his people, of the covenant people of God, right? And to accomplish it and to fulfill all righteousness for us. New creation. That is the word of God that Satan will attack. But now called into this role, called into this ministry, anointed by me, and received this divine testimony, you He is God's anointed one that is we are now obligated morally, every person in the world who hears this, to receive Christ as the anointed. anointed. Jesus to be our Saviour, our Lord. I think you know which way I lean if you've read the sermon title. Old King James would translate as tempted him. Because God can tempt no one, as James says. So God does not test you and I that we might sin. But the Father wanted to test me, say, why? As some like to describe it, a little if you take a little thin wire you can bend it, right? You have a sinless Jesus by virtue of the incarnation. What happens if you take the human will, which is a part of Jesus' true humanity, and it's united to the God-man, or excuse me, it's united to the second person of the Trinity, which you have the God-man, the hypostatic union He felt the full brunt in his humanity. of the sufferings as a human being. He has been led out in the desert. The sinless Savior knows your humanity, I dare say, better than you know it. So that you might be able to enjoy the land that I'm about to give to you. Adam failed. Under the stars, exposed to the elements, with beasts, with snakes, with scorpions, and not eating. And soul and mind, that's all that's in Jesus. I don't know what it is to be without food for 40 days, Jesus does. That his authority as our Messiah may be proven to us, and we may see what's in his heart as our sinless Savior. And that gets to come out here. He'd be prepared for it by God's word. So there is a place as Christians where we do want to wake up every morning and say, I'm not going to live by the breaking of my fast when I go downstairs and eat. Uh Deuteronomy chapter 8, and maybe I'll just read them for you so you can hear for yourself what the Lord Jesus is saying there. But man lives by every word or all that comes from the mouth of the Lord. They woke up that morning and went out there and said, what is that? filial relationship between Father and Son, that trusting dependence that the Son is have is to have upon his Father, that trusting dependence that you and I as the creatures of God are meant to have upon our God. Sets him on the pinnacle. And you're able to see the fallacious use that Satan is using here of God's word. Put a little bit of your weight on it to see if it can hold you and then sit all the way down. By our supposed faith in his promises. He says, that's just the tempt God. I mean if you would like to just be the emperor over this whole world, you don't gotta worry about a bad health plan, right? The rule of this world. He just wants us to worship him instead of worshiping God. Jesus is only going to worship and serve his Father, make no allegiances with the evil one, but do his father's holy will. In the night in the garden, you have been with me in all my trials. They got the victory, and it's so it's so joyful to look over the last 2,000 years of world history and to see millions, billions, I don't know, of baptismal vows made That's the sin, the Savior we needed it. Read Psalm 91, right? Look how God vindicates his name that Jesus trusted in. Filled him and fed him. We can apply the text in that way. And to put that faith in the Father, to put that faith in the Son, the Lord Jesus. Though if you sit under the gospel preaching, he calls to you under his gospel the trust in Jesus Christ. I think it's helpful for us and as we finish here where Matthew goes next in his text, you know, the next place that he goes to is that Jesus went into Galilee and they saw a great light. Because if you're not living that way, you need to repent. He knows your life inside and out, and he cares. Matthew chapter 4, beginning at verse 1, the word of the Lord. And he said to him, All these I will give you, if you will fall down and worship me. By which we reign with him in life. What has God done after Judge and what did God do after he judged the world, right, but he made it new? But if you look, if you have the same uh I'm using your Pew Bible, so if you have that open, you see that it's called the Temptation of Jesus. But for another reason, too, because I think it's often I think a little misunderstood. Have you ever thought about how did we you and I come to know this? And I think then he knows what's going on as he makes clear where he quotes from. When was that congregational meeting? Work downstairs in the basement. And Jesus tells them, I've got food you don't know about. You know, if God took away all the bread in the world, you know what would be an inappropriate way to pray? If it was unrighteous and unjust every day, even if you've read the wilderness encounters, they despaired every time they came to a place that didn't have a hot meal ready for them. The God who redeemed me can and will in his omnipotent love and benevolence meet my daily needs. So you can see then the evil that Satan is wanting to do, right? I think I made my point, and I think we get that. I think there's a real irony in this passage. Genesis 22, verses 1 through 20. And the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven, and said, By myself I have sworn So Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and went together to Bersheba. Our epistle reading this morning congregation comes from 2 Corinthians chapter 6. With the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and for the left, through honor and dishonor, through slander and praise. Second Corinthians chapter 6, beginning at verse 1, hear the word of the Lord. And the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, If you are the Son of God, Savior, who by his holy light might redeem us and put in our place that perfect righteousness The incarnate Son of God. Jesus has been anointed and God has said, here is the world's ruler. Know what he has put there by grace. God's putting his son to the test, his whole life, that he might now serve as our faithful high priest, being perfected through his obedience. Now that question is answered by our Christology. Because the point of his temptation is not to see whether he's going to sin, but to prove that he would never sin. I had to do a little refreshing on the doctrine of the impeccability of Jesus. We have some of their books we we some of their books that we pass out. What joy then, if you're united to him? That we might overcome too. Today and tomorrow. And it says, for 40 days and 40 nights. No, I don't really want to see one of you guys after a couple days without food. So that's the situation in verse 3. But to not with scary things, we would think, what are you doing to me, O God, right? Thank you, Jesus, that you took your catechism instructions seriously. What does Jesus say? body-soul kind of thing, saying, Yeah, it's good to have bodily food, we need that. And fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone. What's Jesus' point? This bread we have to cultivate and care for still comes from God and it gives rain and sun is the only way God can sustain human life, because God made it clear for forty years, or the rest of the world's eating bread, you people are gonna eat what's that? And in no way trusting and remembering what God has sworn himself to do. Sin, there's no other reason why, but sin. I think we think if God's going to save me from all evils, it means I'll never suffer, right? That's the first one. Yes, God will protect us from all harm. So you can see the evil that again Satan wants to bring into this relationship of father and son, wants them to call in question. That was the second test. You say it's not right for man to try God to make him the task to be his Lord to dictate what he does His victory is ultimate over him, and the victory of God is the final and lasting of good word that all of God's enemies will be put under his feet. It is the Father who will give to Jesus the crown. I can't get at him that way. Satan's own maker, Christ incarnate in the flesh, has to hear this creature say bow down and worship me. Alright, let me close here and make a few points to you. And let's be clear, these trials were an intense period. The world doesn't just randomly I mean the world it happens, but you don't just randomly kill somebody, right? This is why we need a sinless Savior. You get nervous. That's all we were made to be. And trusting our souls to God. In mind. So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac, and he cut the wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. Now, after these things it was told to Abraham, Behold, Milka also has borne children to your brother Nahor. Behold, now is the favorable time. Hardships, calamities, beatings, imprisonments, riots, labors, sleepless nights, We are treated as impostors and yet are true, as unknown and yet well known, as dying, and behold, we live. As punished and yet not killed, and sorrowful, and always rejoicing, as poor, yet making many rich. Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in their glory. And Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him. Dear congregation of the Lord stands out to us this morning in this reading, the temptation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Live for us in the full conditions of our humanity. of being his children and serving him. So see and behold your king, beloved, and love him, right? The word perazzo and a few others, you can translate them by tempt or by test. Then we're put to the test and we find out I don't know as much as I thought I knew. God tries us because it's the glory of man. But when Jesus or excuse me, when Satan's the subject, it's only to get us to do evil. But we don't need someone just like us. Come on. And it's the glorious Shema, Hero Israel. And Jesus knows what it is to be hungry. Think about that. So you can see what Satan wants to get Jesus to do. But I'm going to live by doing God's will today. But he does love us. Man and live by bread alone. Make him prove himself to us. No, God, you don't put me to the test. And Jesus saying, it's enough for God to speak. Certainly don't got to go to the cross. Not gotta worry about not having food, not having clothing, not having sun, not having the latest technologies, not having everything in this world, right? We can't make, because Satan's getting in here, we can't make packs with the devil to avoid persecutions, to avoid afflictions, avoid sufferings. We have to be like Jesus, face them head on, in the full confidence and trust of who our God is, and as we've seen in the gospel, he is able to raise the dead and bring us to glory His whole ministry to the world, all the way up to that cross, was a trial and test of him. I renounce Satan and his works. You and I'd never go there. That gift from God, that righteousness, freely imputed to all who believe in Jesus, that you might reign in life with Him He hears our prayers, we see prayers answered, promises to be with us and never leave us. The refusal to entrust yourself to God, though he calls to you every day from his heaven. So the hardest sin is as creatures to not believe in and trust our God. To see people loving God, that's a different, that's a kind of light, isn't it, in the world? It's a great light to see someone immune to temptation. This morning's Old Testament reading is from the book of Genesis, chapter 22. We put no obstacle in anyone's way, so that no fault may be found with our ministry. But as servants of God, we commend ourselves in every way, by great endurance, in afflictions. Hunger by purity, knowledge, patience, kindness The Holy Spirit, genuine love, by truthful speech, and the power of God as having nothing, yet possessing everything. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Praise God, there's no need for another. Representative as our substitute, the new man, and just finally where it ends, the divine testimony that he received at that time, because Verse 1 of chapter 4. Let me see what yeah I see what's the way the ESV by the way you know that those titles are uh editorial things, they're not inspired God is going to use Satan and Satan, so when so when Satan is the subject of the verb tarazzo or whatever verb you want to use, it's for evil purposes. We we delude ourselves within our heart. All through his ministry, what is God revealing to us in Jesus? And the life given, that we might enjoy it. Takes away some things we enjoy. Patiently submits to his father. And that's the environment of which Satan comes to Jesus. encourage ourselves and renew ourselves to reading every word of God. It wouldn't hurt. God can omnipotently, benevolently meet your needs. Every place there wasn't a fountain, a wawa, you can go in with fountain drinks ready to dispense. So that's a wonderful thing. One way, holy obedience, suffering under death Cross. All these Satan says, I'll give to you. Begone, Satan, it is written, you shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. No man had ever gotten a victory over Satan. The cross is not defeat, it's triumph. Love and appreciate what only ever could be done by the Son of God becoming incarnate. Reigning in life, as it said. Let us wait upon the Lord. God declares that he is faithful and true. God's name is true. But every single person here is a sinner, struggling with sin, facing a temptation, facing a trial. The only way to live as a human being is a trusting dependence upon the omnipotent, good, and loving God. Sin is not just doing wrongs or little peccadillos as some call it. resistance through his life that he is the Son of God, the sinless Son of God and sinless Savior. Turn to him and receive this life. Live in that victory of Jesus. He truly knows. Jesus said to him, Again, it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Brother, let us encourage ourselves to take our Christian education very seriously. Reliance upon God's word. You know, people start with their sort of the kind of weakest attack. But through these trials, and don't think that this in any way then makes him less able to be sympathetic Or I suspect, because our Savior is led by the Spirit, and this is important, He knows God's behind this. Grew up in the synagogue, sat under teaching, paid attention in his Sunday school lessons, and learned God's word and fed on it. Unbelief bubbling up. Do you ever tell somebody to worship anything other than the true and living God who has made all things by the word of his mouth? Oh, he can offer so much at that cost. Nobody. God gave Adam a word, right? You, Jesus, you, the incarnate Son of God, you are my Son. Jesus answered, it is written. You're saying if you're the Son of God and Jesus is saying this isn't about what the Son of God can do. How do you get him executed as a criminal, both by the Jews, by the Romans, in a state execution, in the form of a cross, and not just randomly because if he just randomly died in the sea it doesn't mean anything. As um as you would know from the story of uh the flood uh the flood and after the flood He has been given to us by God. Which every morning God spoke and it came into existence and he sustained him to teach man a very important lesson. Who of us could preach so purely God's Word, live so holy, and face such daily opposition and hatred, we wouldn't just throw the towel in and stop God in his wisdom has allowing him to work his evil will and do his things and influence men's lives. Not yet. Someone says, no, you're the you're gonna be the president of the United States, but then you gotta spend forty days out in the wilderness without anything, right? You know what it is to be really hungry. Here is the answer to the world's problems, right? What's happening? Oh God, I've how could I not trust in you? Look how that. I think in other ways encourage us, right? He is loyal to God. What's he doing to the sun here? In mind. I just read every word and try to understand every word. He says, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. We also shouldn't rest past this, because Jesus most certainly believed this promise. Praise the Lord. It says, He trusted and knew your name, right? Why? He said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? Israel failed all these? We're talking about the righteousness of the Son of God in our flesh, a true human righteousness, a truly human holy life Says to him again, if you're the Son of God, throw yourself down, right? But do we do it? They'll be for your good. Crown. Bless you when his father leads him out there, takes away the comforts of society, takes away the comforts of his roof, the comforts of his bed, the comforts of food And our lives don't ultimately rest upon bread, but on his loving care for each one of us. I'm going to put you to the test. But the Lord Jesus. What happened? So that's what says, say that's why I say is it better to, as soon as you get to this word tempted, is it a test? This is not for us to self-impose some of these things to try to be like Jesus. He's confident in who he is and he doesn't need to put God to the test or anything like that. God has not put you in a test for you to sin, but for you to overcome sin. Well, it's both, right? See, Israelites thought, God's taking us out of this place, there's no bread. He wants him to put his father to test rather than being the dutiful, loyal, obedient son and follow him, which is what we're to be How how the angels bore him up on his wings so he didn't stumble over a rock as he walked out of the wilderness because he didn't revive by his father providing for him. And Isaac said to his father, Abraham, my father. Test, as one commentator wonderfully called it. Believe me. If my father wants to open his mouth and give me some what's that, I'll have some what's that and I'll be provided for That's all you'll find in Jesus' heart. January 10th. Second one, the devil took him to the holy city. He's been at it for 2,000 years now. You know what that means? The tempter comes and says to him, Now remember, God had said, You're my son, but it's been 40 days. Because you and I would never bear the brunt of it in our humanity. Finally, here, lastly, there's the victory of Jesus, the vindication of God's name. We're going to hear what they say, and then I have a few things I would like in application to speak about at the end Is this about seeing if Jesus would sin? See, they go off, let's get food. But I don't necessarily think that's the place here. Satan is all along questioning Jesus' identity as God's son. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. See if you hold to the view that Jesus could sin. I guarantee if you do that. They're going, wait, who got in here and fed him while I was gone? Third test, the devil took him to a high mountain, showed him all the kingdoms of the world in their glory. And more than he truly knows, he truly cares. Did God really say about the covenant of works? Why is it? Now you can I can imagine if you've got a few days without food, it's hard to pick your leg up all the way. He's faithful. Again, what a, as we look at that, what a wonderful way to live as a man, right? Notice it's almost as if all the gloves come off it. Yes, sinful, also without sin, if you understand that rightly. When they came to the place of which God had told them, Abraham built the altar, and there laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar, on top of the wood But notice here in this temptation, he doesn't go after the Son of God. The Son of God felt the full brunt of temptations in his human life, felt the full brunt This is a divine leading. That's what it means that he's sinless. He's quoting again from the Access because every time they went to a place without water, wouldn't you murmur and complain to God because of the circumstances you're in? How is there unbelief bubbling up and all their murmurings, demanding, God, you've got to give us water and show us that are you with us or not? Yeah. It's a testing through his temptations, not to see if he's going to sin, but to show us that he would never and will never. He's made me a husband, be a husband, a wife, be a wife, a student, a student, a Christian, a Christian, all that, but I'm going to live by that. He's refining you and trying you through them. Oh, I really believe this word, so I'm going to put myself in it. Not that it wasn't important. See, to tempt somebody is to try to get them to do evil. It's like, why put all your strength if you can just get somebody with a little hit, right? I'm glad we get that, because it's going to make us love and appreciate Jesus so much more. Notice also there's a vindication of God's name here He said, Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. That's the God that he waited upon and told Satan, Satan, I don't I don't need to make this We're prone as human beings, right, to take shortcuts to achieve a good thing. You know you have that same promise. Whether you believe it or not, he is God's anointed. You show me that you're trustworthy, then I'll trust you. You have to show me that I can trust you. Modern ones, I think a little bit better, would translate as tested him. Am I the boss of this company or not? What a joy. Um one way is is to say Jesus is setting up a sort of priority thing and also sort of a I mean encourage you to share with your brothers and sisters your trials and temptations. That's all we've been redeemed to be. Nobody was there. And we read that he was hungry. Here is where you and I can pause for a moment and take time to say thank you, Jesus, that you paid attention in your Sunday schools. He never turned away. Let me tell you what the Lord's brought me through. And so we need to see that as joyfully the last Adam. I think it's better called the testing of Jesus. Live in it and appreciate it. You're going to hear a lot about it if you come back in the evening services. We're very good at that at humans, right? Know and go regularly and daily to his throne of grace. After these things, God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham! Behold, now is the day of salvation. But in no way was it a question, is he gonna sin? I want to drive home. And he did it. We need a sinless savior. Jesus did it, right? It's quite beneath you, Jesus. No, that doesn't mean you're not going to get out of even suffering and dying. God tests us to bring us to perfection, as James says. Why? Because the kingdom of God's here. To be tried by God, to overcome sin. But that's the work of the Lord Jesus Christ ultimately, to lead this whole life. Now here's how God fulfilled Psalm 91, gave him I don't know what he set him with. Praise God that there is another, Jesus. Now as we have to stop here first and ask and answer one question understanding this Thank you, Lord Jesus, you didn't eat for 40 days for my salvation. He has no right to give anything away. They're showing us that uh he's Israel, but they continued his whole life. We still get the victory in cr in Christ over Satan. Call upon him now. If you're the Son of God, it hardly seems like you're the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. Never being difficult. We are going to look at these last words, and the devil left them, and behold. Every word and thought and action he did drove him to one place: the cross. The answer, it is written This is my beloved son with whom I'm well pleased. So Jesus is taken out there by the devil. Begin to see what's in our hearts. There's a lot of things to say about this passage, and we're going through Matthew and all that, we might say it all, but He just lived as a carpenter's son, a Jewish boy grown up, obviously always the Messiah He's the eternal Son of God, the divine being, second person of the Trinity, who took a human nature to him That he's a man? That means since the day before our congregational meeting, Jesus hasn't been eating food up until right now. See what usually happens is when we read I'm getting off on a little tangent here and encouraging you to do this though, but Come show us in that you're the Son of God. I also would stop here to encourage you. I think Jesus going out in the wilderness was thinking about his identity as Israel. Think of all the people who are tempted by hunger to act foolishly towards God. A refusal to believe Do not think that his life didn't matter. Brother, and you and I reach glory, we're all going to say, So in his baptism we see his um He knows your suffering. He takes these quotes from Deuteronomy 6 through 8. Because what do you call food you've never seen before? I think Jesus said his holy ears had to listen to this horrid word. That's God's name. But you and I experienced it many times in this life already. Here's an Israelite living amongst Israelites, and yet he's very different than all those other Israelites. It's not up in the air whether he's going to sin or not. He in a very similar context in John 4 at the well, hungry, apostles go into town, procure food. I've been cast upon you since I came out of the womb, right? Here's the place of God's permanent protection and presence. That's the only thing that's there. And I know we've heard that. What hope then we have as believers joined to Jesus? Truly human life, right? Jesus is thinking, how can I evangelize? He'll always be at it. Here's the new man. I mean since the day before the congregational meeting, Jesus has been out in the wilderness. These are the this is a unique, these is unique. How many of you have that seat in your home that's a little shaky, and every time you go to sit on it, you kind of just So let us praise him and call upon him and trust him. You know in Hebrew what you know what manna means? God gave him some what's that. Trusting He is the good, merciful, faithful God He declares Himself to us to be. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. The devil left him, behold, angels came and were ministering to him. So you need to know that about the baptism to get this, which gets to the second thing that Put it together, understand its context. I confess Christ is Lord and see all these people trotting over Satan too. This will be our text this morning. I think that's how we act with God, right? By calling it temptation and focusing on temptation, we shift what's really happening here. He's showing us he's also the new Israel, right? He's wanting to come in and disrupt that Truly, here we can say with Simeon, right, when we look at Jesus, I have beheld your salvation, O God. This is part of the Father's will for Jesus to walk in. Because he lived it out perfectly as the gracious, glorious gift to us of that life offered. He must be wanting to kill us. He said it, live by it, rest in it, trust Him. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it on Isaac his son, and he took in his hand the fire and the knife. Love of God, love of man, all that's in his heart. Yeah, you're the son of God, but you're gonna be deprived down the wilderness. Oh, God, we're going to all die now. But you have God's promise of protection, and Jesus lives by that. No man has a perfect record, right? Those are sins. That is immune, not that he wasn't tried, not that he didn't suffer, but immune to it. Now we know here this was in prospect and that would happen on the cross three and a half years later, but And I hope that becomes clear a little bit in a moment as we go through some of these. Because they think it makes him more like us and he can then be like us. I thank the Lord Jesus. That's how we should and I remember one of them going, you telling me we have to do that every time we read our Bible I don't want to say that's the only way to take it. And you need to live by that. You'd worship him for it. Here is your king. There's some surprising theologians today. Nobody would hardly believe you're God's son to be out here not eating. Thank you, Jesus, that you learned the scriptures. Not what it means. It's not as if he was just tried here and never bothered, his whole ministry. Let me tell you what the Lord has vindicated his name to me recently in high life and give them that encouragement And Abraham lived in Bersheba. And as soon as he receives that Spirit, our our Saviour is led by the Spirit up out of the waters, the low places, water out into the desert step and The Lord our God is one, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart How do you get a son of God in flesh See you and I often don't know what's in our heart, do we? This is about what man, how man's called to live. Working together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain. What happens when you weld it to an iron bar? But man obviously doesn't just live by bread alone. Why? This is a promise Jesus lived by. You get the point, right? Then Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. I find that very tempting in seminary and studies. Satan's not the heir of anything. He beared it in his humanity. Secondly, so his victory, a triumphant life, and now we leading that in Christ. Very interesting then, then Jesus' message at that point became repent. We will read verses 1 through 20. That means Jesus must have told somebody about it. No. Guys, my meat is to do God's will. Exodus 3. You gotta get it in the same way. It's sort of like you and I have never gotten to this point, right? It could mean a few things. For it's written, He will command his angels concerning you. And that is great news. I'm going to jump off this and I'm going to bind you to it. God gave him what's that to eat for forty years. We see him fulfill that. That's who he is. Our gospel reading this morning comes from the Gospel according to Matthew chapter 4, verses 1 through 11 And the only way we can stop and listen to what that text is telling us is make sure we know what every single word in that text means We all know what it is to have to toil laboriously for your food. He was presently still blinding people, so he's alive Did God really say, Are you really God's son? He's the same nature he was on earth and heaven, he may still yet sin someday, right? Right here we get to again, we get to see what is in Jesus' heart. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. And that was there The devil seems to be saying, well I mentioned earlier, but he could make another point of this. Right? He's speaking to the Israelites, God humbled you and let you hunger. The heart of what faith is. What a joy. Here is God's He is God's As God He puts us to the test that we might really see what's in our hearts Wait. Because nobody has that strength to go to the cross. I will love the Lord my God with all my heart. The tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of God. God does not put Abraham in a test. You and I don't live by bread alone. And Jesus is saying He most certainly lived by this promise God does not try us as a penalty for being a human being. Truly human life. And he said, We start Hebrews next week. That's obvious to everybody he's a man. I've heard that for years. Count it a great joy, beloved, right for your trials. I once took our young adults through an exercise. They were upset and murmuring at God. Yes, we have that promise. Surely because you're the Son of God, you can just jump off this and God's going to protect you, and we're all going to see you're God's Son. But he didn't promise it to him any way he could get it. The truth of it does not stand in your belief of it, in my belief of it, but in what God has done in anointing the Lord. That's why God tests us There's no sin in him at all. I don't know if it's just out there, so he has to fast, it's sort of imposed, because right you go out in the wilderness, there's not a lot to eat there. And our Savior. 6, it comes again in Exodus 6. We'll read verses 1 through 10. And they just limited God. Think about this. Where we come, we put our trust in God's word. It's a great light to be the children of God in this world, renewed and regenerated by His Spirit. So Satan surely wanted Jesus to do wrong? Because and what happens with us when God starts to humble us and puts us through a little bit of pain, right? It's literally it's just two words, ma, what, and huh, that. And I'm going to teach you an important lesson as you do that. You just get all the best health care. Wonderful to see that amongst men, isn't it? Doves were appropriate to be sacrificed. What's that? Because he's truly a man. Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son. That's what God tries us for, test us, not to punish us That's the You fed me with my mother's milk. Well, that doesn't sound right. And we need to hear because we often gather, we put our best faces on Look how God vindicates his name, which Jesus trusted in. Now we have to ask, is that the appropriate title? I told you he knows your human nature better than you. But it'll redeem you from them. You're gonna be in charge of the company and yet they're gonna take everything from you and make you This usually gets interpreted one of two ways. It does mean God can raise you from the dead. You might not think it who deny it. And that deep confidence in knowledge that the God who made me Sin The Bible does make clear He has Here's Satan just takes it all away and you see what he's really after Life in God's kingdom is here, available to all through a confidence in Jesus Christ. To take upon him that broken covenant in Adam, the covenant of works What we're reading today matters to your life right now and all of eternity. We often think of the temptations of Jesus and think this is about seeing if he's going to sin or not We just put a little bit of our weight on his word. Every moment of it mattered. Sin is that refusal to believe in God. But all along Jesus is showing us through his Know he has been perfected through these suffering. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. So why is our Savior acting like he's a sinner and standing where sinners ought to stand So with that, let's look at our passage this morning. And you're saying, what are you getting out, Pastor Young? That's not what's happening here. This is a unique testing of God's Son. Feel your belly. You can't come into your own glory apart from the cross. It seems as if Satan found, okay, I'm not going to get in. But what joy, right, he overcame. And then there's really the validation to us of faith as the only way to live as human beings. That God has given to us a sinless Praise the Lord that Jesus has, if you will, dethroned him This is the word of the Lord. The sinless Savior knows your temptation. Think about this for a moment. The congregation. He's not wandering out on the desert to put himself to the test. What a wonderful thing that Jesus He can brand it now. That's what he's offering. I know you've heard that for years. And we can have what He made us for, that glory. Here's again where we can take the opportunity to stop and say You're going to have to come and act and force his hand. Why do you think Jesus told somebody about it? What? When God, as we read this morning in Genesis The one through whom God is redeeming and saving this world. They come back. Oh yes, I'll put you as the king, but you know you're going to be my pawn. Because what you also get to see then is that the real picture of what sin is. That's what Satan ultimately wants. First thing I want us to see is the victory of Jesus here, right? So Jesus has been anointed. For you may see what is in your heart. A lot of rocks in the wilderness. God vindicates his name. Because he's quoting from Jesus will say in Luke, I think it's 23 near the end That's the good news. It's called what's that Who's that you in Psalm ninety-one? The word of the Lord. And let's go back and look at his baptism scene for a moment. Here's the word of God that our Savior had just received in his baptism, you He needs that word of God, right? Because we don't live by bread alone. So give me what I need to sustain my life and existence here. He have everything. If you kinda Why do you think Jesus told us? Receiving every word of God, believing every word of God. Ever since you came out of the womb, God has been providing for you The dying is not defeat. God did not put Adam in a test What's God doing in these trials? But he says, Satan, don't also forget this word That fits in Jesus' teaching. He'd be in charge of everything. If you receive him not as God's anointed, you're in sin, and I encourage you to receive him as the anointed of Don't we all pretend we know a little bit more than we really do? That's a glorious truth. I can sustain you by just saying, what's that? So it could be signifying something like Jesus as a lamb I was a little surprised when I read who Is God with us or is he not with us? God's promised Jesus I love how this text ends, right? Sound nice? How do you get the strength to pick your leg all the way up That he's the God man. We also have the gospel of God's grace There's no chinks in Jesus' armor And I said one reason why he told us to see Could have been some what's that? I made them parse every word in the first four verses of chapter two of Romans. Tell them the ones you're successful in, tell them the ones you're unsuccessful in It's making you perfect So when he would be called to this work Horrible. The will of God to sustain him When God's the subject of it, it's for good purposes. He can redeem you from all evils I hope by the time we're done here today What does Jesus do? He does tell us there's more to life than just food I've said it before, I just want to re-emphasize that the cross is not lost. Amen. What is that? There's no shortcuts All of it, yours. Well As if Yeah, he's like us in every way. That would kind of be put God to the test, right? That's another thing that comes out in this text It's not that you just had to randomly die. He's the same yesterday Could have been a full English breakfast, I don't know. And you're going to eat it And Jesus makes it clear. Why? You don't gotta be out here in the desert. Disgusting. This is it. He had to die in a certain way.