Ruth I In the days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land And a man of Bethlehem and Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the names of his two sons were Malon and Chilion. They were Ephraithes from Bethlehem and Judah. They went into the country of Moab and remained there, but Elimelech, the husband of Naomi, died, and she was left with her two sons. These took Moabite wives. The name of the one was Orpha, and the name of the other Ruth. They lived there about ten years And both Malon and Chileon died, so that the woman was left without her two sons and her husband. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law to return From the country of Moab, for she had heard in the fields of Moab that the Lord has visited his people and given them food. So she set out from the place where she was with her two daughters-in-law, and they went on the way to return to the land of Judah. But Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, Go, return each of you to her mother's house. May the Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. The Lord grant that you may find rest, each of you, in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voices and wept. And they said to her, No, we will return with you back to your people. But Naomi said, Turn back, my daughters, why will you go with me? Have I yet sons in my womb that they may become your husbands? Turn back, my daughters. Go your way, for I am too old to have a husband If I should say, I have hope, even if I should have a husband this night, and should bear sons, would you therefore wait till they were grown? Would you therefore refrain from marrying? No, my daughters, for it is exceedingly bitter to me for your sake, that the hand of Then they lifted up their voices and wept again. And Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to her. And she said, See, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and to her gods. Return after your sister-in-law. But Ruth said, Do not urge me to leave you For where you go, I will go, and where you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. Where you die, I will die, and there will I be buried. May the Lord do so to me, and more also if anything but death parts me from you. And when Naomi saw that she was determined to go with her, she said no more So the two of them went on until they came to Bethlehem. And when they came to Bethlehem, the whole town was stirred because of them. And the women said, Is this Naomi? She said to them, Do not call me Naomi. Call me Mara, for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went away full, and the Lord has brought me back empty. Why call me Naomi when the Lord has testified against me, and the Almighty has brought calamity upon me? So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabite, her daughter-in-law with her, who returned from the country of Moab. And they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Now the reading of the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 1, verse 6, the first half of verse 6. Matthew one through six A. The Book of the Genealogy of Jesus Christ The son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob. And Jacob, the father of Judah and his brothers, and Judah the father of Perez and Zerah, by Tamar, and Perez, the father of Hezron And Hezron the father of Ram, and Ram the father of Aminedab, and Aminadab the father of Nashon And Nashan the father of Salmon, and Salmon the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth. And Obad the father of Jesse, and Jesse the father of David, the king. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for this wonderful narrative that we're about to explore. We thank you that you were revealed in it. In your wonderful redemptive love. We pray now that we will understand it and be able to make application for our life even now Through Christ our Lord. Amen. The book of Ruth is set in the time of the judges. It says that right in the opening words. The Book of Ruth is absolutely fantastic Hebrew literature, unparalleled in its Hebrew Hebrew beauty. And it is a wonderful story of redemption It was important to the Israelites and the Jews, particularly for its genealogy in chapter 4. Some genealogies are more important than others. These days, a lot of people are looking into their family history, their genealogies And there are lots of companies that are making a lot of money helping people with their genealogical pursuits. There's ancestry. com, for instance. That you see commercials all the time where the guy changes from his later hosen into his kilt, right? If you watch TV. And there's another one called My Heritage. And these are competitors, but genealogy is big business. People who are really into it spend big bucks The average cost of finding your roots ranges from $1,000 to up to $18,000. I Googled Sidney Cathy. Sydney's my first name, in case you didn't know. I Googled Sidney Cathy And found that in the 1940 census, Sidney Cathy was born about 1895. In 1940, he was 45 years old and lived in Dublin, Texas With his wife Cora and son. So what? His theological genealogy would have been much easier. He would be a sinner in need of redemption, like all of us are. At the end of the book of Ruth, which we'll get to in a few Sundays, it says this in verse 16 of chapter 4: Then Naomi took the child and laid him on her lap and became his nurse And the women of the neighborhood gave him a name, saying, A son has been born to Naomi. And they named him Obed, which by the way means servant His father, he was the father of Jesse. Have you heard of Jesse? The father of David, the great king So genealogies are sometimes very important. Well, we'll know more about genealogies as we go forward, but let's look first at the first five verses of this chapter, where we see the Judean famine. And the turning to Moab for solutions. In the days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land. And a man of Bethlehem, have you heard of that place before? A man of Bethlehem in Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi And the names of his two sons were Malon and Kileon. They were Ephraithes from Bethlehem in Judah. They went into the country of Moab and remained there. But Elimelech, the husband of Naomi, died, and she was left with her two sons. These took Moabite wives. The name of the one was Orpah. The name of the other was Ruth. They lived there about ten years. And both Malon and Killian died, so that the woman was left without her two sons and her husband. Notice first the problem of living in the fallen world and becoming like the world. Living in the fallen world and becoming like the world. Being shaped or squeezed by the pagan culture with your values. This is part of the bigger story of the world getting into Israel. Israel was the land of promise But that land was, that promise of that land was obscured and forgotten by many of the Israelites. Israelites as time went on. It was the place of God's meeting, where there were monuments. Remember, they set up stone monuments at various times, the crossing of the Jordan and so forth. The place of monuments and of sanctuary where God would say, I'll dwell with you, I'll meet with you here in this place. It was the land of festivals, the festivals of Yahweh. And of ordinances that Israel should observe. It was the land of the sacred oral traditions, which became scripture. It was the land Which is the location or the locus of the history of redemption for God's people. It was a place of fellowship for all those who loved the Lord A place of community support, of justice, and of order. It was the land where God had promised to dwell with his people. But during the period of the Judges, the world got into Israel. Every act of compromise diminished the whole land and its community And I'll just pause to say that when the world gets into the church, which is Christ's congregation, the heirs of earth and heaven become earthbound Cultural clones who think and act like the world. In such cases, the Lord's Day Sabbath memorial is made ordinary. Like every other day, and worship is optional. The Lord's Supper is infrequent or infrequently attended And the faith is often rationalized, trivialized, and watered down to suit the whims of the day. The scriptures are unread or picked apart, and the community is detached, disinterested, unjust, lacking harmony. And disorderly. Every act of compromise diminishes the whole body When the judges ruled, it was a time of individualism, a time of relativism, a time of religious syncretism. Of national decline and of foreign oppression. We have been seeing that as we've journeyed through the book of Judges. It was like the wild, wild west in America long ago, spiritually speaking. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. And there was no law and order. Let's take a pause to see the significance of the names that we read. The first name is Elimelech, which means, my God is king. This man from Bethlehem, this Ephraite named Elimelech, my God is king. The man of Bethlehem, which means house of bread, fled to Moab because there was no bread in Bethlehem. There was a famine. And he fled to Moab. One of the worst places spiritually and culturally. The Moabites were the ones who had attacked Israel when they were trying to enter the land. They were the deceivers and the the terrible people, and there's a curse on them in the Bible. And that curse actually ends up destroying them and wiping them out forever. That's the place where the descendants of Lot, who chose the cities of the well-watered plain, lived. The descendants of Lot are Moabite. For King Balak hired Balaam to curse Israel when they were trying to come through. And Moab lured Israel into idolatry. Naomi, the name Naomi means pleasant. So if you want to name your daughter a beautiful name, Naomi is a good one. Pleasant. The name Malon or Malon, I'm not sure how you're going to pronounce it, but it means weak or sick. Maybe he was a a a frail child when he was a baby, and his mother named him No, I don't know. And then Kilion meaning failing or pining or annihilation. Maybe things were already going bad in Moab. Moab, these are Canaanite names, Kileon and Malon. And they fit because these are Moabite husbands. So these Ephraithes, the prominent family of Bethlehem, were reduced to poverty. And they went to sojourn in the fields of Moab, making a temporary residence. That's what sojourn means. It doesn't say they stayed there forever, but they sojourned there for a while. But that sojourning wasn't so temporary because it lasted ten years and led to the marriages to Moabite wives, Orpah and Ruth. When God sent temporal judgments of famine, what was Elimelech's response? No, I'm staying here. This is Canaan. This is the land of promise. I'm not going anywhere. I'll wait it out. No, no. I hear there's grain in Moab. So he took off to Moab. Another problem that you can see here quickly is the problem of living with unexplained or unexplainable tragedy. We Christians tend to treat the word providence like Christian good luck. When something really good happens, we say, oh, that's the providence of God. When something really bad happens, we kind of say say, hmm, I don't know what happened there. Maybe God blinked or something. Providence is Christian, good luck. That's not true, is it? God is not blinking. God is sovereign and is working behind the scenes Naomi's husband died. That's a tragedy. But she still had her two sons. And if you have sons, you're okay because you've got sons to take care of you, right? Right. But then what happened? Her sons died too. And in that case, she is now destitute. A helpless foreigner living with two helpless widows in a foreign land. So that's the first part, verses 1 through 5. Then we get to verses 6 through 18, the return to Judah. Let me read it again. Then she arose with her daughters-in-law to return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the fields of Moab that Yahweh had visited his people and given them food. So she set out from that place where she was with her two daughters-in-law, and they went on the way to return to the land of Judah. But Naomi said to her, two daughters in law, go return each of you to your mother's house. May the Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. And this is the word Yahweh. And then Yahweh grant you find rest, each of you in the house of your husband. They didn't have husbands. Then she kissed them and lifted up their they lifted up their voices and wept. And they said to her, No, we will return with you to your people. But Naomi said, Turn back, my daughters, why will you go with me? Have I yet sons in my womb that they may become your husbands? Turn back, my daughters, go your way, for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say I have hope, even if I should have a husband this night, and bear sons. Would you therefore wait till they're grown? Would you therefore refrain from marrying? Naomi here is explaining that she could not provide the widows with husbands. in accordance with what's called the Leverite law. She was a widow and was not pregnant, perhaps even past the year years of childbearing. And it was ridiculous anyway to wait to marry one of her babies, even if she had been pregnant. Talk about robbing the cradle. She wasn't smiling, though. No, my daughters, she says, for it is exceedingly bitter for me, for your sake, that the hand of Yahweh has gone out against me. Then they lifted up their voices and wept again, and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to her. Verse 15, and she said, See, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and her gods. Return after your sister-in-law. But Ruth said, Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go, I will go. Where you lodge, I will lodge. Where your people shall be my people, and your God my God. Where you die, I will die, and there be buried. Sounds like wedding vows, doesn't it? Yeah. May it the Lord do so to me and more also, if anything but death parts me from you And when Naomi saw that she was determined to go with her, she said no more. She gave up. Moab seemed to be the place in order to feed her family. Earlier on, in order to establish a happy home life. And it had been for ten years, stable and settled there in Moab. Then in tragedy, one after the other, calamity had come to Naomi Her husband, then her first son, then her second son, died till all the men in her life were dead, and tragedy had gripped her. But now here's a turning point. She has heard news from the land. She has heard that the Lord has given food to the people there. Verse 6 tells us the story. Yahweh, the God of Israel, has visited his people. He always promised he would. And wherever the word is used in Scripture, wherever that unmentionable name Yahweh is used, it always describes God's action very often in the form of red. God has visited with redemption his people, just as he promised he would not leave them or forsake them. God was acting through a Goel is the Hebrew word for redeemer. Somebody whom God sends to pay whatever needs to be paid. To do whatever needs to be done in order to rectify a situation, in order to rescue his people from danger. God has intervened just as he promised to the children of Israel when they were in slavery in Egypt, when he said To Moses, say therefore to the people of Israel, I am Yahweh. I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from slavery. That's redemption. Go well. And I will redeem you with an outstretched arm. Liam Gollager, the pastor of 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, says this. And when she saw the famine was over, she didn't attribute it to secondary causes. She didn't think to herself, Well, they found better ways of irrigation, or they found a new technique to raise crops in the midst of an arid climate. She credited the news to the ultimate source. She ascribed it to God. And said, God has visited his people. It was a turning point also for the other woman. Her tears were real tears too. She had lost her husband, but her tears were of a different kind. They were as good tears as far as they went, but the Bible distinguishes between two kinds of sorrow and two types of Of tears. The Apostle Paul, for example, talks about godly sorrow. Godly sorrow leads to repentance. Godly sorrow was the kind that Naomi had. She was sorry that she was in this mess. She was sorry that they had ever come to Moab. She was sorry to find herself in Moab when God, keeping his promises, had visited Israel. But that led to action on her part, repentance. She did an about turn. She started to move the family back to Israel. That was godly sorrow leading to a change of mind that led to a change of direction. Godly sorrow leading to repentance That was the sorrow of Naomi. It would drive her back to that one place, one place on the whole face of the whole planet earth where God had said he would meet with his people, Israel. The promised land, the land that God had chosen. Orpah, she was just sorry. And we get to the second or the third section, verses 19. God provides at just the right time. 19. So the two of them went on until they came to Bethlehem And when they came to Bethlehem, the whole town was stirred because of them. And the women said, Is this Naomi? She said to them, Do not call me Naomi. Remember, it means pleasant Call me Mara, for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went away full, but the Lord has brought me back empty. Why call me Naomi when the Lord has testified against me, and the Almighty has brought calamity upon me. So Naomi returned And Ruth the Moabite, her daughter in law with her, who returned from the country of Moab, and they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of the barley harvest. That's beautiful. Bruised and bitter and broken, Naomi decided to return to Bethlehem where God had visited his people. There, God's merciful law would provide gleaning rights for poor widows. We'll learn more about this next week Naomi released her daughters-in-law to return to Moab. But Ruth had been converted, and Ruth would not return Ruth clung on to Naomi and to her God Yahweh. In Ruth's steadfast faithfulness and loyalty, God was providing a future for Naomi. We'll see it later. And Elimelech's family in keeping with his promises to the patriarchs. And ultimately, God was providing a king for Israel. Remember, this was the time of the judges, terrible time They needed a king to unite them and to bring justice and order and peace. Ultimately, God was providing a king for Israel and ultimately a Savior for the world. So God is right on time, isn't he? It seems like a tragedy. And it is a tragedy in many ways, but God is right. Galatians 4, verses 4 through 5 says, and you've got to note this, when the fullness of time had come. God sent forth his son, born of woman, born under the law to redeem. That's that word Goel. It's in Greek here, but to redeem those who were under the law so that we might receive the adoption as sons. At just the right time, God is not late. As we sing in our Christmas carol, late in time behold him come, offspring of the virgin's womb. But late in that, even in that poem doesn't mean late like we mean late. means at the end of time, when the time was just right, perfect time. And then Romans 5, verse 6. For while we were still weak at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. He's not late. So, as we think about this today, what should you do in response to God's word? Looking at the story, thinking about what happened there, first, do not turn to the world in your troubles. The world's solutions are not good solutions. The world's solutions are like mere anesthesia when surgery is needed. How would you like it if you had a serious medical problem that needed to be corrected by surgery and you went in and got the prep and everything ready and then they put you under, you were anesthetized And then you woke up, and they hadn't done anything. And they just said to you, did you have a nice sleep? You'd be very disappointed, wouldn't you? The world offers anesthesia. Drink this Have this fancy thing over here. Do that. Run here, run there. It's just anesthesia. It's just amusement, which, by the way, means not thinking. Ah, amuse. The prefix ah means not and muse to think. Ah muse. Don't think. Be anesthetized. Don't run to the world for solutions to your problems. A random Moab. Shouldn't have. It was in God's providence. Secondly, recognize the providence of God in good or Or bad circumstances, and know that he is working for the good of those who love him. You've got to believe that when things are bad. Romans 8:28, you know it. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. Believe it. Even when things are bad. Ruth didn't put a fancy good luck providence over it. She said, no, this is what God has done. Or Naomi, I meant to say. Thirdly, recognize the prevenient grace of God leading you toward repentance Prevenient means the grace of God that goes before you. Recognize the prevenient grace of God leading you toward repentance. That's what Naomi did. She said, you know what I see now what happened. I see where I should have been. I see what God is doing. I can I can never respond to that. Prevenient grace of God leading toward repentance. There may be corrections in the providence. There always are. But faith and perseverance is always called for. And then fourthly, trust in the Savior. Always, trust in the Savior, who would be a descendant of the Gentile Moabite woman, Ruth. Trust in that Savior. And he would also, she would also be the mother of the great King David, as we see, the Savior of all nations and families and peoples whose ancestors were both Jewish and Gentile. We see that in the book of Revelation, chapter 7, verses 9 through 10. After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from Every nation from all tribes and all peoples and languages standing before the throne and before the Lamb clothed in white robes. That means pure, absolutely clean. Justified, washed in the blood, forgiven, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lord. Lamb. Trust in that Savior, the descendant of the Gentile Ruth, the mother of the great King David. And then this one. As the story opened, there was no bread in the house of bread, Bethlehem. So trust in the Savior, who would be the bread of life, born in Bethlehem, the house of bread. He is the bread of life Trust in him. Whatever your circumstances, whatever happens, trust in him. Trust in him. He is the Redeemer, the Goel, the Savior. We'll hear more about it, but trust in Him. Him. Amen. Lord, we thank you that in our genealogy There's one who came to save us. In our genealogy as sinners, the sons and daughters of Adam, we are condemned and lost. But we thank you that you sent a Savior born in Bethlehem, born in the genealogy of Ruth to save us Amen