Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the book of Ezekiel, Ezekiel chapter 36, verses 22 through 22 Ezekiel thirty six verses twenty-two through thirty. Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord your God It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among them, and the nations will know that I am the Lord declares the Lord God, When through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleanliness, and from all your idols. I will cleanse you And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and be careful to obey my rules. You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God, and I will deliver you from all your uncleanliness. And I will summon the grain and make it abundant and lay no famine upon you. I will make the fruit of the tree and the Increase of the field abundant, that you may never again suffer the disgrace of famine among the nations. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to you. New Testament reading is from John 16, verses 16 through 33, as we continue on in this discussion of Jesus. Before he departs, there's going to be considerably more before the final events, but 16, 16 A little while and you will see me no longer. And again, a little while and you will see me. So some of his disciples said to one another, What is this that he says to us, a little while, and you will not see me, and again in a little while, and you will see me? And because I am going to the Father. So they were saying, what does he mean by a little while? We do not know what he is talking about. Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him, so he said to them, Is this what you were asking yourselves, what I meant by saying, A little while and you will not see me, and again in a little while and you will see me? Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn into joy. When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come But when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world. So also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you. In that day you will ask nothing of me Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give to you. Until now you have asked nothing in my name Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full. I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father. I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf. For the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that I can I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father. His disciples said, Ah, now you are speaking plainly and not using figurative speech. And now we know All things, and that you know all things, and do not need anyone to question you. This is why we believe that you came from God. Jesus answered them, Do you now believe? Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come when you will be scattered, each to his own home And will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me. I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but take heart. I have overcome the world. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God Let us pray. Oh God, by your Spirit, who inspired these apostles, these disciples, to record these things. Now superintend the preaching of these words that we might gain the benefit in Jesus' name. Amen. Now this is the last installment before we come to chapter 17, which is Where Jesus prays to the Father, and we're going to learn an awful lot by listening to his prayer to the Father. But he's still now speaking to his own disciples on the night before he is betrayed. Here's what he has to say. The first thing is he's telling them about the crisis of the moment, the going away of Jesus. And it is a crisis for them. The fact that Jesus would go away is a terrible, terrible crisis. He says these things And it's perplexing to them. In a little while you will see me no longer, and again, in a little while you will see me. And then that gets repeated by them and him and it comes around. And what he's saying here is that they're going to have to deal with the fact of his soon departure, and then they're going to see him again. And we'll have to figure out what that means. Later in Luke chapter 24, at the end of the resurrection, on the resurrection eve, there Jesus appears to his disciple disciples on the road to Emmaus. You might remember that. And the disciples are telling the story about the death of Jesus. To him. They don't know it's him yet. And they're telling the story and saying, How our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified him. And then they said this, but we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel They had hoped that he would be the one to do all these things. And when he's telling them that he's going to leave, but he's going to be seen again, that puts them in a state of perplexity. Because they have such hope in him, such hope that he will redeem Israel, that he will free Israel from the Roman oppression that he will bring about political and probably spiritual redemption for Israel. He will be the one who does all the things that were promised in Ezekiel 36. how God would vindicate his name and pour out his spirit and restore his people. They had hoped all this. And so when he says these things about going away, It just puts them in a bad state of affairs. Not only that, but he says in verse 20 something that makes them even more perplexed. He says, truly, truly, or in in the Aramaic, which is what Jesus spoke, Amen, Amen. I say to you You, you disciples, you will weep and lament. And the word there for lamenting isn't just a few tears or sniffling cries or something. It is bawling. Like a calf that gets separated from its mother on the day of that separation, balls for the mother. It is the hired weepers and wailers at a funeral in those days. You will weep and lament. And then he says, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful. The world will rejoice. Well, who's going to rejoice? Herod is going to rejoice. And Pilate, although his wife had that very bad dream. you might remember. So he might not be rejoicing quite as much, although he thinks it's over now, finally done, so I'll rejoice too. The Jewish rulers, the Sanhedrin, except for a few who were secret believers, would also rejoice. The powers of evil would rejoice that the Messiah who would come was killed and put down, and God's plan has been destroyed and put away. You'll be sorrowful, but then he says this, but your sorrow will turn into joy. What a change! What an amazing shift. And then he gives this illustration, which works generally, right? Uh when a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come, but when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish. Well I I'm not sure. I think that's generally true, but uh specifically I think some women might remember the anguish for joy that a human being has been born into the world. I think it means by contrast. She's so happy that the baby's born and that it's over. That she puts aside the remembrance of the anguish. What is that saying? That there is an immediate crisis coming. He's warning them ahead of time for this immediate crisis. The immediate crisis is his betrayal, his arrest, his death. And then he adds to that the scattering of the disciples. He says in verse 32, the first part, behold, he says, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered. Each to his own home and will leave me alone. That's how bad it's going to be. You're going to go home and hide and hope that no one knocks on the door, and Jesus will be left alone. So that's a lot of bad news to these dear disciples that have been walking with him and are trying to figure these things out. How would you process such bad news? You have a great hope in someone that they're going to do a great work, something is going to happen that's going to be wonderful. And then bad news ensues and it's all knocked down. How would you process this bad news? Well, he does help them, doesn't he? Because he tells them that that sorrow, that wailing and weeping and bawling, that scattering and fear will turn into joy Joy. And no one will take that away from you. He says, uh verse 20, but your sorrow will turn into joy. And he gives that illustration. Then verse 22, so also you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice And no one, no one will take your joy from you. That's the kind of joy that will be had at that time. A joy that can't be taken away by anything, not even by the worst things. What a wonderful joy this is that Jesus promised. So if you're looking at all the bad that's about to happen, he says it's it's right upon you, right now it's going to happen, and it's really bad That there's going to be joy ahead. Would you be able to hang in there with all the bad that's about to happen? Would you hang in there by faith without having all the answers to all your questions? And it may be that some of you are here today in that very situation. You're hoping for good things, but you know that there's some trouble ahead. Are you going to hang in there in faith and wait for God to act? Are you going to wait for the salvation that God has promised, the eternal joy, the bliss that God has promised? Will you give up on life? Or will you hang in there and serve and wait faithfully for Jesus, who promises a joy that no one can take away? Second thing. This is just a two-point sermon, so we're halfway done. Cheer up. Characteristics of the future life after the resurrection, ascension, and Pentecost. And that is the promise he gives here is the promise of full knowledge Of the saving purposes of God. Again, it's the beginning of this whole thing. I'm going away, but you're going to see me again. I'll be gone, but you'll see me quickly. And what does he mean by that? And they're perplexed because they can't think bad stuff's going to happen, but then you're going to have this amazing joy. How does that all fit together? He now says, there will be full knowledge of the saving purpose. When it's all said and done, you'll be able to understand it. As an old hymn says, by and by, when the morning comes All the saints of God are gathered home. We will tell the story how we've overcome and will understand it better by And by. Here's what we have in the scripture. We have the fullness of the under And it's in the New Testament. That's what you and I have today. They didn't have it at that moment, but we have it today. He says, here it is in verse 23. In that day That future day, when it's said and done, in that day you will ask nothing of me. They've been asking all kinds of questions here. You're not going to have to ask any more, Jesus. Jesus is saying, you will ask nothing of me. He says in verse 25, I have said these things to you in figures of speech The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly. About the Father, about the big plan that has unfolded, the wonder of it all. I will tell you everything. You're going to have your questions answered Answered. In the New Testament, yes, but ultimately, folks, in the resurrection, ultimately, in the presence of God, all doubts, concerns, fears, perplexities, questions. will be wiped away. We will know even as we are known, we will see face to face, not through a glass dimly. We will have all the answers that we need. The disciples will not have to ask the meaning of Jesus' life. Why did he come? What is he doing? They won't know. They won't have to ask that anymore because Through the Holy Spirit, they will be shown the meaning of it all. The inspiration of the New Testament will be a record of the meaning of it all. Pastor Tim Keller says this about the meaning of it all. And here's something to remember. The Bible's purpose is not so much to show you how to live a good life, Although it certainly does give great and wonderful instruction on a good life. Not so much to show you how to live a good life. The Bible's purpose, the big story, is to show you how God's grace breaks into your life against your will and saves you from the sin and brokenness that otherwise you would never be able to. overcome. Religion, he says, is if you obey you'll be accepted. But the gospel is if you are absolutely accepted and you're sure you're accepted, only then will you ever begin To obey. These are utterly different things. And every page of the fullness of the revelation, the Bible, shows these truths. So that's one of the wonderful things that's going to be shown and seen in the future. But next is another great privilege that we have today. Day. Prayer in Jesus' name. Verse 24. He says, until now you have asked nothing in my name. Now they'd been praying to God, hadn't they? Jesus taught them, Our Father who art in heaven, right? But not in Jesus' name. Until now you have asked nothing in my name. And then he says, Ask and you will receive, that your joy may be And verse 25: Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. And then verse 26, in that day you will ask in my name. I do not say that to you that you will ask that I will ask the Father on your behalf, so forth. For the Father Himself loves you because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going away to the Father. Prayer in Jesus' name. That's part of that fullness picture. That's part of that great understanding. God the Father sent God the Son into the world to save sinners, and now he is the only mediator between God and man. So in order to pray to God, the only true God, all faithful people Must pray through Jesus. He is the intercessor. He is the way open to the Father. So we must pray in Jesus' name And we have it in so many places, prayer in Jesus' name. Ephesians Paul says, For through him, that's Jesus, the mediator, we both have access to the Father by one Spirit. There's the Trinity. Through Jesus. In His name we have access to the Father by one Spirit. Prayer in Jesus' name was first discussed in chapter 14. He said, and I will do whatever you ask in my name, but they hadn't done it yet. So that the Son may bring glory to the Father, you may ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it. He had said that was coming, and now he says it is coming very soon. Now let's pause here for a second. We're accustomed as Christians to praying. In Jesus' name. But is it just a tagline? Is it just the way you end a prayer You just throw on the end of it in Jesus' name. Like it's magic or something. And that will make the prayer perfect. Praying in Jesus' name, folks, means recognizing that we have access to God's throne. Because Jesus reconciled us to himself by his death. That's what it means to pray in Jesus. You have to think of Jesus Dying on the cross, opening the way to the throne of God, when you say that phrase in Jesus' name. Not just tagline. It means praying with his authority. We're coming not in our own name. I'm not coming in the name. Hear me, Father, for it is Ed Cathy. No. Please, no. Hear me, Father, for I come in Jesus' name. We ask God the Father to act upon our prayers because we are co-heirs with Him. And we come in and through His Son. Praying in Jesus' name means saying the same thing, praying according to the will of God. This is the confidence that we have in approaching God. This is from 1 John 5. This is the confidence that we have approaching God that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us. And if we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have what we ask of him when we come in and through Jesus Christ. the Messiah. And then finally, in this second point, Jesus promises that he will be victorious, that he will be vindicated by the Father in the resurrection. Verse 32. He says, I'm going to be alone. You're going to be scattered. He says, yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me. I have said these things to you that you may have peace in the world, you will have tribulation. But take heart, I have overcome the world. There will be a vindication, an overcoming of the world by the resurrection, by the Father's vindicating Jesus Their hero who said, I'm going away. Their hero who said, I'm going to suffer. He's going to be vindicated. The great William Hendrickson summarizes these first parts of these verses, verses 16. through 32, he says this. He's summarizing it and paraphrasing it. He says, here's what Jesus is saying. A little while, a few more hours, and I will be taken away from you. For I will be put to death and buried. Hence, you will observe me no longer, but I will not remain away from you. I will rise from death gloriously on the third day. I will usher in the dispensation of the Spirit, and by means of the mighty works which he will perform on earth, you will see me. And then I'm going to have my summary of the last section, verses 22 through 28, and then 32 through 33. This is the part we just covered. In the future, Jesus is saying, you will have the big picture. The whole story. You'll be able to look back and rejoice in what God has done, not wishing away the crucifixion and death of Jesus. But seeing the triumph of God in the cross and resurrection. Folks, when we celebrate Good Friday, which we will do in several weeks' time It's a sad thing, isn't it? We sing some sad songs. And it might be that someone would say, I wish there was no crucifixion. I wish there was no sadness. But let that crucifixion, let that sadness come into you Your life. Know it deeply. Because you can also know that we wouldn't want to wish it away. It's our salvation. It's our deliverance. It's our redemption. So the answer, would you wish it away? Would be A thousand times no, never. Because in the resurrection, in the victory of Jesus Christ, we have hope Hope that will never go away. Joy that can't be removed by anything, as Jesus promised. One New Testament scholar said, hope is what you get when you suddenly realize that a different worldview is possible. A worldview in which the rich, the powerful, and the unscrupulous do not, after all, have the last word. The same worldview shift is demanded by the resurrection of Jesus And this is the shift that will enable you to transform the world. So, in summary, all the shame of sin, your sin, my sin All of the damage and the grief of sin and of this broken world All of the injustices and crimes must be seen in the light of the death of Jesus to redeem the world. And to make you and me heirs of everlasting life. To pronounce you not guilty, to pronounce you absolved of all your sins, to pronounce you righteous. Because Jesus died to provide that for you. And he rose because it was an absolute success. That is the hope that Jesus was promising these weary disciples, even as he was telling them some bad news about some stuff that was going to happen. That was the hope that he held out for them. Which would sustain them. And it will sustain you too. Do you have this hope today, brothers and sisters, friends, listeners? If you don't, it's not because God hasn't provided it, but because you haven't personally received it. So what you should do. Is repent of all other hope and believe what the disciples were called to believe, that good news will come. After bad, that joy that can't be taken away will overcome sorrow. Believe this good news Lord, we thank you that you taught your disciples these things, and that even the bad stuff was written down so that the good stuff could shine forth in more glorious. Light. We know, Lord, that the that the stars are not seen in the brightness of the glory of day, but are seen in the darkness and the sadness sometimes of night So we pray that you will help us to find and see and know the hope, the joy, the peace that Jesus has promised here. Amen.