Congregation of the Lord. Now this morning I first have this word has been on my heart for the children. So I want to give the children this word, the whole sermons for them. So maybe, children, if you can write, you can write down on your sermon note sheet or ask mommy and daddy to write it down for you. Psalm 22 9 through 10. Psalm 22, verses 9 through 10, which say, Yet you are He who took me from the womb. God, you took me from the womb. You made me trust at my mother's breast On you was I cast from my birth and from my mother's womb. You have been my God. Children, you will find that because you are sinners, you will distrust God But God has never given you a reason to distrust him, but as soon as you were brought out from the womb, because babies do not live in this world If somebody is not taking care of them, then God has provided for you ever since you're taken out of the womb. And so I want to encourage you. Your parents want to encourage you. God wants to encourage you. Jesus wants to encourage you. This whole congregation wants to encourage you. To trust in the Lord and to model that and show that for you as God has been teaching all of us. The God who made us, we can trust him, the God who gave his son for us. We can trust him. So let's trust him. Now, this word is also for you, children, but for everybody else, as we talked this morning about the love of God or the character of love. And that's what we'll be looking at. Or I like uh the phrase that that Jonathan Edwards uh by the way he wrote a whole sermon on this chapter and you can buy it for Banner Truths called Charity and Its Fruits. And really dive deep into every one of these a aspects of love. But he'll refer to love here also as a truly Christian spirit. And I think that's a good way of saying it. Truly Christian spirit. Because a Christian spirit, right, is the spirit of a believer who belongs to Christ. Because from Christ you have received his spirit, right? The Spirit of God And so, and then you know by that spirit you now confess Christ, but you also manifest, that is the show plainly and outwardly in your lives. The wonderful fruits, you know, Galatians 5, right? The wonderful fruits of God's Spirit in you. A truly Christian spirit by being one with Christ. But you and I also, in our union with Christ, not only manifest the fruits of God's Spirit, but have received from God's Spirit's gifts in which to serve in the body of Christ and to build thou body up. These gifts also manifest or show plainly that the Spirit of God is present amongst us in the congregation and at work in our midst to gather us, to glorify God, to build us up What does that mean then? That means right that you and I are gifted people. Whether by birth, because every good gift comes from God, or as I just mentioned, by God's grace and our union with Christ, you and I have been given gifts Have received gifts that set us apart from others for service to one another. And yet, inevitably, as what happens due to our fallen human nature and Our selfishness and sinfulness, you and I may become to or come to envy the giftedness of others Or to boast in our own gifts and be puffed up by them and cause and bring division in the body of Christ and jealousy and strife. And it is something like that that has been taking place at the church in Corinth. Now, before Paul wrote 1 Corinthians 13, which we started looking at last week and we'll continue looking at. He wrote 1 Corinthians 12. And 1 Corinthians 12, if you know, is about spiritual gifts. And after Paul wrote 1 Corinthians 13, he wrote 1 Corinthians 14. And 1 Corinthians 14 is about spiritual gifts. Paul sees the issue here that missing from their use of gifts in the church is love. The active pursuit and expression of love. Their understanding of what it means to be a spiritual person, because they are in Christ, to be a spiritual person. is gifts. But Paul's understanding of what it means to be a spiritual person, a true mark of that, is love. And so, in his effort to correct their understanding on what is the true mark of spirituality. And also to heal the church's many problems and deficiencies, if you've read the letter, you know, that come as a result Of not loving one another. And so he sets out in 1 Corinthians 13 to show them Love to show them the most excellent way known to man on earth how to live. That's his phrase there. And the most excellent way is something like the way that is off the charts. Now, Paul is not showing them this way so that they would stop using their gifts. Cause he says, earnestly desire them and the higher ones the ones higher on the list that he gives No, he shows them love right as the only way in which to use them properly in the church and express them for the good of it. And what that means then for you and me as we listen this morning, as Paul shows us love from 1 Corinthians 13, is that we need to pray. That God will give us eyes to see this as the most excellent way known to man and to pursue that as the way of our life. As the chief pursuit of our lives is to love one another. How many of you woke up this morning, got out of bed? And said, the pursuit of my day today is love. How many of you have ever got up any day of your life? And thought, I'm gonna pursue the most excellent way known to man. See, Paul knows what he's doing Who do we want to see receive a subpar way of life? How many Christians are afraid they're going to miss plan A for God's life for them and get on plan B? Well you can't because God's time, but my point is this is plan A, right? This is the path God wants us on. This is the path you are on in Christ. This is what we should be pursuing above everything else Is this love? And beloved, it's gonna challenge us to spend all week meditating on these. It might feel like the law is going to be preached to you. Because in one way it is, right? It's only by love we fulfill the law. And it's going to search us and show us. But Paul's not preaching it to condemn us, though it might, and we'll repent, and God has mercy. Paul wants this because this is how God has loved him and loved us. This is God's life, and this is just the only way to live. This is it. And we should pursue it. Now, how do we get ourselves to do this, though, right? How do we get ourselves to pursue any kind of pursuit, right? You've got to have proper motivation. If you're gonna go after something, you're gonna make it your pursuit, you gotta know it's worthwhile, right? You gotta know it's gonna be good, but you gotta know it's gonna do something Well, Paul motivates us to pursue it by showing us love and three things here about love. And we looked at one of them last week, right? The necessity of love. We're going to look at this morning the character of love. And then, and next week as well. We won't get all through this this morning. And then that he ends by showing us the greatness of love. So as we look at this whole chapter together, we see its necessity, what it's like, its character, and its greatness to motivate us to pursue this in Christ. By God's grace, called to be his people to live this way. Last week, right, we we looked at the necessity of love. And Paul just frankly and simply says to us in those verses, right, if I speak in tongues of men of angels, have not love, a noisy and gong. Paul just says very simply, if you and I do not have love, if we are without it, we are just noise. We are nothing or nobody, and we're up to no good. It might do good to others, but our religion doesn't do any good to us because that is not what matters in God's eyes, mere religiosity. Love. This kind of love is what matters before our God. This is what He values. And that is not something just to the New Testament. That's why I had us here from from God to the prophet Micah. There in chapter 6, right beginning at verse 6 They've offended their God. He's bringing a case against them. And there's a worshiper who wants to draw near to God asking, well, what does God, what pleases him? But if gone to such a fallen low state, what shall I come before the Lord with? And bow myself before God? And shall I come with burnt offerings, with calves a year old? Will he be pleased with thousands of ramps within thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? Look at look at look what the prophet says. He's told you. Meaning you have to know this. He's told you. What is good? What does he require you? To do justice, to love kindness, to walk humbly with your God Justice, kindness, and humility are all part of Paul's description of agape love found in these verses. Or again, as I like, a truly Christian spirit. And if we walk in this way, we know that this is what pleases God. Love is what shows God is among us. John the Apostle writes in 1 John 4:12, No one has ever seen God. If we love one another, God abides in us. And his love is perfected in us. That love that he has shown us in Christ, when we receive that love, believe in that love and love one another, it's been completed. God loves That we might love him back and love each other. That's the idea of perfect love, completed love. His love revealed in the gospel But when we also love this way, though we don't see God, we know he's amongst us, and he's present with us, and he is here, and he is seen. And it is testified to us that we are his children. Now, I also this morning, a little bit like the Apostle Paul, in just one way. Because as I mentioned last time, Paul did not just jump straight into showing the Corinthians this most excellent way. He didn't just jump to verses four through seven, right? There's verses one through three there. He wanted to first stoke and build out their desire right by showing them its necessity. You absolutely need this. You have to get it. And and maybe that's the word you this morning hear, if you're not in Christ or not converted. You need to pursue conversion. You need to pursue knowing your sinfulness in need of Jesus Christ You need to pursue the knowledge and excellences of a Savior who clothed himself in your flesh and obeyed God and stood in your place in his sufficiency to save you and rest upon him You need to pursue his love for you and repent. And then we can pursue love because you can only do this as a born-again believer in Christ. He did not just jump straight in. He said, You need this congregation. This is what matters in God's eyes. You could be the greatest show on the block. And everybody might say it. But if you don't have this, who cares? This is what matters. And so before I just jump into these verses, and this is part of the reason why we're not going to get through all these today, we're going to get through three of them. I feel a need to feed your desire for it. That we might want to really hear And see the love that Paul's showing us, right? And I, how do we do that, right? Well, I think I'll just do it by telling you what gets me to listen to these verses. Well I want to see and welcome, please come in, see and and keep seeing God's love. First, this is how God loves me. And this is how God loves you. You probably heard it said before that if you place the word love here in this passage with the word Jesus, it's just as true. Jesus is patient. Jesus is kind. He doesn't envy, doesn't boast, and on and on. He bears everything. So it gets me to listen to know that this is how my God loves me. This is how I am being loved by him. This is how he always covenantally will treat me. When I am tempted to do other, or to do otherwise and to treat others not in love, I'm then forced to ask myself, why do I not want to be patient with this person? Why do I not want to show this person kindness? Why do I want to boast of myself before these people? Why do I want to treat this person, or why do I not want to treat this person the way God treats me? It's a thought-provoking question, isn't it? That leads me to the second thing that gets me to listen to these verses. Why does God love me this way? Why does he love you this way? Why is he kind to you? Why does he bear with you? Why is he long suffering towards your faithlessness when we are faithless? Why does he show us this love? Because, as Paul said earlier in the letter, love builds up. And I think we need to keep in mind when we say that, because he's put this in the context of a body, love builds together. God loved me when I didn't love him or want anything to do with him. To bring me to himself. And to build me up as a part of his forever family, as one of our children's books says. That's why he loved me. That's why he loves you. That's why he loves you. As I said, it's no accident Paul has sandwiched this chapter of love between two chapters on spiritual giftedness, as they are to be used in the body, because spiritual gifts are for the body. But love is what builds up that body and builds it together. The only way, congregation, the only way to live together forever. Is by love. As John said, you know, a murderer does not have eternal life in him. How do you live forever with somebody if in your hatred You take their life. Love would never do such a thing. God is love. That's why the triune God lives together forever. They're just love. God is just love. Love, as Paul writes in Ephesians and Colossians, is the perfect bond of peace. It binds all together in harmony. Its power is so great that when there's a rift. Brought about by sin. It alone can overcome it, and it can make what was torn one again. But that is the love shown in the gospel. And that is the love by which we can live and stay together forever. But also lastly, and with that idea of building us up together There is still that ideal that builds us up individually. It builds a person up. It builds a person up. Each one of you matters to God. I think that's a word that children need to hear too. We all do. You live in this wicked age, this wicked lie of evolution. Wicked lie that you aren't loved by a God from your very from eternity past when he thought of you and made you. You matter. Each one of you, you matter to your creator who made you. And God builds that soul up And why would I want to tear down what God loves and God made? So let's look together at love. God's love and the pursuit of love in the body. We'll get to three of these today, but I guess before I do, I got a couple things to note. One Note this about the love that Paul's talking about here. It's active. Paul uses 15 verbs here in the Greek to describe both what love does And what love doesn't do. In English, some of these verbs have been replaced by adjectives because it just sounds better to our ears than the way we speak. But it means that we we need to understand that agape love acts or it doesn't act. In certain ways. It is an action of your whole soul. Your mind is involved in this. Your will in choosing to do this. Your affections as you're set upon to desire this, all of this goes into. Because we should be affected by who God is and yearn to love this way, because it's beautiful There's another thing the children advance. I have found it helpful. Speak of sin as ugly. Because it is. Because we have beautiful children. But they need to hear that they're beautiful, their sin's ugly. It's ugly, but love is a beautiful thing. We should be, so your whole soul is engaged in this action of loving your God and in loving one another. But the second thing to note is that this is not everything there is to say about love This is not everything that love does or doesn't do here. I'm in full agreement with Charles Hodge and his commentary when he writes that this is not a methodical dissertation on Christian love But in exhibition of that grace, because it's a gift to us to love this way, is contrasted with extraordinary gifts which the Corinthians inordinately There's a right way to value these. There's a wrong way to value these things. Also another one who says, most likely the apostle chose his words carefully to implicitly censure errors committed by the Corinthians. As we'll go through you see that as things he's already said in the letter and brought up These things are addressing that. So not everything, or maybe you can put it this way, this is a contextual description of love for the Corinthian church. But the things that it does say about love are still true. It just doesn't say everything about love. And it's not my plan also as we go through these fifteen characteristics to say everything. As I said, Jonathan Edwards, you can he's wrote a whole sermon on all these. And and you could spend a whole sermon eat looking at each one of these fifteen things. But as we go through these over the next few weeks, I just want to get at the pith of each one of these. Just kind of get at the heart of the matter at each one of these and set them before you as well. Here's what love does, and here's what it doesn't do. Alright, let's look then at these three first three things. As I said, it's just the pen. Paul says the most excellent way of living begins with patience, or begins with long suffering. Now, Paul is not talking about patience and circumstances, or that's a kind of patience. Think of illnesses or bereavement. Paul is talking here about patience towards people. Like the driver in the car in front of you or behind you, right? That's what Paul has in mind. And what does it mean to be patient or suffer long? Paul is talking about meekly bearing the evil or injury done to us by someone else. That's what he's talking. We have all had somebody injure us, harm us, intentionally or accidentally because of careless words or careless thoughts. I'll just say right as you you know congregation in the church because someone said this illustration about it was good like porcupines huddled together to get warm, but they still got quills, right? So we huddled together We're going to poke each other. This is going to happen in the Christian church. But there's love to keep us together when we get poked If you lash out of that person, if you return injury for injury, but you are not being patient. You are not showing love to that person. I know at first we think, well, that just sounds like I'm just going to be a carpet for everybody in this church to walk over me, right? If I do that. You will not be a carpet for others to walk over, but you will provide some carpeted space for others. To hopefully rethink their behavior towards you and to repent of it. Because that says Paul Is why God shows us long suffering. Romans 2. 4. Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience? Now knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance. Part of our God's name, Exodus 34, 6, when Moses has to see his glory, is he is slow to anger. The reason that Christ has not yet come to this world is his patience, not wanting any of you to perish. 2 Peter 3. 9. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness. But as patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, that all should reach repentance Our God is keeping his beloved Son in heaven right now for the time being that you may come to repentance. And if you haven't, come to repentance, because that is God's love. Think about that. If you wonder, where's God at? Is he showing love? Who's he showing love to? This whole world and not coming yet. In his patience. Think about that when you wake up. That will help you pursue love, right? Oh God, Jesus isn't here. You're showing love. Let's live like that. Wonderful. One former atheist used to give God five minutes in his talks before large audiences to strike him dead. Prove that God doesn't exist. And when God hadn't struck him dead, one keen lady in the audience remarked to him, Do you think you can exhaust the patience of an infinite God in five minutes? That's a brilliant statement, isn't it? But how quick, right? Is my patience exhausted? You can see, right, how loving our God is. Let us love one another a little bit longer, right? And love each other. Secondly, Paul does that love's kind. That off-the-chart way living, Paul says, involves being kind to others. Being kind to others means you you freely do them good. I've always uh marveled at how Peter sums up, you know, Peter lived with Jesus for those three years. He's always summed his ministry up to uh Cornelius, the centurion. You know how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with them. So Jesus is kind to others, right? Jesus is kind to you. Jesus is kind to me. He he does us good. And we need to ask ourselves and we're tempted not to be kind. Why don't I want to be kind to this person? Right. Why do I want to harm them and not do them good? Jesus has never harmed me and nor will he harm me. Though right, each of us know we've done many things to harm him. And yet he shows us kindness. He loves us. And one thing we really gotta see here is love is a very self-denying way, beloved. If you truly pursue to seek this way, it's going to be a mortifying and mortifying and mortifying way. You won't be the big deal in the church. But this is how God loves It's God's way to bring us to Himself and repentance. So try showing kindness to an impenitent sinner to get them to repent. Don't wait for them to love you. Love them first. Because that's what God did. We love him because he first loved us. Love them. Because love wants to build up together. I told you the other week when we were at the General Assembly how nineteen commissioners went to a pride parade in Aurora, Illinois, and preached to them. I had a lot of eyes open and looked stunned when I said, Why I'm here is because I want to live with you forever in God's kingdom. Do they think we're there to preach hate to them? We're there because we want them to repent and be with us forever in God's kingdom. We're there because we want them to turn away from those picket lines, celebrating in iniquity, and join us in the light, and call their brothers in love to leave there too. And come to Christ because love builds up together. It wants to be with the beloved. And why would we ever want to harm our beloved? Such is God's love. Third and lastly for this morning, love does not envy You and I envy, beloved, when we are dissatisfied with, or when we are opposed to the prosperity or happiness of others as compared with our own. Joseph's brothers envied him when they hated his guts for having their father's favor and God's favor when he gave them those dreams of ruling over them. But look how blind their envy was. Because God favored Joseph that he might save them alive. And you ever thought how blind my envy might be? Never giving a thought to how God intends to bless me through that person's prosperity and that person's happiness and giftedness, but no, we just think of ourselves. And we show envy in two ways, when we covet what others have, desire it for ourselves, but also when we grudge others just for having it. We might not even really want it ourselves, we're just not happy they have it. And there's always going to be a potential for envy because God has not given any one of us everything. But by love, right, we can overcome it. I think one way to test whether you are ending is to ask yourself whether you can truly rejoice at that other person's prosperity or happiness. Children, do you rejoice when your sibling wins in the board game? Parents, let them know that's envy and they need to love. Do you rejoice of your colleagues' promotion at work? That's envy. You need to love them. Or the praise that that other person receives in your hearing, and you'd rather have it for yourself. That's envy. You need to repent of that and love them. You know, why don't I? That's the question, right? Why don't I want to rejoice with those rejoicing? God does not covet what I have. God doesn't grudge me having things look how much we have. He doesn't grudge us. Why do I not want to love them? And that's the question I leave you with this morning, congregation. Because that is not how God treats us. He loves us. And as your pastor, I encourage all of you, if you have not yet, commit these verses to memory. Whole chapter would be great. But if you're worried about doing all that, start with verses 4 through 7. Commit them to memory. Recite them every day, because here's the most benefit I've got out of that when I do that for myself is they call me back to the way of love when I need it I've been in conversation. This is a New Hampshire. It's not here, so don't have to worry about it being here. At my own table Realizing as we're talking in the family doing stuff, Damon, you're just seeking your own. Stop. Okay, let's do it your way. And show love and be together and cut off any strife and dissensions and all that. So encourage you to commit these verses and let us go on Keeping our eyes on this excellent way is the one thing needed. Seeing who our God is through this love, and when we get to the greatness and pursue it together. Amen.