Please open your Bibles to the book of Isaiah, the prophet Isaiah, chapter eleven, where we will read verses one through twelve. Isaiah 11, verses 1 through 12. There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, the Spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. And his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge by what his eyes see, or dis decide disputes by what his ears hear, but with righteousness. He shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth, out of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf together, and a little child shall lead them. The cow and the bear shall graze, their young shall lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. The nursing child shall play over the whole of the cobra, and the wean child shall put his hand in the adder's den. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain For the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. In that day, the root of Jesse, we shall stand as a signal for the peoples. Of him shall the nations inquire, and his resting place shall be glorious. In that day the Lord will extend his hand yet a second time to recover the remnants that remains of his people. From Assyria, from Egypt, from Pathros, from Kush, from Elam, from Shine Shinnar, from Hamath and from the coastlands of the sea. He will raise a signal for the nations and will assemble the banished of Israel and gather the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Now we turn to that very same passage in Luke chapter one, sixty-seven through eighty Where Zechariah, the father of John the Baptizer, is filled with the Holy Spirit and therefore becomes an Old Testament prophet. Verse 67 of Luke chapter 1 And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied saying Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, that we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all who hate us to show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath that he swore to our father Abraham. To grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all our days. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people. In the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the day spring from on high shall visit us To give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death. To guide our feet into the way of peace. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Now, Lord, as we come to a number of biblical passages where you've promised great things to us, we pray that you'll help us to apprehend these things and rejoice in them. And then follow the one who leads us. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. In the weeks prior to the celebration of Christmas, many Christians will sing, O come, O come, Emmanuel. As we also will today. This traditional hymn of the Advent season implores Manuel and ransom captive Israel that mourns in lonely exile here. Until the Son of God appear. Then it gives that refrain which has been added, Rejoice, rejoice, Emmanuel, shall come to thee, O Israel. In its stanzas, this hymn is knitting together scriptural texts and biblical images about the king, very much longed for by Old Testament believers. This hymn originated in the 12th century and was composed by a Christian community in France and sung to a plain song chant, much as we sing it today, but they didn't have the refrain. The version that is used today was translated into English and arranged in the 19th century by the evangelical clergyman John Mason Neal. The eloquent words of the hymn are simultaneously lamentation and consolation. The words recognize the plight of Israel while at the same time encouraging God's chosen people to look forward to a day when the God of Israel will act. in an extraordinary way to liberate them from the oppression of their current circumstances. By restoring David's kingdom. David's kingdom The lamentation gives way in the hymn to poetry and mysterious metaphors that indicate the identity of the king who is to come. And the first one we're going to notice is O come, O come. Emmanuel. Remember when the Israelites left Egypt? They begged that God be with them for the long journey to Canaan. And God granted their wish by allowing the tabernacle, which contained the footstool of God, the Ark of the Covenant, to be in their midst all along the journey, wherever they went. In very bad times, Isaiah promised Judah that once again God would dwell in their midst. God would be with them And Isaiah 7, verse 14, the Lord says, seems like out of the blue almost, therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign: Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and you shall call him Emmanuel. And in Matthew chapter 1, verse 23 says, quoting this, Behold the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, and then he adds, which means God with us. God with us that promised that is promised long ago and that was so much needed is reiterated. God will be with his people. God with us in Emmanuel. So that's the first wonderful title of our Savior, a Messiah. And then there's another one. O come thou dayspring. You might have noticed when I read. The scripture reading I substituted the word dayspring because that is a legitimate translation. We sing in in O come, O come Emmanuel, we sing, O come, thou dayspring, come and cheer us. Well, in Luke chapter 1, verses 78 and 79, as we just read from the Gospel, Zechariah, the father of John the Baptizer, prophesied of Jesus. He says, because of the tender mercy of our God, the dayspring, the day spring shall visit us from on high. To give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. So we joyfully sing, O come thou day spring. The king who is the light that shines for us. And there's another illusion there. Next coming is, O come thou key of David. Thou key of David. What does that mean? Key of David. Isaiah 22, verse 22, says about the Messiah. I will place on his shoulder the key of the house of David, and he shall open, and none shall shut, and he shall shut, and none shall open. And then we see it again in the book where Jesus has revealed the book of the revelation of Jesus Christ. Where Jesus is speaking in Revelation 3, verse 7, and he says, To the angel of the church in Philadelphia, write the words of the Holy One, the true one, who has the key of David. who opens and no one will shut and who shuts and no one opens. So we see that he is this king that's promised. He is the house of David, the key of David. And then we see, O come thou rod of Jesse. In Isaiah 11, 1 through 5, Rod of Jesse is translated in a way of ruling, but in the hymn It is translated from the word shoot or branch or stem. And it says in that passage, there shall come forth a shoot. From the stump of Jesse. You have to imagine that. I wanted to have a picture for the kids today of a stump where the tree's been wiped out, knocked down completely, but this little sprig is coming up, and then there's a crown on the sprig. Because it's the shoot of the stump of Jesse, the king, who will wear a crown. And it says a branch from his Roots shall bear fruit. And then it tells us what he'll be like as a king. It says, the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom. Understanding. How many kings do you know that really have? How many rulers? How many politicians do you know that really have wisdom and understanding? Have the Spirit of the Lord upon them in this way? The Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, not just come once in a while, but stay on him. The spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. And his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord, and so as a consequence, he shall not judge by what his eyes see. Our kings and politicians can only go by what they see. Or decide disputes by what his ears hear. No, this king is omniscient. He knows everything. He sees everything. He hears everything everywhere all the time But with righteousness, verse 4, he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth. And he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth And with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked. He's a king, a politician, a true leader who knows just what to do and does it perfectly well. Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist. It's what holds him together. And faithfulness the belt of his long So we have this rod, this shoot, this stem, this branch, who is a king who judges and rules righteously and in faithfulness. Very much unlike the kings of Israel and Judah who were miserable failures. So these are all biblical allusions derived from the most part from Isaiah. The prophets expected the coming of a king to Israel, and not just any king, but The king from the house of David himself, the great king, the best king there ever was in the United Kingdom of Israel. We need to think about this historical context of these beautiful promises before we move on. The imagery and ethos of our hymn deeply immerse us in the world of biblical prophecy. particularly the messianic expectations that the Jews longed for following the aftermath of the terrifying events of 586 BC. See what happened that was the year that the last defenses of the kingdom of Judah was the last remnant of the kingdom founded centuries before by the great King David. But the kingdom was divided after the death of David's son Solomon. The northern part of the divided legacy of King David fell to the armies of Assyria around a hundred and thirty six years before this prophecy. In the year 722 BC. And when that happened, the Assyrians came and destroyed them The Assyrians' way of conquering was very savage. They have been called the Nazis of the Near East. By some. They dismembered their victims and displayed their body parts, especially their heads, in public places as terroristic tactics. To scare the daylights out of God's people. This was a devastating loss. Ten of the twelve tribes that had been united by King David were effectively destroyed and disappeared from that moment in history, never to be assembled again. In Second Kings verse seventeen In verse 18, we have Israel's fate told there. The Lord was very angry with Israel, the northern ten, and removed them out of his sight. None was left but the tribe of Judah only. The nation of Israel was there after under Assyrian rule, and tens of thousands were cruelly killed for resisting the Assyrian siege. Others were deported and made servants in Assyria, but they never came back. Further, the Assyrians began to populate the northern territory of Israel with people from other nations that they had defeated. Verse 24 of 2 Kings 17 says, And the king of Assyria brought people from Babylon, Kutha, Eva Hamath and Serevaim and placed them in the cities of Samaria instead of the people of Israel. And they took possession of Samaria and lived in its cities. Terrible, terrible things had happened. Now, going forward in history, Assyria eventually fell to Babylon. And the kingdom of Judah attempted to maintain its independence through alliances with other powers, particularly with Egypt. For Judah, trusting in Egypt was foolhardy as well as sinful. Egypt could provide no real help because it was a shadow of its former self. Poetically, Isaiah described Egypt as the normally terrifying sea monster, but Rahab, the normally terrifying sea monster, had now been forced to sit still and could provide no assistance to Judah. This would all eventually lead to disaster for Judah Judah would fall, its lands would be assimilated into the Babylonian Empire, and the city of David, Jerusalem, would receive the full force of Babylon's fury. And be destroyed. The temple, which was the spiritual and cultural center of God's people, was desecrated and raised to the ground. And the royal family was executed at the walls of the city, and then the same walls came tumbling down, destroyed, demolished. In the wake of all this, Israel was more than just a defeated people. In the eyes of the world, they were no more. But Isaiah's prophecies provided believers with a hope-filled theological point of view in regard to these things. The prophecies offered the strange insight that although Israel has been defeated, the God of Israel has not. The prophecies instructed them that the events of history, even those of such terrifying consequence like what happened in 586 BC, are under God's control. Meaning that a mysterious providence was moving Israel through their current circumstances toward a purpose that was yet to be realized. So the book of the prophet Isaiah presents the culmination of God's purposes in the revelation of an extraordinary person who would bring about the restoration. Of the kingdom of David. And would mysteriously enough rise out of the ashes, David's remaining heirs, a shoot that come from the stump. In other words, Israel would one day witness the restoration not only of what had been lost in 586, but what had been lost in 722. A successor to King David would accomplish this tremendous thing. According to the detailed prophecies, God's actions would culminate in the restoration of kingdom of David. And the gathering of the scattered tribes, even those seemingly lost to history forever. And furthermore, this king would defeat Israel's enemies and rebuild the temple. All of this, according to Isaiah, would lead to the recognition by all the nations of the world that the God of Israel is the one true God and his Messiah. is the king of the nations. When Cyrus, king of Persia, finally allowed some of the Jews to come back from What had been Babylon was now Persia, come back and come to what used to be Jerusalem and try to rebuild the walls and try to rebuild the temple. Seventy years had passed. Just as Isaiah said. Many of the Jews didn't even want to go back. Many of them had been born in Babylon, Persia, and they were comfortable there. It was a tremendous struggle to rebuild the walls and the temple, as Ezra and Nehemiah tell about it. Ultimately, the Jews who returned in 538 BC remained captives and exiles even at home. Because their land was always governed by Gentiles from then on to the day of Christ. This is the way the Old Testament closes. Some people are back and they built some crap crummy little walls and a poor temple, but it's not much. The great promises have not been fulfilled. The promised land is still occupied by foreigners The glorious kingdom of David's promised line would have to be, if anything, still a distant hope. 400 years later. This hope was the hope that energized the followers of the Lord Jesus, even as they were governed by the Romans. The Romans who called Caesar Lord. The gospel that the early disciples proclaim was an announcement that in and through Jesus of Nazareth, God has finally acted to bring Israel's history to its culmination. And begin to set right everything that had gone wrong leading up to and including the horrible events of 586. The Gospels were written in those Days by the earliest followers of our Lord Jesus, they were each in their own way making the case that Christ's identity as the Messiah is his true identity. So when you hear any of the Gospels being read, you should be attentive to how the Gospels are making the case for Christ as the Messiah. You should read them that way rather than just trying to glean some personal inspiration or some timeless truths that are useful for daily living or some devotional guides. That is not the way to treat the Gospels. They are a record of Jesus the Messiah, making the case for him. But the Gospels say more about our Lord than that he is just the Messiah. They make the extraordinary claim about his essential identity. Listen to this. Not only is he the fulfillment of Israel's messianic expectations, but in him, God has done something remarkable. Listen. He himself has become Israel's Messiah. God has become Israel's Messiah. God has entered into the human history in the man, Jesus of Nazareth. God assumed for himself the responsibility of fulfilling the messianic promises and tasks. Thus, the fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy of the arrival of the one called Emmanuel, God, with us. The claims regarding Christ's identity as the King and God of Israel in human flesh are breathtaking. And so we have this hymn. That we will sing shortly. This melonious beauty and poetic wonder of Okam, Okam Emmanuel, is an expression not only of Israel's messianic expectation But also their mysterious fulfillment in the divine person Christ, who is the God of Israel that took for himself a human nature, united this human nature to his divine nature, and revealed himself to Israel as the Messiah. As one writer says, it might be easy, because of the beauty of this hymn, to lose oneself in the aesthetic experience of its words and music. And in doing so, fail to engage the revelation that the totality of the hymn means to communicate. The hymn, O come, O come, Emmanuel, is sung at its best when you accept its purpose: to proclaim the wondrous truth that Christ is God the Messiah. And even while you rejoice at his coming, to wait and serve in hope that the fullness of the restored kingdom that he bore into the world will be yours. His is a kingdom, my dear friends, that will one day be fully revealed as the gospel is proclaimed to the nations, and the nations are made his disciples, and that is our task. There are two distinct comings of Christ at Advent. The first was the one in the past when the when the birth of Jesus came to be. The second is his coming at the end of history, his bodily return to judge the earth and consummate the new heavens and earth One of the original stanzas of the hymn that's left out of most hymnals is written by a guy named Van Trapp, has this alternate text. O come, Messiah, come again and rid the world of death and sin. Return, thou risen Savior and King, that heaven and earth at last may sing In the present time, between the advents, he promises to be with us by the Holy Spirit, building his church. Extending his kingdom until the knowledge of the Lord is as the waters that cover the sea, as Isaiah said. But there is a third way of Christ coming, and I want to make this one by way of application. This third way of coming is how you long for Jesus to appear and visit you now in the present. To forgive your sins, to right wrongs, to reform your life, to heal your brokenness. To remove your shame, advancing his kingdom in your personal life. An older Latin stanza, not in our hymnal, calls for the root of Jesse to come. In Latin it is O radix Jesse Quistos Insignum and I won't read the whole thing. But it is from Isaiah. It says, O root of Jesse, that stands for an end sign of the people, before whom kings keep silence, and unto whom Gentiles shall make supplication. Come to deliver us and tarry not. Oh come, O root of Jesse, free your own from Satan's tyranny. That comes from verse 10 of our text in Isaiah 11. In that day the root of Jesse shall stand as a signal for the peoples. Of him shall the nations inquire, and his resting place shall be glorious. As one preacher expounded the root of Jesse concept. He says the Latin word root is radix. R-A-D-I-X. And this is where we get the word radical. This is application, not exposition. Jesus is radical. Jesus gets to the root of things and calls us to get to the root of things. I know this is a bit of a tangent, but the word Radix is also where we get our word, our modern abbreviation for medicine, RX. That means radix. It's an abbreviation for radics because ancient medicines were made from roots. Jesus is a radical, the root. of David. He gets at the root. He is our medicine. Oh come, O root of Jesse And deliver us. The good news is that God will answer your cry for deliverance. He will. We don't cry often enough. We don't say these things, O come thou root, and radically change my life. Oh come thou root and root out my sin. Oh come thou medicine and cure me. We don't cry out enough. Where we are. Oh come thou root and Emmanuel, God with us, the dayspring, light, the key of David, the rod of Jesse. The coming-again Messiah and the root of Jesse has come to set you free, to heal you and deliver you from sin and death and hell. The king and head of his church promises to meet us, his church, in the here and now. He promises to be present with us through his word. That's very dynamic, by the way. He promises to be with us through his word. He promises to be present with us through his sacrament. He gets to the root of sin and provides the medicine to cure us. So during Advent and always, cry out for the root to come. again and again and again. And he will come again in power and glory to judge the living and the dead. But he comes to us today in his word and in the sacrament and in the fellowship of brothers and sisters who bear his image, who are also called the body of Christ. Christ comes to us in all these ways, and we need Him to come and visit us. Come quickly, Lord, God and King Jesus. Amen. Lord, we pray now that as we have explored these images and uh thought about the situation of your people in history. That we will not despair in our sins, in our brokenness. We will not despair of our world, but will know and believe that you are the King and Lord of the whole world, all nations. And you are bringing forth the glorious kingdom of David. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.