Our Old Testament reading this morning will be from the book of Numbers, where we'll read chapter 16, verses 1 through 35. Numbers 16, verses 1 through 35. Now Korah, the son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi and Dathan, and Abiram, the son of Eliab and An, the son of Pelath, the son of Reuben took men, and they rose up before Moses with a number of the people of Israel, two hundred and fifty chiefs of the congregation chosen from the assembly, well known men. They assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said to them, You have gone too far, for all in the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them. Why then do you exalt yourselves above the assembly of the Lord? When Moses heard it, he fell on his face, and he said to Korah and all his company, In the morning, the Lord will show who is his and who is holy, and will bring him near to him. The ones whom he chooses, he will bring near to him. Do this. Take censors, Korah, and all his company. Put fire in them and put incense on them before the Lord tomorrow, and the man whom the Lord chooses shall be the Holy One. You have gone too far, sons of Levi. And Moses said to Korah, Hear now, you sons of Levi. Is it too small a thing for you that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel to bring you near to himself to do service in the tabernacle of the Lord and to stand before the congregation to minister to them? And that he has brought you near him and to all your brothers, the sons of Levi, with you? And would you seek the priesthood also? Therefore, it is against the Lord that you and all your company have gathered together. What is Aaron that you grumble against him? And Moses sent to call Dathan and Ebiram, the son of Eliab. And they said, We will not come up Is it a small thing that you have brought us up out of the land flowing with milk and honey to kill us in the wilderness that you must also make yourself a prince over us? Moreover, you have not brought us into the land flowing with milk and honey, nor given us inheritance of fields and vineyards. Will you put out the eyes of these men? We will not come up. And Moses was very angry and said to the Lord, Do not respect their offering. I have not taken one donkey from them, and I have not harmed one of them. And Moses said to Korah, Be present, you and all your company before the Lord, you and they, and Aaron tomorrow. And let every one of you take his censer and put incense on it, and every one of you bring before the Lord his censer. Two hundred and fifty censors, you also, and Aaron each his censer. So every man took his censor and put fire in them and laid incense on them and stood at the entrance of the tent of the meeting with Moses and Aaron. Then Korah assembled all the congregation against them at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord appeared to all the congregation. And the Lord spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment. And they fell on their faces and said, O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin? And will you be angry with all the congregation? And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Say to the congregation, get away from the dwelling of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. Then Moses rose and went to Dathan in Aviram, and the elders of Israel followed him. And he spoke to the congregation, saying, Depart. Please from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest you be swept away with all their sins. So they got away from the dwellings of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram And Daphan and Abiram came out and stood at the door of their tents together with their wives and their sons and their little ones And Moses said, Hereby you shall know that the Lord has sent me to do all these works, and that it has not been from my own accord. If these men die as all men die, or if they are visited by the fate of all mankind, then the Lord has not sent me. But if the Lord creates something new, and the ground opens its mouth and swallows them up with all that belongs to them, and they go down alive into Sheol, then you shall know that these men have despised the Lord. And as soon as he had finished speaking all these words, the ground under them split apart, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up. with them, their households, and all the people who belonged to Korah and all their goods. So they and all that belonged to them went down alive into Sheol, and the earth closed over them, and they perished from the midst of the assembly. And all Israel who were around them fled at their cry, for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up. And fire came out from the Lord and consumed the 250 men offering the incense. This is the word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning congregation comes from 1 John and chapter 5. We'll read at verse 4 to verse 12. 1 John and chapter 5, beginning of verse 4. 1 John chapter 5 starts in very near back of your Bible, the beginning of verse 4. Hear the word of the Lord. For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world? Except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. This is he who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ. Not by the water only, but by the water and the blood. And the Spirit is the one who testifies because the Spirit is the truth. There are three that testify: the spirit and the water and the blood. And these three agree. If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater. For this is the testimony of God that He has borne concerning His Son. Whoever believes in the Son of God has the testimony in himself. Whoever does not believe God has made him a liar Because he has not believed in the testimony that God has borne concerning his Son. And this is the testimony that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the Son has life. Whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. And then turn with me, if you like, to the Gospel of John. In chapter 20, where we shall see the Lord Jesus give eternal life. John chapter 20, we'll read at verse 19 to verse 23. Gospel according to John chapter 20, beginning at verse 19 to verse 23. Hear the word of the Lord. On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews. Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his sign. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again, peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive O Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. It is the word of the Lord. Congregation, as you know, in these morning services, we have been going through some traditional readings in the Christian year. And we continue still in the Easter season. I'm kinda like this idea of having seasons for these events. It means you get to preach longer on these important events of Christ's life And this morning you all thought Easter was past, but it's not. We'll get to look this morning uh at this uh what took place on Easter Day, in particular Easter evening So we're going to look at John's gospel. So if you want to follow along in your Bible, it will be John chapter 20 there, those verses 19 through 23. And in these verses, right, John is showing us uh the fact of the resurrection, and John is showing us the establishment of Christ's kingdom here on earth. John is showing also something about these believers, who they are going out to the world telling people to believe in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of their sins. You might wonder why and maybe before we go any further, if if you look at John twenty verse thirty to thirty-one. You might ask yourself, well, why why are these verses included in the Bible? Why why have I read them? Why has the Apostle John, who is one of these men in this upper room, who are breathed on by Jesus and sent out Why why did he write this? Why did I just hear these words read to me this morning? And uh John tells you there and Verse 30 and 31 of chapter 20, Jesus said many other signs in the presence of his disciples. His signs were to establish that he is God's Son, sent from God. And he did many other ones, which are not written in this book. John has written many of them in this book. But he says these ones are written, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God And that by believing you may have life in his name. That's what John wants. John wants that because that's what Jesus wants. And Jesus wants that, because that's what God wants. That's why he sent them in this world. And you would believe that Jesus is the Messiah? He is God's Son, and in that faith, and having that faith, you can have life. Now we're going to come back to that. So let's look at these verses. There's a lot in them And as I've been pondering them this week, trying to maybe organize them, see if maybe there's a main point or something here, which if there is, it still eluded me. But there's just the way these are written, but maybe one way to kind of get at some of these significance is to look at the difference Easter made though. And the difference that Easter faith makes. But as you go as we go through this passage and we will, because there's wonderful encouragement and refreshment for the saints. It it's meant to be read and hopefully heard that people would believe and maybe never believed in their life, would believe and have life for the first time in the Savior and know this peace and joy that He's come in the world for? But consider the the difference, right? Good Good Friday, the last time they saw Jesus, right, he was dead. But now he's alive. It's a big difference to go from being a dead. Being alive forevermore. Last time they met Jesus, he was in a body like theirs, trapped. Maybe not trapped is the way to put it, but confined to space. That's a big difference from Before to now Easter and the resurrection, dead to alive, a body in this world like ours, to a risen body, a spiritual body, never to return to corruption Disciples, look at them, they're they are they go from being sad and afraid to rejoicing and at peace Jesus goes from the one being sent up to this point, right? I've been sent, now he's the sender. Jesus goes from the one who the Father has been giving him the sphere without measure. In that power of that spirit has anointed one the world, has been preaching God's word and doing God's works, revealing God's name to men that they might see Jesus and believe and have life, to now the one pouring out that spirit. It's a big change. Go from the sent to the sender. Go from the receiver of God's Spirit to the breathing out the breath of life and filling them with the Holy Spirit to be changed. These men go from um self-righteous Proud. We we read the fifth commandment this morning, they weren't very good at it. They couldn't abide the thought that someone else would sit higher in the kingdom than men. They had to go and ask for the two highest seats, right? grieve them too much to think that one of these other ones would take their place. Self-righteous sinners, jealous, envious. Afraid, scared, blasphemers, cursors. Remember Peter, he called down curses on his head, aggravated violation of the ninth commandment. Horrible sin. To now going out and preaching the grace of God and dying to themselves and bending over backwards for people to give them places of honor, to put no obstacle in the way of them coming to know Jesus. It's a very big difference. They go from people who didn't want to ha give anything away to anybody, they wanted it for themselves, to spending their whole life pouring themselves out so that people be safe and know Christ and have life. That's a big difference. Easter makes a big difference in our lives. Let's look at this this text because it's it's great. Let's start together in verse 19. On the evening It was the morning of that day, the day they're talking about, it was resurrection day, the beginning of chapter twenty, on the first day of the week, Mary came to the tomb early. So we've seen early, and we've seen the events that happened now in the evening. So early in that day they find the tomb and nobody's in it. Well they thought, you know, Jesus would then head and he's gone. And they they don't know yet that the scriptures had to be fulfilled. They're just thinking someone's moved the Lord's body. Where did they put 'em? And Mary's very distraught about it And they go in and see, and John seems to have some kind of faith because, well, they saw Lazarus come out of the grave and he walked out with all his grave clothes on. But Jesus' grave clothes are laying there and someone's folded up the cloth napkin and left it there too. That coveted his face. What clearly doesn't need those clothes It's not wandering around the streets without clothes on, but they don't they all they they've got some kind of faith that something here has happened. And then of course that day in which the Lord appears to Mary And Mary sends Mary on her mission. Mary's turning that first evangelist. Go tell my brethren. I'm ascending to my father and your father. And that's going to be an encouraging word. My brethren, we forsook him, but he still calls me a brother. Go into my God and your God and she goes preaching that to them. I see them. The Lord is alive. And let me tell you what he said. He's going to our God Our God. He's going to our Father. That's where He's going to. They don't know what to do with it. I'm assuming that's probably why they're gathered in this room is let's put our heads together about this Tomb's empty, the body's gone. Mary says she's seen him and he's and sent them with some kind of good message for us. And it's now in the evening. It's still the first day of the week. The day after the Sabbath, the Jewish Sabbath is Saturday, or what we would call Sunday. And we're told that the doors are locked where they're at. They've shut and bolted the doors for the fear of the Jews. The people that put Jesus, they're talking about the Jewish authorities, those who put Jesus to death They're now afraid because you know they don't the empty tomb gets around, right? You can't contain something like that. And they're afraid of them because, well, they know that they're Jesus' associates And they don't want any more trouble, you know, makers and so if they think what have you done with his body, 'cause they probably think they've taken his body and put it somewhere so they can tell everybody a big lie like he's come back from the dead. They're afraid what's going to happen to them. So they've locked the doors because What are they going to do to us? We didn't do anything to bring them on the tomb. We're not going to be able to convince them of that. What are they going to do to us now? And so they're hiding because they're afraid of what might happen to them as the followers of Jesus Christ. The doors are locked, and they're probably talking about what do we do now? What what do we do? What do we do now with this report? And as they're up there assembling, Jesus came And stood among them. Now if you go to the next account with Thomas, Jesus does the same thing because Thomas wasn't there. And we see in verse 26, although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood. So they're locked for fear of the Jews, but John's also telling us something about Jesus didn't knock on the door and say, Let me in Jesus is all of a sudden just there in their midst. That would be kind of spooky, wouldn't it? If you're in a room with your friends and all of a sudden somebody just appears. There's no knock on the door. They're just there Amongst you. And the first thing Jesus says to them is, peace be with you. Or shalom. That's a greeting. That's how you say hi in Hebrew. It says hi. Hello? That's good because if if somebody has appeared to you, you you might wonder what's this appearance about? Because that's not normal. And a lot of places when you read in the Bible when there's a Sudden appearance like that. They get scared like Gideon got really scared when he realized that was the Lord whom he saw and consumed his offering, and he started getting very frightened, and the Lord said, Peace be to you, Gideon. Don't be afraid. You're not going to die. That's what Jesus' word is. You've got nothing to fear from me. Peace. You're afraid. But you don't need to be afraid of me Peace to you. Hello. And then what does Jesus do? He he says, it's me. Look, it's me. Look at the hands. Because we might wonder, right, is is that a ghost that has just shown up? Who's just who's Because that's not normal. That doesn't happen, right? It doesn't happen in this world. That people just Up here in the middle of your company without knocking on the door. And all of a sudden he's there and he says, Hi, shalom. And he says, it's me. Here's my hands. Look. And here's my side. Because that's where they put the spear. And they did that and that just proved I was dead, but I'm not dead. That's the me, that's that's my wound, it's my hands. And he says, Hi, it's me. And we read what was the reaction to that was, well, they became very glad. As you and I would become very glad as someone we love very dearly came back to life. You would not be able to suppress the truth if the person you love came back from the death or suppress the joy That would be a joy and a gladness that would immediately replace all the grief and sorrow of losing that loved person. And that's what it's like with Jesus. He's back. It's him It's me, look, it's me, and they know it's him, and they're glad because they love Jesus. Jesus testified to the love before he died. Don't worry, the Father loves you because you love me and you believe in me. They love the Lord Jesus Christ. They were sad that the Lord Jesus Christ died. Things didn't work out like they thought it was going to work out? And here he is. It's me. And they're glad. And they're glad that Jesus is back with them. But then he says to them again, peace be with you. Why does he have to say hi again? Didn't they hear his hello the first time? Probably makes a lot of difference if you know it's a ghost saying hi to you or you it's the risen Lord Jesus saying hi to you. It's the risen Lord Jesus. Now that they actually know who he is He's saying to them, peace. Hello, now that you know it's me. Have you ever run into somebody and you don't know who they are? And they're going, Hey, it's great to see you and like I don't remember this person at all. And it's the worst encounter ever. Now they know who it's the Lord Jesus and he says, Hi. But the word peace there has a bigger significance than just hi. He is saying more to them than just hi. He's saying, peace be to you. What do you have to fear? Your hands weren't pierced. Your side wasn't pierced. What do you have to be afraid of? Your sins are borne away and buried. What are you afraid of? I didn't come as your judge and executor. I came as your savior. Why are you afraid? Didn't you know what I was doing this whole time? Didn't I tell you why I came here to do this? And I've done it. It's done. Peace. That is the word of the risen Lord to his people, believe it him. Peace. All the blessings of the covenant of peace He's Yahweh who bore away the sins of his people. He says, peace, you have nothing to be afraid of me or God. Peace. I know your sins. Oh, Peter, I know your sins. I told you about your sins. I know all your sins Peace. You have nothing to be afraid of me. You believe your mind. What do you're afraid of? Peace to you. That's the words that's the Saviour's word to his people. As he the first thing back from the grave is is a hide, but also a Peace. Peace is a wonderful word you say to friend. It's such a deep word, and I can't even begin to get to the bottom, although I was reading through a lot of dictionaries about it, because it's such an important biblical word But one of the things that connotes is wholeness and well-being. He's saying, All good to you, but it also meant the well-being of lasting unbroken relationships, because that's a big part of life, isn't it? People and relationships and a big part of their life is Jesus. And that relationship of Jesus. And he's saying, guess what, my brethren? We're not going to be separated again. You see, he's not a shepherd for three score and ten, is he? And then death keeps you from him forever, right? That would be a bad shepherd. See, we need more than just a king who can keep us for our earthly time. We need a king who can keep us for all time. And Jesus says, peace to you. There is nothing, not even your sin, that's going to get between you and I, because I have borne it away. And so they're very glad as seeing the Lord Jesus. He says, Hi, and peace to you But the next thing he says, and here's why I stop and think, you know, remember what Peter said on the Mounted Transfiguration? Lord is good. To be here with you. Let's just make three tenths and stay here. I can imagine them saying something like this. Lord I don't these next words. I can imagine Peter said, It is so great that you're here in this room. Let's just keep these doors shut and stay together forever right here in the room and not face what's outside those doors. Those authorities are still out there, and let's just stay here and have fellowship together. That's not what Jesus says, is it? He says, as I have been sent And he's saying, Brethren, my work has been done on earth. I've accomplished it. And the word is peace. I came, I did it. And my parting gift, as I told you in John 14, 27, is I would leave you here, peace. You're going to have trouble in this world, but your peace will be in me, and be of good cheer, because I've overcome it. That's the kind of piece he's bringing, right? What are you gonna think through what they're dealing with, right? These authorities put them to death. They did their worst And yet he's standing here going, well that didn't get him very far, did it? They're not really so much in charge as they thought, are they? Now do you get why I've come? I was sent here I laid down my life and I picked my life back up and I overcome everything they threw in me. So peace be to you. Have peace in me And as I have been sent, guess what? So now I'm sending you. The emphasis in the text falls on the words I Because I've got to go back out there and tell people he's alive and he sent me. Well, they didn't like him when he was alive in the flesh and the father sent him And now they've got to go back out there and say, He's alive in the Spirit, really alive, really risen, really alive. We've seen his hands, we've seen his feet, he is risen, the resurrection has taken place, he is the first fruit. And by the way, he sent me out here to tell you that so you can be saved. Gotta wonder whether they go. Can we just stay in this room? No. Yeah, you've been with me these three years. You saw what the world threw at me? Yeah, it's it was trouble. Yeah, it wasn't pleasant. But I was sent. That's all the difference. I came because the Father loves me and sent me, and it was my joy to do his will. Guess what? It's now your turn To be sent and to find your joy. Because remember I told you this in that upper discourse. I know you guys are a bit sad. It was May Thursday and you were didn't like hearing I was going to leave you and these things going on. But I told you all about this. You're now going to find your joy in me. Living for me in this world and obeying my commandments and doing what I said. So Jesus is saying to him, Hello, it's me. Everything's going to be fine. You work for me now. You don't work for sin anymore. You don't work for Satan anymore. You're not the servants of death. I've set you free. You're my servants. But not only does he say you work for me, he also says you work with me. And he gives them the helper, right? He gives to them the Holy Spirit. Now this is a wonderful thing. See, John starts his gospel with those words, In the beginning was the Word. And the word is of God playing on Genesis, right? How did the Genesis begin? In the beginning, right? God created. Think about this. God loves small things, doesn't he? He's not a showy flashy God, isn't he? We don't even know the place of this room. We just know it's in Jerusalem somewhere. And a new creation took place behind locked doors. uh late on Easter evening with ten men and maybe some other women there as Jesus the Lord breathed on them John's using a word from Genesis two seven, God formed man and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. Ezekiel thirty-seven, right, the vision of the valley of dry bones, and the and God says that Ezekiel Ezekiel, can these bones live? I don't know, Lord, you do. They can prophesy. They come alive. Well, they're alive, but there's no breath in them. Call out to the winds, O winds of the four earth, come and breathe and they breathe and they're alive. It's that same breathing. Here is the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord God, who cre in the beginning created New creation took place in Jerusalem on Easter evening behind locked doors with about ten of Jesus' disciples as he breathed into them. His breath, not the fleshly breath. He's not giving him more of the breath you and I excel every day. He's giving him the breath of the Spirit of God. Born again into his kingdom, as he told Nicodemus in John 3, right? Flash is flesh, you need the Spirit to enter in the kingdom. That's why I told you, the kingdom of God began right there when Jesus recreated those men Gathered them, died for them, rose, preached peace to them. So you ain't got anything to fear from me. I'm going to send to the word. We ain't got peace, but you're going with my peace. And he breathes life into them, his spirit, and gives it to them. You work for me now, the Lord God, who recreated you, and you have my spirit in you to be your helper. Go out there. And you're thinking he's gonna say, go out there and preach the gospel. But he says, if you forgive anybody's sins, they're forgiven. If you hold forgiveness for anybody, it's with hell. What what's he mean by that? You're not really expecting that. And I wasn't really expecting when I read that. Because the word forgiveness doesn't show up anywhere else in John's Gospel. The first time you read anything about forgiveness of sins. You read about sins in a few other places, but you don't read anything about forgiveness And then you read 1 John, the only place you find in 1 John is the words I remind you of every week at our time when we confess sins that God is faithful and just to forgive us. And what does he mean you guys forgive when he writes in 1 John God forgives, and God is faithful and just to forgive. Well, I won't send you everywhere, but let me see if I can point it out to you uh this way. Jesus in this gospel talks about he was sent into this world to save it. But something happens if you don't receive Jesus Christ. You judge yourself and you die in your sins. In John chapter 8, Jesus is talking to the Pharisees who've seen his sights. He's done things that no man has ever done. He healed the blind. Who has ever done that? How could that ever be anything other than the work of God? As he's telling you, this is the work of God. I'm God in the flesh, doing what only God can do. And they won't believe it. And he says, I am going away and you'll seek me, and you will die in your sin. Well, I'm going, you cannot come, because you stop on going back to the Father. And they said, Well they didn't know where he's going. And he said, Well, you're from below, I'm from above. You're of this world, I'm not in this world. I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am He You'll die in your sins. In John's gospel, sin, of course, is lawlessness and breaking God's law, but it centers around Jesus Christ. He tells um in John 15 when he's talking to his disciples as he's about to leave He says uh these words. I'm reading to you to help you understand what he's saying to the apostles about this ministry of forgiving sins and retaining sins. Jesus says to them in John fifteen, verse twenty two, If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin But now they have no excuse for their sin. He's not saying as the Bible makes clear, these men were great sinners ever before Jesus came on earth, right? Jesus came off just exposed it. They were hypocrites doing hypocritical sinful things long before Jesus came here Well Jesus tells you what he's talking about here. Whoever hates me hates my father also. See that that that that had never happened before, that God would come in the flesh. And you're not meeting a mere man when you meet Jesus, you're meeting God And so depending on how you treat Jesus depends on your attitude towards God. If you receive Jesus and love Jesus and believe in Jesus, you've you've got a right heart. Your sins are forgiven. You'll be forgiven. But if you reject Jesus, don't like Jesus, hate Jesus, don't want to hear of Jesus, don't want to believe in Jesus, you're hating God. That's great sin. That's unbelief. That's that sin of that's that sin under death, the rejection of God because he's here and it and Jesus requires a decision. Am I God or am I not? Are you going to follow me or not? Are you going to believe in me or not? Are you going to worship me or not? Are you going to find life in me or not? So Jesus talks about sin being a relationship to himself as the Son of God, as God come in the flesh. And so really what what he's saying to these men is, I came into this world not on my own authority, but the Father sent me. Independing how men received me, decided their fate. Uh he says it, and I'll read it to you so you don't hear My word, but hear Jesus' words. He says it in John chapter twelve. Whoever believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. Faith in Jesus is faith in God, because he is the Son of God. Whoever sees me sees him who sent me. That's how real Jesus talks about him being God. That's how much he means that the see Jesus see God. I've come into this world as light, so whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness If anyone hears my words and does not keep them, I do not judge him, for I do not come to judge the world but to Satan. The one who rejects me and does not receive my words has a judge The word that I have spoken will judge them on the last day. So Jesus is talking about they're going to die in their sins because they judge themselves. Paul preached the gospel, that's what he preached to the Jews. You you've counted yourselves unworthy of eternal life because you won't believe in Jesus. So Jesus is saying if Depending on how you relate to Jesus Christ, you'd you judge yourself. And that's what he's saying is going to happen with them. As I was sent and I had that ministry, I came to save And I preached them in Save and I showed myself and I declared myself a son of God, so people would come to me, I can raise the dead, I can give you life, and I'll do it. I am the sin bearer of the sins, those who believe me. I don't your sins aren't going to get in the way. Don't be afraid that your sins are going to keep you from me. I can I can forgive your sins He revealed himself as the Savior of men, as the one that he called men to and said, Come to me and have life. I will give you you, so it will flow out of you like rivers of water. But depending on how people reacted to him, they judged themselves. And now when he says, what's gonna happen is I'm sending you And you know you described what it means, I mean you're you're coming in that same authority, depending on how people respond to you, because think about this, he he's just breathed the life of God into them The same Spirit that has been in Jesus, when you encountered Jesus, remember Jesus was baptized in the Spirit. He told them in John 14, this Holy Spirit is going to be in you. You know the Spirit, because the Spirit has been with you. The whole time you've been living with me for these three years, you've been meeting the Holy Spirit. He's the one in whose power I've been speaking and living under influence as I live. You know the Spirit because you know me And that spirit's going to be in you. So right he's sending, if you might think about this way, copies of himself. He's sending image bearers of himself again. He's sending people in the power of the Holy Spirit and and what he's saying is depending on how people respond to Christian men and Christian women because he's not just talking about apostles here because Thomas isn't in the room And I don't think Thomas meant missed out on this sending. He's talking about Christians in general. As you are filled with God's Spirit and you go out in this world and you tell people of the Savior who bore your sins, you tell people the Son of God who's been risen from the dead, you tell people the one who's given you new life. life and breathe life into you and you worship him and live for him and you seek to do holy things. Depending on how men respond to you and the gospel you preach, they're going to judge themselves too. That's what Jesus is saying. Well he's talking about who has ever sins that you forgive. They are forgiven. Passive there, perfect, referring to God's forgiven them. It's just being recognized here on earth that these are the ones that have been brought to face by me. Whatever sins you retain. He's not believe me, he's not telling them Now it's up to you to decide men's fate. You get to go out, I don't like that person, not forgiven. I like you, your sins are forgiven. That's not what Jesus is saying, because that's not what happened in Jesus' day. He said, I didn't come to do my will Whoever comes to me, I came to show God. And the Father is going to draw them to me. And whoever comes to me, I don't care how sinful they are. I'm saving them because the Father's given to me. I don't care how sinful they are. My grace is sufficient. So Jesus didn't even act on that principle. He acted on those who came to him. And that's what he's saying, as we go out, as the church preaches this gospel? Lives in the power of the Holy Spirit, people will judge themselves by the gospel being preached authoritatively from the Bible as it's lived out in people's lives, how they respond to that good news Well, that's a lot there, isn't that? That all that on on Easter evening. What a big difference that made in these men's lives. without any peace, troubled by the authorities of this world, to rejoicing in their Savior and perfect peace, because they have nothing to fear from God. His perfect love died for them They are forgiven. Men who've gone from being cowards and fearful, caring for their own lives, living in sin, now working for the risen Lord Jesus Christ, the Creator of all, who has breathed new life into them the Utterly different. And who better to go out into the world and people who have been forgiven and have new life in them, right? Who better to preach the gospel of God's grace than sinners who said, you know, I'm a sinner saved by grace. I'm a sinner just like you. I am no different. Except I've been saved by God's grace. I have found peace in Jesus Christ. I have found everlasting joy in Jesus Christ. I have found new life in Jesus Christ. I don't serve sin anymore. I serve Jesus and I live for him. You can have that too. That's what they preach. That's the gospel that they preach. The gospel that they saw in that upper room. He's alive And he says peace to those who believe in him. And he breathes life on those who believe in him. And he raises them from the dead so they can go out and tell people where they got this life at and tell them about Jesus so that others might believe he's the Messiah who God sent. He's God's Son and He can give you life. Two. That's a wonderful truth of Easter. So my I guess my question this morning is, e Easter had an impact and made a difference with Jesus? He stayed the same as God, but he he didn't stay in the grave. He didn't stay on earth. He didn't stay in the same bodies in his new body. He's risen, Lord, in heaven, his kingdom's come. Easter made a great difference in these disciples' lives. They're not the fearful people you meet They're not the ones who did not like the gospel of Christ crucified, they're the ones who went out and preached Christ crucified everywhere and suffered everything for the Lord Jesus. Has Easter made a difference in your life? Have you come to believe that Jesus is the Messiah? Do you believe that Jesus is very God and God's Son and He can give you life? Has he breathed new life into you? Are you aware of having an influence on you more than merely the breath of this world? But the breath of God's Spirit, so that you believe rightly in Jesus. That He came by water and blood. He is God's Son. That means he was baptized. Some people said the Holy Spirit came down on Jesus at his baptism, or the Christ did. And then he rose up after him on the cross as a heresy, and John saying, No, to believe rightly in Jesus as God's Son was baptized, and God's Son died on the cross Do you believe rightly about Jesus? And do you overcome this world that says don't love God? Don't follow God. Don't do what he says. Live now and live for this and have it all here and do that and walk this way. Or do you obey God? Do you do what he says? Do you love his commandments? Do you have peace in Jesus, lasting peace? So you have joy in Jesus Christ. Does he rejoice you uh I visit a new covenant church, a newest church that's coming to our presbytery and they said one of the elders who greeted me after the service said Wow, you're a joyful Calvinist. I'm not joyful because I'm a Calvinist. I'm joyful because I know the Lord Jesus. I love preaching this. I'm like looking at myself as I preach this. Yeah, I this is what happens when you meet Jesus. You're utterly different. I remember after I was converted I was at a church that I grew up in and one of the pastors was talking to me and I heard him talking later at a small group he was at and he said I couldn't take my eyes off of Dam. I didn't know what was different about him. He was just like uh like a different life, and I was like, yeah, Jesus It changes your life when you believe in him, not just about him, but in him. And you turn to him and you say, give me that life, because you can get it I was really uh let me then also say a few things to you uh who do believe. So if you don't believe uh in in Jesus Christ, I tell you this, that whatever is keeping you from faith in Jesus Christ is keeping you from peace, joy, and new and eternal life. And I urge you to Get rid of it. Whatever is keeping you from believing in the Lord Jesus Christ is keeping you away from peace and joy and life forever in Him. But those of you who are in Christ and living this way, let me encourage you, continue on as the aroma of Christ. You're going to have trials in this life. People aren't always going to like that you're a Christian and like that you believe in Jesus and live the way you do But be that aroma of Jesus Christ. One of the things I was greatly comforted by this week in this passage was, see, I think sometimes I fall in this idea, the world's just going to change someday And it's going to be nice to Jesus. Give us a break. The love in the world's never gonna change. The judgment's come upon it. The light came in, it rejected it. You're not going to have peace from the world, but you can have peace in Jesus. And I do remind myself, I have to have peace in the one who overcame. I have to have peace in the risen Lord. Beloved, your flesh isn't going to change. Have you come to the point to realize as Paul said there's nothing he doesn't say there's nothing good in me? You know there's nothing good in my flesh. There's something really good in the Holy Spirit. The new life in Jesus Christ. But he also knows there's the flesh. Beloved, your flesh is never going to give you peace. You got a peace in Jesus. Beloved, Satan's not going to change. Jesus didn't take on the nature of angels to change fallen angels. He came to save the seed of Abraham. He's going to stay your enemy. He's always going to slander God to you. He's always going to trick you thinking that sin is worth it, and he's going to turn around, he's going to accuse your conscience and make you miserable. You're not going to have any peace from him You can have peace in Jesus Christ. But I hope you're having peace in Jesus Christ, because in this world you're gonna have difficulty. The joys of this world change too. I hope your joy is in the risen Lord in Him that you've seen Him by faith. Peter says, We don't see him yet. You believe and you haven't seen him, and you are filled with joy inexpressible. Is that nice words? Or is that true? Is that for them? Or is that for you? Is that for superbelievers? Is that for any of God's children? That joy inexpressible because it's in Jesus. Now vandalism makes a great difference, doesn't it? If you're a person here who uh one of the things also encouraged me about this week, there's no evangelism but personal evangelism. Some people think just you know just preach the scriptures. That's it. Yeah, I preach the scriptures. But the apostles preached the change that happened in their lives. I read it this morning. This is a faithful testimony. Jesus Christ came in to save sinners, and this world saved sinners. And Paul says, I'm the chief one who was saved by him. Do you tell people that you're saved by Jesus? What do we what do we do? Do we testify to God's grace? Do you is there grace in your life to testify to? Has Jesus made a difference? Whether he's made a difference because you've known him from the woo all your life? He's still made a difference for you whether you've grown up in the church and always known him or not. You still are not what you are because of a natural birth. You are what you are because the Lord has breathed life upon you and has said peace to you. Amen. Do you have something to testify to others? Thinking to hear it. I marvel at God's wisdom. Who better to tell people of grace than those who have grace? Who better to speak of Jesus as a Savior for sinners than sinners who are actually trusting in him for salvation? They might wonder, right, you know, this is why these Jesus isn't sending them out to be the forgivers of sins. They can't forgive their own sins. Who forgave them? Peace to you. They might be wondering what's Jesus going to come back and say to me? Because that was a lot of sin that happened on Good Friday. Who better to preach the grace of God? Who better to preach the difference the Holy Spirit makes in the life than those who have the Holy Spirit And can say, yes, let me read it into the Bible Jesus gives you, and let me say, I have it too, and it's wonderful. Why don't you believe in Jesus too? Because that's what he's sending us out to do. We aren't homemakers in this world. Whatever homemaking you do here should be to bring people to Jesus Christ. You're sent here. You can't stay The Church of Jesus Christ is sent here. We're here to tell people about Jesus Christ. We're here to testify to the grace of Jesus Christ. That's what we're here for. Finally, let me close with this. I think the way John writes this, and I'm I'm not alone, other smarter people than me who look at this. See actually something of a weekly liturgy that might fit in this. John makes the point of saying the first day of the week. And then you get the peace to you after the absolution. Then you get the gift of the Spirit as they pray, the Periclesis, at the uh the calling upon for the Holy Spirit at the celebration of the Lord's Supper, that Christ would give us the Holy Spirit and feed us to that means of grace. That we would hear the preaching of the word and see the Redeemer right as in his in his wounds. Some people see something maybe in John's church. And words given here that have helped shape their weekly liturgy, right? Also, beloved, come weekly on the Lord's Day services. Because it's important to make a difference in our lives, right? Easter isn't just one moment in your life. We constantly need to be received by Jesus and hear his words of peace. We constantly need Jesus to reveal himself to us as our crucified Lord who loves us. We constantly need to hear The Lord Jesus Christ reassuring us, peace, peace, my word to you is peace. We constantly need the Lord Jesus Christ redirecting our lives. You can't stay here. I know you don't want to go talk to that colleague, that friend. I know those authorities are not Very fun to be around, but you can't stay here. We constantly need him to redirect us out. We constantly need Jesus to revive us and renew us by his Holy Spirit. Which is what he does. So come weekly, right? Praying, our Lord, come like you came that night and meet with us when we come here. So that we can have everything you give to your people as the risen Lord. We can have your peace. We can have your life in us. And we can go out as your sent ones and share this good news together. Well What a lot to expect from Jesus. What a great difference the Lord Jesus Christ makes. So I will close and say to you, beloved, peace to you. Now work with Jesus and for Jesus and with the help of his Spirit.