Turn to Psalm forty. Let us hear God's word. I waited patiently for the Lord. He inclined to me and heard my cry. He drew me up in the destruction. Out of the miry bog. He put a new Our God. Many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord. Blessed is the man who makes the Lord his trust, who does not turn to the proud, to those who go astray after a lie. You have multiplied, O Lord my God, your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us. None can compare with you. I will proclaim and tell of them, yet they are more than can be told. Sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but you have given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required. Then I said, Behold, I have come in the scroll of the book it is written of me I desire to do your will, O my God. Your law is within my heart. I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation. Behold, I have not restrained my lips, as you know, O Lord. I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart. I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation. As for you, O Lord, you will not restrain your mercy from me. Your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me. For evils have encompassed me beyond number. And iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see. They are more than the hairs of my head. My heart fails me. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me Let those be put to shame and disappointed altogether who seek to snatch away my life. Let those be turned back and brought to dishonor who desire my hurt. But those be appalled because of their shame, who say to me, Aha, aha. But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. May those who love your salvation say continually, Great is the Lord. As for me, I am poor and needy, but the Lord takes thought for me You are my help and my deliverer. Do not delay, O my God. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of the Lord stands forever. We have explored several of the Psalms of David, and this is yet another one. It certainly has an immediate setting, and we have explored those kinds of Immediate settings. We'll touch on that in a bit in the Psalm sermon tonight. David's deliverance from long experience of persecution and suffering. And finally, to his coronation, we can certainly see bits of that here in this psalm, but I think this psalm, like a few others, has a redemptive understanding that is paramount, that exceeds anything that David could have written about his own experiences or his own coronation. I'm going to take the Psalm this way. First, I believe that Psalm verses 1 through 3 are a refrain. Kind of like we have these hymns that have a refrain, you know, there's a stanza, then a refrain, then you sing another stanza, then the refrain, so forth. This is like that, I believe. The refrain is the blessed results of patient waiting for the Lord I waited for the Lord. He inclined to me and heard my cry. He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog, and set my feet upon a rock, making my steps secure. That is the refrain that keeps being heard again and again, I think, in the psalm. The idea of David waiting on or for the Lord has been common in the last several psalms Psalm 25, Psalm 27, Psalm 37, and then Psalm 39. David waited upon the Lord there without immediate answer Here the answer is stated. He inclined to me and heard my cry. There was an answer. He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog. And set my feet upon a rock, making my steps secure. Isn't it a beautiful picture? Can you think of the pit of destruction? A hole in the ground I think of a muddy, dirty hole, perhaps partially filled with water, like Jeremiah was thrown in a well, a pit of destruction. Or a miry bog, a swamp that you're stuck in and can't even put your feet out, take one step out of it. He set my feet upon a rock. What a wonderful thing a rock would be under such circumstances, making my steps secure. So this is this wonderful refrain, and I think we can see something very parallel to this in the first half of Psalm 22. We know Psalm twenty-two with that anguished cry of our Lord when he's on the cross When he says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning? Oh my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer by night, but find no rest. There is a picture of the worst kind of miry bog and pit of destruction as Christ is on the cross. And yet the Psalm goes on to say, yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel. In you our fathers trusted. They trusted and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued. In you they trusted and were not put to shame. But here's the bog again from Psalm 22. But I am a worm and not a man Scorned by mankind and despised by the people, all who see me mock me, they make mouths at me, they wag their heads Quote, He trusts in the Lord. Let the Lord deliver him. Let the Lord rescue him, for he delights in him. Yet you are he who took me from the womb. You made me trust at my mother's breasts. On you I was cast from birth, and from my mother's womb you have been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help. Many bulls encompass me, strong bulls of Bashan surround me. They open wide their mouths at me like a ravening and roaring lion. I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is welted, melted within my breast. My strength is dried up like a pot sherd, and my tongue sticks to my jaws. You lay me in the dust of death. For dogs encompass me. A company of evildoers encircles me. They have pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones They stare and gloat over me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. But you, O Lord, do not be far off. O you, my help, come quickly to my aid. Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. Save me from the mouth of lions. I think that that in much more detail describes the pit of destruction, the miry bog that Christ could sing here. as he waited on the Lord from his situation in which he was plunged. We can think of all the kinds of waiting that Christ endured. He waited to come into the world in the fullness of time. He was ordained for this. He waited for deliverance from Life in this fallen world and return to the Father's throne. And he prayed earnestly for it and celebrated it in John 17 as it was coming near to him. He waited in anguish in the Garden of Gethsemane, quite alone, and in terrible anguish. He waited in pain of judgment on the cross, and we just heard the words. of that waiting on the cross. And he waited for three days for resurrection in the grave. He waited for the Lord to deliver him And so now I want to move on to the first stanza. That was the refrain. I think Psalm 22 expands greatly and shows us what's going on in that refrain. But now let's look at the The first stanza of the song, three and so forth, the song of the faithfulness of the great servant. He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear and put their trust in the Lord. This psalm was the new song that God put into David's mouth. The suffering servant of God always becomes the singing servant of God. He says, many will see it and fear and will trust in the Lord. This is one of the more great benefits of David's patient waiting for the Lord. The deliverance and the praise that came from it was an effective testimony to others. They were inspired to fear the Lord and to trust in Him. But even greater than David's waiting and David's trusting, the servant Christ sings this song of trusting the God who thinks about his people. It goes on in verse 4. Blessed is the man who makes the Lord his trust, who does not turn to the proud, to those who go astray after a lie. You have multiplied, O Lord my God, your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us. None can compare with you. I will proclaim and tell of them, yet they are more than can be told. Here he talks about God's thoughts toward us. We're used to thinking about God, but we're not used to thinking about God's thoughts toward us. Do you realize, friends, that God thinks about you? God knows your name He thinks about you. God's thoughts toward us cannot be counted. David praised God as the worker of many wonderful works and for his thoughts toward his people. David knew that God thought about him and his people and thought about them favorably. Otherwise, there would be no blessing for those thoughts. In Psalm 8, verse 4, David wonders, What is man that you're mindful of him? He considered the greatness of the universe and was amazed that God would think about man at all. Here he took the idea much further and is amazed at how much God thinks about his people. By implication, he is also amazed that God thinks such loving, gracious thoughts toward his people. And so many that they are more than can be numbered. About this phrase, Spurgeon says, God's thoughts toward us are wonderful because they are God's thoughts. When I think, it is a poor, little, weak, empty head that is thinking. But when God thinks, the gigantic mind which frames the universe is thinking upon me Spurgeon also said, God's thoughts toward us are wonderful because they are so many. They cannot be recounted. You cannot count God's thoughts of you. One gracious thought is followed by another, swiftly as the beams of light flash from the sun, so that it is impossible for us to number them. God's thoughts toward us. The servant, Christ, I believe, sings of trusting in God who thinks about him. God, the Father, always thought of Christ. particularly Christ. He was never out of the Father's mind. And then I think we can see here in in Stanza 2, verses 6 through 8, A mysterious reference to the council of redemption flowing forward to the incarnation. Listen to it. In sacrifice and offering you have not delighted, but you have given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required. Then I said, quote, Behold, I come in the scroll of the book it is written of me. I delight to do your will, O my God. Your law is within my heart. Here he says, in sacrifice and offering you have not delighted. David understood that in the relative sense, God did not want animal sacrifices, although they were ordained. God wanted surrendered, willing servants. There are four kinds of offerings mentioned. Sacrifice, offerings made without with blood. And then offerings made without blood, and then burnt offerings, offerings burnt up, ascended into the heavens, total consecration, and then sin offerings. What did God desire instead of sacrifice? He desires obedience And this was true for David's predecessor, King Saul, who offered sacrifices just fine. He was good at doing his job of Providing sacrifices, but he didn't obey God, as we read in 1 Samuel 15. Ultimately, what is spoken of here was fulfilled by not David, but But by David's greater son, Jesus. Jesus came and was perfectly obedient. And his obedience is counted to us. Now there's this interesting phrase here that shows us that there's a lot going on in this text. It's not just about David, this little phrase, but you have given me an open ear. Let's think about that phrase for a moment. You've given me an open ear. What does that mean? Well, instead of animal sacrifices, God wants servants who will surrender to him as willing as a willing slave surrenders to his master. So what David is likely referring to here, many scholars believe, is the custom of marking a bondservant according to, as it is described in Exodus 21, 5 and 6. We're not going to read that, but there you'll read where a slave who wants to remain in his master's house and in his master's service Would be marked with an open ear. That is, his master would pierce his ear with an awl. And he would serve that master continually from that time on. Such a servant would if in effect say I have fulfilled my obligation to my master. I have served and paid back whatever I owed. Yet I love my master, and I am so grateful for what he has given me that I will gladly obligate myself to him for the rest of my life, not out of debt. Or shame or defeat, but out of love. This was David's heart toward God, but it is even greater As David's son's heart toward God. And so we read: My ears you have opened My ears you have opened. David only foreshadowed the ultimate submission to God carried out by the Messiah, Jesus Christ. How do we know that this is referring to him? Well, here's how we can put these things together. In Hebrews chapter 10, verses 3 through 7, the Septuagint, which is the ancient Greek version of the Old Testament. Translates Psalm 40, verses 6 through 8, the portion we're looking at, in this way. Hebrews 10 Verses 3 through 7 says, But in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sins every year, for it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. That's in the context of Psalm 40 here And then this, verse 5, consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, and now the quote is from Psalm 40, from the Septuagint, sacrifices and offerings you have not desired But a body you have prepared for me. Now, our Masoretic text in Hebrew says an open ear. The ear pierced by an awl, perhaps. Certainly an ear that listens for God. But the Satua just says, a body you have prepared for me, and Christ is saying it in Hebrews. It's being quoted of Christ saying it from Psalm 40. And then he says in verse 6, in burnt offerings and sin offerings you take no pleasure. Then I said, and here's Psalm 40 again, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book. This makes it very clear for us. But the Messiah, as the great theme of Hebrew scriptures in the scroll, you see. Is being shown here as the one who dedicated himself to the will of God. I delight to do your will. This shows the Messiah's love for and obedience to God the Father. He says, your law is written in my heart. Spurgeon therefore says about this variation between how it's quoted in Hebrews and how it's quoted in Psalm 40, the Masoretic text. He says this. The Septuagint, from which Paul quoted, has translated this passage, A body hast thou prepared me. How this reading arose, it is not easy to imagine, but since apostolic authority has sanctioned the variation, we accept it as no mistake. But as an instance of various readings equally inspired. It's a paraphrase, you see The Septuagint took the essence of the meaning and translated it. A body you have prepared for me, the servant who dedicates himself wholly to his master. Which was shown forth in the piercing of the ear, and now is shown forth in the giving of Christ's own body for the work of redemption. That's how the things come together. In the scroll of the book it is written of me. That's another phrase here that's quoted in Hebrews from Psalm 40. In a far lesser sense, David could say of this about himself, because he ascended to the throne of Israel and he was prophesied to do so long before it took place. Yet any fulfillment of this in David is a pale shadow to its amazing and perfect fulfillment in David's greater son, Jesus the Messiah. The phrase, I delight to do your will, O my God. Again, in a far lesser sense, was this true of David, who was called a man after God's own heart. Yet any fulfillment of this in David is a pale shadow to its amazing and perfect fulfillment in Jesus, the Messiah, David's greater son. Jesus said that doing God's will to him was as necessary and delightful as food in John's Gospel. I have food to eat that you do not know about. My food, he says, is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish the work that he gave me to do. Again, Spurgeon says, Jesus not only did the Father's will, but found a delight therein. From all eternity he had desired the work set before him in his human life. He was set upon this path till he reached the baptism of agony in which he magnified the law, and even in Gethsemane itself he chose the Father's will and set aside his own Another Puritan commenting on this says, well, not a Puritan, someone a bit later, Your law is within my heart. And then quoting Queen Mary, Queen Mary said, Rip up my heart when I am dead, and there you shall find Calais. The loss whereof it is thought killed her. Rip up most men's hearts, and you shall find written there, the God of this present world. But God's law is in good men's hearts, to live and to die with it. So you see there, I think The counsel of redemption that was between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit to send the Son into the world. And then in the fullness of time, the incarnation, a body you have prepared for me. It is written of me, the scroll, I have come to do your will, O my God. You can see how that is being shown forth here in beautiful and graphic words. And I think we go on from there. We have the Council of Redemption to the Incarnation, and then Stanza 3, verses 9 through 11. The ascension of Christ and the celestial praise of Christ after his finished work. There we hear Messiah's proclamation of the good news of God's praise and Christ's triumphant victory. Listen to these words. He says, I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation. Behold, I have not restrained my lips, as you know, O Lord. I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart. I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation. As for you, O Lord, you will not restrain your mercy from me. Your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me. What is the great congregation? It is the heavenly congregation. There Christ ascends into heaven and he proclaims his victory and praises The grace of God in the midst of all the angels and the myriad of angels and all the saints who have come before him, he proclaims his great salvation and his great victory. This is very similar once again to Psalm 22, is it not? Listen to the words of Messiah in the second half of Psalm 22. Hear the same words I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. Verse 22 of Psalm 22. All you who fear the Lord, praise him. All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel. For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. He has not hidden his face from him, but has heard him when he cried. Here it is again. From you comes my praise in the great congregation. My vows I will perform before those who fear him. The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied. Those who seek him shall praise the Lord. May your hearts live forever And then this all the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord. All the families of the nations shall worship before you, for kingship belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship. Before him shall bow down all who go to the dust, even the one who could not keep himself alive. Posterity shall serve him. It shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation. They shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn, that he has done it. You see the parallel between these things, the great congregation, the ascension of Christ into heaven, and his proclamation, his praise in the heavenly court to all the saints and angels It is true of Jesus also, and we know it from Hebrews again, Hebrews chapter 2, verse 12 this time. Where it is said of him, I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will sing your praise. There it is. Jesus is the one who ascends and sings the praise of God in the great congregation. It is a remarkable thing to think of Jesus leading the assembly of God's people. in praise to God the Father. It is not difficult to see this, then, as a prayer of Jesus, the Son of David. As he lived upon this earth, he did so as a man in constant reliance Upon his fellowship and perfect communion with God the Father. We see this as a prayer of Jesus, perhaps especially in his sufferings on the cross. And we see that now in this next verse 12. He says, see if you can hear Jesus on the cross, thinking back to Psalm 22, for evils have encompassed me beyond number. My iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see. They are more than the hairs of my head. My heart fails me. Truly, it was only on the cross that Jesus could say, as he says here, I think, innumerable evils have surrounded me. Only on the cross. We are shielded by common grace, my friends. The worst things don't happen to us. We are shielded by common grace. The law of God written on human hearts constrains evil in this world. But on the cross, Jesus was not shielded. Innumerable evils surrounded him. My iniquities have overtaken me. David needed this constant supply of God's mercy and loving kindness and truth because he knew of his own sins. He asked God not to leave him to his many sins, more than the hairs of his head, he says, but to deliver him in mercy. You and I need it too, don't we? If we're honest about our sins, we need it too. And there is a sense in which Jesus could never say this. He could never say, my iniquities have overtaken me. He was and always was the spotless Lamb of God without any sin or defect. Yet, in another sense, on the cross, those words are perfect in their description of Jesus. Because in his life and especially in his sufferings, he consciously and perfectly identified with his people, us, the sinners. In a sense, making their sins his own. For Jesus, they were my iniquities. He says, my iniquities have overtaken me. Because, not because he committed those sins, but because out of love he chose to bear them and all the wrath that they deserved. So one commentator, Trapp, says, if this be taken of Christ, he is Maximus Pecatorum. the greatest sinner by imputation. And now we come to stanza 4, verses 13 and following. There we see a plea for earthly preservation imperil for all who are united to Christ. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. Let those be put to shame and disappointed altogether who seek to snatch away my life. Let those be turned back and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt. It should not be a surprise to us if the psalm begins with triumphant praise and then desperately asks for help. Are there any deliverances in this perilous and incomplete life so entire and so permanent that they leave no room for future perils? No. Must not prevision of coming dangers accompany thankfulness for past escapes, says McLaren? And so there is always more for us to deal with. We are always in peril. You may not have any particular enemies who are seeking after your life. Now, if you're if you're in Afghanistan, like Aaron is at the present time, Around that base in Bagram, there are enemies, and they set up their rockets and they shoot and they try to hit And our our CRAM guns shoot the things out of the sky most of the time, but once in a while one will land with within the pair uh within the circle of the base But usually we personally don't have enemies out there trying to gun us down or kill us. But we do have spiritual enemies that seek to snatch away our life. And so I think that can certainly be an application. Let those be put to shame. Let the devil be put to shame. And disappoint. Disappoint the devil, my friends. Who seek to snatch away my life. Let those be turned back and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt. May all of our spiritual enemies be put to shame and defeated. Because we trust and are united to Christ. David made his request with skill. But also with urgency. David understood that help too long delayed was the same as help denied. And so he says, let them be ashamed and brought to mutual confusion who seek to destroy my life. And this was the help that David sought. God had graciously delivered him. We read of his deliverance frequently in the Psalms. And in the first three verses, that's the refrain. It's the refrain of deliverance. But the threat remained. And so he says it again. He prays that God would dishonor his enemies and cause them to be confounded. Let those be appalled, verse 15. Because of their shame, who say to me, Aha! Aha! Wouldn't the devil like to say to you, Aha! Gotcha! Finally disgraced you, finally ruined you. We don't want the devil to have the aha. So we pray for God's preserving strength in all our life This will be the outcome of history. Professor Van Gemeren Says, the psalmist prays for his enemies, fall, and shame, in accordance with the principles of justice and with the promises of God, to curse those who curse his own. We have these words. May all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. May those who love your salvation say continually, Great is the Lord. As for me, I am poor and needy, but the Lord takes thought of me. You heard that before, didn't we? God thinks of us. That's an amazing promise, a wonderful blessing. You can go home with that tonight. God thinks of you. The Lord takes thought of me. You were my help and my deliverer. Do not delay, O my God. Spurgeon says. Yet the Lord thinks of me. He thought of you. He thinks about you still. When the father thinks of his children, he thinks of you. When the great judge of all thinks of the justified ones, he thinks of you, O Christian. Can you grasp the thought the Eternal Father thinks of you? So, dear brothers and sisters. Let the refrain of verses 1 through 3 be your refrain. I waited patiently for the Lord. He inclined to me and heard my cry. He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog, and set my feet upon a rock, making my steps secure. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that we don't just have a prayer and testimony of a great man, David. But hidden within this, we have the one that you sent, David's greater son, who was ordained from all eternity. A body prepared to come into this world to bear our sin, to defeat our enemies, to prevent them from saying, aha, aha. And having dominion over us. We thank you that He has come and that we can now have this blessed refrain that you drew us up from the pit of destruction and set our feet upon a rock. Making our steps secure. Help us, Lord, to think of the marvelous thing that you think upon us. Amen.