Two scripture readings, congregation. First from Ruth chapter four, verses seven through fourteen. Now this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging to confirm a transaction. The one drew off his sandal and gave it to the other, and this was the manner of a testing in Israel. So when the Redeemer said to Boaz, Buy it for yourself, he drew off his sandal. Then Boaz said to the elders and to all the people, You are witnesses this day that I have bought from the hand of Naomi, all that belonged to Eli Melech, and all that belonged to Chileon and to Mahlon. Also Ruth, the Moabite, the widow of Mahlon, I have bought to be my wife, to perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance. That the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brothers and from the gate of his native place. You are witnesses this day. Then all the people who were at the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses. May the Lord make the woman who is coming into your house like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the house of Israel. May you act worthily in Ephraitoth and be renowned in Bethlehem. May your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah Because of the offspring that the Lord will give you by this young woman. So Boaz took Ruth And she became his wife. And he went into her, and the Lord gave her conception. And she bore a son. Then the woman said to A Naomi, Blessed be the Lord who has not left you this day without a redeemer. And may his name be renowned in Israel. The word of the Lord. And now our text, Psalm one oh seven. Yes, we've come so far. O give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. whom he hath redeemed from trouble and gathered in from the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south. Some wandered in desert wastes, finding no way to a city to dwell in. Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He led them by a straight way till they reached a city to dwell in. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men. For he satisfies the longing soul, and the hungry soul he fills with good things. Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, prisoners in affliction and in irons, for they had rebelled against the words of God and spurned the counsel of the Most High. So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor. They fell down with none to help. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death and birthed their bonds apart. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men. For he shatters the doors of bronze and cuts in tar, too, the bars of iron. Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction. They loathed any kind of food, and they drew near to the gates of death. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He sent out his word and healed them and delivered them from their destruction. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men. And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving and tell of his deeds in songs of joy. Some went down to the sea in ships, doing business on great waters. They saw the deeds of the Lord, his wondrous works, and the deeds. For he commanded and raised the stormy wind, which lifted up the waves of the sea. They mounted up to heaven, they went down to the depths Their courage melted away in their evil plight. They reeled and staggered like drunken men and were at their wit's end. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed. Then they were glad that the waters were quiet, and he brought them to their desired haven. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men. Let them extol him in the congregation of the people and praise him in the assembly of the elders He turns rivers into a desert, springs of water into thirsty ground, a fruitful land into a salty waste because of the evil of its inhabitants. He turns the desert into pools of water, a parched land into springs of water. And there he lets the hungry dwell, and they establish a city to dwell in. They sow fields and plant vineyards and get a fruitful field. By his blessing they multiply greatly, and he does not let their livestock diminish. When they are diminished and brought low through oppression, evil, and sorrow, he pours contempt on princes and makes them wander in tractless wastes. But he raises up the needy out of affliction and makes their families like flocks. The upright see it and are glad. And all wickedness Shuts its mouth. Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things. Let them consider the steadfast love of the Lord, the word of God. Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. In spite of the economic optimism enjoyed by multitudes of our countrymen, It is undoubtedly true that a large number of Americans today face troubles of various kinds that seem to defy easy solutions. The homelessness of many, both in and around some of our largest cities, constitutes a perplexing social Situation that has not so far been corrected. The temperature of our national body politic approaches the boiling point As citizens seem almost equally divided on key issues such as impeachment Immigration and racial prejudice. Meanwhile, crime and mayhem From mass murder to shoplifting are on the increase, with seemingly little hope of reversal. But beyond these admittedly distressing troubles lurks the elephant in the room. The sadly growing number of people in our nation who live as practical atheists, they for the most part say that they believe in God But they do not honor Him as such by keeping His commandments, and subsequently by rejecting any responsibility to confess their sins and believe the gospel. Thus, morality, if such is even considered, consists of a so-called indisputable right of personal freedom. To think, say, and do what I want, without any constraint by divine law Or even human laws if I can get away with it. It's truly troublesome, isn't it, dear congregation? Then when we consider the rest of the world, huh? Things are no better. In some respects, they are worse. By God's common grace, Americans have, for the most part, enough to eat to sustain their physical lives. But I read somewhere Sorry that I can't quote the source, but I did read it, that fully 85% of the people on earth do not have enough food. Whatever the statistics, the troubles of the world are extreme, sadly, and have mounted up ever since mankind fell in the Garden of Eden. When we read the Bible, particularly its Old Testament, we discover that Israel had it no better. We could say that children of Adam and Eve, even those with whom God Almighty made a covenant of grace experienced troubles as mind-boggling as those we in the 21st century face. Are our prisons today filled almost to capacity with lawbreakers? Well, the entire nation of Jews descending from Abraham more than once was taken into captivity by surrounding heathen nations. Drought and famine struck them too. Just ask the Jews who lived during the days of Elijah. Warfare was their common lot. Disunity characterized them and even brought about a division in the body. Politic resulting in civil war between two of its tribes and the rest of Israel. Troubles everywhere. But through it all, the true and living God, Yahweh, was on his throne. There was, by his undeserved grace, hope. And deliverance in store for a people of his choice. That wonderful news That prophecy reverberates throughout the books of the Old Testament scriptures, and nowhere more so than in that portion that we know as the Psalm One after another, those glorious songs, those heart-rending poems Reveal the wonderful story of salvation for a portion, a goodly portion, of that troubled race of humans. You will rightly hear what we call the gospel in those psalms, and nowhere more clearly than that which you face in tonight's Text. Psalm 107. You will discover as you meditate upon the graphic and powerful lines of this ancient text, that its force may not be lost on you who live in this modern day. For we, like the Israelites of old, similarly need deliverance from trouble, no less distressing than that faced by them. In fact, when we observe the magnitude of oppression, tyranny And evil faced by billions of people, we have to confess that the world needs help now more than ever Help is coming. And this is the point of the psalm The Redeemed of the Lord. Give thanks to him in songs of joy for his gracious deliverance of them. them from every deadly trouble that they face. And we're going to expose, we hope, this point In three heads. First, the extent of the distress, second, the deliverance of the Lord, and thirdly, the response of the redeemed. The first thing to notice about this psalm is the extent of the distress. We see that in the structure of the poem. It presents you with four pictures of the trouble faced by Israel, even though they were the covenant people of Yahweh. Their lives were not characterized by ease and comfort, that's for sure. Notice the extent of their distress and trouble. In four pictures. First, beginning with Psalm with verse four. Some wandered in desert wastes, finding no way to a city to dwell in, hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them. You no doubt recall their painful and unresolved pilgrimage between Egypt and the Promised Land that extended for 40 years. Almost two generations. They suffered extreme famine so that they despaired of ever finding the way successfully to civilization Second picture, beginning in verse 10. Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, prisoners in affliction and in irons. Again, verse 12, he, that's God. Bowed their hearts down with hard labor. They fell down with none to help. In this case, you remember the bitter slavery endured by the descendants of Jacob for four centuries under Egyptian oppression that preceded the Exodus And later, again, seventy years of Babylonian captivity. Third picture, verses 17 and 18. Some were fools and suffered affliction. They loathed any kind of food, and they drew near to the gates of death. Here you might think of Job. Job, that paradigmatic representative of Jews throughout all Old Testament history. Suffering all sorts of physical disease, drought, and famine in deadly proportions. Even when they had sufficient food to eat, they couldn't eat it, having contracted deadly plague time and again. Trouble, trouble, trouble. And now a fourth one. Verses 23 through 27. Some went down to the sea in ships, doing business on the great waters. And when the Lord raised the stormy wind, they were at their wit's end. Just one example of the danger that Jewish people faced would be posed by, you guessed it. Jonah. I know Jonah lived during the reign of Jeroboam II, not David. But the psalm doesn't say that David wrote it. In fact, it lists no one as the author. It could have been written by someone much later. And the psalmist could have known of Jonah's pearl on the sea whilst on his way to Nineveh. Nineveh in what is known nowadays as Spain. Whatever, Jonah forms one more example of trouble faced and for which no deliverance was to be expected. There you have it, folks. They don't all begin with P, but the first two do. Pilgrimage, prison, disease. Danger. Four pictures of the trouble faced regularly by the Old Testament Church, sung about by God's people. But not summoning, by the way, a song that happens to them alone. And that brings us to another observation about the extent of the trouble described in Psalm 107. It's this. The psalm is not speaking about distress limited to Israel alone. Mm-mm It's this. And verse 3 tells us. Where speaking about the people who are in trouble, you read that they have been gathered in from the lands. From the east and from the west, from the north and from the south. That's every corner of the compass, isn't it? It's the entire world. Yes, all of mankind is in trouble, not just Jews. That should alert us to the application of Psalm 107 to us today, addressing mankind throughout the earth and throughout all of time. And it is exactly because all of mankind has fallen into sin and its consequences. It is sin itself that is the common denominator. Trouble for everyone is brought on by sin. It's not simply the result of bad fortune, according to verse 11. For they had rebelled against the words of God And spurned the counsel of the Most High. Not the Jews only, but everyone. It isn't that people are unlucky, and that's why they face so many troubles, but it's because they are sinners and they are subject to guilt and condemnation. Therefore, mankind needs a redeemer. Someone has to pay. For sin, for all the sin of everyone who hopes to escape the eternal trouble. Coming upon them, not just the temporal trouble that they experience in their earthly lives. That's the sorry truth. The scope of human distress will not be eliminated by education. Psychiatry, religious aspiration, or even heartfelt desire to correct one's ways It will go away only if payment for the debt of sin is made. And the good news, the gospel, is that there is redemption for sinful people whom God will gather in from the lands. From the north and from the south and from the east and from the west in every direction of the compass. That deliverance will be limited not at all to the Jewish people, but will encompass the whole world. as well. So that's the extent of the trouble. Now secondly, the grace of the Lord's deliverance. Psalm 107 promises a redeemer for distressed mankind. That gospel hope was already pictured to the Israelites, and indeed to the whole world of men, in the historical account of Ruth, and its four chapters of an actual eventful account. It's wonderful. The book of the Bible that bears the name of that Israelite woman is no fantasy of wistful hope. No poem of better times to come. The book of Ruth is history. It records the deliverance of one Jewish gal. From the obscurity of hopeless ruin brought about by the death of her husband. She needed a relative of her husband's to fulfill the role of kinsman redeemer and raise up descendants through her. And she got one. His name was Boaz. And their son, Obed, is recorded in Luke's genealogy. That connects Jesus as a descendant of Adam and Eve, who was promised as the one who would destroy the head of the serpent and effectually bring about redemption for the world. The book of Ruth, then, is a critical part of the Old Testament account of God's covenant of grace, and is therefore to be read in Context. Without Ruth, Boaz and Obed, the covenant line from Adam to Jesus Jesus would suffer a fatal break. But but The seed of the woman Eve was perpetuated until Bethlehem's babe was born. When you turn to the New Testament, you gain further light to see Jesus as that redeemer indeed for which Israel looked. And which the world as a whole needed. It is of supreme importance that you identify correctly the one who would be able to fulfill that role. When you turn to the words uttered in Luke 1. 68 and following by a latter-day prophet whose name was Zechariah, You hear him say about his son, John the Baptist, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. But Zechariah did not identify his son John as the promised Redeemer. For that, you need to turn to another prophecy uttered shortly after that of Zechariah, this time by a prophetess. Named Anna. She was there on the occasion when Joseph and Mary presented Jesus in the temple. And Luke 2, 38 records that she, quote, began to give thanks to God and to speak of him. That's Jesus, to all who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem There's no escaping their meaning. That little boy, Jesus, is the greater Boaz. Still, the New Testament does not leave you with any doubt regarding not only the identity of the Redeemer, but also about how he would accomplish that redemption of Jerusalem. Jerusalem, and indeed of all people in all of time whom God delivers. The answer to that question is provided by the Apostle Paul in his letter to the Ephesians. chapter 1 verse 7 speaking of Jesus whom he calls the beloved he writes in him we have redemption Through his blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace. Yes, Paul agrees with Anna. Jesus is the kinsman redeemer needed. Turning back to Psalm 107, you notice a striking feature that unites each of the four pictures of the distress suffered by Israel and indeed of the entire world. Pilgrimage, prison, disease, danger, as we saw them. And I hope that you noticed even as I read that account of Psalm 106 That after each picture of trouble is painted with poetic stripes and strokes The exact same verse is repeated word for word. Verses six Thirteen, nineteen, and twenty-eight are identical. This is the chorus, folks Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. And the force of that repetition is not lost upon the careful reader. Deliverance may be found only through God and His gracious work on behalf of the humble-hearted. The children of man will not successfully find their way out of trouble brought on by their sin through their own efforts. No, no. They don't have the resources to pay their debt. They will find that not all the gold of Othil Will suffice to redeem them from the curse and final judgment due them for their iniquity. Their only hope is to be found in the grace of Yahweh. That is why in every instance of trouble they face, be that earthly or eternally, they cry to the Lord. They bring him no excuses, ramifications, or arguments by which they hope to persuade him to deliver them. They plead for his mercy alone. And without fail, they find that in every case he delivered them out of their distresses. That's the uniqueness of the Christian religion that you profess, congregation. That's its uniqueness Unlike that of every other scheme devised by man to escape trouble in both time and eternity Every true Christian is saved by grace through faith in the greater Boaz, Jesus Christ Well that's the deliverance that the Lord brought about. Now, thirdly and lastly, we must pay attention to the response of the redeemed. For the psalmist is not satisfied by merely pointing out the extent of trouble faced by the children of men. What resounds primarily in his heart is the astounding grace that God has demonstrated to mankind by providing them deliverance from sin with its results. That is the cause, after all, of their trouble. And he wants God to be praised for the unmerited favor that he has extended. That's why his psalm begins. Did you notice it? With that little word, oh. OH. It's in the Bible. I don't know whether Webster has it. Congregation, don't let the force of that one small cry escape you. He's saying, if I may put it in the vernacular, no less than this. Oh my! God's goodness is spectacular. It needs to be published. And so he pens this unmistakable command give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. For his steadfast love endures forever. Then you will no doubt have noticed a second repeated refrain. Did you see it? Order to be sung word for word by Israel after each account of the varied troubles that they faced, and after they have bowed in humble repentance. And confident hope in the grace of God as the basis of the deliverance that they sought. That refrain, this time, is contained in these four verses. Eight, Fifteen, twenty one, and thirty one. That refrain, that chorus Calls forth a response from the prayerful supplicants. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of men. The psalmist wants a response from the redeemed of the Lord. Not that they should Not to mention could give him back anything for which he has done, for that which he has done for them. They were, after all, destitute. And empty-handed when they cried to the Lord in their trouble in that course. All they can do now in this course is thank him. However, the psalmist, under the impression, inspiration, I should say, I'm sorry, of God's Holy Spirit. Says that they are to do it via both speech and song. Speech and song. And before both the church and the world, by the way. In speech, listen to verse 2a. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. Redeemed people need to testify to what God has done for them. Not just Old Testament Jews, but New Testament Christians as well. Their redemption is exactly the same after all There is one covenant of grace encompassing both ages, Old and New Testaments, and there is one church of God over all of time. And that one church needs to speak up, for theirs is not some mysterious inner experience. that cannot be communicated publicly, like is the case with many other false religions. It is the blessed result of a well-defined and indisputable covenant, contract that has been decreed and applied to a particular number of human beings. Human beings that had been formerly in deep, deep trouble with their Creator, the Lord God, because of their inexcusable sin. And transgressions against his holy law. They knew it, confessed it, and had no means by which they could erase the debt they owed. But he had a solution for them, didn't he? He entered into a covenant of grace. To deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery and bring them into an estate of salvation by a redeemer, as our Westminster Shorter Catechism puts it. Yes, the Lord Jesus Christ, the great Boaz, the Goel, as the Hebrew language has it, the Goel, the kinsman. Redeemer paid the debt owed by all of them who, chosen by God, confess their sins, trust in Jesus, and demonstrate their deliverance. From sin by forsaking it through the Holy Spirit's work in their hearts and lives. Such people simply must say out loud what God has done for them. They cannot keep it a secret, but must publish it abroad. They instinctively know that, and here in Psalm 107, verse 2, find it underlined and unmistakably. that the redeemed of the Lord say so. And I ask you tonight Do the people who know you know that you are a Christian? Have you told them exactly how you got to be one? And to whom is owed the thanks for that The redeemed of the Lord are also to thank him in song. Not speech only, but in song. Verse 22. Don't miss it. And let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving and tell of his deeds in songs of joy. Now that refrain reminds me of the hymn To God Be the Glory by Fanny Crosby. We're a chorus, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear his voice. You know that one, don't you? You don't need a hymn book for that. That chorus is attached to each verse of the hymn. And right there we find unity of the church in both testaments, old and new. Because we've got the same thing in Psalm 107. In fact, we've got two choruses there that the Israelites were to sing after each verse. Yes, we have both psalmity and hymnity. Praise God for that. Amen. And let's pray. God in heaven, I ask you that you will make it so that whoever is wise Among all those who have sat under the hear in the hearing of your Psalm 107, that they will attend to these things one another And that they too will consider the steadfast love of the Lord and speak of it and sing it.