And so we'll finish Jesus' good confession and then go on to look at Peter. That by God's grace you may read in His Word, learn what He says, and bear testimony to it and say, I side with God. How did it go this week for you in confessing your faith? That is delightful. And you know what it is? And then they're gonna go well, or if I just you know you know what it is, the side of Jesus, to do what he does, and we live under that all week, because Satan loves to just oppress us and stamp out Jesus' name. So between this crowing and the second crowing about an hour interval, and somewhere between these denials, Jesus is now back in the courtyard, and Peter is seeing his Lord being beaten up before him. I think one thing we can learn here is it is one thing to confess your faith before the church, it's another thing to confess it before the world. I have no idea what you're talking about. He's calling curses down upon their heads. Peter, are you a disciple of Jesus? Do you love his cause? And what we immediately confess at the apostle's creed, whence he shall come again to judge the living and the dead, Jesus goes on, you will see me coming. So may the Lord bless his reading of the Word this morning. Hear the word of the Lord. We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another not made with hands. And we started last time looking at this trial and got up to this confession, so we'll finish that. and have been joined to Christ in the new and everlasting covenant, and receive life in him, and live and wait and hope of his great and glorious coming. And all that majesty and earthly splendor, and yet we know that Christ reigns in a temple and kingdom far more splendor than man, the high priest, uh greater than than merely a a birth and lineage from um The Spirit descends upon him like a dove. And what did they see there? Because they weren't yet listened to him. What is in your heart? Why do we open God's word and teach the truth? But I will save my skin, write whatever. Blaspheme is to bring down the majesty of God, and that's what they think Jesus is doing here. And everybody's going back and we are finding new gospels because people were digging in caves long left over to Muslims or whatever, and now we're coming back in and finding these things? And they don't want to hear that, that the world's evil. Because God is merciful. Any other radical movement, you're going away. If you're like me, you know it is to live in the world and feel the pressures of Dan, if I just confess openly how much I love Jesus right now, they'd probably think I'm weird It seems to me Peter denied him. I think the first cocks crowed around twelve thirty, lasts about five to seven minutes, about an hour later the second, and about an hour later the third after that That, yeah, they're doing this not just for mom and dad. Maybe you think through your life, is there any time through my week in my workplace, home, neighborhood, communities, where I avoid or evade? You just wish nobody saw you, you're not being very social, you're just keeping to yourself, you're just sitting there sweating bullets, maybe. But you said you're not, but certainly you are one of them because you're a Galilean. But there's enough Christianity around that people can get a general idea of what it is to be a Christian. I'm a follower of Jesus. You know, confessing Christ before men isn't just about converting everybody. And the Israelite woman's son and a man of Israel fought in the camp. their obedience to the Lord, but also reminding them, though you didn't see that, you still have the prophetic word, which if you study your Bible by the illumination of the Spirit, you can come to that same knowledge of Christ Jesus And the voice was borne to him by the majestic glory. And they all condemned him as deserving death. And the guards received him with blows. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. What we are seeing and looking at is the sufferings of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, for our salvation. And now serve him in his gospel here on this earth. We are at the place where the Son of God gives his life in a suffering and atoning death that we might belong to God forever. And Jesus answered, I am, and then spoke in the words of Psalm 110, not yet fulfilled, but saying they will be fulfilled. set apart for a particular work and given power to do it. Of being the mediator and redeemer of God's people, to be the king of his everlasting kingdom, and filled with the Spirit to go about and do his Father's holy will. We see that after he was baptized by John, depicting right water baptism, his future sufferings, his real baptism on the cross with a judgment of sin would come upon him Well, did anybody ever say to him that he was going to sit at God's right hand and he was going to come in power? Not seldom you standing here will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it's come of power. Or can we live as we please and think we can get away with it? And to bear truth to do a side with God. Children, this is why we are catechizing you. And to believe that and not deny who you are, image-bearers, created of God, and especially in Christ, the redeemed of God Because of his lowly, humble state. watching it. Well, some of the rabbis took that quite literally. Does my child want to confess Jesus to please me, the parent, to please the elders, to please the pastor, to please the church? Jesus asked him, Who do you say I am? It is a different thing when you asked on the streets, asked in courtrooms to confess your faith. Peter went out to the forecourt of the entrance, and the rooster crowed, and then the servant girl came and said to the bystanders, people standing around Peter, said this man is one of them. So denial can be evading and avoiding. But just avoiding answering the question, evading being seen as a Christian, is denying Christ. And Peter remembers Jesus' words. It's the only way you and I get up is to look at Christ crucified and see him standing where we've fallen. I love you. And let us all acknowledge our sinful hearts and draw grace and strength as members of the crucified and risen Christ. When we are called upon to bear witness in the world, that's why we come every week to make this confession, eat this meal, and be strengthened in our hearts with grace. And speak to the people of Israel, saying, Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin. Therefore, I intend always to remind you of these qualities, though you know them and are established in the truth that you have. Since I know that the putting off of my body will be soon, as our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me. But we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. We ourselves heard this very voice born from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain. Until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. And we have something more sure, the prophetic word, to which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place. That no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. But men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. And Peter had followed him at a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest, and he was sitting with the guards and warming himself at the fire. For many bore false witness against him, but their testimony did not agree. And Jesus said, I am. Comes from the gospel of Mark or according to Mark, and we'll read beginning at verse 53 to 72. And seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus. See Jesus making the good confession, and see a disciple of Jesus denying his former confession. And turn their hearts to him and rescue them from the hands of their enemies and carry them in his bosom and bring them to their everlasting rest. What is it to confess? After that, showing us that he has come to identify himself with sinners, to be numbered amongst the transgressors, then we see that the heavens were torn open. With you I am well pleased. Who is Jesus speaking in agreement with here? He is siding with God. You know, that may have multiple fulfillments, but the chief fulfillment he's referring to is when you see it come in glory at the last day, and no more will men be denying, does God reign in heaven? I am with God. And we confess that. Paul said that God desires all men to be saved and come to a knowledge of the truth. Never come to believe the truth. Who he made him to be, the Christ, the Messiah. I'm not a male. That's what we must continue to do as a church, to stand on what our Heavenly Father has revealed and said about us, and to confess that before the world, to side with God and not break with him. They didn't want to consider that because they didn't like the kind of Christ he had adamantly declared himself to be and was going to be. He is going to be the one who saves you from your sins and delivers you into an eternal kingdom. by standing against the current political tide, if you will, the current opinion of Christ But this scholar said, you know, there's as many Christs as there's many people who read the Bible, right? So you run the risk today if you confess that Jesus is the Christ, the coming Lord, which means LGBTQ, you're going away. God loves us despite our sins. And all those who believe in him will escape the wrath to come. We've got to constantly push against that, and one of the ways is joyfully coming every week to be strengthened with those who confess this faith and ask one another in the time of fellowship. Preach that Messiah and see what kind of response that you get. Jesus did them or suffered them because he loves God, his father, who gave them this commandment, because he loves us, and so he gave his life. But Jesus said, Oh, I could come with the armies of heaven right now, and you'll see that I am this Lord. And this is how God worked in the mystery of his holy will to bring charges against his son, as we'll look next time when he takes our place on the cross as a criminal. So it seems that what they did is put a bag over his head and beat him to see if he could tell because he doesn't have sight. And then we read the guards this went on up above and the guards are down below as we read with Peter. Gut punched him and received him and plugs. Peter was in that courtyard below, sitting amongst those uh guards. Part of denying Jesus here we see is really avoiding the question and evading making a statement of whether you're with Jesus or not. But do we see what it is to deny Jesus to say, no, I'm not one of them. I don't even know this man. His faith and everything, and says, just rejects even wanting to know Jesus I will be with you to the end. But yet now he's finally seeing, and this is the m the moving part that Luke records for us, that when this rooster crows that second time Here he's standing. Come and actually say to God, You know, God, I love you far less than I really think I do. That we might begin to see, oh God, you love me far more than I ever thought you did. That God would be merciful and do it quickly to you. Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but they found none. And the high priest tore his garments and said, What further witness do we need? Chapter 9 in Mark's Gospel at the Transfiguration, Jesus had made an announcement predicted. Testify that Jesus is his son, and that Jesus is the Son of Man who will come in glory and majesty and be seen by all. And so, to answer the question, so we all know and understand, what is it to confess the faith? And they probably think Jesus is just treating God's word lightly and God's promises and just applying any old random scripture to himself and magnifying himself. You know, my seminary professor in our gospels class, I don't think he said it, I think it was a and maybe you're aware of this, in the 18-1900s, there was a huge movement to study the gospels. Many times it's a wonderful thing to confess your faith. I don't want to pass by these either. Churchly, if you will, is his attitude and desire even before the world to confess Christ and the way he speaks and acts And they want to confess him as their Savior and their Lord. Giving testimony to Jesus Christ. And here in God's grace, we see what it costs Peter in denying his former confession: the loss of his ego. And he didn't see condemnation, but he saw compassion. Gave Peter the opportunity three times to confess it to him. His mother's name was Shelamith, the daughter of Debri, of the tribe of Dan, and they put him in custody till the will of the Lord should be clear to them. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Bring out of the camp the one who cursed, and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him. All the congregation shall stone him, the sojourner as well as the native, when he blasphemes the name, shall put to the death. And the Apostle Peter will be reminding them of the vision and majesty of Christ they saw in the transfiguration to enforce Leviticus 24, verses 10 through 16. The word of the Lord. And I will make every effort so that after my departure, you may be able at any time to recall these things. And the servant girl saw him and began again to say to the bystanders, This man is one of them. But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you mean. But he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak. We have come to the trial of Jesus. In Mark's account of the gospel and the way that he wrote it, he intertwined these two so that we would see these two trials side by side. Jesus is before the high priest in the palace and temple there of the high priest. manner to give a testimony before courts. But we saw there that nothing they brought a bunch of false testimony. He didn't deny the truth to save himself. Denied by your friends in the hands of your enemies before us. But there's really only one or two options, right? Turn. It affirms everybody in their sins. Shows his hatred against it and judgment against it, and declares to us, as he punished his son, Oh, they despised him. They hated their God without a cause. Without a cause, and yet he loves us so much. It talks about the Messiah. Either way, very unpleasant to think about God's own son being spat upon and beaten in the face. And not denying who he is, but confessing before the world his union with his father. Your confession of faith. How does my child confess Christ when he's away from his Christian friends and in other situations that aren't? Because what we want to get at is we don't want children just doing it to please mom and dad, but children to please Christ. And so how we confess and live before the world as we look and watch our children might be a helpful indication to us. Peter was in the courtyard below, one of the servant girls of the high priest came, and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also are with the Nazarene Jesus. When are they ready to confess Christ? Peter thinks maybe hopefully that will be the end of it. I know we want to downplay the seriousness of the sin he fell into. It is Jesus Christ who clings to me and came for me, loves me. Do you mean, am I a lost sheep or was a lost sheep who by Christ's stripes was healed? Then yeah, I'm a disciple of Jesus. That's what it is to confess the truth. And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, Certainly, you are one of them, for you are a Galilean. So what I want to uh first look at then in this passage and you remember the context from last week and as we read this morning. Levi or from Aaron, but as the eternal son of God. And you stand with God. You're with God. So that's what it is to confess faith. Confessing a thing back to God, here is what you've said in your word. Well, what are the consequences of doing that? The blaspheme is to slander somebody's God and to bring it down and to say things harmful to their God's reputation. That you are under the judgment and wrath of God, and your only hope is me? For our good and for our salvation. For themselves, because it is one thing to gather here and do it. You know Peter, right? I think it right, as long as I am in this body, to stir you up by way of reminder The Old Testament reading this morning will be from the book of Leviticus, chapter 24, verses 10 through 16. For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He remained silent and made no answer. Yet, even about this, their testimony did not agree. In the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, which is what Mark set himself to write for us. Jesus is the high priest. Why do we require admittance to the Lord table, not merely a baptism as a covenant child? Do you know who you are in Christ? But to confess the crucified Christ, whose very life is a testimony to your utter sinfulness, who died on the cross showing that is exactly what you deserve for your sins? Confessing the faith. Are you the Christ? Is he the Savior of this sinful world? Treating him as the lowest of the low. And maybe parents, and then we have parents of many children here. Interestingly enough, in the 1540s, that word in English meant rejecting somebody by divorce. Peter, it is sin, it is pride, and his arrogance, and his unbelief. Serving and following some sort of zealot Christ, and not at all understanding up to this point What it is to serve a crucified Christ. So the compassionate Savior looks upon them. You ask him after Jesus restores him. Who came to die for him and save him, to end that sinful self. If you know that Jesus Christ is the only Savior from your sin, you'll never deliver deny him, because you know to depart from him is utter loss, utter ruin. The Lord said to my, Lord, sit at my right hand and to make your enemies a footstool. He's the Christ. You know. Many people would love to hear of the judge me not Jesus. I rejoice for Peter that his old man is finally being broken and going away. Christians are generally known by the marks, by their fruit. declares that God's word and prophecies regarding the Son of Man, which He identifies as Himself before them, shall be fulfilled. We should look forward to coming together with people of like mind, the same heart, one body, one spirit, one faith, to come together and to say it together what we believe because we live all week. One person can come into a room and it utterly changes the dynamic about confessing the faith. That leads us to Peter. What is the significance of confessing our faith? Do you care for the truth? Him transfigured before them in the glorious majesty, as I read to you from 2 Peter when he was recounting it. And hopefully they'll just leave you alone after that. He will forgive you if you repent. Jesus is standing, right? He is God, and Jesus knew that Peter loved him. I'm not a female. Stand up and preach that and say no that you very well be charged with blasphemy. So it's not that he lost his life and it was taken from him, but he laid it down. That's what they ask the Jesus. There's about an hour interval between the cocks crowing. What I mean by that is Peter formally confessed this faith back in Mark chapter 8 and verse 29. I think it may be one of the servant's Psalms. They may all be weak and fall away. Oh yes, I'm a disciple of Jesus. And they led Jesus to the high priest, and all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together. He's the Son of God. I believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, that he is the coming Lord, that he will be here on earth reigning. Jesus, we confess it because without doing that, there can't be any salvation. And Peter said, You are the Christ. You either think Jesus is blasphemy, or you think he is the Christ. Jesus also, as we transition to Peter, because it leads us to Peter. That's what it's about. You stand with the truth. This is why your parents catechize you, why your parents read to you God's Word? So the consequences and then condemned to death. There's his anointing. I want that to be clear to everybody. So when Jesus is making the confession before them, he's not denying what his father has already said about him. He is siding with his Father and affirming and testifying, giving witness to his union with his heavenly Father, that He is the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One. They thought a test of the real Messiah was he'd be able to judge by his nose and smell Our epistle reading this morning comes from 2 Peter chapter 1. This is my beloved son. You cannot be saved. Anything that denies the truth of God, guess what? What was it like? Obviously, denial can just be saying, I'm not. Teter thought to himself, there is no way there is this amount of sin in my heart. Begin swearing, taking God's name in vain, and swearing he never knew the man. Here he is before the earthly palace and court, arrayed before men in their long flowing beards and garments, and probably looking pretty intimidating. You've sided with Christ openly. First or 2 Peter chapter 1, beginning at verse 12. They seem impressive, but remember you belong to a far higher court. When I was a new Christian, God taught me this, and I think it's still very true. They despised that he would ever say such things. You know he said, there will be nothing to come between me and you, Jesus. We gather every Lord's day with each other to confess the faith So we saw Jesus make the good confession. Well, we see the consequence here was Jesus was charged with blasphemy. Jesus looked across the courtyard right at Peter, and their eyes met. He affirmed the truth. The cross is the very testimony against affirming our sins. But after a little while the bystanders again said to be now the bystanders are watching Peter. Made the confession is being beaten for it. Because men and women and boys and girls never come to learn the truth. There are consequences to it. I'm not going to go to God's word and listen to who he says that I am and confess that as the truth and believe that about myself. It is the most wrong understanding of the cross that the end that God affirms us in our sins. Tell me, was it easy? That can be a fine reason. Not whether you're going to convert the whole world or anything like that. And you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power, and coming with the clouds of heaven. And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came. That word means to speak with somebody else or to be in agreement. Do you deny who God has made you to be? He will not judge by his sight, judge by his sees, meaning you know how we often look at appearances and make a judgment, and we don't really look in the heart That God would bring you to the end of yourself and empty you so you'd be filled up and understand what it means to be a Christian and follow Christ and to cling to a Savior who's saving you. So let us all call evil evil, good, good, and side with Christ. So in that big scheme of God's plan to come to his people And through the Holy Spirit, Christ was called of his Father, anointed, set apart to the task That's what it means to confess the truth, to go to God's word. If you acknowledge I am evil. That's what it means to be the Christ, to be God's anointed, to be especially chosen by God. They covered his face in the strike here. Just repudiates the last three years of his life But I think if you'd ask Peter again. It's first and foremost, do you love Jesus? The question was: are you the Christ? I'll never leave him to the end. Again the high priest asked him: Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? To go all the way back to the beginning of Mark's gospel in chapter 1, verse 9, and the baptism of Jesus. Jesus said, You will see the kingdom of God come with power. So it starts with Peter thinking, I can just, you know, maybe you've said that. He didn't say, no, you don't. Well she didn't leave Peter alone Am I a man who has seen the utter emptiness and shamefulness of my egocentric life and pride? Because if he would have said no, he can't be a sinless lamb to atone for our sins. Not me. And some began to spit on him and to cover his face and to strike him, saying to him, Prophesy. God said to Jesus, You're my son, you're the Christ, you're becoming a majesty. They couldn't get Jesus to incriminate himself, and the high priest just came out and asked him and said, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? Are you joyous? That was a consequence immediately here of siding with God Apparently someone had spent twelve years in Israel counting this. I am not a Christian. In one way, do we know what it costs Jesus to make the good confession? You know, you see, they're in the same boat, aren't they? But it is evil. And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, Have you no answer to make? And maybe that would be helpful us to remember if we're ever called in such a Tell me, was it hard? I think this can help us a little bit. There is wrath to come. Isn't that what the cross reveals to us all? This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. For when he received honor and glory from God the Father When Jesus comes, it's going away. If someone were to ask you, is Jesus the Christ? And also we see here this morning the trial of Peter. You've broken with sin. I find it very interesting because of the gospel reveals to us. Can you judge and tell us who hit you? Not everybody who doesn't know what Christianity is going to know what Christians are. So wonderful, isn't it? I'm so happy for Peter. Children, that's so we want for you more than anything. And the Israelite's woman's son blasphemed the name and cursed. You're the Messiah. He sided with God. You know, not everybody is condemned to death as a Christian who stands up and witnesses, but these are the consequences that may come But I think if you ask Peter now after the resurrection, after Peter plays upon Jesus' knowledge of all four events, saying, Yes, Jesus, and you know You must hear it, receive it, believe it, and confess it. What's your answer? There, right? And he came from Galilee and did all those things. And some stood up and bore false witness against him, saying, What we profess in the Apostles' Creed that the Lord Jesus Christ ascended into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God, Jesus saying, This will happen. We're about to start, as many as you know, Christian Education Night Never. He begins in his denial here cursing. Why do we teach the truth? Maybe as a note and think, when is my child ready to make this confession? It is the easiest thing in the world to make Christ after your image and serve that Christ and not the true Christ. Jesus suffered them, but Jesus did them for our salvation. Keep this in mind. How did you get through it? Kind of response Jesus got when he's a blasphemer. And here we see that denial can even be flat-out repudiation. Now an Israelite woman's son, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the people of Israel. Let's see here Peter denying his former confession. So look twice the father had It's to let the world know you've picked a side. But what we gather here and do, we should really see as a dress rehearsal to go out in the week and do it I am not a churchgoer. When put to the question, you are one of them. Now overall in the great scheme of the gospel This is why your elders are going to catechize you, your elders are going to read to you God's Word But are they really ultimately doing it for Jesus? And to save his skin, he didn't deny it. Many people deny, oh, I'm no image bearer of God. And you know what it is? I found an interesting note about this. And Calvin has a great line here. That's a Christ easy to stand up and confess. Look what they did to the Son of God when he told them not only evil. And you know, Matthew elaborates on that and says, Peter, this is the foundation of my church. I want to make it a little bit clearer to all of our understanding what it is to confess to faith You, a lowly carpenter, They hated him without a cost. It's just a matter of your heart before God. Did that ever happen? You've broken with Satan. And take that big plank out of our eye that stands between God and us. It is not me clinging to you by the strength of myself. And you ask yourself, well, what is the importance of confessing the truth? I think this is quite a powerful scene. And he went out into the gateway, and the rooster crowed. They never did consider that he might actually be the Christ. They start spitting on him, utter revile I think it's interesting if you ask Peter right before this encounter. Then ask him after the resurrection Do you want to be seen with Jesus? God the Father told Jesus who he is. Blasphemy then. And come back to Him and believe in Him and trust in His goodness. My prayer for any of you here who haven't come to conviction of sin He knew that he loved him. For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man. So you see, what is it to deny Jesus? Peter, are you a follower of Jesus today after the resurrection? Hear the word of the Lord. Knowing this, first of all. And our gospel reading Very plays on finally understanding that Jesus is his God. Are you the Son of God? Here's Peter falling in his sin. And If you will not confess to me before men, says Jesus, I will not confess you before my Heavenly Father. Help me out because I didn't do as well You're our Savior. You have heard his blasphemy. What does he said? And want to make this And yet we see here all along, there has been something between Jesus and Peter this whole time. How through his atoning death we have been redeemed from our sins, redeemed from the curse of the law. You're already seated in Christ in far greater splendor and and majesty He predicted it. Jesus also, consequence here immediately he suffered, was to be shamefully beaten. Aggravated, breaking the third commandment, the ninth commandment. Jesus made it very clear why he was crucified. No, that's not the Jesus who loves everybody. Because you're like We'll read together verses 12 through 21. As they hand them back off to the guards, it seems like there's some mockery sport as they pushed them around and just And the bystanders say Whoever blasphemes the name of the Lord shall surely be put to death. But again he denied it. Confessing Christ. In a form of mockery and maybe a test to see if it was really the Christ? I think the thing they get at is It's one thing to say it in the church. He's not going to be their nationalistic savior, and he's not going to be your materialistic savior. Repent. I do not belong to those people. Here, Peter is a divorcing himself from Jesus entirely. It's to read in God's word what has God said That we hate our God. You've denied that past life. Preach that, Jesus. I hope it is yes and amen. You have to be. And immediately the rooster crowed a second time. And then immediately after that, six days later, he took up Peter, James, and John You'll know very clearly that I'm the Son of God when the angelic hosts burst through the doors of this courtroom. Jesus is now back down in this courtyard. Apparently this goes back and I forget the scripture reference sounds a few weeks ago when I read it Children I mentioned, we want more than anything from you is to grow up and confess this faith. Nobody begins to get up from their sinful fall in Adam. That means he begins to say, May bad things happen to you and bad things happen to me if I'm lying. I think why people leave the church is they never came for the first reason to be saved from their sin. Why do we require that you must confess your faith before the church? People that know what false Christianity is aren't going to know what true Christianity is Do you know Jesus Mark chapter 14, beginning at verse 53 Has anybody ever said that about Jesus? We saw that, and we heard the voice say to him I will live how I want. So the You're the one that's going to help us. Maybe you go the other way when you see a certain person Well the first But he denied it, saying, Neither know nor understand what you mean. Maybe they see him a bit agitated. Thinking, wow, new stuff because we're tired of Christ, right? And he broke down and wept. What are you saying? I know you are. So Jesus affirms that he is, and then You got the mark for it. You know you've only ever found life in him, and he's everything to you What is your decision? What is it to blaspheme? He said, I testify against the world that it's evil. He'd say, oh. So what is it then to make the good confession? You denied what you were. That's from Isaiah 61 Because they want to please Jesus. And then you get the words, You are my beloved Son. No. And you just you think that's going to end it, right? Why do you tell them they're evil? What is it that these men testify against you? May God keep you in his grace. And so they think he's blasphemy. Now let's never lose sight Then they brought him to Moses. You know, it's you don't have to come out and say no That's when social Jesus came out And Jesus says, when asked, Yes, I am. You're the one that's going to deliver us. He would be happy if that name was never spoken again in this world. Horrible sin. Have you ever been in an environment like that, right? Or why do we make confessions of faith? Is there truly a God who reigns over earth? So Peter confessed his face right there before the church. So they'd wake up and repent. So let's look here. You must go before the elders and say This is the word of the Lord. Amen. What is it to deny? Itching ears. Yeah. Where They may even be