Paragraph four of chapter eighteen, which is entitled Of the Assurance of Grace and Salvation. True believers may have the assurance of their salvation diverse ways shaken, diminished, and intermitted. As by negligence in preserving of it, by falling into some special sin, which woundeth the conscience and grieveth the spirit By some sudden or vehement temptation, by God's withdrawing the light of his countenance, And suffering even such as fear him to walk in darkness and have no light. Yet are they never utterly destitute of that seed of God and life of faith, that love of Christ and the brethren. That sincerity of heart and conscience of duty, out of which, by the operation of the Spirit This assurance may in due time be revived. And by the which, in the meantime, They are supported from utter despair. Now that's an introduction, I think, to our text this evening. Which is the cough section of Psalm 119, verses 81 through 87. Hear them now. My soul longs for your salvation. I hope in your word. My eyes long for your promise. I ask When will you comfort me? For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke, yet I have not forgotten your statutes. How long must your servant endure? When will you judge those who persecute me? The insolent have dug pitfalls for me They do not live according to your law. All your commandments are sure. They persecute me with falsehood. Help me They have almost made an end of me on earth. But I have not forsaken your precepts In your steadfast love, give me life that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth. Now we turn to two short passages in the New Testament. 1 Matthew 9, verses 14 through 17 Then the disciples of John came to him saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them, can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast. No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. For the patch tears away from the garment, and the worst tear is made. Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst and the wine is spilled, and the skins are destroyed. But new wine is put into fresh wineskins And so both are preserved. And finally, from the last book of the Bible, Revelation chapter 6. Verses 9 through 11. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the witness they had borne. They cried out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true. How long before you will judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth? Then they were each given a white robe and told to rest. a little longer, until the number of their fellow servants and their brothers should be complete, who were to be killed. As they themselves had been. This is the word of God. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. There is something unusual that takes place in this stanza of Psalm 119. One verse in particular has a unique feature unobserved in all the verses so far of this magnificent psalm. It's verse 84. Take a look at it. And think not so much of what it says, but of what it doesn't say. Do you see some word that's not there? Or some series of words that's not there All right, I'll tell you. There's no mention in verse 84 of God's law statutes, precepts, commandments, or the rest of the ten or so synonyms of his word to be found. Now, before you interrupt me, you might object, I realize, at least the word judge is there Doesn't that qualify? Well, it's closed Because God does pronounce judgment. And isn't that his word? Yes, but it's not the same as God's beloved word. His word that the psalmist honors, loves, and sings of in the entirety of Psalm 119. It is the pronouncement of judgment upon God's enemies, the wicked who have hatred for him and for his covenant people. And that judgment is a word indeed. But it is clearly used in a way separately and entirely from the word of salvation, captured in those ten or so words that you have faced so far in the first half of Psalm 190. The question comes about, therefore, why ever this abrupt sour note of verse 84 What has become of the faith, the comfort, and the deliverance which the psalmist has so far been quick to identify in his prayerful poem? The answer has been suggested by Charles Spurgeon. And I quote him. This octave Is the midnight of the song, and very dark and black it is I agree. The psalmist seems to have sunk to the lowest point of depression. So low that he seems to have lost sight now for the first time in the whole psalm Lost sight of the Word of God, the good news of deliverance of his beloved people, the people of his choice. The word that David has thus far been quick to remember, believe, trust, obey, and love from his heart. That bottom point of depression has come about right here In verse 84, which is the middle of tonight's stanza, for one thing, and also itself the midpoint of the whole 119th Psalm. Perhaps you have experienced something of the same feelings as David had. Did you seem to be at the end of your rope? You haven't had the same kind of adversity as David did, opposition and attack from political enemies of your regal position. You're not a king at all. But the some substance of your life had come to the point that you were in despair of thinking that anything good would come along your way. David was there. He cries out to God in this verse, how long must your servant endure? He'd reached the bottom. And it was right there that he forgot, at least momentarily, the promise of Yahweh's word of salvation. Sure, for the man of his position. I say momentarily. And there exactly was the hope David had That's why I read that section from our confession of faith. The midnight of his psalm would be followed by the dawn. Which he thought for the moment would never come. But the sun did rise for David Yes, by the end of his dark poetic stanza, after speaking of the insolent who had dug pitfalls for me and had almost made an end of me on the earth. David could yet cry out hopefully to the Lord at the last, in your steadfast love, give me life. Consequently, when you hear Psalm 119's cough stanza with firm belief, You too will be armed against the coming through the darkness of any midnight darkness that might come your way. With David, even if you should lapse in forgetfulness of God's never-ending promise of his salvation, you may still be saved from despair. All these psalms, and especially this one, ring loudly of God's gracious person. Perseverance. You may forget, but he never does. Your salvation does not in any way depend upon your ability to maintain constant and sure faith in Him. It depends upon his faithfulness to his own eternal plan for the deliverance of all who trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. From the darkness of this fallen world of sin and evil to the brightness of eternal blessedness in a new earth. In which will dwell such comfort that Solomon could only exclaim in Proverbs 4:18, The path of the righteous is like the light of dawn, which shines brighter until full day. So that brings me to be able to state, I hope, in one somewhat lengthy sentence, the whole point of the Koch section of Psalm 119. I put it this way. The people of God's good pleasure, saved by faith, in the saving work accomplished for them by Jesus Christ. cannot by themselves find cure for the depression to which they are prone, sometimes brought about by grief over their own sin, and sometimes By Satan's persecution. Semicolon. But still, they may have hope of deliverance from both of these enemies Through the Lord's same promise, the gracious word of the gospel. So that's what the sermon's about tonight. And it's made up of two points only. First, depression, its cause. And second, depression, its cure. We probably guessed that that was coming. First then, depression, its cause. David begins this stanza of his psalm with this mournful cry: My soul longs for your salvation. Does that not seem somewhat contradictory to the uniform and joyful testimonies of deliverance from grief and death? With which the psalmist sprinkles page after page of this thankful psalm. In fact, all his psalms. Listen to just a few of them. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation, Psalm 13, 5. Exalted be the God of my salvation. Psalm 18:46. The Lord is the light. And my salvation. Psalm twenty-seven one. But now he sobs. My soul longs for your salvation. And we ask him, which is it, David? Are you saved or not? The answer comes in Psalm 51, 12, where David prays to the Lord, Restore to me the joy of my salvation. Do you see it? He knows that he is saved from the guilt of and the condemnation for his sin. By Yahweh's covenant grace and mercy. He knows that. That's why he writes those clauses I just quoted, together with many others just like them. He doesn't doubt that God has saved him, but at the same time, he is deeply and sorely depressed because he does not enjoy a life of full deliverance from affliction and oppression. He's lost the joy And he prays for it back again. You too, my dear friends, are a complicated lot. Aren't you? Doesn't David's ambivalence have a certain ring of application to your mental state sometimes, I hope not often, but sometimes? You trust in Jesus and know that you are saved. Yet at the same time, your life is not going on swimmingly. And you pray God to restore to you the joy of your salvation. That's where it is then. But still the question remains: what is the cause of depression? I think that this stands a cough of our psalm Answers The cause of depression is twofold. First, grief over your own sin. Like David, all your sins have been forgiven if you trust alone in God's mercy and grace, not in any supposed goodness that you possess. He has wiped your slate fully clean by virtue of the atoning work of Messiah Jesus. And you enjoy by faith full justification and sanctification. And salvation. But as long as you live on this fallen earth, you are subject to sickness and death. And more than that, you know what no one needs to remind you of. You still sin. And you need daily repentance. You need perpetual reminder that absolution For ongoing violations of the law of God and failure to keep his commandments are your constant need to be wiped away. That's when you cry out like David did with his plea, my soul longs For your salvation. You grieve over your sin even when you are fully assured that Jesus paid it all. For you are not yet fully sanctified. And well do you know it. My dear friends In spite of the the uh confession of hundreds of millions of professing Christians All over the world, there are no special saints, certain people who have achieved perfection in this life. None. What there are, rather, are people of God's good pleasure who have been raised from the death of sin, guilt, and condemnation, and have been given assurance. Of everlasting salvation through the merit and suffering of the only Redeemer of God's elect, the Lord Jesus Christ. There is your comfort, believer. If you ask with David, when will you comfort me? Then, then, when you are depressed, when you mourn over your sin, then it is God will comfort you. But you want heaven now. But that may not be God's will according to your time time. Able. Able come in his time. Yours is to rest in God's timing. Eternal sanctification will be yours, don't doubt it. Jesus suffered and died to cleanse you through and through. Don't ever doubt that. However, you have not yet escaped this earthly life, short of Jesus' coming to raise you to life on a new earth. Forever. Then it will be that you will sin no more. Won't that be wonderful? And especially glorifying to God. Remember that, believer, when you grieve over your present indwelling and But second, depression brought about through Satan's attack. It's another cause of depression, Satan's attack. Yes, depression can and does occur not only because of David's sin, but also because of the attacks and opposition. Satan directs at him via wicked men who engage in constant persecution. Of him. David experienced that often, which he describes in our text. His enemies dig pitfalls for him. Wanting him to fail utterly. And working to that end. They persecute him with falsehood Calling him a hypocrite because of his claim of obedience to God. Well, they themselves are disobedient to heaven's law. The result is that David feels like an old, worn, and tattered wineskin. Incapable of holding forth the wine of God's blessing, but rather falling into the smoke of fire In Psalm, he cries out in verse 87, They have almost made an end of me on earth. That is depression of the worst sort, my friends. And that depression is caused not so much by the fact that other people think ill of him, wish ill of him accuse him of hypocrisy and failure to be the godly clicking he claimed to be and ought to be It's caused by the fact that, in a sense, they are right. Outwardly, David's sins and failures are clearly visible. But what is not visible is that David's sins and failures are covered by Yahweh's grace and mercy. What David's enemies don't see is that David's heart is renewed. The truth that they don't see is what David exclaims in verse 83: Yet I have not forgotten your statutes. His covenant fellowship with the God of heaven is not severed by his own disobedience. And because of that, David can still pray in verse 86. Help me. You too are subject to attacks from Satan That will not be of the same sort, David experience, to be sure, for you do not occupy the position as king of the covenant nation of Yahweh. But you as followers of King Jesus do represent him and sometimes fail to do that faithfully Bringing upon yourselves criticism and even accusation of hypocrisy. When that happens with David, don't make excuses, but turn to God with a cry for help. Tell him that you have not forgotten his law. But trust his sure commandments that Jesus kept. In your place, and that the word of his promised gospel promise still reigrue in your heart. So that's depression, its cause. Now, secondly and lastly, depression, its cure. The cure for depression will have to deal with both of those causes that we just looked at: grief over your own sin and Satan's attacks. Let's take them one by one once more. Grief over your own sin. What's the cure for that? Well, it is understandable that you will be depressed by your yet unfully sanctified life. Even after you have confessed your transgressions of God's holy law and trusted in Jesus, you do keep on sinning, sad to say. And that gives you anything but joy, doesn't it? It does make you depressed But do post-redemption sins bring about the loss of redemption? The answer is a clear no, no, no. David. That was true for David, and it is true for you today, too. The cure for depression is found, first of all, in the confidence that is grounded in God's word of absolution. What could be clearer than his hopeful promise communicated through the Apostle John in his first letter, chapter 1, verse 9? If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And you believers need to hear those warm and wonderful words that are heard every Sunday morning. In the beginning moments of our worship service here at Grace and Peace. You who trust in Christ, your sins are forgiven you. The minister of the gospel is employed by your Heavenly Father to transmit his Word of absolution, something that he knows you need desperately. And it's not a liturgical mantra, my dear believing brothers and sisters It's life-giving and depression abolishing medicine for truly repentant sinners So come to church every Lord's Day, either here in person or over the internet. And receive that prescription because, my friends, the heavenly physician is making a house call to you. Right here I need to say something about the Hebrew letter kof, the title of our text tonight. What's more do I need to say it, for you know it very well by now. Comp, or as we would say, K is the first letter of the Hebrew words that begin each of the eight verses of this section of Psalm 119. Now, some of the ancient Jewish writers, among them Jerome and Ambrose, pointed out that in their time some significance was often given to the very shape Of the Hebrew letters. Such may be the case here, since koff is a curved letter similar to a half circle. or a backward C. Now turn it around 180 degrees And you have an empty hand held out to receive some gift or blessing. James Boyce puts it this way here the author is in need, and he knows that the only one who can answer is need. is God. Hence he holds out his hand toward him as a supplicant. Whether or not that is true It is clear that David has a very deep need, and he begs in verse 86, help me. That's all you can do. Hold out empty hands, and he will fill them. Second, the cure for Satan's attacks causing your depression. Here David uses the figure of a wineskin in the smoke. Verse 83. What in the world is he picturing here? What he's picturing is this. He is sorely depressed because of the deadening effect that his monstrous enemies have brought about in his psyche. His brain, and indeed his whole person, is incapable of holding any stability and substance. in the face of all the lying, persecution, and grief that cloud his way on earth. He's about to be burned up like a wineskin in the fire with all the precious beverage spilled. That's how he feels. A cure is needed. Now, we, in light of New Testament revelation, particularly the words of Jesus Which we earlier read in Matthew 9 have a clue to David's need. For in that passage, Jesus' disciples, unlike John's disciples and the Pharisees, aren't fasting They are feasting. And Jesus explains why. Because the bridegroom is with them. Fasting would be inappropriate. I am with them. And this is no time for depression. The new wine of his presence is put into fresh wineskins. Both David and you need to remember that. When Satan's attacks come, you are not alone. Jesus is with you. He is the new wine, and you are the new wineskins, by God's grace. You have nothing to fear from Satan's fire. He is toast. And you are saved. So, believers, when you are depressed, remember that you are in the safest place imaginable You are in the arms of your faithful Savior, who will never leave you nor forsake you. Trust him, and you will sing again. Amen. God in heaven, you know what we're like And you came in the person of your beloved son into human flesh to carry our depression. all the way to the cross and cry out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? But you hadn't And by pouring out your wrath upon him, it was felt by us and by our sins, and they are forgiven and covered. And we are washed clean, and we are new wineskins. And we may hold the wine and the joy of your gracious salvation. And we pray that you will help us in times of our depression. To remember these truths in Psalm 119. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.