Genesis chapter forty-five. Then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood before him. He cried, Make everyone go out from me. So no one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers. And he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it. And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. So Joseph said to his brothers, Come near to me, please. And they came near. And he said, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here For God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the land these two years. And there are yet five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth And to keep alive for you many survivors. So it was not you who sent me here, but God He has made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt. Hurry, and go up to my father, and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me Lord of all Egypt Come down to me, do not tarry. You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near me, you and your children, and your children's children, and your flocks, your herds, and all that you have There I will provide for you, for there are yet five years of famine to come, so that you and your household and all that you have do not come to poverty And now your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see that it is my mouth that speaks to you. You must tell my father of all my honor in Egypt, and of all that you have seen. Hurry and bring my father down here. Then he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept. And Benjamin wept upon his neck. And he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them. After that his brothers talked with him. When the report was heard in Pharaoh's house, Joseph's brothers have come. It pleased Pharaoh and his servants. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Say to your brothers, do this, load your beasts and go back to the land of Canaan, and take your father and your households, and come to me. And I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and you shall eat the fat of the land. And you, Joseph, are commanded to say, Do this. Take wagons from the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives, and bring your father and come. Have no concern for your goods, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours The sons of Israel did so. And Joseph gave them wagons according to the command of Pharaoh, and gave them provisions for the journey. To each of all of them he gave a change of clothes, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred sheffels of silver and five changes of clothes To his father he sent as follows, ten donkeys loaded with the good things of Egypt, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain, bread, and provision for his father on the journey. Then he sent his brothers away. And as they departed, he said to them, Do not quarrel on the way. So they went up out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan to their father Jacob. And they told him, Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt. And his heart became numb, for he did not believe him. But when they told him all the words of Joseph which he had said to them. And when he saw the wagons that Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of their father Jacob revived. And Israel said, It is enough. Joseph, my son, is still alive. I will go and see him before I die. This is the word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning, congregation, comes from Galatians chapter 4. We'll begin at verse 21 and read to verse 31, the end of the chapter. So Galatians chapter four, beginning at verse 21, hear the word of the Lord. Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman, and one by a free woman. But the son of the slave was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise. Now this may be interpreted allegorically. These women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar. Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. For it is written, Rejoice, O barren one who does not bear. Break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor, for the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband. Now, you brothers like Isaac are children of promise. But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the spirit So also it is now. But what does the scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son. The son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free woman. And our gospel reading this morning comes from John chapter 6, we'll read together verses 1 through 14. John 6, 1 through 14. John chapter 6, beginning of verse 1. Hear the word of the Lord. After this, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias, and a large crowd was following him, because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. Lifting up his eyes then and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread, so that these people may eat? He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, 200 denarii would not be enough bread for each of them to get a little. Another disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish. What are they for so many? Jesus said, How the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place, so the men sat down, about five thousand in number. Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted. And when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, Gather up the leftover fragments that nothing may be lost. So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who had eaten. When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet who is to come into the world. This is the word of the Lord. Congregation, as you know, in these morning sermons this year, we're going through some traditional readings through the Christian year. And as we saw in our gospel text this morning, for Jesus, the Passover is near, right? That means to us today Good Friday and Easter, right? And that will be happening at the end of the month. And it was because the Passover is near that our Lord took the opportunity then to perform this miracle and feed uh this multitude to demonstrate right this sign of how he gives life to the world. So the purpose of this morning's sermon, I have a couple. Here's the main one. We all go away going, what was this about? The purpose of this morning's sermon is to show us again how does Jesus give life to the world? How does Jesus give life to the world? That's what we're going to be looking at again. How he gives life to the world. But my second purpose this morning, because I love uh the story of Joseph, and I didn't get uh the title in time to get into your uh bulletin, but we could call this morning's sermon the Gospel of Joseph. And show how the gospel of Joseph, as Paul says, all scripture does, right, makes us wise the salvation by faith. in Christ. So I really want to dedicate this one to the children because I know when we deal with Christ we can sometimes deal with unseen things. And it can be difficult to wrap our heads around these, but we can Tell the story of Joseph and we can see that. So parents, I offer this to you as a way to illustrate the gospel to your children. And I want to do it following uh the outline of the Reformed faith and the Heidelberg Catechism of guilt, grace, and gratitude. Maybe you're familiar with that. If you study the Heidelberg Catechism, it starts with our guilt deals with God's grace and taking that away and with our gratitude, how we should live now having such a redemption. There you go, that's a key word in understanding how Jesus gives life to the world. So we will talk infulfilled terms and we will be very clear on how Jesus fulfills or excuse me how Jesus gives life to the world. But let's see the wonders of God's grace first And the world that God's grace opens up to us from the story of Jacob as the gospel of Christ is so wonderfully illustrated there. So if you want to turn back in your Bibles to Genesis 45. We're going to look at that first together this morning. I told you it's called the Gospel of I'm calling it the Gospel of Joseph. We're going to look at it as guilt, grace, and gratitude, but If you look at Genesis 45 and you look there at verse 26, see what the brothers went back and told their father, right? Joseph is still alive And that's something we say today in the gospel, right? He is risen, right? He is alive. They go back to their father and sing, Joseph is Alive. But that wasn't all. What is he going to say? And he is ruler over all the land of Egypt. He's alive and he's ruling Now that is great news to them, because Joseph had explained to them what that means, that he is alive. And that he is the ruler over all Egypt, it means that God sent me here to preserve your life The Gospel of Joseph, just like the Gospel of Jesus, is the story and purpose of God's grace to save some very undeserving sinners. and give them wonderful life. So they go back proclaiming the good news to their father He's alive and he's Lord of all. And let me tell you what that means, Dad. We're not gonna die But we're gonna live and we're gonna live good. So let's take a look at it. I love this story. Let's first start with guilt. What is the guilt? Well look back at chapter 44, verse 16. And Judah, one of the brothers who had become a surety for Benjamin, who had been caught red-handed with the cup. And was now being threatened to stay down in Egypt with Joseph. Judah said, What shall we say to my Lord? What shall we speak? Or how can we clear ourselves God has found out the guilt of your servants. Now, what is guilt? So guilt is the fact that you've committed a crime. To be guilty is to be declared a criminal. It's a fact you have committed the crime, therefore you're guilty, right? We've got the video footage, we've got the eyewitness testimony, right? And their case They know that they've told lies. They have been hiding it for twenty-two years now. Twenty-two years have passed since that horrible event. Twenty-two years they have been hiding their guilt, trying to blot it out. You know, I wonder if they ever asked themselves, what happened to our brother as they were raising kids Enjoying life. I wonder if they ever asked themselves, whatever came of Joseph? Is he just a miserable slave to somebody? Is he even alive? Or did they even care? I don't know They know their guilt. You look there in chapter 45, verse 4, Joseph says very squarely to them, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt, right? They sold them into Egypt. That's the crime they did. and they're guilty. That's the fact. That means the fact you committed a crime. They were, as we heard this morning in the eighth commandment, breakers of it. They were man stealers. Exodus 21, 16. I'll read it to you from God's law there in Exodus 21, verse 16. God tells the people. Whoever steals the man and sells them and anyone found in his possession of him shall be put to death. There they are. Criminals with a death sentence hanging over their head, let's not forget that. That's important about their guilt. They're criminals Man stealers guilty before God and deserving death. We got that, right? Mans sealers Guilty before God and deserving death. And notice how verse 3 goes when Joseph reveals himself to him, right? I am Joseph. But his brothers couldn't answer him. Why they were dismayed at his presence. This wasn't received by them originally as good news. It's probably going through their mind, well, he's very powerful. Is he gonna be my executioner? Is Joseph gonna be my executioner? Now let's go to grace. They're they're guilty of it. Red handed guilty. But what does Joseph say? He says, Come near to me. Please. They came near. He said again, I'm your brother Joseph. Whom you sold into slavery. Let's be very clear. You did it. But then what does he say? Do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here. No, no. Take your eyes off of what you did. You did it. You need to see something else. What does he say to them? What does he say they need to see? God sent me before you to preserve life Go down to verse 8. So it was not you who sent me here, but God. Though in God's grace, Joseph is their Savior. Not their executioner. And God's grace, right? God is their savior, who appointed Joseph to save them. Guilty, death-deserving criminals, meeting not an executioner, but a savior and a glorious savior. Go you say, see that uh I'm a father to Pharaoh. That means I give him counsel. He comes to me for aid. I'm the Lord of everything you see here. It's it's in my authority. I'm the master of it. I uh what I say goes in the land. Look at all my honor, everybody bounce to me He's our glorious Savior. So we see then that grace starts by us seeing the plan of God, right? Take your eyes off your sin and see what God has planned. For your salvation. And it's this glorious Redeemer, right? Sent in that humility, suffering and affliction. Raise now exalted to Pharaoh's right hand to be Lord. And he spells it out for what's that mean? Well, you're not going to die, right? You know, you're gonna come down here because you're gonna have a good inheritance in the land of Goshen. Your family's gonna be with you. You're gonna be spared. You're gonna see your children, your children's children. And you need all the good of the land. And also, I'm a, you know, Paul felt free to allegorize. Let me Cautiously allegorized here for a moment. But it's interesting in verse 16, Pharaoh gets involved, right? And Pharaoh gives them a word of promise. Now what's a word of promise called in the Bible? There's another term for it. It starts with a C, is and ends and int. A covenant. He says, do this. It's a commandment, right? Do this. Load your beast. Go back to land. He's saying, you're going to leave here in style. In luxury. You're gonna bring your family back here in style, in luxury, and by my word, you're gonna eat the fat of the land. He says, don't even He says, forget what you had in Canaan, because it's not going to be anything compared to what it gives you. The best of all the land is you. Now they have a covenant with Pharaoh. He's promised to them Everything. What are you feeling at this moment? If you're Joseph's brothers and you've been haunted by this all your life, one thing is God gonna Find this out and hold me accountable and threatening every little turn of providence. You're worried, is God now going to punish me? And you're just living in fear, right? Because that's how it is if you have not dealt with your sin by the grace of God. You'll always be wondering, is there a sword over my head? Until you look to Jesus and you see it taken away. They find out, no, there is no sword over their head, but the gracious God who loves them unconditionally. And has planned for them a glorious salvation. Absolutely undeserving of it. That's not even the point. See, if we're still focused on how undeserving we are, we're still a little too man-centered. The gospel is all about God's grace How he conquers your sin, overcomes it in his redeeming love. To put blessing upon blessing upon blessing upon blessing upon your head. We'll end with the last thing we see here in this grace reunion. Separated brothers weeping on each other's shoulders, hugging and embracing You know, won't it we be wonderful when we meet Jesus, our God, whom we often sing and say we crucified? But we'll be hugging him. And he won't be shying away from us, going, you did it. Because it's not about you did it. It's I did it. I laid my life down. So we get to embrace him. I can put this in theological terms for you, if you know our shorter catechism, these men are being effectually called. And the result that they're affectionately called, as it gives it to us, is they embrace Jesus Christ. When you're called by the Spirit, you're convicted of your sin. They've been convicted of it. But you are showed the glories of God's Redeemer and his full salvation in Jesus Christ. Your will is enabled, and you are persuaded and enabled by that Spirit So go up there and tell Dad he's alive. Let's get to Egypt right now and enjoy this glorious salvation and you embrace your Redeemer. You embrace Jesus Christ. And they do. I love these words of Joseph as he sends them off. And they're in verse 24. And don't call on the way. It's done. It's in the past. It's forgotten. Focused on what God's done to save life. Not on what your silly sin did. So glorious. Well, do you see the gratitude here? Now let me ask you a question. If someone took the effort To bake you everything you like and love. Order it special overseas and all the ingredients and prepare a beautiful meal for you that you love. How do you show your gratitude? You eat it all. You enjoy it. What's the gratitude? Taking this salvation. What does Joseph say? Come to me. Don't carry. Don't wait a moment to come to Christ. It's Full free right there. How do you show your gratitude to God? You just come to Christ. Thank God He's given you Christ And enjoy him, take what's his. That's how we show our gratitude to God. Yes Let's say thanks as we're shoveling all that good food in our mouth. Let's stop and say thanks for what the work of Christ has accomplished for us. But also let's comply with God's word. Come to me and live And let's live and show our gratitude by living in Christ. Before I leave this story and come to Jesus real quick, look at how it ends there in verse 27. They go back and they preach that gospel. Joseph is still alive. He's the ruler over all the Egypt. At first, uh Joseph um didn't believe that, he became numb. Oh, I wish there could be more gospel preaching where our first response is just to be numb by it. Can it be that true? Can the salvation be that free, that full? Can God be that gracious? Or we're just numb by the news of it? He's numbed. Doesn't know what to do But they went through it again. Then he saw basically the signs, all the wagons carrying all these good things, and we read, the spirit of their father Jacob revived. What did it revive at? The preaching of the gospel. Is your soul revived, beloved, when you hear the good news that Jesus lives? Do you know what that means for you? If he lives, I live You know what it means, see the good news that Jesus is Lord of all. It means He can care for me and give me everything, and I will rule with Him too, because I have a union with Him. What's his is mine, because he's taken what's mine and buried it away. Are you revived by the preaching of the gospel? And you come alive at the good news of Jesus Christ. And we should ask ourselves then, real quick: what if they had not believed this gospel? What if they disobeyed? They would have died. Starved Watch their children starve. Become impoverished. Oppressed, have nothing. And God had spared them from that misery. If you disobey the gospel, you'll die. If you don't come to Christ to live, you'll die. Come to Christ and live, and you'll live. Alright, well let's look at the gospel of Christ uh this morning too. I told you, so there you go, beloved, you can use the story of Joseph to teach the gospel of Christ as guilt, grace, and gratitude. Well let's look at guilt, grace, and gratitude and the story of the gospel of Christ. Because we're we're aiming at right, we want to answer this question. We're gonna go away from here, go and I know how Jesus gives life to the world. I know how he gives life. to the world. That was the point of his sign there in John 6. Uh but let's start with um why the world needs life. Let's start with human guilt. Now, where does human guilt start with in the Bible? Genesis chapter 3, verse 6. So let us hear again Genesis 3, verse 6. Well, actually, let's go back to Genesis 2 and hear their covenant with God. And the Lord commanded man, Genesis 2. 16, saying, You shall surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for the day that you eat of it you shall surely die Let's go to Genesis 3. 6. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was be desired to make one wise That's the tree of the knowledge of God and evil that God forbade them to eat from. She took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate Now you might think, great, they disobeyed, but what does that have to do with me? Yeah, I can see clearly how they're guilty. God said don't eat. They ate. Guilty, criminals, deserving death. But what does that have to do with me? Well, the story of human guilt, Paul tells us, uh, is really the story of our life in Adam. Romans 5, verse 12, we read, Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, Adam, and we just read about it. And death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sin. And the sin being referred to there is the sin of Adam Because he will make a point that uh you might think, well there wasn't a law in the world telling the world that we're sinners until Moses, but that was many thousands of years after Adam How do you account for human destiny? The sin of Adam. We're all guilty of the sin of Adam. His guilt is imputed to us Because Adam was our head and representative in that wonderful covenant that God gave to preserve us alive forever. And we broke it. What else does it mean for human guilt and sin? Romans 3 10 As it is written, none is righteous, no not one. There's not a single one of us that has any righteousness before God. What else does it mean for our human guilt? Why does the world even need life? Does the world have life? No, the world has guilt. It has a death sentence hanging over its head. None are righteous. It's worse than that, as David tells us, as he found out in his own life. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity and s and in sin did my mother conceive me. There's our birth sin, the corruption of our Nature, as soon as we come into existence as human beings in Adam, we're dead in sin. I know there's that kind of That's where Paul brings us to. Now you might think an unrighteous, imputed, corrupt nature. Our sort of catechism teaches us that's original sin. That's what we're born with. That's what we get from Adam. But are we sinners? Now Paul deals with that in Romans 1 and 2, right? In Romans 1 he says, you're either an inexcusable approver of evil As the pagans were inexcusable because they knew God and knew that what they did deserved death, and yet they approved it and did it. Or, as he says in Romans 2, you're a self-righteous, self-condemned man. Because you condemn everybody else for what they do, but you don't know you actually do the same things too. There we are, in Adam. Guilty, without any standing before God, depraved, and our lives are lives of inexcusable approving of evil, or self-righteous and self-condemned. It's a really miserable word, isn't it? You add those two together, Paul says, and you get Romans 319. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped. The law acts like that evidence that comes in at your trial. You've been excusing yourself. And then that video footage comes in and shows you actually breaking and entering and you go and you're caught. That's the law. That's one of the uses of the law. That we may all be held accountable, or as others translate it, guilty before God. So know for certain, by divine testimony, all of us are guilty before God deserving of death. Now I know we're coming up to celebrate Good Friday and Easter. I know there's a word you've all heard But we are living in such a lawless age, and I think we at times don't fully grasp and understand the obligations and rights that God has upon us as our Maker. You owe him by fact of being his creature love, service, honor, obedience, everything his law says. And when you break it, you owe him every penalty that he denounces against your hand, cursing it. That is our human condition in Adam under the law. We need to remember that, right? Every person we meet is beholden to God Every person we meet is guilty and suppressing it, hiding it, ignoring it, drinking it away, buying it away, pleasuring it away, denying it away, whatever they're doing. To get rid of their guilt, that God might not find them out. But what's his gospel there? Because really the question where Paul leaves us at his guilty right is, is God going to be my executioner? He has every right to it, doesn't he? Amen. Is God going to be my executioner? Do we like having legal standing with God? I hope when I show you in a moment you'll love it. But our legal standing in Adam isn't good. Is God gonna be my executioner? Well that depends. Do you trust in Christ? No. The gospel is how God is your Savior. In John chapter 6, Jesus said all those people to show he can give us life John tells us that what he did there was not the kind of life he means, just giving us bread. He says that that was a sign. In verse 14, they saw the sign. Well what was it a sign of? Well you have to go on in the discourse and you have to go to verse 51. He says, The bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. So does that mean Jesus is going to die? He's going to get his life. And that's going to bring life to the world. That's how Jesus gives life to the world as its Redeemer, laying down his life for his people. in the world, redeeming this world that it might be restored to its God-intended purposes as a habitation for God and man together forever. Well, where did Jesus lay down his life at? The cross. Why did he lay down his life on the cross? Because cursed be everyone who does not continue in everything written in the book of the law. Cursed be everyone who hangs on a tree. Theologians refer that as passive obedience, suffering. In our place, as our surety, as our head, as our redeemer, what the law denounces against us in its penalties, death, eternal death. But he rose from the dead, though. What does that mean that he rose from the dead? He clearly wasn't the sinner people thought he was, was he? That theologians call his active obedience That for his obedience unto death, from the moment he was conceived in his womb till he said it was finished on the cross and breathed his last That whole obedience from the moment of his conception to his death was his act of obedience in our place, fulfilling the law's precepts. And I remind you, what does the law say? You're to love God and love man. Jesus chose to love God and chose to love man. And what do sinners do? We choose to hate God and we choose to hate man. And there's no getting around it That's what we do as sinners. That's what sin is. Jesus loved God and loved man his whole life, laid his life down in that act of great love. And the resurrection is the proof And he has fulfilled the law in both parts for us. Christ has fulfilled the law. That is how he gives life to the world. The life that he gives to the world is on sure legal standing. That he gives to his blood-bought people. He obeyed on their behalf. He suffered and died on their behalf He can appear and has appeared and is before God as the one who and the only one who fulfilled the law. And therefore is obtained what the law says. Do this and what? Live. Forever. He has secured the inheritance for us. And now as his blood people, as Paul reminds the Jewish The Christian church, who wanted to go back and be the Jewish church, you're not under that covenant anymore. You're under the new covenant. You are citizens of the Jerusalem above where Jesus is Joseph's brothers got Goshen. We get the Jerusalem above, which is also the Jerusalem to come, the eternal inheritance. The Holy Spirit that indwells our hearts is the first installment of that eternal inheritance that Christ has bought for us. So Christ gives life to the world as the redeemer of it. Who has full legal standing before God to give it freely to you and I, whom God has called and united us to him by faith. Jesus, right, he is that Adam above. He's not the Adam in the grave. He's the Adam who's alive and who's above. He's the Adam to come. And in union with him. We have life. And it rest, oh so secure, right? Does God punish sin? As surely as God punishes sin, right? Which the cross reveals is does, so surely do we live. As surely as Adam's disobedience has brought sin and death into this world, so surely has Christ's atonement brought righteousness and life to his people in this world. That's the joy of the gospel. That is the joy of the good news as we hear it that Jesus lives. That means we Live that Jesus reigns is and ruler of all. Therefore Jesus gives us all things. And in fact, all things must work together for my salvation. So how does Jesus, as we prepare again to go see Easter again, Good Friday in Easter? How does Jesus bring life to this world as its Redeemer, the second Adam? Who fulfilled the law and its precepts what God demanded its penalties? Well, God's penalties demand against sin. Jesus and His cross is the provision of God's love to satisfy his justice. In God's love, he gave us Jesus. And in Jesus' love, he laid his life down for us. That we might have a legal, just pardon from God. It's not by accident, I tell you, every week And if not by accident, John told the church that your God, if you believe in Jesus, is just to forgive you. I want you to get this. I know most of you are, but we have young children that may not get this. You have to get this. You have to get how Jesus gives life. You have to get that your pardon with God is just because it has been purchased by Jesus. His atoning death. You have to get that your life and your eternal inheritance from God is just because Jesus fulfilled the law and gives it to you. It is so right. And therefore it is so good. All to the glory of God, as he has displayed his wonders and his majesty, and bringing us life. And the Redeemer. And through his covenant with us, which we will go now in a moment to celebrate in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper as a sign and seal. That God gives us freely life on the basis of His mercy and pardon in Jesus Christ. Jesus lives Jesus is Lord of all. And if you disobey that, you'll die. To come to Jesus and live. Amen