Isaiah chapter seven, verses one through sixteen. In the days of Ahaz, the son of Jotham, son of Uzziah, King of Judah. Reason, the king of Syria, and Pekah, the son of Ramaliah, the king of Israel, came up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not yet mount an attack against it When the house of David was told, Syria is in league with Ephraim, the heart of Ahaz, and the heart of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind. And the Lord said to Isaiah, Go out to meet Ahaz, you and Shir Jeshub, your son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the washer's field. And say to him, Be careful, be quiet, do not fear, and do not let your heart be faint, because of these two smoldering stumps of firebrands. At the fierce anger of reason and Syria and the son of Ramalia. Because Syria, with Ephraim and the son of Ramalia, has devised evil against you, saying, Let us go up against Judah and terrify it, and let us conquer it for ourselves, and set up the son of Tabil, king in the midst of it. Thus says the Lord God, it shall not stand, and it shall not come to pass, for the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is reason. And within sixty-five years Ephraim will be scattered from being a people. And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Ramaliah. If you are not firm in faith, you will not be firm at all. Again the Lord spoke to Ahaz, ask a sign of the Lord your God. Let it be deep as Sheol or as high as heaven. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, and I will not put the Lord to the test. And he said, Hear then, O house of David, is it too little for you to weary men that you weary my God also? Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and you shall call his name Emmanuel. He shall eat curds and honey, when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good. For before the boy knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good, the land whose two kings you dread will be deserted. This is God's word. Thanks be to God. Reading of the gospel today from Matthew. Chapter 1 18 through 25. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother, Mary, had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit And her husband, Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name. Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, you inspired your word to be written. You inspired the Old Testament prophets to say the things that they said and write the things that they wrote. You inspired your gospel writers to write down faithful accounts of the life of Jesus. And so we pray that as we consider these things today, we will understand them by your same Holy Spirit who inspired them through Christ our Lord. Amen. Matthew's main point in writing this narrative is to defend the integrity of Jesus. There were no doubt whispers and stories about the fact that he was born too soon after the wedding to be legitimate. And so Matthew is clearing his name here. The Bible tells of some remarkable births. For example, Isaac in the Old Testament was born to Sarah when she was nearly 100 years old and long past the age of conceiving a child. Genesis 17. And the judge, Samson, was born to Manoah, who was sterile, and his childless wife. That's recorded in Judges 13. And Samuel the prophet, the anointer of kings, was born to Hannah, who was also sterile and childless, according to 1 Samuel chapter 1. And then John the Baptizer was born to Elizabeth, Mary's relative, who was not only barren, but was also well along in years, according to Luke chapter 1, verses 7 and 57. But all these births pale in light of the miraculous birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Actually, Jesus' birth was probably about as normal as any other child's birth, except for the rude circumstances. uh no place for them to go, being laid in a manger as we sing at Christmas time, in an animal enclosure, a cave or a stable of some sort. That's the only thing really unusual about about the birth. What is remarkable about Jesus is his conception. Theologians talk about the Virgin Mary and the virgin birth of Jesus. By that they mean that Mary was still a virgin at the time of Jesus' birth. She had become pregnant supernaturally without the aid of any man The Bible does not anywhere teach the perpetual virginity of Mary as some churches do Instead, it speaks of her showing up with Jesus' brothers later on, asking to see him. That's recorded in Matthew 12, if you want to look. Additionally, we see that the Apostle James was one of Jesus' brothers, half-brother, recorded in Galatians 1, verse 19. He was a younger son of Mary, James was. It's evident that Mary became the wife of Joseph, and he had no union with her until after the birth of Jesus The implication is that thereafter Joseph did have union with her. And so while it's okay to talk about the virgin birth of Jesus, it's more to the point and more accurate to speak of the Supernatural conception of Jesus. Matthew's purpose in writing this gospel was to demonstrate that Jesus really was the expected King of the Jews. Jesus' deity was constantly attacked and he was ridiculed. One of the first attacks against his messiahship was made against his conception that people laughed and snickered about behind his back. If you remember in John chapter six, even their response to him after he fed five thousand men with five loaves and barley. And five five fish and five barley loaves. They said in John 6, so the Jews grumbled about him because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph? Whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Jesus answered them then and said, Do not grumble among yourselves, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him And I will raise him up at the last day. So Matthew is setting the record straight about what really happened Matthew writes as we have it in verse 18: this is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about. Matthew tells about the events surrounding the miraculous conception of Jesus. And we're going to consider this little passage in these ways. Five points, and you have an outline there if you'd like to look at it. The precarious situation of Mary. The difficult struggle of Joseph, the encouragement of the angel, the word of the prophet, and the courageous decision of Joseph First, the precarious situation of Mary. Matthew begins this account by saying, this is how the birth of Jesus came about. His mother, Mary, was pledged to be married to Joseph. In agreement with ancient Jewish custom, Mary was pledged to be married or betrothed to Joseph. It is likely that Mary was in her mid-teen years, and Joseph could have been an older teenager, perhaps 19 or 20 years old. According to custom, a betrothal signified much more than an engagement does in modern times. A Jewish marriage consisted of two stages, the Kidushin or the Betrothal, and the Chupa, the wedding ceremony, when the bride and groom stand beneath a canopy The marriage was usually arranged, you'll like this, by the families of the bride and groom, sometimes without even consulting them. A contract was made and was sealed by payment of the bride price or dowry called the mohar. And this was paid by the groom or his family to the bride's father. The mohar served to compensate the father for wedding expenses. I like that idea. Especially since weddings went a week or sometimes even two weeks. And it also provided a type of insurance for the bride in the event that the groom became dissatisfied and divorced her. She would at least have something. The contract was binding as soon as it was made, and the man and the woman were considered legally married. Even though the wedding ceremony, the shupa, and the consummation, the wedding night, often did not occur for as much as a year, or even sometimes two years later. In this case, the bride, during the betrothal period, was proving her fidelity. You could see that she was not pregnant by another man. And during that period, the bride and groom usually had very little, if any, social contact with each other, and the bride was carefully guarded by her family from intruders. So Mary was in this betrothal stage. She was pledged to be married to Joseph, but had not yet had the wedding ceremony. Matthew then says that before they came together, she was found to be with child. Matthew does not tell us how this happened. He simply says that she was pregnant. We know from Luke's gospel that the angel Gabriel had visited Mary and told her As it's recorded, do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will be one. Quite understandably, Mary asked the angel, How will this be since I am a virgin? And the angel answered, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, the power of the Most High will overshadow you, so the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age, and she who was said to be barren is in her sixth month, for nothing is impossible with God. And then Mary said, I am the Lord's servant. May it be to me as you have said. So now back to Matthew. After the angel left her, Mary got ready. and hurried to a town in the hill country of Judea, where she greeted Elizabeth, who was now pregnant with John the Baptizer. And she stayed with Elizabeth for about three months, maybe until John was born, to help out, and then returned to Nazareth. It is likely that shortly after Mary's return to Nazareth, she began to show. Soon after that, it says she was found to be with child. No doubt people would have wondered who the father was. Perhaps they wondered if Mary became pregnant by someone back in Nazareth or in the hill country of Judea. Mary alone knew that she was with child through the Holy Spirit. The angel Gabriel had told her that she would become pregnant by the Holy Spirit. But who would believe such a story? How would Joseph ever believe her? So you see the precarious situation of Mary. Second, we have the difficult struggle of Joseph. Matthew does not tell us how Joseph learned about Mary's pregnancy, but he obviously did. And it troubled him greatly. Here he was, pledged to be married to Mary. He was building a home for them. And now he wondered if all his work was for nothing. Matthew says that Joseph was a righteous man. That means Joseph trusted in God and was a believer in God's salvation that would come through the Messiah. He honored God's laws, so he knew that he must end the marriage contract. According to his human understanding, Mary must have had relations with another man. And that is the only way these things happen, I'm sure he thought. And yet Joseph had a compassionate heart of a man who knew the gracious God of Israel. And because he didn't want to expose Mary to public disgrace. It says he had it in mind to divorce her quietly, privately. You might know that the Old Testament law required death for adultery. In Deuteronomy 22, 23, and 24, it says, if a man happens to meet in a town a virgin pledged to be married, and he sleeps with her, You shall take both of them to the gate of that town and stone them to death. The girl because she was in a town and did not scream help, and the man because he violated another man's wife You must purge the evil from among you, says Deuteronomy. But the law also said that you could divorce such a woman privately in the presence of two witnesses. This is recorded in Numbers chapter five. And this is the gracious course that Joseph decided for Mary. Even though Joseph had been shamed by her, his concern was not for his own shame. But for Mary's, he decided to do what was best for her. And that brings us to the encouragement of the angel, verses 20 and 21. It says there, Joseph, after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream. And said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. What an amazing message he got from the angel in this dream. Joseph had been struggling about how to end things with Mary, and suddenly, while he was sleeping, this angel appeared and gave him the most amazing message: that Mary really was pregnant by the Holy Spirit. What must Joseph have felt? He must have been overjoyed. Mary had evidently told someone, maybe even Joseph, about the angel Gabriel, who had earlier come to her And it was not a lie. She really was pregnant without a human contributor. But even more than that, the child Mary was carrying Was the long-promised Messiah. He was the king that Israel longed for. The king the prophets foretold, even when the prospects seemed impossible. And now Joseph, the carpenter, was to build a home for him and help take care of him, change his diapers. Whose name was Jesus. Because Joseph was a believer, he must have contemplated the meaning of that name, Jesus. Which in the Greek is the form of the Hebrew name Joshua. Jesus or Joshua means salvation. There were two Joshua's, famous Joshuas in the Old Testament. One early on after the Exodus and the wanderings of Israel, and the other near the end of the Old Testament prophecy of Zechariah. Both of these Old Testament Joshuas were types of Christ. That is, their lives and ministries prefigured the person and work of the coming King. The first Joshua was a soldier and the successor of Moses, who led God's people into the promised land, as we studied recently here. You may remember that just before the fall of Jericho, Joshua had an encounter with someone called the commander of the army of the Lord. Joshua chapter 5, who told him that Joshua would lead the people of God to victory in the land of promise. In the same way, Jesus is the commander of our salvation, leading us to victory over our enemies and home to the new heaven and new earth. The second Joshua at the end of the Old Testament was the high priest mentioned in Zechariah 3, who defended God's people against Satan's accusations. Which I remind you were true accusations. He had been clothed with clean garments supplied by God, and so he defended the people of God before God's holy throne of judgment. In the same way, Jesus, the Joshua of the new covenant, is our great high priest, representing us before the throne of God Surely Joseph, hearing the name Jesus, put these things together to know that this child in the womb of Mary would be at once the commander of our salvation. and also our great high priest. Jesus is the one who will save his people from their sins. The catechism of the Church of Geneva expounds on the name of Jesus this way. It says, What does the name Jesus mean? The answer: it means what the Greeks meant by the word souter. Hence the term Saviour was commonly accepted. Moreover, the angel gave this name to the Son of God by the command of God Himself. Does this mean more than if men had given it to him? Answer, certainly, for since God wished that he be thus named, it was necessary that he be named so forthwith. That brings us then to the word of the prophet in verses 22 and 23. Matthew says that all this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet. This is Isaiah Quoting, the virgin will be with child, and you will give and he and will give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. Matthew was referring to Isaiah chapter 7, which we read earlier. And so we have this prophecy set in its own context in Isaiah 7. And now Matthew says that it is fulfilled by the birth of Jesus to the Virgin Mary. Since the rise of the nineteenth century liberals, The word virgin has often been disputed. Some scholars say that although it can mean virgin in Isaiah, it also can simply mean a young woman or a young girl These scholars want to undercut the miraculous nature of the conception of Jesus and ridicule the New Testament scriptures. Why do they even bother being theologians if that's what they want to do? But Isaiah's words indicate something far more than the birth of a child by Ahaz's wife or Isaiah's wife. The prophecy begins with the words, behold, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. That's momentous. This is something extraordinary beyond anything that happened in Isaiah's days. Even though there was a first fulfillment of sorts there. In addition to this, Matthew is quoting here not from the Hebrew scriptures of the Masoretic text, but from the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, where the word virgin is unambiguous. It can only mean a woman who has never slept with a man. Therefore, Matthew, riding under the Spirit's inspiration, ends all doubt about the meaning of the word in Isaiah 7:14. The child born to the virgin will be called Emmanuel, which means God with us. He adds that, you see. Emmanuel is used more as a title or description than as a proper name It points to the most wonderful and miraculous action of God. The Son of God left the glory of heaven and came to dwell with us. God. In the Old Testament, God dwelt with His people in the symbols represented by the tabernacle and the temple. But now, in the New Testament, God dwells with His people in the person of the Times. His son. And he did this to save us. That brings us fifthly to the courage, the courageous decision of Joseph in verses 24 and 25. We read there, when Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and took Mary home as his wife. But he had no union with her until after she gave birth to a son, and he gave him the name Jesus. It's important here to notice the prompt obedience of Joseph. He does not weigh his options or plot a course of convenience for himself. As we used to tell our children, delayed obedience is disobedience. This is another evidence of the regenerate status. Of Joseph, that he obeyed what the angel revealed to him. Two words that we should never use in answer to a command of God are no Lord. Joseph here was behaving in accord with his legal son Jesus, whose desire was always to do the will of the Father, who always said, Yes, Lord. And Joseph says, Yes, Lord. Not no Lord. The main point of all of this that is written for us by Matthew is to defend the deity and the humanity of Jesus as Messiah and Lord. We must also see how God was orchestrating his master plan to bring about our redemption. God is in sovereign control, coordinating these events to bring about the supernatural conception and birth of His Son, Jesus Christ That's the main thing. But I think in this case, Matthew has put these people here as exemplary for us. And so we can make some secondary applications from the narrative. I hope you will listen carefully. First, from the precarious situation of Mary, we learn that God sometimes brings perplexing things into our lives. At those times when God's providence seems strange, even inexplicable, you may be patient and trust in God, who says in Psalm 46:10. and be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. When things happen to you that you cannot figure out, respond as Mary did. I am the Lord's servant. May it be to me as you have said. Secondly, from the difficult struggle of righteous Joseph, we should learn to be merciful and compassionate. Because our God is merciful and compassionate Joseph, who thought that he had been wronged, would have been within his legal right to squeeze every ounce of justice out of the situation. He could have had Mary Stone to death. If the Romans would allow it, that is. But he decided to do what was compassionate for Mary. His legal son Jesus, Jesus, would grow up to teach something very Very similar. In Matthew 5, he said, Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy. Do you think that perhaps you might imitate Joseph as Jesus and Jesus when you were wronged? Ext from the command of the angel. You may learn that Jesus is our Joshua The commander of our salvation and our great high priest. He is the only one who can save us from our sins. You and I have sinned by breaking God's law. I saw a theological cartoon which I posted on my Facebook this week. It had a grim-faced Santa Claus, looking over his half glasses like Chuck Schumer. And the caption read News Santa Claus has converted to Calvinism and has put everyone on his naughty list. It's true, we are all sinners. We deserve to be sent to hell for all eternity. I was visiting with a man in the hospital, and he said, Will God really send people to hell? And I said, that's what the Bible says. How can I say otherwise? But Jesus, in his great compassion for us, left the glory of heaven to live among us and to reveal the Father. and ultimately to pay the penalty for our sins for all who will come to Him, drawn by the Spirit and chosen by the Father. From the word of the prophet, we learn that Jesus was supernaturally conceived in the womb of the Virgin named Mary. So Jesus is both human and divine. He combines two natures in one person. And that truth makes Jesus the unique Son of Mary and also the Son of God. We should never doubt the supernatural conception of Jesus. The Belzic Confession, which is in our Psalter hymnal, says this. Christ, the Son of God, is God and man, God of the essence of the Father, begotten before the worlds, and man of the essence of his mother, born in the world, perfect God and perfect man. And finally, from the prompt decision of Joseph, we learn the spiritual response of obedience. Because Joseph was the recipient of God's grace, his heart's desire was Was to obey God. Like Joseph, you and me do not obey God in order to earn God's merit or his grace. But because we are the object of God's grace, we should obey God in order to express our thanks to God. Perhaps there are situations or temptations or commands of God where you know what God commands. But are in the habit of basically saying, No, Lord, be careful. God may let you go on in your refusal to submit to Him, but with sad consequences. Psalm 106, verse 15 says, And he gave them their request. No, Lord! He gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul. So from the response of Joseph, let us respond, Yes, Lord. I obey you. I will not trust in my own wisdom or my own thoughts or even obey my own desires, but I will obey you. Yes. Lord, like Joseph did. May God help you all to learn all that He wishes you to know of His Word and to obey all that He commands. Promptly and sincerely and completely to his glory and to your own true good. Amen. Lord, we thank you for the wonderful record of the miraculous conception and birth of Jesus. and of your work and the lives of your people, from the Old Testament right up into the New Testament. We pray that we might respond yes, Lord, every time. Amen.