Turn to Malachi four. We'll read the entire chapter, which is only six verses. Malachi IV. For behold, the day is coming burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. But for you who fear my name, the Son of Righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall, and you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet On the day when I act, says the Lord of hosts. Remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children, and the hearts of children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the land with a decree of utter destruction. This is the word of the Lord. The New Testament scripture reading is Luke 1, 11 through 25. It picks up An account of the dealings with God of Zechariah the priest. And we start with verse 11 of that first chapter of Luke. And there appeared to him An angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth. For he will be great before the Lord, and he must not drink wine or strong drink. And he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the children of Israel through the Lord their God. And he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just. To make ready for the Lord a people prepared. And Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man and my wife is advanced in years. And the angel answered him, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God. And I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news. And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words. Which will be fulfilled in their time. And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple. And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them. And they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained mute. And when his time of service was ended, he went to his home. After these days, his wife Elizabeth conceived. And for five months she kept herself hidden, saying, Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me to take away my reproach. Among people. The Word of God. Beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ The text this morning is Malachi 4, Malachi 4, verses 1 through 6, which you heard read earlier. The final chord of the Old Testament. Some theologians think that the Old Testament became an obsolete book as soon as the greatest of all events, the revelation of God and Jesus, had taken place. Now actually I prepared this sermon prior to yesterday when Gene and I were at the giant. And in the checkout line, we saw one of the people who mans that checkout line. is one that we've known a number of times and he remembered us and we began talking. And it wasn't crowded by all means, believe it or not, a giant yesterday And we began talking about the gospel. And I told him that I was preaching on Malachi 4, 1 through 6. He wasn't quite sure where that was, but I told him it's the very last chord of the Old Testament. And he said, Oh yeah, well I don't think we we believe that anymore, do we? Isn't that another old religion? That's superseded by the better, fuller, newer, New Testament. Well, I had opportunity. There was one gal waiting behind us, and she seemed interested in the conversation In fact, she asked she actually joined in a little bit and was seconded what we were saying. So it turned out we had a three-way conversation about whether the Old Testament has been superseded now And uh I hope that the next time we go to the giant, we will see him again. He's a fine man. So we only got started on that bit of evangelism The trend to regard the Old Testament as a book full of crude Jewish ideas, which later on were superseded by the much better New Testament religion has become so general, not among giant employees only, but also among critical theologians. Though this is by no means a new thing. So much so that even in Reformed and Evangelical circles Do you listen to Franklin Graham on Fox News tell the gospel, which is basically we're not going to deal with sin and evil and badness and fall and guilt We're going to deal with God's wonderful plan of salvation, which He's made available to the whole world. And it just depends on you whether you believe in Jesus or not. The things that he says are true, but they're only half of the story. Well, we discover theologians who are committed to the scriptures. Who yet state that the Old Testament hasn't much to say anymore? That the law of God has no meaning anymore after having driven us to the cross. And for instance, when it concerns the beauty of married life, they hurry to say that the Song of Solomon now must be regarded as a spiritual book only. Nothing to do with marriage. Marriage here on earth today. And the people who say things like that are good Christians, mind you. Now to remember that when I talk to this man a giant next time, not to put him down, but to seek to bring him up to see the fullness of God's revelation. They are good defenders of the cause of the Lord in many ways, people that do this. But what seems to be hazy and dim in their minds is the relationship between the Old Testament and the New Testament. The whole Bible as one. The covenant of grace in Old Testament days meant believers and their children. Now all of a sudden it becomes an individualistic thing. Believers here and there. And maybe children when they grow up, of course. These are no easy matters. Others have stuck to a form of worship service, which is so external. And so dependent on form that we have become scared of structure in any guise. We discard all that as past, Old Testamental. Conservative Judaism sticks to the law and the prophets only, and seeks salvation in the works of the law outwardly. Can we get a handle on the relationship between the Old and the New Testaments? I hope so. And here in the last section, the last chapter of the Old Testament, the prophecy of Malachi, we stand on the threshold. Therefore, to all questions like the above-mentioned ones, it is a very interesting text indeed. It is the final chord of that part of the Word of God that foreshadowed that new only in part, yes But that shows us God at work, the God of the Old Testament, at work now to send the Messiah whom the Old Testament prophesied. And we do not see an obsolete picture there either. We see in this Old Testament text in Malachi 4 the contours of the coming kingdom. So that it became a light on our path as well. I think there are two clear ringing sounds, you might say, in these verses. Probably two themes like of an opera that keep coming back again. Two themes in this short six-verse chapter Which we might delineate as the final chord in the Old Testament preparation for the coming of Jesus. Malachi calls us one out of the fire and into the sun, and two, from the generation gap. To the communion of family saints. And in those two themes, Malachi unites the two testaments of our Bible. For Malachi joins hands with not Elijah, but another man who does what Elijah did. His name is John the Baptist. Together, they bridge the four centuries and show that one God is at work in both testaments. So those are the two points I want you to be ready for in this message. First, out of the fire and into the sun, verses one through four, and secondly From the generation gap to the communion of family saints, verses five and six Run then, out of the fire and into the sun. It will do well for us to hear them again. For behold, the day is coming, burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubble. The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. But for you who fear my name, the Son S you in? Of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings, and you shall go out leaping like calves from the stall. And you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day when I act, says the Lord of hosts. So our text speaks first of the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord, calling it simply the day. And the way it speaks of that the day is the same as the way John the Baptist will speak of it when he arrives on the scene. For then the fire of the Lord will come and burn up all that is not in accordance with his holy will. The day will come when people who thought that they could slap their maker in the face Or rule him out of the life of nations and families, of schools and universities, will find him to be against them then. The day of the Lord will come when the power of Satan, now seemingly the stronger, will be broken. And we remember that our Lord Jesus and his apostles have spoken in the same way. The Lord Jesus spoke of the angels who are to come to reap And throw into the fire all the weeds. And the Apostle Paul writes that the earth will be changed, and the old things will be burned by fire that destroys even the very elements. And Paul adds his message to it saying that even the works of the children of God will be tested by that fire, whether they are of precious stones. Gold or silver, or on the other hand, hay, wood, and stubble. Now, given those ominous predictions These words of Malachi are indeed very new testament sounds, aren't they? And you do well to heed them today. You cannot go on sinning against the Lord and get away with it. To tell what is the life that is good, there was and is, according to our text. The law of Moses, my servant. Yes, you're not left in the dark As to what God wants, and before that great day of Jesus coming, what God wants stands out as a warning which the Lord Jesus takes up in just about his first sermon The Sermon on the Mount. What was it about? Something new and different and wonderful and good and happy. No, his theme was that not a jot or a tittle of the law of God will pass away. That was Jesus' first sermon. And you do not have a God who the one day says, I want you to be like this, Ten Commandments. And then on the other hand says now knew, well, that will do. Our eternal God and his will are unchangeable So don't possibly think that since Jesus came, you can take things easy and stick to your sins. The first advent of Jesus, no less than the second, means either blessing or judgment You cannot possibly think that since Jesus came, you can coast along nicely because you know the God of Sinai somehow changed into a nice old grandfather. Winking his eye at your selfish ways. Especially when Jesus is born and comes into the world And in John the Baptist's preaching, you will find that which later the epistle to the Hebrews especially stresses. Be holy. Remember what I ever told you. My word has not changed. My Isaiah said, the grass withers, the flower fades But the word of the Lord abides forever. In this way, and in this way only, Franklin Graham and giant Take take out person. In this way only can you know the gospel You will tremble at Calvary's Hill and rejoice in the message of the empty tomb that God has mightily overthrown the kingdom of darkness and thereby displayed the heart of the gospel. As Paul would later write, the love of Christ constrains us as we know the terror of the Lord. That's why our text this morning says, But for you who revere my name, the Son of righteousness will rise with healing. In his wings, out of the darkness and into the sun, out of the fire and into the light of the gospel Now I ask you this morning, do you revere? Do you fear? Yes, do you fear God's name Is this God holy to you, this one who is right and just in all his ways? Do you tremble when you think of him as great as he is And so completely perfect in all that he demands of you. Do you see yourself as one who before him needs healing? That healing isn't just that you may go to heaven. It is that you will here on earth long to do the will of God now. Israel had to make that spiritual surrender too. They had by the symbols of temple and its ceremonies, the fruits of Messiah's work preached to them As they bow before the Lord on the Day of Atonement sacrifice for, and rejoice on the Feast of Tabernacles deliverance from Their guilt and shame. Yes, God intended, ever intended, to make that nation's salvation broader And the New Testament will come and will add to the old, but it won't take the place of it. That gospel of the Old Testament will then become world-embracing. Gentiles, together with Jews. And instead of the little light, which reflects the coming sunlight as the moon provides when shining at night. Instead of that little light, God says here that the sun will rise. Jesus is the one who truly is called the Son of Righteousness. I wish we had another word for the S-U-N than it is, because it gets taken to be S-O-N, I'm afraid too much. For righteousness is that you are also right again with God. We need the sun to rise in the place of the darkness of our sin. Luther discovered the glorious truth that the righteousness of God, as shown in the law of God's word by God's servant Moses. Was fulfilled for us when Jesus Christ paid its full price on Calvary So that, yes indeed, Franklin Graham, whoever believes in him has the price fully paid and the life eternal, unconditionally and finally given. But do you confess and realize the price you owed? The truth was there all the time in Scripture. To redeem people, God says and still says today. Not just be glad that you're going to heaven But it says, remember the law of Moses, my servant. And that very law becomes your delight as well, because it tells you what, as a child of God, by faith. Through grace you may begin to do it. It opens with the words: I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. out of the house of bondage. Not the God who invited you to leave here and go somewhere else if you want to. Then he gave them the law. That is salvation. That you both hear the word of God's gospel of redeeming, saving grace And then do it. That you keep it now that you are a new person, a new creature in Christ, enabled to obey. God's law. That truth, my dear friends, was fully there in the Old Testament And now only just clearer, perhaps, if that's possible, in the New Testament. That's why we dare to sing with the angels, peace on earth. Not to men of God's good will, to men of goodwill, but to men of God's goodwill, God's good pleasure. Yes, there are pastors into which the Good Shepherd Jesus leads you. For if you sometimes through weakness fall into sin Then you don't have to despair of God's mercy. Whoops, I lost it. Nor continue lying down in sin. No as Malachi by these word promises, you may leap like calves, released from the stall. Christians ought to be leaping calves. Remember the law of Moses, my servant, God said to Israel. And Jesus agrees, saying, Go and sin no more. In both cases, get up and live again. And to live is to do the will of my Father who is in heaven. It's one, this Bible congregation. It's one. Know that it is gloriously won, this divine word of God. You haven't lost a bit of it God still leads his children out of the house of bondage. The Spirit of God is as strong as all that. Yes, out of the fire and into the sun. Now we get to the second point. We come to the very last promise given in the Old Testament. A promise that is so much linked up to what we have seen so far. I will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of children to their fathers. In those incredibly comforting and wonderful words, we see the second point. Out of separation and into togetherness Let's read verses 5 and 6 again. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet. That's John the Baptist. Before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes, and he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children, and the hearts of children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the land with a decree of utter. destruction. This must be a pretty important point. We too know in our day the complaint. There's such a difference between the generations Gene and I sometimes complain about that sometimes, and then we have to remind ourselves of this text. Oh, the gap! Old and young are said not to understand each other. Actually the the old don't understand the new machines that people carry in their pockets And our age, which changes so rapidly, has not made things easier either. But don't think that this is an altogether new thing, this new observation Young people have always found new ways, and those new ways often conflict with the old. They had to do that in some ways indeed. Who's more fit to blaze new trails than someone young? However, all through the ages, father and mothers have been finding trouble, especially in the things of the Lord, getting their children to follow them. You know about that? Why do I have to go to church? Do you know how to answer that question It's a question asked in many languages, and possibly it's been asked in your home. Why? Young people have long been complaining that they were forced by their parents, and that the older generation has bequeathed to them a rotten world which needs changing. Indeed, some of the criticism leveled by the youth has been well deserved. But we don't help this thing by becoming individualists and saying that faith is a matter for every individual to decide, and that our children just must find their own way. This too is one of the blessings of the kingdom, that old and young are to be in it together. Aren't you glad that this is so? Otherwise, what a bleak and lonely prospect is left us. Otherwise the the old were going to leave $32 trillion of debt for the young. This terrible loneliness Wherein every man and woman and every generation is left to fight things out alone is sin and a fruit of sin. God meant people to be together, and young and old to be together, especially. In the Old Testament, this was shown in that constant repeated phrase. You and your children. That phrase captures one of the central themes of the covenant of grace, even before Jesus came. But sinful children and sinful parents did not live up to that covenant in the Old Testament age. Israel led her children into ways of idolatry and contempt of God Part of that nation completely disappeared, and another part spent 70 years in exile because of that sin. Israel's terrible apostasy is traceable in large measure to failure in them keeping covenant faithfulness with their children. But God does not stop there. His promise in olden days stands with greater clarity in the new days. And the Philippian jailer, remember him? In response to this question, what must I do to be saved? gets an answer not as individualistic as all that. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ And you shall be saved, you and your house. This is exactly Old and New Testament teaching, the unity of Scripture in the proclamation of one kingdom. For parents together with their children. Family saints. And why is this so? Because it is the fulfillment of God's covenant purpose all along. That's why. Yes, instead of loneliness, God's togetherness We confess it in the Apostles' Creed, don't we? We believe in what? The communion of the saints. We believe that. Zacharias, the father of John the Baptist, sings, God thinks of the promise made to the fathers. But then looks to his son, saying, And you, my boy, will be called a prophet of the most high. Mary did the same thing, too, when that great day dawned And she sang that the Lord now remembers the promises to the fathers. She could have said to their children. That is not purely nostalgia either. God will bring the hearts of the old and young together. How can it be otherwise when He brings these hearts all to the same person, all to Jesus? So let your families be recommitted to this great goal, to be family saints, where both parents and children share a common lord and a common concern. There is to be no generation gap in the Christian home. There is sin, yes. There is sin. But you don't have to keep on sinning Both parents and children can grow in grace and also in harmony. This will come through both submitting to God and being for each other. in mutual support, encouragement, and love. Then let this congregation, Grace and Peace, OPC be committed to a similar goal. That there be no generation gap here either. You younger ones to this church Both in age and in Christian maturity. Respect your elders here. It's God's will. Check the fifth commandment And you might be surprised at just how much help they can be to you. After all, they have faced already most of the challenges and problems that you are concerned about right now And God has brought them safely through them all. Talk to them. Ask them how they did it by God's grace. And I think you will be pleasantly surprised at just how willing they will be to share with you and understand you. And then you older ones, be very thankful for the newcomers. Newcomers in life and newcomers in the Christian faith. Perhaps even newcomers in the Reformed faith. Who arrive here. For your part, God wants you to be respectable. Now, by that word, I'm not referring to your dress or manners. I'm referring to the model you present Respectable, that is, worthy of respect. For that, you will need to show fruits of Christian maturity by demonstrating true understanding and sensitivity To these younger ones. Sometimes you will find their enthusiasm displaced, maybe even their vision unworkable But you need these young ones, nevertheless, and God breathes new life into the church regularly through them But both have to pay attention to God's law. In other words, each has a role, and each needs appreciation for the other, but they share together. In their constitution. God sent John the Baptist to preach this sermon that I'm preaching this morning, just before Jesus came to fulfill his work of restoration. out of the fire and into the sun and out of loneliness into togetherness. It wasn't easy for people in that day to hear the message of John And it isn't going to be easy for you either. You need homes and a church. That really received the Savior. For that matter, it might not be easy for homes that do receive the Savior to continue to reflect covenant attitudes and actions through the years. It will not always be easy to have a church that refuses to accept the inevitability of generation gaps and miscommunication between young and mature members. Togetherness. It's fundamental to the covenant of fulfillment in Christ. Malachi said so, and John preached that it had begun. Now it's up to you to see it worked out in your lives too. And it won't be always easy. Look what John the Baptist suffered in the course of him preaching his message, beheaded By a covenant breaker, at the request, mind you, of a dancing girl, whose adulterous mother, a homebreaker, bitterly hated the prophet and instructed her daughter to ask for John's head. It costs John to preach as he did. And it will cost you too, not your heads, thank God. But you're going to have to be faithful in doing at least four things, and with this I close briefly. One, confess your failings in this respect to God and to each other. Fathers and mothers failing to discipline and instruct their sons and daughters properly. And children rebelling against what they know full well is right. Mature Christians refusing even to try to understand the dreams of the young, and the young failing to appreciate the experience and wisdom. Of their fathers and mothers. Two, practice. Practice regular and structured procedures in your homes as well as your church. Whereby problems and misunderstandings can be talked over, with communication lines wide open A recognition that the Bible says that all the members of both the family and the congregation alike are needed by all alike, and where instruction is ongoing and faithfully offered. Three, follow the Word of God, which is the constitution of your home and your church. When the family member sins against you, or the congregation member sins against you, tell him or her softly Privately, kindly, remembering your own failings. Then when you sin against each other in the family or in the church Go and ask forgiveness, specifically in so many words, naming your sin and failing, and not prefaced by the words, if I. 4. Remember that you in the home and in the church are a temple raised to God for his glory in the fulfillment of his gracious covenant purpose. May the Lord grant you, congregation, and your children, and every member of this church together, both peace and joy. Out of the fire and into the sun, out of separation, and into together. Let's pray. Lord, it won't be easy. The temptation will be to go our own way and to say, well, God knows what I believe. We have to make sure that those bound together with us, out of fire and into the sun, and out of loneliness and into togetherness, need to hear the law of Moses, God's servant. We need to confess our sins to you and to each other. And to be a temple, a united temple raised for the glory of your name. May it be so, in Jesus' name we thank you.