Please open your Bibles to the eighty-ninth Psalm, where we'll read verses one through thirty-seven. A maskell of Ethan the Ezraite, the eighty-ninth song. I will sing of the steadfast love of the Lord forever. With my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations. For I said, Steadfast love will be built up forever. In the heavens you will establish your faithfulness. You have said, I have made a covenant with my chosen one. I have sworn to David, my servant, I will establish your offspring forever and build your throne for all generations. Let the heavens praise your wonders, O Lord, your faithfulness in the assembly of the Holy Ones. For who in the skies can be compared to the Lord Who among the heavenly beings is like the Lord? A God greatly to be feared in the counsel of the Holy Ones, and awesome above all who are around him. O Lord of God of hosts, who is mighty as you are? O Lord, with your faithfulness all around you. You rule the raging of the sea. When its waves rise, you still them. You crushed Rahab like a carcass. You scattered your enemies with your mighty arm. The heavens are yours, the earth also is yours. The world and all that is in it, you have found it Them. The North and the South, you have created them. Tabor and Herman joyously praise your name. You have a mighty arm. Strong is your hand, high your right hand. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Steadfast love and faithfulness go before you. Blessed are the people who know the feast- the festival. Shout, who walk, O Lord, in the light of your face, who exalt in your name all the day, and all your righteousness are exalted. For you are the glory of their strength. By your favor, our horn is exalted. For our shield belongs to the Lord, our King, to the Holy One of Israel Of old you spoke in a vision to your godly one and said, I have granted help to one who is mighty. I have exalted one chosen from the people. I have found David, my servant, with my holy oil I have anointed him, so that my hand shall be established with him, my arm also shall strengthen him. The enemy shall not outwit him, the wicked shall not humble him. I will crush his foes before him and strike down those who hate him. My faithfulness and my steadfast love shall be with him. And in my name shall his horn be exalted. I will set his hand on the sea, and his right hand on the rivers. He shall cry to me, You are my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. And I will make him the firstborn of the highest of the kings of the earth. My steadfast love I will keep for him forever, and my covenant will stand firm for him. I will establish his offspring forever, and his throne as the days of the heavens. If his children forsake my law and do not walk according to my rules, if they violate my statutes and do not keep my commandments, then I will punish their transgressions with the rod, and their iniquities Iniquity with stripes. But I will not remove from him my steadfast love, or be false to my faithfulness. I will not violate my covenant or alter the word that went forth from my lips. Once for all I have sworn by my holiness, I will not lie to David. His offspring shall endure forever, his throne as long as the sun before me. Like the moon, it shall be established forever, a faithful witness in the skies. The word of the Lord. Turn please to Ephesians chapter 1, 3 through 14. This is not the preaching text, but it does describe God's God's great uh covenant of redemption in some ways. And we also uh had that from the reading of Psalm 89, where David was mentioned, he is the one who David's greater son is the is the person who fulfills God's promises to the covenant of redemption. Now we turn to David Ephesians 1, 3 through 14. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ As a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him We're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance, until we acquire possession of it to the praise of His glory. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. And now Seth's going to come to read his text and pray and exhort us. Our Heavenly Father, without your word to guide us, we would be lost. Without the demands it places on us, we would grow lazy and focus on ourselves only. May your spirit give us attentive bodies, enlightened minds, and hearts to convict us of the truth. Of your word today. Convict us so deeply of your wisdom that we would be willing to live by it and die by it. In Jesus' name. Our text today is Isaiah forty-two, one through six. Now this book has two main sections, just so to kind of I'll bring you up on it a little bit. Chapters 1 through 39 concern the judgment of the Lord that was to come during Isaiah's lifetime. And then chapters 40 through 66 concern the restoration of the church, which would come after Isaiah's own lifetime. And our text falls into the second section. An easy way to remember Isaiah's outline is the Bible has 66 books. Isaiah has 66 chapters. And the Old Testament has 39 books. First half of Isaiah has 39 chapters. New Testament has 27 books. Isaiah's second half has 27 chapters. But whereas the Bible has multiple human authors, But one ultimate divine author. Isaiah has one human author, and one ultimate divine author. And Jesus Christ Himself says this in John 12, 36-40. Where he says Isaiah wrote all the chapters of Isaiah. So at the end of chapter 41, God has just addressed the idol worshippers among Judah. Who are there looking at their idols expectantly to provide for them. And then we get to the beginning of chapter 42, and he continues to address these idolaters. But he now provides a stark contrast to those worthless idols by telling them about his chosen servant. He says there, Behold, my servant. Speaking of Jesus Christ, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break. And a faintly burning wick he will not quench. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth And the coastlands wait for his law. Thus says God the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and what comes from it. Who gives breath to the people on it, and spirit to those who walk in it. And then at this point, think of God turning, God the Father turning, addressing his Son. And this is the focus today for us. I am the Lord. I have called you, speaking of Jesus Christ, in righteousness. I will take you by the hand and keep you. You. I will give or appoint you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations. So today we're going to focus on something that occurred but not in history. Like the Trinity, it's something for which God doesn't give us a name. The Gospels record Jesus Christ repeatedly referring to it, but we may never have noticed it. In fact, in our doctrinal standards, there's only one small reference to it. Question 31 of the larger catechism. It's not referenced at all in the Westminster Confession of Faith or the Shorter Catechism. Furthermore, there's no single verse or passage of Scripture that gives us a whole picture of it. Like a puzzle, it has to be pieced together. And that's what we're going to do today. Put that puzzle together. We're going to focus on what God's people have called the covenant of redemption. This covenant was made between the persons of the Trinity and is the foundation of the covenant of grace that God made with his redeemed people. Knowing its truths can improve our understanding of what God is really like, as well as the nature of his relationship with his people. It also points us to the reason why Christians can be assured of their salvation. When we look at God's covenants, This is where we start. We're getting down to the bedrock level of his relationship with man in this. Now, looking at Isaiah 42. First of all, there's proof that this is a messianic passage. When we look at Matthew 12, 18 through 20. Where these first four verses here of this passage are quoted as being fulfilled by Jesus Christ. But now in verse 1, we see Jesus Christ is God the Father's servant. He has his own will for certain, but he subjects his will to his fathers. Remember Jesus while he was praying on the Mount of Olives just before his crucifixion in Luke 22, 42 There he asks God the Father if there's any way for this cup to pass from me, he says, but not my will, but yours, Father. And I hope you'll see as we go on today how Jesus is a servant in two ways. First, he serves God by fulfilling the conditions of the covenant of redemption, you'll see. And at the same time, he serves his people by atoning for their sins and bringing complete salvation to them through the covenant of grace. And Jesus Christ's servanthood to God the Father is the basis of our servanthood to God. Still in verse 1, God the Father upholds the servant and chose Him. God is holding up his son for a tremendous task that he was elected to carry out. We should always remember that election carries, every time, election carries. being chosen or appointed for some special mission. You're elected out of something and chosen to do something. Jesus Christ's election, and this is very important, is necessary for and a basis for our election. And this is the theme of the high priestly prayer in John 17. As Christians, we know God will uphold us in all our godly callings. As a parent, in our work, members of a congregation at church. And so on. Still in verse 1, God the Father's soul delights in his Son. In revealing this, think about it, God gives us insight deep into his own soul. And only God's word can do this. God the Father has put his spirit on his son, verse 1 says. Note the role of the Holy Spirit in this servant's task. All three persons Of the Trinity are involved. God the Holy Spirit rests on God the Son, as seen in Jesus Christ's baptism in Matthew 3. With God's people, the Holy Spirit energizes us and our whole being. He gives us motivation. Towards God's will and away from disloyalty to God. Now moving on to verse 2. The Father's servant will not cry aloud Will not raise his voice. This is a supernatural, calm, quiet assurance that he will succeed in his mission for which he was chosen. You can also see that in Philippians 2. 7. He entered the world as a baby, yet he created a new world order, changing the universe as its foundations. And as we read the Gospels, we see repeatedly, no one could stop Jesus from completing his mission. Now, verse 3: the servant has two sides, though We see he's gentle with his people. These are the weak. Mark 2, 13 through 17 says Jesus came to heal the sick, not the righteous. But at the same time, he brings justice. To the wicked through God's law. Now in verse 4, we see the manner in which God the Son will carry out this mission. Psalm 110, verse 7, dramatically shows how In the middle of completing this monumental mission of changing the entire world, changing people's hearts, Jesus being fully God, stoops down and sips water from a brook. This is a picture of supernatural composure and ease with his task. He's God. Now, in verses 5 and 6, God the Father appoints his son as a covenant to the people. In five, we transition. God essentially there saying, with what I'm about to say in the next verse, verse six, remember, I am separate from and above my creation I created everything and I sustain everything. I'm sovereign. This is my perfect plan, and I chose it out of my own good pleasure Man had no influence whatsoever on my decision. And then we read verse 6. And here we're given a privilege. To witness what we could call an intra-Trinitarian monologue. This is speaking between, among the Trinity, with God the Father speaking We have the covenant Lord speaking to his covenant son. First, we see that the Father and the Son have an intimate relationship, pictured by their holding hands. We also see this in Proverbs 8, 22-31. Their wills are the same. The fact that theirs is an eternal and perfectly harmonious relationship. Think about this, makes it an exceeding agony for Jesus Christ to suffer his Father's wrath for the sin of his fallen people. That surely far exceeds the physical agony. We see this in the Garden of Gethsemane, Matthew 26, 36-46. And one point of application here that was brought to my mind, if you want to rear a spiritually strong son, work hand in hand with him, upholding him And speaking to him in a caring, loving way. This reflects the kind of relationship God the Father has with his son. Another point about verse six. We see here that Christ is the covenant of grace. So we should not view God's covenants as mere legal documents signed by two parties. This is put this way by a commentator. To say that the servant, Jesus Christ, is a covenant is to say that all the blessings of the covenant are embodied in, have their root and origin in, and are dispensed by Him At the same time, Jesus Christ is himself at the center of all these blessings, and to receive them is to receive him. For without him, there can be no blessings Such language could not apply to Israel, who was also God's servant, but only to one, Jesus Christ, who may truly be designated a covenant In New Testament terms, this means they to whom God sovereignly bestows the grace of salvation receive the servant himself. To put it very simply, in Jesus Christ, we have everything God has ever promised to man. Now let's summarize what we've seen so far. In John 5. 36, we hear Jesus reiterating from his perspective What we just read in Isaiah from God the Father's perspective. He says there, Jesus speaking. But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I am doing bear witness about me that the Father has sent me. We see in Isaiah God appointing the Son. We see there Jesus testifying that the Father sent him. And thus in the covenant of redemption, God the Father appointed his Son to be the mediator of the covenant of grace with God's redeemed people. And we see, we've seen that the Holy Spirit has a specific role as well, and we'll see more about that shortly. And since the Trinity chose to enter into this covenant of redemption. We must consider it to be a perfect plan. Indeed, the perfect plan. Now let's expand on what we saw there in Isaiah 42. 6, and we'll look at some other scriptures that fill it out some more. First, when was this covenant made? In Acts 2. 23, it shows us the covenant of redemption which required that God the Son die for his redeemed people. was part of God's eternal decree made before time. It says there, this Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. Now there's an implication to this, that in the covenant of redemption, God the Father appoints his son, his servant. to redeem a chosen people, which meant that God the Father had to choose whom he would redeem at that point. Precisely those individuals. So choosing the elect, or we could say writing the Lamb's Book of Life, another biblical way to say it, was done therefore before anything was created, before there was any sin in the universe. And this makes logical sense, but do we see this in the Bible? If we look in Revelation 13, 7-8, it says this. Listen carefully here. Also, it, the first beast, was allowed to make war on the saints and to conquer them. And authority was given it over every tribe and people and language and nation And all who dwell on earth will worship it, that first beast. Everyone whose name was not written before the foundation of the world, in the book of life of the Lamb who was slain So the Bible definitely says this. And therefore, we should read 1 John 4. 19 with all this in mind, where it says, we, God, God's redeemed people. Love because he first loved us. This means we know God loved his chosen people before time, before he created them. And at that point, remember, man hadn't acted for or against God. He had not been created. Alright, so now we have three parties of the covenant of redemption, each person of the Trinity. And as with every covenant God makes, it has terms and conditions It has promises and blessings. With covenants with man, there are also curses. But we're talking a covenant among the Trinity. It cannot fail. So let's take each party in turn. First, God the Father. God the Father's commands made to the God the Son are the terms and conditions. We have three. The first condition: the Father chose to send a son, telling him what to say and what to do in order to procure eternal life for his people. We see this in John 12, 49 through 50, where Jesus is speaking. For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment. command, what to say and what to speak. And I know that his command is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me. Second command, second term or condition. The Father chose his son to be the surety of his chosen people. To be a surety is to be, quote, someone who engages himself to become responsible for meeting the legal obligations of another. We hear this in Hebrews 7. 22. This, the covenant of redemption, makes Jesus the surety or guarantor of a better covenant. Third condition or command. The Father chose his son to be the mediator and savior of his chosen people. This involved death, laying down my life, Jesus says, and resurrection, taking it up again. We see this in John 10, 17-18, where he says, For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. No one takes it away from me, no one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. And now here, I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This charge or command Isaiah 53 10 also reiterates this. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him, God the Son. He the Father has put him the Son to crush Grief when his God's the Son's soul makes an offering for guilt. Now second, we saw the commands and the terms against Conditions of this covenant of redemption. Now we see what God the Father promises, the promises he gives to his son when the Son fulfills the terms. Conditions of the covenant. We have five. First, promise. If Jesus fulfilled the terms of the covenant, God the Father promised that his chosen people would indeed be redeemed. By the Son's work. We see this in 1 Timothy 3. 16. Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery. Now, in the Bible, a mystery is something known only by divine revelation. Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness. He, Jesus Christ, was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit. And that's what we'll focus on. Seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up in glory, and as a broccoli states, a commentator on the brakes. This vindicated by the Spirit means that the Father reaffirmed and assured him, Jesus Christ, of the fact that his suffering death was a perfect ransom for all the sins of the elect. That the Father was perfectly satisfied with the execution of his surety ship, and that he merited a complete salvation for all the elect. Second promise the Father gave to the Son, if he fulfilled the terms of the covenant of redemption, that he would be king over an eternal worldwide kingdom For of his chosen people, made up of both Jews and Gentiles. And we see this in Psalm 2, 6 through 8. And we have the Father referring to God the Son. As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree, God's eternal decree, established before time. The Lord, God the Father, said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession Third promise that the Father made to the Son: that his chosen people would receive all the blessings and promises of the covenant of grace through him, such as redemption and recreation. Romans 8. 32 says, He, God the Father, who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he, the Father? Not also with him the Son, graciously give us His elect all things. Luke 12, 32, Jesus speaking Fear not, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. He's speaking to us here. Fourth promise the Father gave to the Son That he, the Son, would be given complete and absolute authority over all creation in order to make all things work together for his bride, the church. Remember, he knows precise individuals. For whom he would die. Matthew 28, 18. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. And then in Romans 8. 28, and we know that for all for those who love God, all things, not just some or most or sometimes. All things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose. And then the fifth and last promise If Jesus Christ fulfilled the terms of the covenant his Father gave him, that he, the Son, would judge, be the judge of heaven and earth. Acts 17, 31, because he, God the Father, has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man, God the Son. whom he has appointed, remember Isaiah 42. And of this he, God the Father, has given assurance to all by raising him, God the Son, from the dead. Now to summarize God the Father's role. The plan of salvation for the covenant, uh for a covenant people, originated with God the Father. He set the terms and conditions. And he set the promises that the Son would give, would receive upon fulfillment of those. So God the Father originated this plan. Now, the Son's role. What were the demands, the specific demands required of the Son in this covenant? And we have four. First, his incarnation in fallen human nature. He had to become flesh. Hebrews 10, 5. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said to the Father, Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me Second, demand, the son must be perfectly righteous. Romans 5, 19. For as by the one man's disobedience, Adam, the many were made sinners So by the one man's obedience, God the Son, the many will be made righteous. Third demand: the Son must be a substitutionary sacrifice for the sin of God's chosen people. Galatians 4, 4 through 5. But when the fullness of time had come, God the Father sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law. To redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. Fourth and last demand The Son must bear all due punishment for the sins of God's chosen people, which included death. Acts two twenty-three. We already saw this first. This Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and knowledge of God, you crucified and killed. Now we should note at this point that God the Son accepted these demands with joy. How would you feel about Having to re uh fulfill demands like that. But he accepted these with joy in order to redeem his people. And we see this in Hebrews 12, too. And this is surely a very intimate verse for each of us here. Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him. Endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. One more important concept here regarding the Son's role in this covenant. And it's regarding God's sacraments. Now we know that God's given the sacraments to sinful believers like us as signs and seals of the promises of the covenant of grace. And then we see in the New Testament that Jesus Christ made use of these sacraments. He was circumcised, he participated in Passover, and he was baptized. But in what way did the sinless Son of God make use of these? The answer is: for him, the sacraments were signs and seals of the promises of the covenant of redemption. Now to summarize the Son's role. With joy, God the Son accepted the demands placed on him by God the Father. to become flesh, live a perfectly holy life, and die on the cross as a substitutionary sacrifice for all the sins of his people. Now you can see how we can say that the covenant of grace for us was a covenant of works. For Jesus Christ. Now, last party of this covenant, God the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit's actions are enabled through this covenant As one theologian put it, it is the Spirit who is earned, promised, and sent by Christ. And we can see this in two verses. John 15, 26, and we have Jesus speaking. But when the helper comes, whom I will send you from the Father, the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me. And then John 16, 13 to 14. fourteen Jesus is speaking to his redeemed people. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you in all the truth. For he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the truth. He will glorify me, God the Son, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. Now, to summarize God the Holy Spirit's role in this covenant. The redemption and recreation of God's people, which is the whole purpose of the covenant of redemption, is applied only by the Holy Spirit. Now let's summarize these details we've seen about the covenant of redemption. Each person of the Trinity had a role in this covenant. It's been put this way. God the Father originated the plan of salvation. God the Son executed and accomplished it. God the Holy Spirit applies it to all the elect. Now think about this as an application too. If you don't believe Jesus Christ was fully God and fully man, or if you don't believe in the Trinity, you have no covenant of redemption And without the covenant of redemption, you have no covenant of grace. And without the covenant of grace, you have no one redeemed since the fall. And you have no man except Jesus Christ in heaven. The triune God is a covenant God. Each of the three persons of the Trinity has covenanted with one another in the covenant of redemption. So we see the Trinity has its own covenant, and according to his own good pleasure and sovereign will, God makes his people partakers in covenant life. You see? It's when the Trinity, and then he allows us to be partakers of that through the covenant of grace. Lastly, let's talk about the success and finality of this covenant. During his earthly life, God the Son's progress toward fulfilling the demands placed on him by his father is recorded in two places. in his baptism in Matthew 3. 17 and at his transfiguration in Matthew 17. 5, and we see in both places God the Father say he's well pleased with what the Son Son is doing and fulfilling this covenant of redemption. And since God Himself was responsible for filling the demands of this covenant Nothing to prevent its success. The church cannot not succeed. And all nations will most certainly submit to Jesus Christ's rule and authority in history. Because he fulfilled the covenant of redemption. God the Son has already fulfilled the demands of the covenant of redemption. So everything has already been done To redeem God's people. The Bible tells us this. It's John 17, 4. And we have God the Son speaking to God the Father there. I glorified you on earth. says, having accomplished, past tense, having accomplished the work that you, God the Father, gave me to do. In John 19, 30, he's on the cross. Jesus Christ is there. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. Don't miss this. The Son's ful fulfillment of the terms of the covenant of redemption had been completely fulfilled at that point. Nothing can ever change the results of God the Son's fulfillment of the demands placed on And thus none of those chosen by God before time would ever be lost. John six, thirty-nine, Jesus speaks And this is the will of him, God the Father, who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. I'll close with a quote from Babink. Nothing can ever deflect God's high decision. It will remain from generation to generation. There is no ground whatsoever for discouragement or despair for the Christian. Everything certainly shall be as God in his wisdom and love determined it. His Almighty and gracious will is the guarantee of the redemption of mankind and the rescuing of the world. In the great afflictions of our lives, our hearts therefore remain at peace. in the Lord. Let's pray. Lord, you tell us in Ephesians 1 that your entire plan of salvation for us Is contained in your eternal decree, which you established before time. We are amazed, encouraged, and comforted by the scope of your sovereignty We see that in history, in our lives each day, you are carrying out your covenant of redemption. You elected each of us, every Christian. For a purpose, for a special mission. Help us to see what that is. Keep us faithful as we meditate on your truth in our hearts and continue on in our callings today. Give us peace and joy in our hearts in all our circumstances. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.