Congregation of the Lord, it is uh good to be back with you again this morning. It is a joy and a privilege to um speak to you in the name of the Lord from the word of the Lord and always something completely in myself utterly unworthy of doing. Our theme continues to be in the month of December, as is you might say, please the church throughout the centuries in discipling the nations to have a time uh of advent. You don't have to keep this obviously to be saved. There's nothing special or extra righteousness in it. But um I think what the church has done for many centuries is a good thing. I don't think it was by happenstance that the church with the risen Christ and the Spirit with the command to make disciples and go out had to find what is the best way to make disciples. What should we set out to teach and preach the gospel? So I for one am glad not not really growing up in a Christian tradition that did much risk the church calendar. They always had Christmas. But I'm not sure maybe Advent or I just maybe was one of those who sat in the pew and just didn't pay much attention Could have been that case. But I'm thankful for uh a time of advent 'cause it really f it finishes off the gospel. It It starts to cycle back again when we do Mark Christmas, the birth of Christ the Savior But the birth of Christ the Savior, uh, and what that means right in the fullness of it, according to God Well, isn't finished yet? And that is only culminated and consummated at his return. And so it's good for us to have a time where we consider the advent of the Lord, not just preparation for Christmas Day, but advent of Christ who was a baby, and you know the story, the gospel, but now reigns at God's right hand. And when the father says Go, he will come again and do the work appointed for him to do in that day And what I want us to consider this morning as we look a little bit at kind of all these passages is that the day of the Lord is both a day of judgment But also a day of salvation. It is a day of judgment. Peter in 2 Peter 3 refers to it as a day of judgment upon the ungodly. But Paul counsels us in First Thessalonians one nine that we who have turned from Worshiping rocks and stones, by God's grace, and serve the living and true God and wait for his son to appear from heaven who delivers us from the wrath to come So that as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, as those who have repent him, and those who do believe in Jesus, It is also a day of hope, a day of expectation, a day that we should be looking forward to when God consummates and culminates. When he has promised his salvation that he has promised for us in the Lord Jesus. Let's start in Zephaniah because one of the joys I have found, at least in since preaching in Jeremiah a few weeks ago, when we talk about these passages in the Old Testament that speak so clearly of God's salvation. It's always so good to read them because it reminds us that it is purely of God's grace. God says, I will do, and I will do, and I will do. And it is good for us to remember, because we do do a lot, but we do do a lot, especially whatever we do in Christ, because God has done first. And God continues to do with us. But what we know as believers, what we know as the church of Jesus Christ What we have when we experience the new creation is God's grace, is God's promise. So let's look at Zephaniah. Zephaniah, he's a prophet who preached uh in the time of Josiah. Josiah was about the third king before the exile, and in him some little bit of a reform took place. But clearly not the sweeping kind of reform that uh would save off any sort of judgment by God, because that sword did fall and the people went into exile Zephaniah is it's only three chapters. Maybe you could read it together as families on the Lord's Day. Listen to it, go read it. It is a little work that has as its theme the day of the Lord His message throughout is the day of the Lord and the call then to repentance. But when they look at the the thing that kind of I've been having to um come to terms with again um this week and studying this is that the day of the Lord isn't only a day of wrath and judgment Because when you read in these verses, which we'll briefly look at, in verses 14 to 20, when you read those things, that's a message of hope. And of salvation. But and these verses contain all the good things that God promises to do for his sinful uh and uh At this time captive people, that final verse there in twenty, restore your fortunes, uh others translate it, return you from captivity. It just means turning, you're turning, and so it's interpreting what exactly What does God mean by turning or turning? They're both good translations. But the idea is this is a word spoken about a people who are in sin and under God's covenant curse and are held captive. And yet the day of the Lord comes and falls, and it doesn't end in judgment for them, but hope and salvation. It's really kind of stunning because if you look if you look back with What this day is described at earlier in chapter one, it's a day of wrath, is that day? It is a day of distress and of anguish. It is a day of ruin and devastation. It is a day of darkness and gloom It is a day of clouds and thick darkness. It is a day of trumpet blasts and battle cry against the fortified cities, and war is coming for destruction against the lofty battlements, all those who want to raise up whatever bastions of human pride against the knowledge of the truth. Well God's coming to make war. Goes on and says then in um Verse 18, neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them. In the fire of his jealousy all the earth shall be consumed. For a full and sudden end you'll make of all the inhabitants of the earth. I'm just going to survive this day. And then in chapter 3, verse 8, he says again, Therefore wait for me, declares the Lord For the day when I rise up to seize the prey, for my decision is to gather nations, to assemble kingdoms, to pour out upon them my indignation. All my burning anger, for in the fire of my jealousy, all the earth shall be consumed God is jealous for us. He does not like to see men worshiping rocks and stones and stars. and money, and marriage, and whatever else we worship. It does not please him. He's jealous for you. He made you for himself. And when time after time God preaches through his prophets, come back to me, I will forgive fully Freely. Yea, the word in the prophet Isaiah, I have covered your sins of a thick cloud, your transgressions of the cloud return to me, for I have redeemed you, my people. And yet we don't, and they don't. At some point, then the judgment will fall And God is provoked, and the fire of his jealousy will burn up and consume, as he says, The earth. But then you go to verse 9. This is clearly talking about a word of destruction. But then in verse 9 For at that time I will change the speech of the peoples to a pure speech. Wait, is this now a purifying fire? Is it a destructive fire? Is it a purifying fire? That all of them may call upon the name of the Lord and serve him with one accord, and so then the rest of this prophecy ends with the message of God's salvation to come out of that day. We hear these wonderful things contained in verses And and hear that uh God is telling the people to sing. He is telling the people to shout. He well his people, the the daughter of Zion, Israel, is telling them to rejoice He's telling them exalt with all your heart. Why? What reason do God's people, does the prophet say, we have to sing and shout and rejoice? The Lord has taken away the judgments against you. All those it's like children who are on timeout, you know, taking away your your timeouts over. People, prison sentences, people on parole, all those judgments, whatever against you that's taking you under God's wrath, his displeasure, has put you in exile, far from all these are taken away It's cleared away your enemies. We're given the word that on this day God has taken away your enemies. They're actually living in your houses now. They're putting up their signs that say, you know, we believe in science, we believe in all these other things, and we control the thought and thinking of the world. Back then, probably different signs. But your enemies are gone. It's a safe place for you to dwell in again. You can speak the name of the Lord, and nobody's gonna throw a stone at you. Nobody's going to seek to end your life. Nobody's going to threaten you when you say, the Lord created the heavens there. Come on, let's worship the Lord. Let's enter his house and give him praise. It's safe The king of Israel, the Lord, is in your midst in that day. God is going to be with his people. You'll never fear evil again. You know, the safest place in the Bible, right? It's God's presence That consuming fire shelters those who draw near and see, but it then burns away everything else, right? I I hate to admit as a grown man I'm kinda scared in the dark. I don't know if everybody else is. I got used to sleeping around other Marines, I guess, in the Marine Corps. I don't like sleeping alone Like light, God's light, present. Oh darkness, the safest place in the world. It's to dwell with God. And God is with his people. So listen, on that day, the day God's with his people, don't fear. Don't let your hands go weak. Our hands growing weak is a sign of despair. There's just nothing we can do to overcome the enemies against us. We just drop our hands in despair. It's a kind of hope as God's saying, no, take courage in that day. King and the Lord is with you. God's an immense, he's a mighty one who saved. Now these verses in verse 17 are amazing. God is going to rejoice over you with gladness. If you know read through read through Jeremiah. This is the thing that stuns me because These are people God's very angry with. And their wickedness is horrible And so there's this whole question, right, what has happened to change so that God is now rejoicing over his people with gladness. He is so pleased with his people. He finds joy in them. Now the ESV, I think this is a way to translate it, but there are other trends, others, even the King James and others In this next one, he will quiet you by his love. I think the better way to interpret it is he will be silent in his love It's a statement of, if maybe you know it as spouses, just a rested contentment in your love for the other. God is just pleased to be back with his people. And he rests silently in his love for him, contented over and maybe even something like that parents have for children when you get all back together and just You have nothing to say. You're just silent in your love. Maybe particularly after time and maybe discipline or anything like that. Please. This is this is God is speaking here to his prophet. This will take place. He'll exalter his loud singing. I really want to hear God sing over us. Do we I don't do we know that God sings? He's a glad God He's glad in what he has accomplished. He's glad in the works of his hands and what it's done. He is glad over his people and he sings for joy. Verse 18 then begins um your footnote there will tell you that the Hebrew is uncertain. Oftentimes the reason why the Hebrew is uncertain is just because um it was only later that Vowel points were given, so there's a lot of you know when you look at the earliest manuscripts, Hebrew and Hebrew always had vowels because you can't have a language without vowels. You can't just have consonants. They just didn't always mark them And so there's always some bit of interpretation of how exactly do you mark this? So what kind of work 'cause if you just learn the language you'll see Change in one point can change the whole world and then it means something else. And so another way to get out what the meaning here is um is actually talking about Pretend Christians, uh faint believers, in that day God's going to get rid of 'em because to them God's festivals are actually mournful because they'd rather be out getting rich and oppressing people And they just you know, they keep the religious day because they got to, but not because they really want to. And God's going to get rid of them. And that day uh also God is going to deal with all your oppressors. They consider it a reproach to have to be God to impose upon them these religious festivals. God's going to have to deal with all those who oppress you. I was just reading in uh Isaiah this week. The people are keeping a fast and God says, here's the kind of fast that I want you to keep. Those who are unjustly oppressed, let them free. And then he goes on and says, here's one way people are unjustly oppressed. Slander and false accusations. It's a heavy burden to carry. And yet, Jesus carried it Christians carry it by the world. You can even do it to others inside the church. God's going to do all the He's talking here about outsiders, all those who oppress you I'll save the lame, I'll gather up because there'll be nobody not saved because of their impotency. There'll be nobody else saved because of uh they're being outcast. And God's gonna change your shame into praise and renown in all the earth. At the time I'll bring you, at the time I'll gather you, I will make you renowned in praise among the peoples of all the earth. God saying, here you are in captivity You are shown people mock you. It's shameful to be a prisoner because you sinned against Yahweh and He's booted you out of His land. And you're now the servants of idolaters. When you should be God's holy nation and chosen people in his land as a light to the nations. That's Israel's great glory, and God is promising to reverse that fortune, right? I'll do this today when I restore your fortunes before you. You will go from an object of shame for nations to one of renown and one of praise. Now we hear all these wonderful things, right? And we go, when is God going to do this? When is that going to happen? Well, it began to happen, as the Gospel tells us. Well, let's go to the Gospel of Luke. John thought it was going to happen really soon. John came preaching, and John preached to the people a baptism of repentance because the Messiah is coming. And he is going to baptize with the Holy Spirit and with fire. He's going to both separate the wicked and gather in the righteous people of God, and that will be the day Of when this salvation is going to come to us. And so John preached to the people. We have here in the verses that we read the record of what John said to those who came out to be baptized. Remember, John's baptism was to prepare people for the day of the Lord, the coming of the Lord. John does say a quick word, or not so much a quick word, but a word about the kind of preparation he means. You board the Bible who warned you to flee from the wrath to come. And John's point is, I didn't teach you guys To flee from the coming wrath of God by a mere ritual washing was this point. That may be what others had gathered from what John was doing in the wilderness preaching. And then thought, oh good, all we need is just to have a ritual washing, uh, merely go under the the rite of baptism, and we're good Say, find that's over, can do, live as I want. The other says, no, that's not what I preach. John also is honest kind of people. Don't don't say to yourself to get ready for that day that uh So I had a very righteous great great great great great great great great great great great grandfather, right? And I didn't Have the sign and see the covenant God made with him. And we're children of Abraham. Merely by physical descent. And John says, don't rest upon your ancestry. Well, what do you do? What did John tell the people how to escape? He said, Yes, be baptized. But understanding the baptism that I've been called to minister is to bring a changed life about. Here I know this is gonna be a silly illustration. This is the only one I can I could think of. Okay, here we go Think of a pig. Pigs are muddy and dirty, right? They live a certain kind of life. I know some of us know pigs intimately here. And they often live muddy, dirty lives and they're raised to become bacon. That's their end. We could say destruction. Let's imagine you want to spare that pig and you want to give it a new kind of life. Well, I'm not going to bring a pig in my house at walls and mud, right? What are you going to do to it first? Wash it You gotta clean it. John said, yeah, God sent me to wash you, to clean you, that you might return to God and walk in his ways and not continue in filth. You need a real repentance. You need a real acknowledgement of the wrong way of your life. You need a real turning from living by uh But whatever they're living on to, we're living by faith and reliance and confidence and rest upon God and His grace, but not upon your works and what you do, a real coming to God And that real coming to God that always produces a real change of life. That's what John's preaching to the people. The thing is, John's salvation is it's for everybody. Not only do the people come to an ask what to do, because the change of God's life, that that demonstrates that no longer do they live how they want. No longer they're uh but when they see people you know this is a demonstration of bodily love, when they see people who can't clothe themselves, they clothe them, their neighbors. They see people who don't have the food necessary for the day, they They feed themselves. The point is though a world that looked like this would not bring forth the judgment of God. Why would God does not judge righteousness? It judges wickedness. If you want to escape it, turn from wickedness. To righteousness. Now, I know there's some, we're going to get to the middle step where we can get to what's in there, but but the point still needs to be understood That's how the world survives the judgment coming. God is nothing to, you know, uh John preaches this in his letter We who know the love of God to us in Christ and have responded to that by a work of grace. Believing in it, believing in God, loving him, with confidence in the day of judgment, because w we're like Christ. The judgment fell on Christ, not because he was righteous, because he took our sins John preaching this people you want to escape the coming wrath of Messiah comes in, turn from your wickedness You uh the you tax cutters, this is a wonderful word of grace, right? This tax customers are seen as almost near unsavable and filthy because of their um intercourse with Gentiles John says, you too. There's even hope for you, wicked people. Be washed, be clean, but what should we do? Look, click no more than authorized to do. Be contemplative rage. Don't covet. Well as the soldiers, beacons and raises, don't collect more than you're authorized to do. Soldiers you need to get now. Soldiers are even further out. And yet they're coming because this day of the Lord is coming. And the acts is at the root John is preaching. You need to have a furrow. A real repentance that results in a changed life, and you need to have an immediate one because the axe is at the root and it's about to fall What do we do? Well don't extort money from anyone by threats or false recognition. Uh a shakedown is what he's talking about. You know what a shakedown is? And you corner a guy and you rough him up a little bit, give him fluster, give me your money. Soldiers didn't get paid a lot. And maybe they wanted a new iPhone. Well they can't afford it, so they're gonna beat the guy up who does have an iPhone. No. You want to get ready to turn. Have a real change of heart and turn Why? Well, the Messiah is coming, and he's going to baptize with the Spirit. Number five. John's saying the day of the Lord is coming. So he's saying, when is God going to do this? Zephaniah is telling those great things. When is he going to do this? John's saying he's about to do it. Get ready for it, be washed, a real pardon, a real cleansing by God, that you may then go before Him and live before Him. In that a change new life and have no fear of the judgment and he's preaching that. Now, as we go through the rest of the gospel story, as we even just maybe fast forward to Our passage in Philippians. What happened? What took place, right? Did the day of the Lord come? John said it was going to come. Well the answer is yes, and no, but yes Because of the the the one of the stunning things about preaching uh the gospel and preaching the good news of Jesus Christ. Is that that promise, that that wrath that was going to fall, that fire and that judgment, right? God promised all the prophets that he's going to judge sin and judge wickedness and take away our judgment. So God has done that through the Savior Jesus. So the Messiah came right that John's thrown off the later in the Gospel of John S. Are you the one coming? Because we thought your coming was going to be a bit more fiery than this. And John Jesus has to assure him: I am truly the Messiah. But you are preparing a people for me now to receive me as I've come and he came to us as king. See I I as I read the gospel, I don't know about you, but I I'm so thankful that the day of judgment didn't come then, aren't aren't you? I'm so thankful that Jesus came and died for our sins and rose again that he may preach to us repentance because he is really coming again. But now what is proclaimed to the nations is God's grace, because nobody, the world cannot get itself ready for this. But this is the work of the risen Christ to prepare us for the day of judgment. It's the work of Jesus. John goes into um not John should be. If you look at Philippians All of a sudden you get to this reality that the day of the Lord must come because the people are told to rejoice. They're told to rejoice in the Lord, united to the Lord. So Zephaniah's promise that the day of the Lord, God's people will be rejoicing. And Paul's saying is speaking to the church who's been baptized by the Holy Spirit, by the risen Christ, who died for their sin. Now he's preaching to them, rejoice. Now he's preaching to the people, you don't need to live with fear and anxiety. God said that. He promises here, you want to live without fear and anxiety and care and concern? Well, there's a better way than all of your mental efforts that you come up with to stave off the fears and worries and anxieties of the sage, and it is prayer to God. It is drawing near to God, whose Savior in Jesus Christ. Acknowledging him, giving thanks to him, and just letting him know. Father, this is what I'm concerned about. This is what I'm anxious of. Here's my request. Will you please do this for me? And that is, and then and Paul says that kind of prayer is joined with God's peace taking up sentry or a guard stand by your heart so that fears and anxieties can't come rushing into it. Paul's preaching to the people a God of peace is with you. Wait, Zephyr and I said God's going to be with you. And Paul's preaching Set your mind on what's true, what's good, what's beautiful. He mentions many other things there And live like the way that we've shown you and the God of peace will be with you. Wait, did the day of the Lord come? If it came, when did when did it come? When did it happen that all of a sudden Everything God's promise to Zephaniah, Paul's preaching as reality to the church. Be glad. Know that God's with you. Don't live with fear. What what's her place? Well that's that's the message of the cross and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That the judgment of God upon sin has come forward in time. And that Jesus is rising from the dead is not an entry back into this age. But he's risen into glory, raised incorruptible. He's gotten to a place you don't advance beyond. As the risen, glorified Christ. And the joy of preaching the gospel in this age is the joy of announcing The good news that God's kingdom is here now. The sinners can leave and They're idols behind and join it and come to Christ in faith. They have God's pardon. They need not fear, and they come to Jesus. And they can live by his grace. Now I will say this before I close, that it's not all here yet. But because of the day of the Lord still is a day of wrath for those who do not know God and who disobey the good news of Jesus Christ, that He is the Son of God. That he is the Lord, that he has been raised. It is a day of wrath if you do not repent and receive Christ. It is a day of Ra if you do not come to Him and seek His mercy Do you not turn from self-righteous living and reliance upon yourself and trust in God's grace? And turn to Christ as Savior and Lord. But it is a day of great expectation to the church as we live and hope and wait. When Jesus comes to raise us to glory like himself, to set us free from captivity. And you think, I'm not captive? Well the interesting thing is Paul's in prison right now as he's writing this. He's captive. John preached, and he was made captive. Where are God's people going to stop being made captive by those who don't want to listen to the preaching of the gospel? When are God's people going to start being made to wear the shame of the cross because they believe the good news of Jesus Christ? When Jesus comes back. Well the day of the Lord has happened, in a sense. And now for those who believe and trust in Jesus Christ, as Paul says earlier in this letter, It is a day in which God who began a good work in you is going to finish it and complete it. So I'll just leave you with the words of Zephaniah because they're far better than my words. Congregation, sing aloud, shout, rejoice, and exalt with all your heart The Lord has taken away the judgments against you. He has cleared away your enemies. The King of Israel, the Lord, is in your midst. You shall never again fear evil. Fear not, let not your hands grow weak. The Lord your God is in your midst A mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness He will rest quiet in his love. He will exalt over you with loud singing. I will bring you in. I will gather you together. I will make you renowned and praised among all the peoples of the earth Then I restore your fortune before your very eyes. Continue, congregation, to look for that day When God does this, work of his grace for your salvation, Amen