The first reading in the New Testament is the Gospel of Mark, chapter 14, 27 through 31. Mark 14, beginning at verse 27. And Jesus said to them, You will all fall away, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter said to him, Even though they all fall away, I will not And Jesus said to him, Truly, I tell you, this very night before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. But he said emphatically, if I must die with you, I will not deny you. And they all said the same. And then please turn to John chapter 21, verses 15 through 19. John 21, beginning at verse 15. And when they had finished breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter: Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him a third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Truly I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God. And after saying this, he said to him, Follow me. The Word of the Lord, the gospel of Christ, praise be to Christ. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that you will bless the preaching of your word, these gospel discussions and interviews and encounters May we find in these words hope and resurrection and grace and peace and life. Well, first of all, in these passages we see The spectacular failure of the Christian CEO. Look back at it In the Gospel of Mark, Jesus said to them, You will all fall away, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. But after I'm raised up, I will go before you to Galilee Then Peter spoke up. The ever-confident Peter. Peter said to him, Even though they all fall away, the other disciples, no matter what. You know, even though they all fall away, I will not. And Jesus said to him, Truly, or Amen, he said. Truly, amen. I tell you, this very night before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. But he said emphatically, if I must die with you, I will not deny you. We have to understand the context of the Eastern mindset about shame. In Eastern cultures, shame is a big deal. In our individualistic Western cultures, it's not so much a big deal. If we get shamed, well, we just move on. and destroy a relationship and oh no problem. But in Eastern cultures, shame was a big deal, a serious problem. And to spare yourself to the detriment of your family or your teacher, such as a rabbi, if you were a disciple of that rabbi, to spare yourself, to save your own skin. and uh dip betray your friend, your rabbi, was unthinkable. You could never outlive it. It's like disowning your mother or disowning your child just to save yourself Again, in our modern individualistic culture, self-preservation is number one. We just walk away from relationships sometimes. But in that culture, this shame would never be forgotten. In uh Mark chapter 14 We see the scene that happens after this, just a few hours after this. Mark 14, 53 through 72. And they led Jesus to the high priest And all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together, and Peter had followed him at a distance Right into the courtyard of the high priest. And he was sitting with the guards and warming himself at the fire. You've got to remember that. There's a fire. It's dark. It's the high priest's courtyard, and there's a fire, and he's warming himself. And Jesus is being tried illegally, as we pointed out recently. And it says in verse 66, as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls. A servant girl of the high priest came and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, You also were with the Nazarene Jesus. But he denied it, saying, I neither know nor understand what you mean. And he went out into the gateway, and the rooster crowed. And the servant girl saw him and began again to say to the bystanders, This man is one of them. But again he denied it. And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, Certainly you are one of them, for you are a Galilean. And then verse 71, but he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, I do not know this man of whom you speak New Testament scholars tell us that when he invokes this curse, it's not a reflexive verb calling down a curse on himself, but it's a transitive. verb, which means that in all probability he cursed the name of that man, Jesus. In order to make his point abundantly clear that he could not possibly be associated with such a terrible person as this Jesus. And then verse 72, and immediately the rooster crowed a second time. And Peter remembered how Jesus had said to him, Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times. And he broke down and wept. Shame on Peter. Shame on Peter And notice also here the parallels of the situation that night. Jesus is on trial before the powers of the world. And he, in the face of that trial, told the truth to his own detriment and condemnation in order to save others While Peter was on trial in the courtyard before a slave girl and some other unremarkable people And what did he do? He lied and cursed Jesus in order to save his own skin. We have to wonder how this report of the CEO of the Christian Church How this report of what he did made it into Mark's gospel. Well Peter must have reported it himself. He must have reported it to Mark and approved it for publication in the Gospel of Mark. Brothers and sisters, this inclusion is a proof of some sort that Jesus really rose from the dead. Why would he bear such shame unless it had been somehow removed from him and absolved by Jesus who was raised from the dead? It's a wonderful proof. It's not the only proof by any means. But in that culture, oh, it's really a proof. Let's move to the second point. The savings substitute for failures like Peter. Again, I say this shame, which we need to understand deeply, this shame would never have been published unless it was removed somehow, unless it was transformed into something better. Because the Gospels were written to promote the faith. They were copied and passed around the Roman Empire to promote faith in Jesus. Why include such a shameful account? It would be like starting a business and putting up a website and making Bernie Madoff. Your CEO, if he had survived prison. Or making Kenneth Lay, that's the guy who was in charge of Enron when it collapsed years ago, making someone like that your CEO and putting their name up Some scandalous person who is not trustworthy. You see, the saving substitute makes the difference. Peter was a jerk and a miserable failure. But Paul says about the results of the resurrection in Romans 4. He says, God who raised from the dead, Jesus our Lord. Who was delivered up for our trespasses and was raised for our justification? What does it mean that he was raised for our justification? Well, think of it this way. The resurrection is like a receipt. It's like a receipt. If I go into BJ's wholesale warehouse club and I load up a couple of shopping carts full of hundreds of dollars worth of food If I wheel those shopping carts to the door, they'll want to see a receipt, to know that the price has been paid. If I have such a receipt, they'll let me go on out and take my stuff home. If I don't, they'll probably call a guard. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is proof that the bill was paid. It's proof that Peter could live. And outlived the shame of what he did. And so he was willing to see it published in the Gospel of Mark. Peter's shame was absolved, it was forgiven. And so this story, again, becomes proof of the resurrection and of the power of God to justify sinners. He was raised for our justification. There is no other plausible explanation for such a disgraceful inclusion except that it is true. And Jesus really was raised, and Peter knew it. What an amazing and life-changing encounter with the risen Christ! You and I need to have such an encounter With the risen Christ. How do we have such encounters? That's the third point I want to bring to you today: the sanctifying death to sin and self and the new life in Christ. Christ. The sanctifying death to sin and self. Peter had to die to a high opinion of himself. You know what a high opinion he had of himself. I will never, never deny you, even if I have to die. His reputation as a leader, as a man of good character, had to die. And how did Jesus kill it? In John's Gospel, verse 15, it says, When they had finished breakfast, stop there. Breakfast. Where was this breakfast held? It was breakfast on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, and it was by a fire. Jesus had been cooking, and there was the fire. When was the last time we saw Peter by a fire? It was when he was warming himself with the guards sitting there at the fire. So here at this fire, with the encounter with the risen Christ, Jesus says to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? Remember what he said? Even though they all fall away, I will not. He has to die to that high opinion of himself. What is Jesus doing? Jesus is bringing Peter down to die by this fire. And he said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. Then he said to him a second time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. And if we were to paraphrase this encounter, we would paraphrase it by Jesus saying to Peter, Peter Self-confident Peter, shamed Peter, follow me in dying to self by confessing to all the world your weakness So that the purposes of God may rise out of that death. And I will set you to the course of tending God's sheep. Jesus died for God's sheep. Now he sets Peter to tend God's sheep, God's lambs, giving himself up to Christ's cause for the rest of his life Yes, all the way to death on a cross. And so I'm going to submit to you, Christians, today. That this is the way of the Christian life. This is the way of encounter with Jesus Christ. We have to again and again and again die. To self and sin. Die to a high opinion of ourselves. We have to endure a death to protecting our reputation by lying to ourselves and to others and to God. And so we learn to confess. Again and again and again we learn to confess. What does confess mean? It means to say the same thing When we confess the faith, we're saying the same thing about the faith. When we confess our sins to God, we're saying to God that we agree with Him about our sinfulness. Confession of sin is to come out of the darkness of our pretended goodness and to call sin what it is treason against God. Shameful denying our good master, cursing him to save our skin. And it is a death of confession which is then plunged into the grace of our Savior that causes us to rise to new life. Let me say that again. It is in the death of confession, plunged into the grace of our Savior, that we rise to a new life. There's a little more death here. Verses 18. Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you were old, you will Stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go. What is that? It's code language for crucifixion. Your hands will be stretched out. Peter had boasted, his willingness to die for Jesus, and now he would do just that. And church historian Tertullian. Says that when he was condemned to die, that is, Peter was condemned to die, Peter, this humbled man who encountered the risen Christ. This Peter requested that he be crucified upside down, because he was not worthy to die the way his master died. Brothers and sisters, this is the pattern for you and me. We must die many deaths to self and sin. One of our membership vows in this denomination asked the question Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as your sovereign Lord? And do you promise that in reliance? on the grace of God, you will serve him with all that is in you, forsake the world, resist the devil, and then these words Words, put to death your sinful deeds and desires and lead a godly life. That's only possible if we encounter Christ. In whom we are justified and raised and set on a new course. This is the risen life, the justified life, the eternal life in and with Christ. Who died for our sins and rose for our justification. We are put into service. And that is what Peter was put into in verse 19. And after that saying, he said to him, Follow me. And he says to all of us, follow me. Follow me. Serving Shepherding, leading, feeding God's sheep, serving God's purposes. Follow me. Follow me. And so on this Easter, as we think about these things and as we hope and pray to have that encounter with Jesus, I ask you, will you obey what Jesus said to Peter, follow me. Where are you in relation to Jesus Where are you in relation to Jesus? Are you proud of yourself and your confidence and your strength and in your worth? If so, you must die. Are you broken and wounded and weak? And as the hymn, Just as I Am says, just as I am, poor, wretched, blind Well then, you're ready. You're ready for a resurrection encounter with the risen Lord. He will never condemn those whom he humbles in this way. He raises the fallen like Peter, like me, like you. So may this death to sin and self And the resurrection of a new life in Jesus be yours today. Hallelujah. Christ is risen. Come follow him. Amen. Let's pray together. Lord, we praise you and thank you that you are a merciful and gracious shepherd of your sheep. That you stretched out your arms and died in order to justify us, in order to give us the receipt. That gets us out of our shame and guilt and hell and gets us on the path to serving you. Help us to encounter you, Lord Jesus Christ. In your word, by your spirit, and in the supper that you have ordained for us. Amen.