Congregation here, Psalm 9. I will give thanks to the Lord with all my whole heart. I will recount all of your wonderful deeds. I will be glad and exalted. I will sing praise to your name, O Most High. When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before your presence. presence, for you have maintained my just cause. You have sat on the throne giving righteous judgment. You have rebuked the nations, you have made the wicked perish You have blotted out their name forever and ever. The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins. Their cities you rooted out. The very memory of them has perished. But the Lord sits and throne forever. He has established his throne for justice, and he judges the world with righteousness. Righteousness. He judges the peoples with uprightness. The Lord is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble. And those who know your name put their trust in you. For you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you. Sing praises to the Lord who sits enthroned in Zion. Tell among the peoples his deeds, for he who avenges blood is mindful of them. He does not forget the cry of the affliction. Afflicted. Be gracious to me, O Lord. See my affliction from those who hate me. O you who lift me up from the gates of death, that I may recount all your praises. That in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation. The nations have sunk in the pit that they made, in the net that they hid, their own foot has been caught. The Lord has made himself known. He has executed judgment. The wicked are snared in the work of their own hand. The wicked shall return to Sheol all the nations that forget God. For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish. Forever. Arise, O Lord. Let not man prevail. Let the nations be judged before you. Put them in fear, O Lord Let the nations know that they are but men, the Word of God. God, our Heavenly Father, we bow before you and we acknowledge these truths. They come from your mouth via your servant, the psalmist David. We praise you for them. And we thank you for the hope that we have That will never perish, because it's resting in your firm foundation, which will never be destroyed. And that is you as we listen and to bring this sermon. In Jesus' name. Amen. Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, some would say that the judges of our Federal Supreme Court hold positions of equal even greater influence on the character, morality, and direction of our country than the position of our President himself, or even our Congress occupied Take for example the Supreme Court's decision on January 22nd, 1973. In the case of Roe versus Wade, and its horrendous product, the murder of countless millions of persons Very young persons, yes, but clearly persons nonetheless It's hard to come up with another directive in all our nation's history, whether presidential, congressional, or judicial, that has influenced what we are and have become Come as Americans than that one absolutely dreadful judicial act. And we cannot help but wonder, although their title is The Supreme Court, whether their judgment is indeed supreme. Does it set forth not only the way things ought to be in the United States? Or I should say, do they set forth not only the way things are to be in the United States, but the way they ought to be? There's a difference. To put it another way, did then and does today that body of men and women the occupy or enjoy if that's the word, the lofty position of being the final and indisputable arbiter of the way Americans ought to behave themselves themselves? Are they the supreme determiners of right and wrong, of universal morality Whatever. The citizens of this sorry country are, in truth, not permitted to engage in any activity opposite to what the Supreme Court has read. ruled and when people have tried they've gotten in trouble. It's almost godlike, don't you think? Well it's not And I'm here to announce tonight on the basis of the word of the true and living God that there is a court above the Supreme Court of the United States of America. America. It is the court of Almighty God, the one who exercises judgment ever, in righteousness and truth. and whose decisions are unappealable. Listen to how the inspired writer puts it in his ninth song. You have sat on the throne, giving righteous judgment. The Lord has established his throne for justice. He judges the world with righteousness. He judges the people with The Lord has made himself known. He has executed judgment. The Lord who avenges blood is mindful. Of the oppressed. He does not forget the cry of the afflicted. Let the nations be judged before you. Let the nations know that They are but men. Is that rehearsal plain enough? That you get the point? I can say only God have mercy on the United States of America For only mercy can erase this terrible blot on the record of our setting. But, thanks be to God, mercy is available. Let's take a look together at this ninth Psalm. A psalm clearly of judgment, but not only of judgment. And let us begin with an introductory remark that sets the scene. Did you know that Psalm 9 and Psalm 10 or acrostics. That means that each line or stanza begins with a letter of the Hebrew alphabet. alphabet in alphabetical sequence. Psalm nine covers the first eleven letters of the Hebrew alphabet, and Psalm ten covers that pattern where Psalm 9 Leaves off. Some old manuscripts even put them together as one psalm. I think the Catholic Bible still does. And they do share some distinctive vocabulary. Are they one psalm? I don't know for sure, but probably not. Each has its own distinctive theme. Psalm 10, which Pastor Cathy will take up next week. Deals with a wicked man and seems very much to be an individual crying to God about the prosperity of the wicked. Psalm 9, on the other hand, what we're dealing with tonight is different. It is much more community-oriented, involving the whole church In praising God for how He deals with nations and kingdom. Well, that leads me to what I gather is the point of the Psalm. If we could put it in one sentence. We would say this. The church gives thanks and praise to God for his wonderful work of salvation of those who trust in him That delivers them from both the temporal and the final judgment supreme upon the entire world of men. And nations for their sin, and all of it through his son, the Messiah, Jesus. The first point we want to draw attention to in explicating this proposition that we've just read is the church's thanks to God. Here again, verses 1 and 2. I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart. I will recount all of your wonderful Deeds, I will be glad and exult in you. I will sing praise to your name, O Most High. Now, I know this sounds very personal, doesn't it? There are fully four I wills in the lines of these two verses. That's David speaking from For sure. And he said, I will do this. And he understandably does have grounds for exultation. That's a U, not an A. Exaltation is jumping up and down with pure glee. As we explained some time ago, you might remember. That's what the Hebrew verb denotes. After all, David has very personal knowledge of God's wonderful beings. How could he ever forget that slingshot missile finding its exact mark in the forehead of Goliath? That was not a young boy's plaything expertise, was it? But I say that this is rather the church's thanks and praise to God, not just David. I know that because of what follows in this psalm. Verse 10, those who know your name put their trust in you Verse 11, tell among the peoples his deeds. Verse 14, in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in In your salvation. That's Jerusalem, my friends, where the temple stood. David is not here calling attention to his own private devotions. He's talking about the church visible in his statement of praise. Yes, he is the nation's king, but he doesn't think very highly of his position. It is Yahweh, the I Am, the Most High God, who alone must receive all the thanks and praise of his covenant people. Israel. Yes? This too is what you do, Christian, and what you just did the last 15 minutes here in church When you go to church, you go there and then, with your brothers and sisters in Christ, to recant publicly God's will Wonderful deeds of salvation. That's why you sing psalms and hymns. That's when you exult, although I didn't notice any of you exactly jumping up and down, but I hope you It did somewhat in here. And incidentally, as the pastor called attention to it in his opening remarks, that's why our denomination, together with the URCNA That's the United Reformed Churches of North America, a sister denomination of ours, has now published Trinity Psalter. to appear in just a few months. This aid to our worship is specifically intended to enable our congregations publicly to recount evermore exultingly God's wonderful deeds of salvation. As we employ not only Psalm 9, but employ the entirety of the 150 Psalms, together with many biblically based hymns. Point two God's rule in the affairs of men and nations. Verses three through seven When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before your presence. For you have maintained my just cause. You have sat on the throne giving righteous judgment. You have rebuked the nations, you have made the wicked perish, you have blotted out their name forever and ever. The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins. Their cities you rooted out. The very memory of them has perished. Here David gives the ground, the reason for the church is giving thanks and praise to God. God. His alone is truly the Supreme Court. Verse 7 makes that clear. And it's the heart of the Psalm. Forever his throne is established for justice He always does what is right. And what is right is defined solely by him. There is no right of appeal above him. Him. For nothing and no one exists above him. And the psalmist here praises God for his work of both judging and vanquishing. He is at work, bringing down ungodliness and routing those who are enemies of his just rule Sometimes we miss this work of God because we are so rooted in the present, in the now. Focus your attention on verse 5. Blotted out their name. The psalmist is not kidding. Remember the regular refrain in the books of Exodus, Leviticus, and Numbers And we read about it this morning. About the Canaanite and the Amorite and the Hittite and the Perzite and the Hevite and the Jebazite and the Mosquitobites too. Where are those nations today? The International Standard Bible Encyclopedia says of the Hebites, for instance. instance, quote, no name resembling Hevite has yet been found in the Egyptian and Babylonian inscriptions. Once these were great nations, feared by many and ruling with might, but now they are gone. They opposed God, and their names have been blotted out forever. Those nations that perpetuate evil and ignore God will know and face and submit to The prophet Jeremiah would later take up this theme, and you can read about the pouring out of the cup of the Lord's wrath upon Fully two dozen powers that oppose him who will surely drink it. Do it when you get home after the service tonight. Jeremiah Chapter 25. And with this chilling summary in verse 33, after you make your way through those 24 names. Of those nations. And those pierced by the Lord on that day shall extend from one end of the earth to the other. They shall not be lamented Or gathered or buried. They shall be dung on the surface of the ground. If you think that it is any less true today, Or in the days to come, before Jesus returns, you are sadly mistaken. That's why I say, God have mercy on the United States of the American America. You can book it. Now the third point. The church's hope facing God's court. This is found in verse Verses 7 through 10. The enemy, the Lord sits in throne forever. He has established his throne for justice, and he judges the world with righteousness. He judges the peoples with uprightness The Lord is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble, and those who know your name put their trust in you. For you, O Lord, have not forsaken Those who trust you. Here it is that we must put a lie to much of modern thought about the Christian religion. What I'm talking about here is the idea, almost universally present, that Christians judge themselves to enjoy better standing with God than non-Christians do, because they, the Christians, believe and act in accord with what they judge is right. And if you think that I'm being too extreme in saying that, just look at the news. And see what people say sometimes about Christians. The problem with that analysis is that it simply ain't so. The truth is that God is the one who judges what is right and what is wrong, not Christians. David says it plainly. He judges the world with righteousness. He judges the peoples with uprightness. And this includes everyone. Including the church. That this is evident is clear from the record of God's dealing with the Old Testament church, known then as Israel. And later Judah. When the record of her iniquity was revealed, she did not escape judgment. When her kings and officials refused to repent of sin and her people followed, they did not escape punishment. They could not stay, although they tried. But we are Yahweh's favorites. Nothing bad will happen to us. No, they too faced God's Supreme Court. And his verdict was unappealable and unescapable. But as you know, that's not the end of the Old Testament. Yet still there is hope. If the nations that oppose God's rule will find their names erased, as they are annihilated in his justice, the people who put their trust in him seeking him, have hope that they will indeed escape the same fate. To put it another way, there is gospel in the old Old Testament too. And the reason for that is that they know his name. And David knows that too. To know God's name is to know God Know God. Name here stands for the total person and means to know God's character, his likes and dislikes. and more. Israel's father, Abraham, learned that name as he watched the smoking firepot. Remember it? Standing for Yahweh himself. That smoking firepot passed in the in the dream or the image that was before his eyes and not quite quite sure how God gave it to him, but he gave to him. He saw that smoking fire potweek pass between the sacrificial animals that he saw. pieces of animals. Yes, the Lord Himself is their hope. Their record will not pass as clean before his judgment seat. But his own righteousness will. Yes, David knew that name, as did the prophets later. We don't hear of it very often, but we should. It's this: Yahweh Sidakanu Yahweh Tidekanu. The Lord is our righteousness. Those who know that name and put their trust in the one who bears it. Have hope. They alone know the Messiah, Jesus, who fulfills that Point four. Verses 111 through 16 tell us about the community of the church praising God. Hear them again. Sing praises to the Lord who sits enthroned in Zion. Tell among the peoples his deeds. For he who avenges blood is mindful of them. He does not forget the cry of the the afflicted. Be gracious to me, O Lord, see my affliction from those who hate me. O you who lift me up from the gates of death, that I may recount all your praises, that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice. in your salvation. The nations have sunk in the pit that they made, in the net that they hid, their own foot has been caught. The Lord has made himself known. He has executed judgment. The wicked are snared in the work of their own hands. Now we've already pointed out that when David speaks here in the first person singular, he includes all the covenant people Israel. For the Lord is mindful of plural. Them the entire nation of afflicted ones who suffer at the hands of the wicked, praise God for their and with their cry for help does not go for their cry for help does not go Go unnoticed, does it? Yahweh indeed does, in his wise judgment, often use the wicked to bring his own covenant people to repentance And ever-trusting dependence upon him. And he certainly did that with Israel, didn't he? And that is good. He used Nebuchadnezzar But in when those wicked ones who might revel in their successes find that they have sunk in the pit that they have made, then they know that they too. Come under God's justice and judgment. They're caught up in their own sin. This is something that the nations do to themselves. Their own transgressions boomerang on them. And destroy them. And this, my friends, is the nature of sin and wickedness. Not only does it have eternal, terrible reward But even in this life, our sin turns back on us as sinners to bite us and to make our life hard and miserable That's why we must repent. Victory over evil governments is viewed as an accomplished fact. The psalmist sees God presently at work, and that work goes on into the future. This is true trust in the Lord. The one who knows that God rules will look upon wickedness and say, That can't last, because I know God is defeating it and will defeat it. Things can't continue as they are because God is at work and evil will be judged. How can we be sure of that? Verse sixteen The Lord has made himself known. He has executed judgment. That simply means that God is known by the judgment that he executed. Executes. God's name and God's reputation are at stake here. But the church as a community praises God for his gracious salvation upon them. That their place has been taken by the Messiah, the coming Redeemer, who would insert his righteousness in our place. and bear our sins on the cross. Now here are verses seventeen through twenty again, as a conclusion for the Psalm. The wicked shall return to Sheol, all the nations that forget God. For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish forever. Arise, O Lord, let not man prevail. Let the nations be judged before you. Put them in fear, O Lord. Let the nations know. That they are but men. God's court is truly the Supreme Court. And those who think themselves assured and Insured against judgment for their own sins will wake up to the truth. God is not mocked For whatsoever a man or nation sows, that shall he or it Reap. Have you sowed faith in Jesus? If you have, then you will reap life eternal. Only Jesus can defend you before the Supreme Court. Amen. Let's pray. Oh God, we are moved by your truth that speaks through our very heart of hearts and judges us. And we come to you in faith. Pleading for your mercy through Christ. And thanking you that we have it. And we praise you that you did not look upon us and see us as any different. From the others. We are not worthy of your grace. But by pure loving kindness and tender mercy, you have given us In your Holy Spirit to work mightily in our hearts to cause us to place our entire confidence and trust in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And of him who took our place on the cross and bore our judgment, that alone will deliver us when we stand before your eternal and sovereign and Supreme Court. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.