Congregation, our scripture reading tonight is from two places. First of all, our text, Psalm 91. And then from Matthew chapter 4, verses 1. This is the Word of God. He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, My refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust. For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence. He will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you will find refuge. His faithfulness is a shield and buckler. You will not fear the terror by night. Nor the arrow that flies by day, nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness, nor the destruction that wastes at noonday. A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you. You will only look with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked Because you have made the Lord your dwelling place, the Most High who is my refuge, no evil shall be allowed to befall you, no plague come near your tent. For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways. On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. You will tread on the lion and the adder, the young lion and the serpent you will trample underfoot. Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him. I will protect him because he knows my name. When he calls to me, I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and honor him. With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. Now Matthew 4, 1-11. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry And the tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But he answered, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you. And on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. Jesus said to him, Again it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory, and he said to him, All these I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall not worship the Lord your God. You shall worship the Lord your God. And him only shall you serve. Then the devil left him. And behold, angels came and were ministering to him. This is the word of God. Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. Do you face any dangers? Perhaps you don't think about such a question all that much, and I don't want to arouse unnecessary fears in your minds this evening. But let's face it, there are significant terrors afoot that could strike you and yours unpredictably. Not every and all disease and epidemic has been eradicated from your midst. Even in spite of the numerous procedures and medications That health providers have discovered and produced. And you could be thankful to the God of Providence for bringing this country to the place where serious illnesses and injuries are often capable of being treated and are even eradicated. Have you had your flu shots? Still, there are those single and even mass murders. That seem almost weakly to capture the telecasts and newscasts. To the chagrin and sorrow of not only victims, but of everyone who hears of these atrocities. And who can say That the proliferation of nuclear weapons of destruction will surely never extend to our shores. Then I could mention, just mention, without engaging in politics, the threats to our environment That rightly or wrongly are found in so many nationwide speeches that we hear. But I've only scratched the surface so far in identifying dangers you face. There is also Satan, whom Jesus faced. Who wants to drag you down by tempting you to sin and exposing you to its punishment? That's dangerous. He wants you to join him in opposition to all that is righteous and good. And yes, even ultimately, he wants you to accompany him into the eternal fire of hell. And that is the sorest danger of all. That can be expressed or experienced. So I still ask: do you face any dangers? You know you do. And I am here tonight to bring you the word of Almighty God to people who need to find refuge and fortress Against all dangers, both physical and spiritual, that even now And if not now, at some time in the future you will face. It's a wonderful and comforting word of God. God your Savior, found here. In Psalm ninety-one. But listen again to its beginning two verses He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, My refuge and my fortress. My God, in whom I trust. Now, before we begin to dive into the Psalm proper, we need to say something about its context and composition. This psalm is, as you note, without a title, and we have no means of ascertaining either the name of its writer or the date of its composition with certainty Spurgeon writes thusly: Quote: The Jewish doctors consider that when the author's name is not mentioned, we may assign the psalm to the last named writer. And if so, this is another Psalm of Moses, the man of God. Many expressions here used are similar to those of Moses in Deuteronomy. And the internal evidence from the peculiar idioms would point towards him as the composer. The continued lives of Joshua and Caleb Who followed the Lord fully make remarkably apt illustrations of this psalm. For they, as a reward for abiding in continuity, continued nearness to the Lord, lived on amongst the dead, amid their graves. So far the quote from Charles Fergin. In his book entitled The Treasury of David, even though he says that probably Moses wrote this psalm There is hardly in the whole collection of the Psalter a more cheering psalm than this one. God's grace and love for his own, both individuals and as a whole, are supremely prominent here, aren't they? And sustained from beginning to end. It should therefore by faith prove to be a welcome and a happy relief to you believers, and indeed to all believers in every age Of covenant history, both old and new, who find themselves besieged by all sorts of fears and fright in the midst of a fallen and evil world You here tonight as well need to know of a safe place to be. When you are confused, downtrodden, yes, even despairing. Well, I'm here to tell you that there is such a place. And only one to which you may flee. So here's the point in one long sentence that I find to be made in Psalm 91. The only safe place to be. Amidst all the terrors, trials, and temptations in this life, and indeed in the life to come. Is found in the fortress that is the Most High Almighty God, who, as the Lord of the Covenant of Grace, pledges To deliver everyone and all of his own who take refuge In the salvation He has provided them through faith in and love for the Redeemer, Jesus Christ. That's what the Psalm's about. And I've divided my treatment into three points. First, my fortress. Verses 1 and 2, which you've heard again. And the first thing I want you to notice about these opening two verses of our psalm is the striking fact that in these few lines The psalmist uses fully four divine names for the one whom he speaks of as providing his fortress First, the most high in Hebrew, Elion, Elion That means highest, exalted, supreme one El Lion. Thus the refuge, the fortress that this one provides for his own cannot be breached By anyone or by any force whatsoever. It's a wall that God constructed. The shelter that is Himself is absolutely reliable and secure. so that the psalmist exults in the fact that he dwells in that God who is the Most High One. And being there, he's in the safest place imaginable Then the name the Almighty appears. In Hebrew, again, Shaddai. That means absolutely mighty. This is the name by which God made himself known to that first representative of the Old Testament church, Abram. In Genesis seventeen: one, I am God Almighty, El Shaddai. Walk before me. And be blameless. Abraham, as he was renamed by God, could be safe. Yes, blameless. Not by his own effort, but by faith in the mighty one who made a covenant of grace with him. Then comes the name Lord, Capitals L O R D Representative of the Hebrew four consonants Y, H, W, H. Rendered by the Old King James Version, Jehovah, by putting in the vows from the word Adonai, which also means Lord, but with small ORD. God is, and his name is Yahweh, and it's okay to say it You don't violate the third commandment when you call him Yahweh. God is He alone is God. The idols aren't Thus, anyone who seeks to find refuge anywhere other than in the true and living God will be sorely disappointed. There's no shelter to be found outside of him, because he is Yahweh. Well, I am. God is the one who holds you in his hand. So make sure that you have fled to him. Still one more name, God. That's the Hebrew Elohim. I YM is the plural form of the noun. Literally, Elohim means gods. It is indeed plural grammatically. Whatever do we make of that? Well, we listen to the first commandment. You shall have no other gods before me, no other Elohim. And we conclude that all that is God and all that is the one we worship is found in this one, Elohim. The God of Scripture who made the heavens and the earth. That plural is, as the theologians have termed it, a plural of majesty. Meaning everything that is God is found in the God who has revealed himself in the Bible. And although his name is plural, he is not plural. He is the one God who is Now, what are you to conclude from the richness of names of God that the psalmist employs to describe the one who is his fortress? Just this. To be sure that you have flown for refuge in the face of whatever danger you face To God Himself, because He is the only place you can ever find that's safe And how does one fly to God Himself? By listening to and heeding the gospel command uttered by the Lord Jesus Christ, God's Son. Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. For there is no refuge, no fortress against the just sentence for the heavy burden of guilt. you carry because of your sin than that which is found in trusting Jesus, the sin-bearer. Come unto him indeed, in true repentance, and with hearty faith. If you do that, it will be because the Holy Spirit of God has enabled you to do it. And if you have done that, it is because the Holy Spirit of God enabled you to do it. It is He who Being Almighty God has the power, the might to regenerate you and give you a new and believing heart to trust in Jesus. Yes, the psalmist, and I agree with Spurgeon, probably Moses, knew that. He knew that there was no other shelter than the Almighty God Most High, the I Am, who in covenant mercy delivered both him and the whole church of the Israelites. From Egyptian bondage, that danger. And brought them safely through the Red Sea, that danger. And then to unto the promised land under Joshua and the danger he faced. Do you recognize that the same wonderful situation prevails also for you? Now thousands of years later, same one. You who trust in Jesus are one with Moses, and you have the privilege and the duty to exult with him. In this gospel of the exalted God in whom you are safe. From every danger, every threat, every power that might seek to separate you from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus Jesus, your Savior. Now, whenever those days of sorrow, of fear Of wonderment come upon you, whatever form they may take, and for whatever cause they arrive, here's the solution. Here's the safe place for you to be. And it's found in Psalm 91. Pray. And pray praising God before you ask Him for anything. Pray Psalm ninety-one, verse two I will say to the Lord, My refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust. That's your prayerful praise. Yes, call him that. God, you are my safe place. And I feel very comforta Comfortable in you. That's the first point, my fortress. The second point is found in the bulk of the Psalm, actually verses 3 through 13, which I'm not going to read again, but you heard them, and it's full of illustrative material, describing your refuge. In God, describing it. These verses give the reasons you see why the psalmist makes God himself his fortress. And for these reasons he recommends the same trust that characterizes him. to be the confidence of all confidence of all those who make God their refuge. And verse 3, for instance, summarizes the deliverance that God supplies his people from all sorts of danger by means of two illustrations. That makes crystal clear just how dependable, how safe God is as a refuge for his own. We read in verse 3. For he will deliver you from the snare of the fouler. That first. Deliver you from the snare of the fouler. Now think about that. The animal prey knows not where the traps set by the hunter had been placed And thus every spot on the field could constitute serious threat to its life. No place is surely safe. Everywhere danger lurks. That's a sorry situation for a rabbit. Or even a bear, for that matter. There is no absolute safety anywhere to be found for those endangered mammals. And the point that the psalmist is making when he says he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler is just this. There is a safe place for the endangered species. Of mankind, threatened everywhere and anywhere by dangers of many sorts. God himself is that refuge for his own people because of his omnipresence. presence. He's everywhere. God is present in all places. He has no physical dimensions, but it is as spirit that he is everywhere. Now, I recognizing that saying that surpasses the understanding of body-bound-bound creatures like yourselves. But know this, needy souls praying to him anywhere in the world are in his sight. He sees them. And he receives their attention. And he gains their trust. Listen to the prophet's description of God's omnipresence in a passage such as Jeremiah 23, verses 23 and 24. Where God says, Am I a God at hand, declares the Lord, and not a God far off? Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him? declares the Lord. Do I not fill heaven and earth? declares the Lord. And the Apostle Paul says that the ascended Christ fills all things. In Ephesians 4. As such, his availability everywhere in the fullness of his power is certainly part of the meaning of God's omnipresence So, knowing where all the traps are set, he knows about all your dangers. And he is able to deliver you from all of them because he is omnipresent. But the psalmist says more in that verse 3. He says that God will deliver you from the deadly pestilence. I think that that means that God is not only omnipresent, he's also omnipotent. He not only knows where all the dangers are, he is also able to free you from them. Now the analogy shifts, you see, from the snare of the fowler to the deadly pestilence. Because a powerful enemy, Satan, is seeking your demise. Temptations to sin beset you everywhere That's why Jesus has us pray in the Lord's Prayer, lead us not into temptation. Don't let that happen in your wise providence, that I be led into temptation to sin. Threats of various kinds to your spiritual and physical health are about us always. You need a powerful, safe place to be. And God is that place because He is omnipotent. He's able to provide deliverance from all that opposes your earthly and eternal well-being. He is all-powerful, almighty, as in Job 42, verse 2. That one man, old Job, testifies, I know that you can do. Can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. Yes, God has power to do everything that in his perfect wisdom and goodness he wills to do. He can do what he wants. Was it therefore excessive for another psalmist to declare, Psalm 46, 1? God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. It would have been a fault to say such a thing if God were less than omnipresent and omnipotent. But knowing that he is both produces great faith and high praise in you, or should Then verses four through thirteen rehearse with varied illustrations Just how trustworthy the Lord God is to provide deliverance for you who trust him fully. He is like a mother bird. Protecting her chicks under her wings. And then again he is like a shield and buckler designed to deflect incoming arrows. He will protect you from any plague, contagious or otherwise, that you fear might come to your home. Unless it is in his wise providence of positive value for you God will do all this, furthermore, through His angels Whom he will appoint as guardians of his people. Yes. And I ask, do you really believe in angels? I know that we don't talk about them very much, but they're there. They're there. Our psalm says it. Do you ever thank God for the angels? For your angels, the ones that are paying attention to you specifically. You should. Christ Jesus needed them To support him in his suffering. And he got them. You need them to support you in yours. And the Lord God will not withhold the angels from you Now I don't I know I'm not saying much more about verses 3 through 13, but at least that much. But let's go on in the third place now to hear God's pledge. God's pledge. Verses 14 through 16, the last three verses of the Psalm. Maybe we better read them. Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him. I will protect him because he knows my name. When he calls for me, I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and honor him. With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. This is God's vow. Yes. It's God's pledge of what he's going to do for you. Here we have the Lord God Himself pledging to deliver his own chosen one. Therefore, not just the angels of God only, but the God of angels himself will come to the rescue of all his own In their perilous times, and will effectually deliver them. Now that promise is wonderful enough in itself and can result only in grateful thanksgiving and praise to the God of all grace, right? I say that it is wonderful enough in itself Because with all his sins and imperfections, this person who's pledged by God to be helped does not deserve to be thus kept and helped. Doesn't deserve it. But when the psalmist gives the reason why that deliverance takes place, I'll tell you, we bow in greater wonderment. I I certainly do Perhaps you did too when I read those verses again. Is that really in the Bible? God says in verse 14 something so amazing That without the context of the rest of the Bible, we would find it incomprehensible Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him. I will protect him. Because he knows my name Indeed, is it so that God waits for somebody that, recognizing who God is, truly loves him? And when he finds that person, when God finds that person, delivers him from trouble because of that. I suppose that interpretation could be drawn from the grammatically constructed words standing all by themselves. But they don't so stand all by themselves, do they? They are found in the context of the entire scriptures Which point us in a different direction than we first might have thought For the Bible as a whole is an account of the covenant of grace that replaces Eden's broken covenant of works. The gospel, uniting God's gracious deliverance of his chosen people in all of earthly time, both Jews and Gentiles, is aptly summarized. In those words of the Apostle John in his first letter, chapter 4, verse 10, in this is love. Not that we have loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sin. Believer in Christ Jesus, it simply is not the case that because you decided to take advantage of a free offer. God has quid pro quid granted you salvation. That you've done this for him, so he has done this for you Back for you. No. It's because God has chosen you To salvation. And by his Spirit has enabled you to repent of your sin and trust in Jesus. And you have done just that. You wouldn't have, because you couldn't have done it apart from his grace. Truly, you love him because he first loved you. But you do love him. Faith without works is dead, as James writes And you who trust in Jesus love God, not perfectly, but truly. Your faith will always be visible, perhaps not always. But at last it will be made visible. That's why you want repeatedly to hear the gospel. That's why you're here tonight, because you want to come to church to hear again the gospel of God's grace. And that's why God, through the preaching of His Word and the operation of His Spirit within your heart, comes to you time and again, week after week. Because you know him and you have been loved by him, and thus you've been enabled to hold fast to him In love. He says, and this is his pledge: I will deliver you because you show yourself to be my adopted child I chose you because I loved you, and now you love me. That's why God says in verse fifteen of you and every other true Christian, When He calls me, I I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and honor him. To put it another way, and maybe it's the same thing, your love for God is not the guarantee of deliverance from danger Your love for God is the proof that God has first loved you and will love you to the end. That's his plan. He will not allow anything to separate you from his love in Christ Jesus the Lord. That too is the meaning of verse sixteen. That's a little bit amazing of a verse. Isn't it? With long life, I will satisfy him and show him my salvation. Understand it well. That's not a guarantee of a particularly long life for every Christian. I think of our brother David Haney. In God's providence recently taken from this world, after anything but a long life, he's only 50-something. But David was and is now in the only safe place to be Your life, however old you are, is in God's hands, and it will be exactly as long as He in His wisdom has decreed it to be. be. And that's safe enough. Congregation, dwell in the shelter of the Most High. And abide in the shadow of the Almighty. Take his word for it. It's the only way that you can cope. With all the puzzles, struggles, and dangers you face. Amen