Please open your Bibles to the book of Job, where we will read chapter nineteen, verses twenty-three. through twenty-seven. Job nineteen, verses twenty-three through twenty-seven Oh, that my words were written. Oh, that they were inscribed in a book. Oh, that with an iron pen and lead they were engraved in the rock forever. For I know that my Redeemer lives and at last on the earth. And after my skin has been thus destroyed. Yet in my flesh I shall see God, whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold and not another. My heart faints within me The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. New Testament reading and the text for the preaching is 1 Corinthians 15, 1 through 28. Paul writes to the Christian church at the city of Corinth Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you. Unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures. that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, in accordance with the scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas Then to the twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me, for I am the least of the apostles unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me. Whether then it was I or they, so we preach, and so you believed Now, if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain, and your faith is in vain. We are even found to be misrepresenting God because we testified about God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if it is true that the dead are not raised. For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile. And you are still in your sins. Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in Christ we have hope only in this life, we are of all people most to be pitied. But in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man came death, by a man has also come the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. But each in his own order. First Christ, the first fruits, then at his coming, those who belong to Christ Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power. For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death, for God has put all things in subjection under his feet. But when it says all things are put in subjection, it is plain that he is accepting, he is accepted who put all things in subjection under him. When all things are subjected to him, then the Son Himself will also be subjected to Him who put all things in subjection under Him that God may be all in all. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray now that as we have read this portion from your word, we will understand it and be able to apply it and live it and know it to be a true thing. So that we might not live in despair, but in great hope of the resurrection of our flesh. Amen. So Paul begins by pointing out the importance of the gospel of Christ. He says it's so important because it brings salvation. It brings salvation. He says, I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel. That means good news that I preach to you, which you received in which you stand. By which you are being saved. There it is. If you hold fast to the word I preach to you, unless you believed in vain, salvation comes through the gospel. Being saved. Someone might ask, being saved from what? Well, I'll tell you it means two things. It means In this life, being substantially saved from a messed up life in the here and now A messed up life in the hear and now. Because the gospel brings order, brings peace. brings reconciliation amongst people and it brings human flourishing wherever it goes. It saves people from all kinds of troubles. It saves in this life. The gospel brings comfort and hope even in the worst conditions in life. Even people who are imprisoned in prison camps, if they trust in the gospel, in Christ. They have hope in the darkest and worst conditions possible. It saves in life. But secondly, it also saves in eternity. It saves completely. The book of Hebrews says, to the uttermost. It saves from death, you see. That's eternal. And hell, that's eternal. It saves from these things which are the results of the wrath of God. Really, what it means is that you're being saved from God Himself, who the Scripture says will by no means clear the guilty. What does that mean? It means that God has to do something about your guilt. You have sinned, all of you. He has to maintain justice. He cannot just ignore his own law and fail to prosecute, as the DA just recently did in Chicago. Justice must be served either by you or by a proper substitute. God cannot sin, God cannot lie, God cannot cast off his justice. God cannot act contrary to his nature. So something else has to happen. He has to provide salvation through another person A human person, a perfect human person who never sinned. And that's what Paul's preaching about. Christ, the perfect human substitute who never sinned. So it's about salvation. But that's not the issue that he's discussing here. That's part of the issue, but that's not the main thing. The thing he is discussing here is that some of the people in the church The congregation at Corinth were actually scoffing at the gospel of the resurrection of Christ. And scoffing at the idea that Christians who die will someday be raised up. They were scoffing at it. What was going on with them? Well, we'll get to that in a moment. But Paul answers their objection, their scoffing, with three arguments here. Three arguments. First, the argument from authority. Secondly, the argument from evidence, and thirdly, the argument from logic. Again, the argument from authority first, the argument from evidence, and the argument from logic First, the argument from authority. Now, he's dealing with a modern problem. It's not just an ancient problem, but a modern problem. And I'll tell you about a man named John Shelby Spong. S-P-O-N-G. He wrote a book in 2001 called A New Christianity for a New World. And in that book, he says, among other things, he says, I do not believe that Jesus was born of a virgin. He says, virgin births don't happen except in fairy tales. He said, There were no angels who announced his birth to Judean shepherds who came to worship him. I do not believe that he was taken to Egypt to escape the wrath of King Herod. I do not believe the events Christians celebrate on Easter was the resurrection of a three days dead body of Jesus. That's what John Shelby Spong says in his book. Now you may ask, why does it matter what he said? Well, here's why it matters. He spent 30 years as a pastor and eventually a bishop of an entire diocese of a Protestant church And he lectured at Harvard Divinity School and has written books that have been widely read. popular books on the New York Times bestseller list. He has had influence. The modern response might be, well, that's just your interpretation. Okay if it works for you. I have a different interpretation. That's okay if it works for me. As if the truth doesn't really matter How does Paul answer? He doesn't go the modern way. He says, no. Christianity has certain features Criterion that define it. It's not okay to have a different interpretation of these things. Now, just for instance, suppose I had just met Pete And um we're the same age by the way. And I was just chatting with Pete, I just met him, I was chatting with him, and and uh he has graduated from the University of Virginia long ago, so I asked him where he went to school. And he says, the University of Virginia. And then I said, wow, Pete, me too. And he says, well, we must have been there about the same time. What did you study? And I said, um, well, um, I didn't really study there. He says, what was your degree in? Well, I didn't really get a degree there. And uh then uh Pete might ask, well, what courses did you take? Well, or what professors did you have? Well, I suppose I could answer this way. I really didn't actually register or take any courses. And then Pete would say, I thought you said you went to the University of Virginia. Well, I hung around campus sometimes. I really like the place. It's very If that's the kind of answer I gave to that, my claim has no authority because I can't just redefine what it means to attend or graduate from the University of Virginia. There are criterion set by the UVA for making a legitimate claim to attend or graduate from the University of Virginia. The criterion of courses? Curricula and tuition. You have to do those things to make that claim. That's what Paul's doing here, first of all. He's making the argument from authority. He says the main contents of the gospel must be believed if you want to claim to be a Christian. He says in verse 3, 4, I delivered to you without changing it. Of first importance, what I also received, I didn't change it, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures. Let's take that apart for a moment. Christ! The Messiah, the long-expected one, who has certain characteristics. Christ. Died for our sins. His death was hell bearing As a substitute for your death. God was maintaining his justice by killing Jesus on the cross making him an atonement for sin as a substitute for you and me who have sinned against God. He's maintained his justice He died for our sins. And then it says, in accordance with the scriptures. The scriptures, what scriptures would they be? Well there's a lot of them but here's one very important scripture which dates back to 700 BC that says this Listen to the words of Christ dying for your sins from 700 B. C. in Isaiah 53, 4-6. Listen to these words. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. We esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. Can you hear the words of dying for us, dying in our place? And then listen to this verse six. We all like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. That's our sin. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He died for our sins. That's what Paul is saying. And then he says in verse 4, and that he was buried. He was buried. Well, we ask, where do you get information about his burial? John chapter 19 tells about a righteous man, a believer, named Joseph of Arimathea. Who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews. He asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took away his body. And Nicodemus, also, who had earlier come to Jesus by night, came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about seventy-five pounds in weight. That's the way they mummified a dead person. So they took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths, wrapped it, wrapped it, wrapped it, with spices in each wrapping. as the burial custom of the Jews was. And now in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden, and in that garden a new tomb in which no one had ever yet been laid. So because the Jewish day of preparation, since the tomb was close at hand, they laid him there. He was buried. He was buried But then Paul says: here's the other part of the gospel that you must believe if you want to call yourself a Christian, and that he was raised on the third day, in accordance with the scriptures, in fulfillment of the scriptures. Well, when did Jesus ever predict that he would die and be in the grave three days? Many times. Like one of these is Matthew 16, 21, where Jesus is speaking to his disciples. It says, from that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised. Specific, you see. Third day be raised. Matthew 17, verse 22. As they were gathering in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man. is about to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day. In Matthew 20, verse 17 through 19. As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside. And on the way he said to them, See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death. and deliver him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. And he will be raised on the third day. See, that third day resurrection is so important. It was told, foretold according to the Scriptures. So that's the argument from authority. He has done all these things in accordance with the scriptures. These elements of the gospel are sure because they were foretold beforehand, and Jesus fulfilled them. The second argument is the argument from evidence. Evidence. If you want to prove something in a court, you have to have evidence, don't you? You have to have evidence. Here are the evidence. That is Jesus' resurrection appearances. It says in verse 5, and that he appeared to Cephas or Peter. Someone who's been dead and in a grave comes out and they make an appearance. That's evidence. And then to the 12th, verse 5, the second part So the twelve, who are they? The twelve disciples, the twelve apostles. He appeared to them. He made an appearance. They're all recorded in the gospel stories. And then verse 6, and he appeared to more than 500 brothers at one time. And then he says, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. And so there's the list, the partial list of those that saw Christ risen from the dead, evidence of his resurrection. Now, these early Christians that saw him were transformed because they witnessed the reality of the risen Lord Jesus And in the time of this writing, you could talk to them, and they would tell you about seeing him alive. And they were also willing to die for this truth Based on actuarial lifespans at the time, that 600 people that saw him raised, at least half of them, 300, would still be alive at this time, and you could go talk to them. And they would tell you what they saw that day, whatever day it was. And then Paul says about himself, he says. Now Paul came later. Paul says, last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me. And when was that? It was when Christ appeared to him in a bright light and a great voice on the road to Damascus. He says, For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God But he said, I did see Jesus. I did meet Jesus later than all the others, but I did meet the risen Christ. So that's the argument from evidence There were real people who could give eyewitness testimony to this fact, this historic fact of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So you can't change that into some kind of wishy-washy, feely-goody idea of we all Live somehow. We can't do that. He rose from the dead. Evidence gives the proof of it. Now the third argument is the argument from logic. He says, let's just take this argument thing apart. Verse 12. Now if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say there is no resurrection of the dead? To put it in other words, he says, you cannot hold any hope for the future resurrection of those who die in faith if you deny the resurrection of Jesus. What's going on here? What's going on in the in the minds of these Corinthians? Well, the Corinthians were evidently infected with some sort of Greek Platonic idea that rejects the physical body as evil, inherently evil And posits some only spiritual kind of afterlife. Not a real physical afterlife, but just a spiritual afterlife You see, they were evidently accepting the ancient Greek philosophy, which considered the resurrection undesirable, thinking that the state of pure spirit is superior to bodily life. The bottom line is this: that the Corinthian Christians believed that we live forever, but not in resurrected bodies. What Paul is saying is that the whole gospel is forfeited by such thinking. If the Corinthians denied Jesus' resurrection, they denied all resurrection. Now there are sentimental pagan modern versions of this very popular today. Expressed at many funerals, sometimes even funerals of Christians. I went to a funeral poetry website. And I found these things. Here's one of these funeral poems that expresses this Corinthian idea. This is from a Native American poem that's read at funerals. I give you this one thought to keep. I am with you still, I do not sleep. I am a thousand winds that blow, I am the diamond that glints on the snow. I am the sunlight on ripened grain. I am the gentle autumn rain. When you awake in the morning's hush, I am the swift uplifting rush of quiet birds in circled flight I am the soft stars that shine at night. Do not think of me as gone. I am with you still in each new dawn. Or another one. I am not gone. I remain here beside you, just in a different form. Look for me in your heart, and there you will find me, in our love which forever lives on. In those moments when you feel alone, look for me in your thoughts, and there you will find me in sweet memories that burn strong. Every time a tear forms in your beautiful eyes, look up to the heavens, and there you will see me smiling down from God's glorious Skies. Such poems, my friends, do not teach the gospel that Christ died and rose again for our sins. They opt for something other than Paul's biblical teaching. And Paul's thundering conclusion comes to us. His logical conclusion in verses 13 and following, he says, but if there is no resurrection, no bodily resurrection, then not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain, and your faith is in vain. Religious if you want, but it's in vain. And we are found to be misrepresenting God because we testified about God that He raised Christ, whom He did not raise, if it is true that the dead are not raised For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised, and if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless. And you are still in your sins. And then he says, Then those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in Christ we have hope only in this life, we are to be of all people most pitied. Now see, remember, keep in mind that the resurrection as taught in the Bible, in the Hebrew scriptures and in the Christian scriptures, is not merely a non-material life after death. It is the future of life after death in a glorified body, flesh, which our bodies will be raised up to in a glorified state. I'll suppose this from a scientific ain angle. In this age of DNA We may reasonably expect that there will be DNA continuity between our present bodily existence and our future resurrected bodily existence. So Paul contends with them on this issue in verse 12. Now, if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say there is no resurrection of the dead? The Corinthians Christians just didn't think biblically. Some of them denied the reality of the future bodily resurrection while believing in a resurrected Jesus. Paul shows how the resurrection of Jesus not only proves his resurrection, but proves the gospel. So now Paul finally gives a reaffirmation of the gospel and its impact for us. He says in verse 20, But in fact Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man came death, by a man has also come the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. But each in his own order, Christ the first fruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ. Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power. He says, For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For God has put, then it goes on to the end of that chapter. Add all these things up that he just says at the end, and then put them in the positive, and here's what you get. Christ has been raised, proving that he is your true Messiah, the long-promised one. And the Christian message is not in vain, but is full of resurrection reality for you. Christ is the first fruits, the beginning of a great resurrection harvest that will come. Your faith is not worthless. It's not in vain. But lays hold of things that matter now and forever. And Paul and the other apostles preached the resurrection and the lordship of Christ, didn't tell a lie on God. They were telling the truth. And they were willing to suffer and die for that truth, the truth of the atoning death and the third-day resurrection of Christ And the preaching that dead believers will be raised is also true. They will be raised because they are united to Christ who was raised. Now the atonement made by Christ was effective and complete, as is demonstrated by his resurrection. So you who trust in him are not in your sins But you are 100% forgiven. You are 100% washed from your sins, bought by the blood of Christ, set free from the dominion of sin and the devil and death. And those who we have already said goodbye to in this life, those who have fallen asleep, are not lost. They have not perished. They will be raised up again. And your life of following and obeying Jesus is not in vain. You are never to be pitied for your Christian faith. Never to be pitied. Someday, folks, you may hear. that Ed Cathy has died. Hopefully it'll be the younger folks here that hear that. But if you hear that Ed Cathy has died, don't you dare pity me. My spirit, at the moment of my death, will be with Jesus, and that will be far better than anything. And when they put my body in the ground, don't pity me. My body won't stay there. It will be raised up at the general resurrection and made new. And I, in my body, will enjoy greater joys and pleasures than can be found here. In the words of Job 19, For I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will stand on the earth. And after my skin and my flesh has been thus destroyed, Yet I shall see God, whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes, my resurrected eyes, will behold, and not another My heart faints within me, he says, but this is going to happen. I'm going to be raised. And when When my human self is eventually put back together, I will enjoy pleasures and joys which I can now only imagine. pleasures and joys for which I was created, but which cannot be found in the present state in this fallen world. All things that are truly worthwhile are reserved for my future, my resurrection life. See, I don't have enough time here to do all the things that I can dream of, that I can desire in holy desire. I don't have all the time and the energy and the bodily ability for all the pleasures and glories that I would love to know, that God has put deep within me to know and wish for and want, I don't have enough time. I don't have enough talent. I don't have enough energy to get them here and now. But in my resurrection life, there will be unlimited time and opportunity. And I will fulfill all that potential for which God created me as a person, an individual. And you too, you too, because this life isn't all there is. So don't pity me. But pity those who think this world and this life is all there is. Pity them. Pity those religious folks whose religion is not based on historical facts, but is just a vague, sentimentalized, wishful thinking. Expressed in silly funeral poems. And here's what else this means: you are not pathetic. And you will never regret your faith if you are united to Christ, who was raised up on the third day. And you are not in your sins anymore. You are washed. From your sins. You were bought by the blood of Christ, set free from the dominion of sin and death and the devil. And you will be raised because Christ was raised By the way, even unbelievers will be raised. Jesus spoke plainly of both the resurrection of life and the resurrection of condemnation. John 5. 29. So all will be resurrected, but not all will receive the resurrection of life. Some will receive the resurrection of condemnation and live forever in a resurrected body in hell. That's not good news. Paul finally says history will proceed with Christ on his throne in heaven. That's what's happening now. He's building his church. He's gathering his elect by the preaching of his word. He's gathering his elect. If he's speaking to you today, he's calling you to come to him and trust in him and love him and believe that he was raised from the dead. Having made an atonement for your sins and giving you everlasting life. He's building his church And he will build it until we finally end up with a substantially saved world of substantially discipled nations. That's the future. That's the Christian worldview. Then he will come again, and Paul says, God will be all in all. Resurrection of the flesh. Paul's biblical teaching is enshrined in the Apostles' Creed, written. And about 40 years after this writing in 1 Corinthians, which we will sing shortly, and literally in the original Greek of the Apostles' Creed, it sounds kind of crass. And it says, I believe in the resurrection of Sarks. Flesh. Flesh. Real, touchable, tangible flesh, resurrection. That's our faith. That's our Christian faith. Don't accept any substitutes. Amen. Lord, we pray that you'll help us to trust in your word, which is authoritative, which tells us the truth about realities which we can't always see or know. About the bodily resurrection of a Christ who was seen by many, and who is our hope for eternal life and for a great unlimited future where we who trust in him will be able to Fulfill all that you have poured into us that has been so hampered and hindered by a fallen world and fallen bodies. We thank you for the resurrection of the flesh. Amen.