Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout allow, O daughter of Jerusalem! Behold, your king is coming to you. Righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey On a colt, the foal of a donkey. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the war horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace. To the nations. His rule shall be from sea to sea and from the river to the ends of the earth. This is the word of the Lord. Matthew 21, 1 through 11. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, to the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord needs them, and he will send them at once. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet saying, Say to the daughter of Zion. Behold, your king is coming to you, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a beast of burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt and put on them cloaks, and he sat on them. Most of the crowds spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, Hosanna to the son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And when he entered Jerusalem the whole city was stirred up, saying, Who is this? And the crowd said, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee. And then please turn to Revelation chapter 6, 12, and reading through chapter 7, verse 17. When he opened the sixth seal, I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth. The full moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale. The sky vanished like a scroll that is being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. Then the kings of the earth, and the great ones, and the generals, and the rich, and the powerful, and every one, slave and free, hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains calling to the mountains and rocks, fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand? After this I saw four angels Standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth, that no wind might blow on earth or sea or against any tree. Then I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun with the seal of the living God, and he called with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm earth and sea, saying, Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads. And I heard the number of the sealed, 144,000 sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel. Twelve thousand from the tribe of Judah were sealed, twelve thousand from the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand from the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand from the tribe Tribe of Asher, twelve thousand from the tribe of Naphtali 12,000 from the tribe of Manasseh, 12,000 from the tribe of Simeon, 12,000 from the tribe of Levi, 12,000 from the tribe of Issachar, 12,000 from the tribe of Zebulun, 12,000 from the tribe of Joseph, 12,000 from the tribe of Benjamin were sealed And after this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands. And crying out with a loud voice, salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, saying Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes? And from where have they come? I said to him, Sir, you know, and he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore they are before the throne of God and to serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. For the lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd And he will guide them to springs of living water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Lord, now as we approach this portion of your word, these Readings that have been read, may the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts be acceptable always in your sight, O God, our strength and our deliverer. Amen. Today in the New Testament reading of the Gospel according to Matthew, we recount the events of Jesus entering Jerusalem on a donkey. Amid the crowds of hopeful people welcoming him as a king, this indirect Absolutely direct fulfillment of Zechariah 9, 9, and 10. Then we read ahead, we read ahead, I should say, to a vision. The vision, which was called the Book of the Revelation, which was given to John as an unveiling of things past, present, and future. There we see the phenomenon of palms being used to extol the king. Matthew's gospel didn't use the word palms. It talked about branches, but some of the other gospel writers actually specifically say palms, so it's that kind of branch. It's a palm branch. That people are holding in their hands and waving in some instances and then casting down on the pathway where Jesus is riding this donkey. In the book of Revelation, we see palms being used to extol the king there in this final palm Sunday, as I'll call it. Now, with regard to the Revelation, Why was it given? Why was it given? John personally needed He needed this unveiling. And the fledgling church of the first century needed this unveiling. Let me give you the reasons. Have you ever been hit with some really bad news? For example, a health crisis or marriage failing? or loss of your job, or the death of a loved one unexpected. What happens to you at a moment like that is a thick cloud encompasses your mind. You can't see anything good because that thing takes over all of your thoughts. The way forward for you is dark and gloomy, and all of your hopes and dreams have now become uncertain. The early Christian movement was in such a state. The early Christian movement was in the late first generation. Since Jesus ascended and gave them the commission to make disciples of all the nations in fulfillment of the Abrahamic promise. But the church was being persecuted, both by the Roman state, which was in control at that time, and by the Jews in Palestine. The Romans persecuted the church because the idea of a king other than Caesar, a king named Jesus, that though Christians worshipped, that was a threat to the state. You can't have any other king. You can't say Jesus is Lord, and you must say Caesar is Lord. The Jews, on the other hand, persecuted the Christian movement because it threatened the comfortable status quo that they had with the Roman government that allowed A little bit of self-rule in Palestine. The Romans had appointed governors over the Jewish state. And they got to do their thing to some extent, as long as it didn't offend Rome. And they didn't want to mess that up. And this Jesus coming on the scene, calling himself, or at least his followers calling him the king. And that was put on the cross, as you remember. That was a problem. And so the Jews were persecuting the Christians also. The early leaders of the Christian movement were being executed by this stage in various ways for preaching the good news. I have a sheet here that tells that Peter was was probably martyred in Rome by Nero in the time period between 54 and 56 A. D. He was crucified head down by his own request Andrew was probably died in Edessa around, well it doesn't know for certainly, we don't know when that might have been, but he was severely scourged. And then tied with ropes and then hung for two days before dying. James died in Jerusalem around 44. He was the first one to be martyred He was beheaded with a sword, according to Mark and Acts. John died in Ephesus around Well, he's the one who's writing this, so he died after this around 98. He was thrown into boiling oil, it says, but probably died of natural causes in reality. Philip died in Syria, unknown time. He was crucified. Bartholomew in India or Armenia. He was beaten and flayed and crucified head down. Thomas in Greece died, lanced by idolatrous priests and burned in an oven. Matthew died in Ethiopia around 60 A. D. , cut to death with an axe. And then James in Jerusalem died around 66, thrown down from the Temple Tower. And since he was not dead, they clubbed him to death. So those are terrible things to note, but they are something of what happened to these fellows. But John is one who is still alive in the late 90s. And one of the remaining few who, for his crimes of following Jesus, was exiled to a remote island called Patmos in the Aegean Sea. And there Jesus appeared to him. That's what the revelation is. It's the appearance of Jesus speaking to John and to the church He saw visions of realities that he could see in no other way. He saw the final Palm Sunday. By the way, this same John the Apostle had been present on the first Palm Sunday that we read about in Matthew 21. He had been there seeing the crowds hailing Jesus as the son of David, the expected Messiah, who would restore Israel and Jerusalem as God's nation. Throw out the pagan Romans and usher in peace and prosperity as in the days of King David and Solomon. That, by the way, was a Sunday. That Palm Sunday was a Sunday, not a Saturday. But by Thursday of that week, Jesus was betrayed and arrested and tried and then crucified on Friday, which we will commemorate this Friday. Evening in worship here, in the devotional service. John had also seen Jesus on Resurrection Day a week later. And the hope that had been crushed by Jesus' death on that resurrection day was restored. Peter, James, John, and others, later Paul. Preached the resurrection message with fervor and hope, especially after Pentecost. The Spirit had been given, and they were preaching boldly. But later, later, it seemed like the mission that they had been sent out on was losing ground. It was being suppressed. It was being destroyed and persecuted. And so the question In John's mind and in the mind of the Christian movement at that time, the question was, is there a future? Is there still a future? On the Lord's day, John says, I was in the Spirit, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet, which said, Write on a scroll what you see and send it to the seven churches. Is there a future? Jesus speaks, says, take this down. Write it on a scroll and send it out to all those who follow me, the seven churches. And we're going to jump right into that without all the introduction today. We're going to jump into Revelation chapter 6, where Jesus opened what is called the sixth seal. Which unveiled a judgment, a judgment on what is called the land. Which land is that? The land of those who rejected Jesus as Messiah, the land of those who had a long record of killing prophets sent by God. As it says in Matthew 23, Jesus said, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you. How often have I longed to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were not willing. Look, your house is left to you desolate That's what he's talking about in this sixth seal. And it says in chapter 6, verse 12: I watched as he opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake. The sun turned black like sackcloth made of goat hair. The whole moon turned blood red. And the stars in the sky fell to earth as figs drop from a tree when shaken by a strong wind The heavens receded like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place. Wow, what an amazing description this is. What is this? It's a it's a phenomenon or a conglomeration of pictures and images which Has been categorized as collapsing universe language. Collapsing universe language An earthquake, the sun turned black, the moon turned red, the stars fell to the earth. And the sky is rolled up. And every mountain and island moved from its place. That's collapsing universe. Everything's falling apart. Everything is shaken and moved and undone. It's like someone saying that when that happened, my world came to an end. Have you ever heard someone say something like that? When some tragedy thing, my world came to an end. Well, that's what this is, but it's much bigger than a personal world coming to an end. We see examples of this, by the way, in Isaiah 13:10, Isaiah 34, Ezekiel 32, and Joel 2. Collapsing universe language is something you find in the Old Testament in many places. What it denotes is this: the end of the old order And in this case, what is being shown here is the end of the old order of the temple and the priesthood and the sacrifices of all those things that pointed forward to Jesus. And would now come to a judgment end, a collapsing universe for the Jewish people Dr. Ken Gentry says this. The sixth seal symbolizes the fall of Israel's government. Such symbolic phenomena are often associated with the collapse of governments. Babylon in Isaiah 13, Egypt in Ezekiel 32, Ijumea in Isaiah 34. Judah in Jeremiah 4. And Josephus mentions that the Jews actually sought refuge underground during the A. D. 67-70 war that Jesus predicted would happen. Christ warned that that would happen in that generation in Luke 23 when he said Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, fall on us, and to the hills, cover us. And if you were listening, that was echoed in the reading of Revelation 2. People will hide under the mountains. But this prospect was frightening. You know, you're looking for good news, an unveiling of the future. This sounds frightening To even the church, you see. What would happen to the church if the old institutions are all removed? John's vision answers that question. Because what does he see first? He sees a faithful Israel. 144,000. 12 times 12 times 1,000, which is a number of filling and completion, not a literal number. It's the vast, innumerable multitude that is described next in the next phrases of the Scripture And it shows this beleaguered church and John that the church will grow and that it will spread to all nations, as was promised to Abraham. He was promised to have as many children as the stars of the sky and the sand of the seashore. That's what you see here in Revelation. After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes. With palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on a throne and to the Lamb. It's a great vision. Not a vision of defeat, not the end of the world for the church. It's a great vision of the future, a bright future. And so I want to show you four comforting descriptions of God's church here in this vision. First, note it's Catholicity. And don't get hung up on the word Catholic. Catholicity just means universality. Kata means according to halas means the whole. So the Catholic faith is the faith of the whole church. After this, I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. The whole church. In fulfillment of Genesis 22, I will surely bless you and make your descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and the sand on the seashore. And in fulfillment of Isaiah 2, what Isaiah, the son of Amos, saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem What did he see? In the last days the mountain of the Lord's temple will be established as the highest of the mountains, and it will be exalted above the hills, and all nations will stream to it. And many peoples, not a few, will come and say, Let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the temple of the God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways, so that we may walk in his path. And that is in fulfillment of what Jesus said when he ascended and commanded his disciples to make disciples of how many nations? All nations. And baptize them and teach them. And so here we have in this Catholicity picture John receiving the assurance of the risen Christ That the church will not fail. Despite persecution, despite the fact that most of the early apostles had been killed and martyred. The church is not going down for the count. Christ is still in control. And he is the Savior, by the way, not of a chosen few, but a chosen many. A chosen multitude that cannot be numbered in fulfillment of John 3. 16. He came to save the world, the whole world. So that's the first thing. They're Catholicity. They're from everywhere, in every tribe, in every language, in every nation, in every place. The Catholicity of the Church. The second thing to note is their standing, they're standing, their position. Standing before the throne and before the Lamb. That is important. They're standing. Psalm one talks about a person who stands. It said, that person is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields fruit in season, and its leaf does not wither. Whatever they do prospers. Not so the wicked, they are like the chaff which the wind blows away. Therefore the wicked will not stand. This is a judgment picture, but who is standing? The believers, the Christians. The wicked will not stand. nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous, but here is the assembly of the righteous. And these people are standing. That's their position. Psalm 5 says, For you are not a God who is pleased with wickedness. With you, evil people are not welcome. The arrogant cannot stand in your presence. And Psalm 24 asks this question: Who may ascend the mountain of the Lord? Who may stand in his holy place? So we see the multitude standing before the throne of God with palms in their hands. Third thing to note about them, which was so encouraging that John saw, is what they're wearing and what they have with them. Their apparel and their accessories. They are clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands. White robes, white robes cleansed from sin, pure As we find in other places, washed in the blood of the Lamb. That's a strange way to put it, isn't it? Blood doesn't make things white, but this time it does. These people are clothed in white robes, washed in the blood of a lamb. And we see in Revelation 7:14, these are they who have come out of the great Tribulation, they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Reminds me of the hymn that I knew growing up that says, What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me pure within? Nothing but the blood of Jesus Oh, precious is the flow that makes me white as snow. No other fount I know, nothing but the blood of Jesus So that is what they're wearing. They're wearing these white robes made clean in the blood of Jesus. And they are holding and waving palm branches. Leviticus 23 tells us what the Israelites were to do in one of their feasts. On the first day you were to take branches from luxuriant trees, from palms, willows, and other leafy trees, and rejoice before the Lord your God for seven days Celebrate this as a festival to the Lord for seven days each year. So palms, therefore, are symbols of joy and of rejoicing and of victory. And they are clothed in white and holding these palms, waving them before their king. And then their praise. What are they doing? What are they saying? And it says, and crying out with a loud voice, salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. That is their praise. All that is meant by the word salvation belongs to God, means all praise to God, deliverance. In the name of Jesus. Salvation comes in the name of Christ. So Caesar is not Lord. That's what the early church needed to hear and see and know. Salvation belongs to who? Our God who sits on the throne. Not Caesar. Salvation is not from the Roman Empire, but from God's Lamb. So there is no self-congratulation here Those saved have been shown mercy, and they have been set free from sin and death and the devil and from foolish pride. The Spirit enables them to say these praises. As the Apostle Paul would later say, so then it is not of him who wills or him who runs. But of God who has mercy. We take no credit for our salvation. It is all of God's mercy. So I hope you've seen those those pictures here. And how encouraging they would be for that beleaguered early church. But I have a question for you today. John saw the future, didn't he? He saw the future that goes beyond now, didn't he? And so I ask you, did he see you in this crowd, this vast multitude that cannot be numbered, standing before the throne and before the Lamb with palm branches in their hands? And shouting praise to God who saves. Did he see, when he saw, did he see you in the crowd? God showed John the whole church in all history. Were you there? Are you there? Are you there? Did he see you confessing the same faith as all the church? That Jesus is Savior and Lord, that He is the way, the truth, and the life? Did He see you confessing that to the end of your life, no matter what persecution may come to you on that account? Did He see you? And did he see you standing in the time of judgment, which may come and has come and is coming in various places in the world today where our brothers and sisters are persecuted? Did he see you standing in the final judgment, the judgment of God, shielded from the wrath of the righteous God, not blown away? Because you are standing with Jesus. You are standing in Jesus. You are clothed with Jesus. Did he see you wearing that white robe purified by the blood of Christ? Did he see you as Isaiah says? I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall exult in my God, for He has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness. as the bridegroom decks himself like a priest with a beautiful headdress, and as the bride adorns herself with her jewels. Did he see you waving palms of victory over sin and death and the devil's schemes against you? And did he see you coming out of the great tribulation, which is all the troubles of this world, having washed your robes and having made them white in the blood of the Lamb? Did he see you? Listen again to what was shown to John. Therefore are they before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple? And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more the sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat For the lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water. Did he see you praising God for his mercy, for his love for you? A poor, lost sinner. Dear friends, I hope that you can picture yourself there Standing, standing, waving palms of victory, praising God, cleansed and clothed in perfection Rejoicing in God's grace, triumphing in life, having beaten death, worshiping and serving God forever. I hope you can see yourself there, as John saw you there. Amen O Lord our God who sits upon the throne, O Lamb of God at the Father's right hand. By the working of your Spirit, lift us, lift us out of our doubts and fears as you did so long ago with the early church. Deliver us from the fears and sins that weigh us down with gloom, and show us the victory that we have in Jesus. Teach us to serve with joy and to triumph through tribulations until we gather with that vast multitude to praise the Savior of the world. Amen.