The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold. Sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned. In keeping them there is great reward. Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be blameless. Innocent of great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. The word of the Lord Thanks be to God. The reading is from John chapter fifteen as we go on in John. John 15, beginning at verse 26, right at the end of the chapter, and going on into chapter 16 to verse 15. So we're picking up right in the middle of a conversation. But when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father The Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me. And you also will bear witness. Because you have been with me from the beginning. I have said these things to you to keep you from falling away. They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God. And they will do these things because they have not known the Father nor me. But I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes, you may remember that I told them to you. I did not say these things to you from the beginning because I was with you. But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you ask me, where are you going? But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you, but if I go, I will send him to you. And when he comes, He will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment, concerning sin because they do not believe in me, concerning righteousness because I go to the Father. And you will see me no longer. Concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak. And he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for these words of instruction and encouragement. Jesus. Some of them were alarming, and yet they were ultimately very helpful and a great blessing. May we receive blessing from the very same instruction today in Jesus' name. Amen. So this is more last words. Jesus is about to, this is Thursday evening, and he's about to Go to Friday, which is Good Friday, which is the day of his betrayal and his death on the cross. He's making these statements, these teachings to his dear close disciples, these last words. We begin at verse 26. These future witnesses presented here Jesus is saying there's a future thing that's going to happen, a witness that you're going to bear, that the Holy Spirit's going to bear, and you need to know about it. So he says, but when the helper comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me This is, if anyone wants a proof text, if anyone ever says to you, the Bible doesn't ever teach the Trinity, this is a one of the many proof texts that could be presented. Here you have it. The Holy Spirit, the helper, when he comes, whom I will send to you from the Father. So there's the Father, who's going to be sending, Jesus is going to be sending from the Father, the Holy Spirit Who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness about me. There's the Son, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, all three in this one verse, an unmistakable reference to the Holy Trinity. Christ, who is the eternal word made flesh and the instrument of creation, who is the one with the Father, Will send the Holy Spirit, who proceeds from the Father. It's very complicated in a way, and yet there we have it. The Holy Trinity. pictured in this these words. But that's not the main focus. That's important, but not the main thing Verse 27, and you also, he's going to bear witness, and you also will bear witness because you have been with me from the beginning. So let's unpack that a little bit. The disciples are those who had been with Jesus from the beginning of his ministry. Over a thousand days with Jesus. They had heard his teachings. And when you spend a thousand days with someone, you see the integrity, or the lack of it, of their life. And they saw the integrity of his life every day, from dawn until sleep time. They were eyewitnesses of his miracles. They saw, as a matter of great moment, they saw his transfiguration And appearance on the mountain with Moses and Elijah. They saw that. They remembered it. They knew that he was the promised Messiah. And so they were to bear witness. That's what he said here. They were to bear witness. They were to tell these things. With the powerful help of the Holy Spirit. So it wasn't just them telling things. The Holy Spirit was going to come alongside them and amplify like a loudspeaker. This truth about Jesus. The Spirit will come, he will bear witness, and you are to bear witness, you're to be ready. But then he says this as we go on to chapter 16, verse 1: I said all these things to you to keep you from falling away. Here it is in the ESV. They will put you out of the synagogues. That's a terrible thing to be put out of the synagogue for a Jew. That's where you go every Sabbath to To hear the word of God and to fellowship with God's people. That's the community. They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, he says, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God. We're going to see that in a moment. And they will do these things because they have not known the Father nor me. He says, I want to keep you from stumbling or from falling away. The Greek word there is scandalizo. It means to fall over, to stumble over something. I want to keep you from falling, from stumbling over this event. And as you saw from the children's introduction, Friday I was reading a children's book with my grandson Patrick, and the book was about going to the dentist. And it included teeth cleaning and x-rays and an anesthetic injection and a And as I was reading this at first glance, I thought maybe this was a little too far. But then I thought that all these things are realistic. And the story serves to prepare Patrick and others for a realistic future dentist visit. Does it not? It does. In fact, there are worse things at the dentist. But it's an amazing help, you see, to be prepared and to understand Understand what is happening. What might happen? What will happen? It's an amazing help. And Jesus is doing that for his dear disciples here. You're going to be thrown out of the synagogues. People are going to want to kill you, and they'll think they're serving God. Survival, evasion, resistance, and escape SERE, SEER, is a program that provides United States military personnel and some others with training. Training in evading capture, survival skills, and the military code of conduct if they do get captured. Most higher-level SEER students are military air crew And special operations personnel who are considered to be at high risk of capture. If they do get captured When they do get captured at SEER training, CIA interrogation techniques, including severe physical and psychological distress, are used in the training In order to prepare these students. The training was first based on experiences of British and American pilots who managed to escape and evade capture from Germans during World War II. and to return to friendly lines. There were several private clubs that were created during that time of those who had escaped Under the direction of General Curtis LeMay, it was realized that it was much cheaper and more effective to train air crews in survival, evasion, resistance, and escape technique. Than to have them languishing in enemies' hands. So those who did become captive should be prepared for the worst. These disciples, Jesus' disciples, were being told that their beloved leader was leaving them and he was going to the Father, and that they would bear witness about him But they are also being told how bad things would become for them as public disciples. Again, forewarned is forearmed, and that's what Jesus And the first fulfillment of this prophecy of Jesus, this telling to the disciples of these things, happened not very many months. Months after this, we read about it in Acts chapter 7, where Stephen is preaching, the first deacon, Stephen Stephen is preaching. And uh it says there in Acts chapter 7, verse 58 and following, but the mob cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at Stephen. Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him, and the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul. And then in chapter 8 it says, and Saul approved of his execution. And there arose that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem. And they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria except the apostles. So, yes, there would be those who would think it was God's service to kill deacons. Stephen. And we read the same thing about that in Acts chapter nine, where the great Saint Paul who was first called Saul is converted there in chapter 9. But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest in Jerusalem. And asked for letters to the synagogues at Damascus so that if he found any belonging to the way, that's the Christian community, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. Now, as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven shone around him, and falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But rise and enter the city, and you will be told what you are to do. The men who were travelling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice, but seeing no one. Saul rose from the ground, and although his eyes were open, he saw nothing. So they led him by the hand and brought him to Damascus. And for three days he was without sight, and neither ate nor drank. And then Luke, the writer of Acts, goes on to tell how Jesus commissioned Saul, this same Saul. And sent him to preach to both Jews and Gentiles. And as you know, he became the Apostle Paul who wrote the 13 letters of the New Testament. And went on three great missionary journeys to preach the gospel of Christ. And by the time This is just a fact. By the time of the completion of John's gospel, which we're studying now, the standard form of synagogue prayers included a curse on the Nazarenes Just to make it clear that Christians were not welcome in the synagogue. Literally came true. Saul persecuted the Christians, and the Christians were not welcome. Jesus is giving that forewarning. Yes, he even tells them, You're to bear witness. To bear witness of me. Verse 4, he says, But I have said these things to you that when their hour comes, the hour of these things, when their hour comes, you may remember that I told them to you. Forewarned is forearmed. I did not say these things to you from the beginning because I was with you, but now I'm going to him who sent me And none of you ask me where you're going. But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. So that's the first thing. The second thing is he tells them of A future advantage of his going away. Verse 7: Nevertheless, he says, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And when he comes. Here's the advantage. And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. Concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will not see me any longer. Concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged Now let's take that apart for a moment. Jesus had been with them these thousand-plus days. He had been their comfort. When they had a question, they could just ask Jesus. He had been their defender. And Jesus had foiled all of the gotcha questions that his enemies had. Presented to him, and he had challenged his foes to find him unrighteous at any point, and they could not. He had told them of the coming judgment of God due to their rejection of the truth. That is, he had told those who were his enemies of the coming judgment of God. And now, he says, the omnipresent, everywhere present, all the time, Holy Spirit would do these very same things. for the disciples, not just these disciples, but all disciples everywhere for all time to come And now we can read again the first fulfillment of that promise. And we see it in that first sermon on the day of Pentecost. In Acts chapter 2. Remember what he said? Sin, righteousness, and judgment. And we see it right there in Acts 2, verses 22 and following, where Peter gets up and says, Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know. This Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the And it says there in chapter two Verse 37 at the end of the sermon. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart. They were convicted of sin. And they said to Peter and the rest of the disciples, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promises for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God will call to Himself. Sin was proclaimed on that first sermon on Pentecost. Pentecost, the sin of rejecting and killing Jesus. And then righteousness. It's also there in chapter 3. You killed the righteous one, but God vindicated him by raising. raising him from the dead. Chapter 3, verse 14. But you denied the holy and righteous one righteousness and asked for a murderer to be granted to you And you killed the author of life, whom God raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses. He was the righteous one. You killed him, but God proved his righteousness. How? By raising him from the dead. If he had not been righteous, he would have remained in the grave. But because he was righteous, God raised him from the dead So he convicts them of sin and righteousness there. And he says later in chapter 7, verses 52 and following, which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they kill those who announced beforehand the coming of the righteous one, whom you have now betrayed and murdered, you who received the law as delivered by angels and did not keep it. So there is righteousness proclaimed Here in Acts, and then judgment. Judgment is proclaimed. Acts chapter 2. This Jesus, Peter says, God raised up, and of that we are witnesses. Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God and having received from the Father the promised host Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For David did not ascend into heavens, but he said Of himself, he says, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Judgment. Judgment. God is going to send Jesus. He has sent Jesus, and he's making his enemies. That's a judgment on the enemies. He's making his enemies his footstool. That's what was preached in that first sermon, and it is preached still. Sin of rejecting Jesus, the righteousness of Jesus, and God raised him from the dead to prove that righteousness. And of judgment to come. And now we move on to the future. In verse 12 and following. And here we have a promise. Promise. I'm gonna make sure you have everything you need, disciples. Don't cry, don't worry I'm going away to the Father, but I'm sending the Holy Spirit. And He's going to do all these things. I'm forewarning you. I'm getting you ready. But He's going to be with you. He's going to do these things for you. And more than that There's going to be a firm and faithful deposit laid down for you, for the church, for all All time and that is the scriptures. Verse 12 and following. He says, I s I still have many things to say to you. He isn't going to say them all before But you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of Truth comes, listen, he will guide you into all All the truth sufficiency of scripture all the truth For he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine. That is the deposit of truth about Jesus, about his mission, about his work, about his death, about his resurrection, about everything concerning. Jesus, he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you. Here we have a promise of the New Testament. He will guide his people through the Holy Spirit into all the truth. That means that we will have a deposit, a sufficient and complete, and timeless and perfect truth, the Bible. New Testament. The Old Testament was already there. The New Testament was not, but now it would be. The promise of the inspiration of the writings which we call the New Testament The Gospels, Acts, the letters of Paul and others, and the revelation. Prophetic things that are to come, such as the judgment of AD 70. The bodily second coming of Christ in the future, the renewal of creation, and the consummation of the kingdom in all its splendor is revealed in the New Testament. The glory of Jesus, the good news of salvation by sheer grace, is the subject of this completed revelation. And brothers and sisters, it was a wonderful thing for them to hear that this was coming and then to see in the years to come how it was unfolded in the writings that were presented and collected and Canonized eventually, but we have this spirit given revelation today We have the Holy Spirit, and we have the revelation that was inspired by the Holy Spirit. The Bible still bears witness of Christ today. And you can take this to the bank. The Holy Spirit still attends the Word of God written today. Every day. Are you making use of this amazing gift by being a faithful disciple, learning the things that are written here, reading the word, putting them together, understanding the old Testament, in its fulfillment in the New Testament, understanding how these things apply to daily life. Are you making use of this amazing gift? that we have, the Bible. You know? Just, they're all over the place. And are you having Christ dwell in your heart and mind through the Word? As you lay it up in your heart and practice it in your lives by the Spirit. You see, Jesus still tells us later on about this world and life in this world, Paul says to those who were his recipients in Ephesians Take up the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes, you will be able to stand your ground and having done everything to stand. He says, Stand firm then with the belt of truth Fastened around your waist, the breastplate of righteousness arrayed, and with your feet fitted with the readiness of the gospel of peace, all that is this promise promise revelation you have to get a hold of it and put it on and live it out and you'll be ready And the Holy Spirit will still convict the world that has fallen people of the sin of rejecting Jesus. And the righteousness of the one who was vindicated by the resurrection, and of the present and coming judgment of God on the devil and all his works and all who follow him. He will still do that. So this means that your words will not be bare speech, but will be amplified. Spiritually to great effect, they will be. Sometimes your gospel faithful words will bring repentance. Unto life and result in everlasting joy for those who trust in Jesus Christ. Sometimes the Holy Spirit will use those same words And the conviction they bring to confirm those in their rebellion, their darkness and death. But God's God's word, attended by the Holy Spirit, will never fail to return without accomplishing God's work. The question for these disciples as they were hearing these things, the question for them was, are you willing to be my witnesses? I'm calling you to it. I'm going to equip you. I'm forewarning you. I'm sending the Holy Spirit. You're going to have the New Testament. Will you be my witnesses? Will you transmit this truth? The same question is for you. And there's some basic ways that you can fulfill this command, this commission, for those of you who are parents and grandparents to some extent. Extent Evangelize at home. Charity begins at home. Teach your children And see to it that they are taught the truth. Don't throw them to the lions of foolishness and false teaching out there that we live all it's all around us where we live. This is the covenant imperative. Teach your children where you have the opportunity, grandchildren. God said to the Israelites in Deuteronomy 6, hear, O Israel, the great Shema, this is the creed of Israel, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And then he says the next verse. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your mind and all your soul and with all your might. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. And you shall shall teach them diligently to your children. That's where evangelism starts. The children in our family. And how often shall you teach them these things? He says, and you shall talk of them when you sit in your house. Okay, well that's one time, right? Sitting at home, right? And when you walk by the way, oh Kate, and when you take a walk, you should teach them these things. And when you lie down, oh, when you lie down, bedtime, okay. And when you rise, oh getting up time. What it means is all the time. Every time. And he says you should bind them as a sign on your hand. You should kind of have them on your on your clothing almost, right? I mean that's what they did literally. And they shall be as frontlets between your eyes, little boxes of scripture they put on their face Well, not literally for us, I don't think, but all the time. Make it part of your vesture, you see. to teach these children. It's so important for them to be taught. You shall write them on the doorposts of your houses and on your gates. Yes, if you decorate your house with kitsch Christian art. It has Bible verses everywhere. More power to you. It may not be the most fashionable decoration, but uh it certainly fulfills the word of God here. Do it. So teach the children at home. Evangelize those at home first. And then those nearby, those nearest to you, in the common course of daily life. That is family members. That is co-workers. That is people who come to put the roof on the church. That is people that you meet in the grocery store. or at some other place, it's as you go, make disciples. Do not keep silent, leaving them in the darkness. And you may get badly treated, and you may get put out of some circles, some lunch circles or whatever, I don't know It's okay. It's worth it. When I was a student at Moody Bible Institute, I went two years, it's a three-year program. And I had some prior college credits, so I wanted to try to piece those together and make it into a bachelor's degree so I could go into seminary. I had two years at Moody and I needed some college credits. I couldn't get there, so I came home to Moline, Illinois, and got a job at United Parcel Service in Milan, Illinois, unloading trucks. And uh I was busy every morning about 5 a. m. unloading trucks for a few hours and And often I was in the truck alone and I would sing hymns. You know me, I sing hymns. And I was known to be a Christian. I wasn't like constantly preaching or anything, but I was just known to be a Christian. I suppose they heard some of that singing. I don't remember having any particular confrontational witness I suppose there were some conversational bits that were witnessed. But after my last day of working there, getting ready for the summer and then going back to Moody After I got home, one guy who had been very outspoken in terms of his immoral lifestyle called me at home. He took the time to look up my numbers And call me at home. And in this call, I don't remember his name now, but he apologized for abusing me and mocking me to other workers. There. Then he told me that he had turned to Christ in repentance and faith, and had felt compelled to apologize to me and to thank me. I didn't know about this abuse, but I was delighted to assure him of my forgiveness and my joy. Are you a public Christian? Are you out there? If you are, the Holy Spirit will use you. To convict of sin, the sin of rejecting Jesus, of the righteousness of Jesus, and of the judgment. So are you willing to bear witness through the Word? Dear friends, there's no greater joy Than to know that you have been an instrument in the hand of God to bring God's salvation to us And to add children to the family of God, to know that your life is purposeful. God is using you What a wonderful thing, an amazing thing. Jesus assured his disciples that their lives would be difficult, and he assured them that their lives would count for God. God's kingdom. May He assure you of this today. Amen.