Now the Apostle Paul reminds you in these verses is describing to the Corinthians agape love. And uh we we in English use love to talk about all kinds of different loves, and Greek had a number of different words to talk about the different loves. We're talking about right agape love, that love of God revealed to us in Christ, where God gave up his own son, right? That loving to it hurts, that sacrificial self-denying love. That Jesus laying down his own life for us. That's the kind of love we're talking about here. Agape love. And Paul uses fifteen verbs to describe it to us. Sometimes Paul Tells them and tells us what love does, and at other times he tells us what love doesn't do. But all the time he's telling us that love does, because love is in action. It is a whole act of our being, body and soul, towards another, whether that other person be God be man or even some other creature, as the Proverbs talks about, the righteous person regards or cares for his own beast, right? His beast of burdens, that love is an act It's not just in words and it's not a feeling that hits us, but agape love is a whole soul and body act towards another to build them up in these ways. And Paul's showing the church here what love is because he wants them to pursue it. Because in many ways they're not. And it's causing problems. They're split into factions. They tossed out all decorum what's proper and fitting and right in their worship services. During the communion part of that, the have nots Are being put to shame by the halves because they're feasting before them, and it's causing God's judgment to fall upon them. They're coming together for their own harm and not even good because they don't have this love in their body Outsiders aren't staying around when they come to church and visit or come into faith because they're confirmed in their opinion that, yeah, Christians just are crazy. And so seemingly justified in their unbelief because they're using their tongues in ways that aren't edifying anybody. But just making a raucous noise. That's how serious love is and essential to the gospel, evangelism, and the Christian life By simply put, they have made a whole mess out of Christian worship and Christian service because they're not loving one another They're not pursuing it. And I think that should really give us great pause when we consider the context in which these verses are written in Because can it really be that love right is that essential? Can it really be that without it being the pursuit of every member A mess of rivalry, hurt feelings, vile practices, divine judgment, ineffective ministry, and more awaits a congregation. Because all that's happening in Koran. And I must say from my own time on our Presbytery's Committee on Visitation that yes, all that and more, even church closures, await a congregation that doesn't pursue love. Is the essential ingredient of our fellowship as God has brought us together in Christ and we share unity in the Spirit. And unity in the faith. We must have love. Now I know many of you appreciate Dr. R. C. Sprohl, the late doctor. And so I will gladly share this little story of the two. I don't think it'd be wrong for me to say that today Dr. Scroll is largely or mostly remembered as being a great theologian, and it's true he he was But I heard him once say, now I heard it five or ten years ago. He might have said it many years before that I don't remember when he said it. I don't remember where I heard it saying him say it, but I did hear him say it In his own, if you ever listen to him, he has that unique way of emphasizing a point. And in that unique way, he said this: God is profoundly Concerned about interpersonal relationships. God is profoundly concerned About how we relate to one another in all that God given and God created because He made this body relations that we have Here's really a great theologian saying what another great theologian, Paul, is saying, pursue love. I must confess I I think it was either a time when I was in seminary or shortly after when I was a bit more on the side of knowledge puffed up that I needed this comment to jolt me And awaken me to the realist to the reality of the primacy of relationships in the church And also in the world, that people should be first, not ministries, not names, not gifts, not offices, but people. And here, right, God's own people. People purchased by his own blood, the blood of Jesus Christ. And that should tell us, right, how much God values his people when he doesn't consider it too much to pay for them with the life of his son. That's an immense worth and value put upon every person here that God holds for you. God loves you. And we need to love each other. Now don't worry, this isn't a truth, doesn't matter, just love everybody's spiel But the truth is, we should love everybody. Because God truly loves us. And the only way that we sinners We're also saints, we're also sufferers, are going to live together and have an effective ministry together is by loving one another in the Spirit. Because without it, as Paul has already told us, we're just a noisy church, a nothing church, and a church doing herself no good. Without love, no matter how gifted you are, no matter how much of the talk of the town and social media you are, without love, it doesn't matter in God's eyes. I think, and I know that that's a very sobering and shocking statement. You've heard me say it several times, right? Because it's it we it's gotta stay in us. Because it's the truth. And Paul first spoke that truth so that we would all come to desire to walk in this Path, because we don't want to be a noisy people or church. We don't want to be a nothing church. And we don't want our Christian service to end up really not mattering because we don't have love. So he wants us to desire it Before he then now in these verses shows it to us. Let's listen again as Paul shows us here, Agape La. Now we've already seen that love's patient, kind, and doesn't envy. We looked at that last time. That love bears the injuries it receives from others. That's its patience. Towards persons. Love doesn't injure back but is kind and does them good even to our enemies. Love doesn't desire what belongs to another nor grudge another for having it, rather rejoices with them who are rejoicing. But the next thing that Paul tells us about love is that it's humble. He writes, love does not boast. It's not arrogant or rude. And to use, I think, that great language of Jonathan Edwards A truly Christian spirit is humble. It is opposed to all proud behavior. We're talking about that truly Christian spirit. Because again, that was part of Paul's debate with this church. What does it mean to be spiritual, be in the spirit? Big sign gifts. No, those go away. Here's what it means. Love. It never goes away. Love is what it means to be spiritual. J. B. Phillips, if you know him, who translated the Bible in uh in a helpful modern language, he he translated these verses this way. Love is either anxious to impress Nor does it cherish inflated ideas of its own importance, right? And then secondly, thirdly, love has good manners, which we've already talked about. Now if you remember in the gospel account, at one time all of our Lord's apostles discussed amongst them who was the greatest. Now, why do you think they did that? You think they wanted to find out who the greatest was so they could all praise him? Do you think they wanted them to praise themselves and to boast about being the greatest? Because greatness, right, feeds our innate pride. Oh, the Lord chose those men, but they had no idea what he was choosing them for. They're on a ride and they found out how good it is through the valley of humiliation as they had to endure that cross and all see their boasted love of Jesus come to nothing when they denied him Christianity is a starts with humility and it ends with humility Our positions in life, our positions in the church, the knowledge that we've received from God as He's freely shared it with us by His Spirit and elsewhere, all go to puffing us up. They in all that inflates right our egos and our self-importance. And if you've ever met such a person with an inflated ego, they're kind of rude, aren't they? Because everybody's doesn't really matter. Everybody needs them. And Paul says, love is none of that. I told you also last time that you could swap the name or the word love here for the name Jesus and it's the same truth. Because as you know, Jesus didn't boast. You know, John said there, Jesus put on servants' clothes and did this When he knew God had given him everything, that means you can't get a higher position in the universe, and he's going back there to his God, and yet he didn't boast about it. But he wasn't proud and arrogant about it and didn't think it was beneath him to love his disciples in this way. Jesus, though he was once accused, if you read in John's Gospel, of being proud and boastful when he testified about himself. But Jesus was only telling the truth. The truth that his father was also testifying to about miracles, right? They mistook Jesus as a boaster. When he told them the truth about who he was as the Messiah and the power given to him, they said, You're testifying about yourself. You must be a proud, egotistical man. He says, No. God's testifying to me about these things. You're the proud ones. Because the truth is, beloved, our Lord is very lowly at heart. And if you remember the context of Him telling us that, it's that we would be encouraged. Proud sinners like us to come learn from him. Because you probably know one of the most demanding acts of patience, of love, is to bear with a proud parent Teacher, boss, older sibling, supervisor, pastor, and on and on. Because when those over us are proud, wearing their yoke is miserable. They never they let you know you're never good enough. You never do enough. You're never right. How many of you have ever had Jesus make you feel like that? I have never once, and I've done dumb things Ever have Jesus make me feel that way for it. He loves us. Who would want to come to him if he treated us that way? You know what's wonderful about our Lord is you know how he made a name for himself? You know how he got that name above all names? By making himself of no reputation at all. Who wanted to change spots with him on the world? We considered him smitten and stricken of God. And then we found out it was for us later. Our God is so lowly in heart. And as those in Christ, we should be lowly in heart, who are being renewed in Christ that we might bear again our God's image in this way. I can imagine that it's probably very grievous to our God when dust rises up before him and boast. Before the lowly God. Imagine it's quite annoying and a nuisance and a grievance to him to endure that. But he is long suffering and he does, that we might repent of it and humble ourselves. Uh John Chrysostosum, if you know him, a fourth century church father who um who preached on many of uh Paul's letters and his homilies on them are still around. You can find them online for free. Uh commenting on these verses, he thinks that that by speaking here of love, Paul is trying to humble us and check our pride because John writes, For we see so many who think highly of themselves on the score of these very excellencies. And what he's saying is that many who show patience, kindness, and don't envy Then get puffed up with how loving they are. They've ever done that? Oh, I'm so loving. Look at all these virtues I'm doing. And then you get proud about that and self-inflated about how loving of a person you are And so he's trying to understand why Paul put these here. He thinks it's to check our pride. Now that could be it. I don't know why Paul put these verses here. But you could just hear such a person Saying to themselves, right? Unlike so-and-so in the church, who always loses his temper, I can bear any injury And unlike so-and-so, I'm not just kind when things are on the rocks, we've got to mend stuff, but I'm always showing others good, even when it hurts Or you could hear them saying, I'm like that person who can't do a thing without the church finding out I never seek the limelight. Doesn't everybody see it? I'm just so loving. That's not love, congregation. If you're comparing your love to another person's love, that's vanity in disguise as love. Love does not boast, not puffed up. We should all pursue it, but we should not be proud about it. I don't know if this I don't know if this word's true, but William Barclay in his commentary, I thought it was at least kind of insightful. Talking about why pride or love shouldn't be proud is because the thought is The lover can never do enough for the beloved, right? So we've done this loving act. Are we gonna say that's the best loving act I can done? Or wouldn't we wanna do a little bit more next time? And then why should we be so proud of that act? Because we could do more. Food for thought as you think about love and why it's not proud. You know, boasting when we when we boast, we're saying others, look at me, look at me It all comes from some deep seated insecurity we have as sinners. People fall in from our normal state because we want to matter We want to matter as people. We want to be noticed. We want others to notice us. But beloved. You do matter. I've already mentioned to you, Jesus died for you. He loves you. You need to rest in that love. Secondly, you're noticed. Remember what Jesus said: God counts every hair on your head. Who notices you more than God? You need to find your security in that love. You don't need to boast And be puffed up to matter in the church. Everybody matters to the Lord in the church. Boasting promotes envy and jealousy amongst people. It promotes rivalry and divisions. You can read James 3. I think it's 16 to 18 or 13 to 16 about that. Boasting tears others down and tears apart. And there's just no place for it in God's kingdom. Now I want to say that praise is good, but let others praise you if you've done something good. Also, we should alright remember that everything comes from God. Everything we have comes from Him. That God is the one who has made us all to differ, getting some things to that person and other things to that person. And we should also remember that we're sinners saved by grace. That should keep every one of us humble And we should give thanks to God for what we have, and then use it to build others up with, and not to boast about. I got one other thing to say about love here, about being rude, to expand a little bit upon it, and that's this. Rude is a narrow translation of the Greek here. It is true that love isn't rude, and you can find that in the word. Love will be polite to others. As I mentioned, it'll say please and thank you. But love will be more than polite. The Greek here means to offend against decorum, which means what's fitting and proper and right, what's seemly in a situation. Love does not offend against decorum. Now if you look up that word, because we don't use it very much, but in the English language in the 1560s, if we travel back 400 years, decorum meant that which is proper Or fitting in a literary or artistic composition. So if you're a songwriter or a poet, what's fitting and proper in that piece of work that you're putting together, that would be decorum. What it means then is that composers, poets, musicians, who instead of continuing in their literary or artistic tradition, those who innovate, offend against the quorum. Now I just Googled this example. But here's one, the late nineteenth and twentieth century French composer Claude Debusey is an example of what we could call an unloving composer. Now just use an example. I'm not saying you should never innovate in something, but as an unloving composer because he went against his whole classical training and all of his teachers and friends and sought alternative compositions and and what he was doing and was known for that. He just threw off the old and everything and said, I'm gonna do this and I'm going this way. Now you might be thinking, right, is is love then inherently conservative? And the answer is yes in the circles that it finds itself in. For example But my wife was growing up and would visit a neighbor church when she found herself in that circle because there was often members that were in it were from the Sikh community When they would visit that church, they would not put their Bibles on the ground because that would offend against the Corum. To put something on the ground shows you it wasn't a thing you really respected. So if they were to go there and put their Bible on the ground, it would offend those Christians. I don't know about you, I put my Bible on the ground almost every day when I'm praying or reading and I'm on the floor. But if we were to go there, it would offend against decorum in those circles. Love wants to conserve What is seemly there, don't put your Bible on the ground. Another example, you know, kind of playing off of Jesus in the gospels, right? If you were invited to a Jewish home today, When they ask you to wash your hands, you should do it. You shouldn't say, you foolish traditionalists Jesus provides all the cleansing we need, and what's more, he taught us that nothing going in out of our mouths defiles us, but only the bad stuff that comes out of our hearts. Now we'd all say, great sermon, right? It is a great sermon, but unloving delivery. It'd be like a gong going off in that house. Like a clashing symbol to deliver that message there Because if washing hands is decorum there, and they're not sisting upon it for salvation, then wash up Because love doesn't offend against the quorum. King James says it doth not behave itself unseemly. And that can be contextual. Here's another example taken from this letter. And the reason I'm just saying I'm driving at all these examples, because I'm going to drive at the point to end with that love takes a lot of wisdom to do it right. Here's another example from Corinth. The Corinthians were making a mess of worship when both men and women were offending against the quorum of nature. Now I know it is a big topic on what exactly is Paul saying about coverings and wearing them, and I can only give you what I believe to be the truth from God's Word. I'm not gonna give it to you briefly here, but that's the context of what Paul's saying. Your not loving is making a mess. The men, by wearing their hair in a culturally recognizable, effeminate way, were going against nature God did not give men hair as a cover but women. That's 1 Corinthians 11, 15. Notice that hair as a cover. For a man to wear his hair hanging down from his head signaled in that day that he was a homosexual. He was trying to be the woman, if you will, and the man-woman relationship that God created. He's spending against Nature, the decorum of what is right and fit and seemly in nature. The women, by wearing their hair down and not as a covering on their heads We're also offending against the Cormon nature because it signaled in that day a loose woman not in subjection to her husband We all know today ways in which men can dress that we all look and say, I bet he's a homosexual, or a woman and say, I bet she's a loose woman. They're signaling it in the way they're dressing Then both, says Paul, are acting shameful and not loving one another. Because love doesn't just do me, congregation. That might be what social media says, do you. Love doesn't say do you. Love says build another up. Love doesn't make statements, right? There can be times that it's called for. And if you feel it is such a time, ask a wiser person. Ask wiser persons like maybe a session. Is this the right time? Do I need to make a statement here? Because love is not trying to stand out, but fit in. It's trying to preserve what is good and right and seemly for the sake of all Because there's an element of pride when we offend against the quorum in ways that are disgraceful and shameful. Paul ended that whole discussion about the hair coverings by saying, and I quote, if anyone is inclined to be contentious about this in the congregation, to debate Paul about it, We have no such practice, nor do the churches of God. Notice what he's saying. Are they really that puffed up that they're going to go against every church of God? Who are following what God has designed in nature and say, well, we're just going to do us, Paul. That's not loving to do that. Now, as I said, it it may be that sometimes you you have to make the clash, because our Lord did make the clash. You know, it was reported to him by his disciples in that sermon about washing hands That he offended the Pharisees in it. But it wasn't the offense of someone trying just trying to break with tradition for breaking's sake because I'm going to do me. They were words spoken in love. They were words spoken to save them because those men needed to see the vanity of their worship. They needed to see their hypocrisy, they needed to see the evil of their own hearts, so that they could come to repentance, they could come to faith in the Savior before them, because if they did that, God would gladly forgive them And cleanse them of their sins. So here's the place, and here's the place I want to leave you. Love takes a lot of wisdom to do it. This is why I encourage you to memorize these verses and to meditate on them daily. Parents, with all my heart, have them in your heart so you can instruct and bring your children up them in all the ways. I've found so much help from this as I see seeking self, rejoicing in wrongdoing Envy, boasting, called out in my life, called out in their life, can correct it on the spot and teach them and bring them up in the wisdom of love. Because there's not an instruction manual for love detailing the steps that you take in every case for it. Paul's not writing an instruction manual here. He's giving us a framework within which to live. That love is a framework for us. It takes a truly loving spirit to love well in any given situation. And it takes the grace of God to become a truly loving spirit. If you read Paul's letters, he prays often that God would increase the love of the congregations that he pastors. Here's his prayer from first Excuse me, from Philippians chapter 1, verses 9 and 11. And let's make it our own prayer for ourselves. Paul writes, It is my prayer that your love may abound more and more with knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve what is excellent and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ. filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. You know, as I read the Apostles' letters, all of them, because James let us section about Peter of a section. Paul, I get the sense that as they went out and preached the gospel and God by his grace opened those hearts and they received the good news of Jesus Christ. They left them with the word of love to cement them together because I think they knew of what awaited a church. As all those proud, different sinners are now coming together for the first time. They would need this love. You know, Paul says a lot of wonderful things here, right? Our God can increase love, congregation. He can make it abound. That means to be in abundance. More and more, he can cause our love to increase. He can increase our love in ways that show a real knowledge and discernment of the persons being loved in that situation, right? In that particular context, their life and who they are, God can lead us to love them well. And God does this for his people, right, so that we would approve. That means ascend to what's good, that we would approve nothing less than what's excellent. Think about that. God wants us to love each other. In the most excellent ways possible. And that just matches with what Paul told us, right? That love is the still More excellent way. It gets more and more excellent, right? Loving others never gets old But it is full of excitement, it is full of joy as we share in God's own life, replete with dissatisfaction and I think real sense of accomplishment. When we love someone well, and even when we love them at all, because it's so good And notice that God causes this love abound in us, that we would be pure. Blameless. You're not blameless and pure before the Lord if you're not loving. True love is spotless. It is holy. It's righteous Paul told the Ephesians in chapter 1 that God had chosen us in Christ before the foundation of the world that we might be holy and blameless before him in love. God has elected us to be holy lovers before Him forever. Because nothing less than holy love can dwell before The holy God, His own holy love, for he acts to save His people from their enemies and to punish His enemies and all their unholy hatred. And finally, notice where this holy love comes from. It is the fruit of righteousness through Jesus Christ as we are planted in Him and made one with Him. The branches and the vine were being pruned all our lives and nourished by God and grown up to love more and more in these holy ways. All to the glory and praise of Almighty God forever and ever. So, Congregation, love is not an instruction manual, it is a way of life. Paul says it is the way of life in Christ, because it is eternal life. Ultimately, love is a person. The tripersonal God. God is love. Not one of these fifteen virtues here can be made ultimate. There's not a chump virtue, if you will, of love. Love is simply seeking to do the other person good, to build them up, and in doing that, all these virtues of love manifest themselves. In loving. The controlling aim of love is that to build up together And that is why love is patient, kind, does not envy or boast, is not arrogant or rude, and all the others we'll get to next time when we come back to these verses. So may God increase in us, congregation, this love. To his glory and his praise forever and ever. Amen.