Congregation, our scripture reading is the same again as we had the last time I stood in this pulpit. It's Acts chapter 1, the first eleven verses. Listen, this is the Word of God. In the first book, O Theopolis, I have dealt with all that Jesus began to do and teach until the day when he was taken up. After he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen. To them he presented himself alive after his suffering by many proofs. Appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God. And while staying with them, he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem But to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, You heard from me, for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. So when they had come together, they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? He said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth. And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up. And a cloud took him out of their sight. And while they were gazing into heaven As he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes and said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. This is the Word of God. Beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Last time we looked at Acts 1, 6 through 8. An account of Jesus' disciples' last conversation with their risen Lord and he with them. In that record, we observe that the disciples, still confounded, but joyful, At the stupendous miracle that faced them, as the same Lord Jesus Christ, whom they had seen crucified and buried, stood before them alive. We can understand that their thoughts were anything but clear and trustful in their grasp of what the future held for them. With little apprehension of the context that might have led them to fall down in worship and gratitude to their Savior, they came forth with what I can only describe as an embarrassing question. Don't you agree? Jesus, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? Here they look face to face with the good shepherd of their souls, the very Lamb of God, and the Savior of their eternal existence. And all they could do was raise a weak political query. Jesus, is it now time? For you to lead a successful revolution to bring to an end the most recent bondage brought about by Jewish oppressors. We hope so. Are you going to call your followers to take up arms against Rome? Can you grasp something of the gracious, patient love exhibited by Jesus? When he gave them an answer that they didn't expect, but that would be the right one. He said to them, hear it once more. It is not for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria. And to the end of the earth. That exactly was what Jesus discipled, and every Christian thereafter Needed to hear, receive, and obey. And it forms the thrust of the sermon we delivered last time. I believe it was two weeks ago. Entitled, Jesus subvenus is witnesses. Yes, he charges his church thereafter with this one task: preach the gospel to the entire world. And for that you will need power. And that power is yours when the Holy Spirit will come upon you. You will have no time nor interest, for that matter, in creating charts of the end time events. Through which the church will go until God wraps up this earthly existence. At least you ought not. From now on, religious politics and all international struggles Will remain where they have always been and will always be, wrapped up in the authority of the sovereign God. Your job, says Jesus, is to leave them there and get about the task I lay upon you. To testify in the world's court that I am indeed the sole and successful savior of mankind. Not Israel, but every human individual of whatever race, time, and place who trusts in me as their sin bearer And receives the gift of eternal life through the grace and blessing of the Almighty and ever-loving God. That, my friends, was Jesus Christ's answer to the church's question phrased by these his early disciples How are things going to go with us in this world? Are we going at last to see all those wonderful Old Testament promises about the triumph of Israel and the destruction of her enemies. And please tell us when. Thank you very much. Their embarrassing question and Jesus' unexpected but exactly correct answer was what grabbed my attention. In that sermon preached on Acts 1, 6 through 8, and I hope it grabbed yours. But then in the verses that follow, something happened. That would give the disciples hope. Anyway. Verses 9 through 11. Hear them again. And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up And a cloud took him out of their sight. And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white robes. And said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way as you saw him go. Into heaven. Now that's our text for tonight's sermon. And I hope that you will not be distracted by the usual understanding of the ascension and the usual thoughts that people have About heaven, a nice, happy place off there somewhere, to which Jesus went I hope you will listen to the very words of Scripture. Those words tell us that the church is hope. For the ultimate success of God's saving plan for her future is grounded in And declared by the ascending and ascended and coming return of the same Lord Jesus Christ. That's what these verses are about. Now think with me for a few moments about that ascending King Jesus. Read verse 9 again. You're not tired of hearing the Bible, I hope. And when he had said these things as they were looking up on He was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. You know, reading this account of Jesus' ascension leaves me somewhat breathless, congregation. And the reason for that is I cannot escape the conclusion that we are faced here with something mind-boggling about the very person of God. For yes, it's the doctrine of God's Trinity that will not down, it will not go away from us here at Jesus' ascension. Sometimes we go perplexed when we try to unrail the mystery. I should say, unravel the mystery of the divine trinity. We grow perplex, and that's understandable, because the Trinity of the one God who exists in three persons is not high. On the list of simple, obvious, and clear doctrine, easy to grasp. We believe it not for that reason, but because it's revealed. It's revealed in the whole of the divine scriptures. The proof of the doctrine of the Trinity is the Bible. Not something that is alluded to here and there in a handful of otherwise obscure verses. But underlining the entirety of all that God has told us in the Bible is absolutely unerring and inspired word. That one doctrine of the Christian religion, the Trinity of God, is the key That opens all the other truths that shine forth in the Bible. Creation, Provence Salvation, and everything else that you read. You do read the Bible, don't you? Father, Son, and Holy Spirit Very present and very active at every point in sacred history, from the dawn of creation through the end of time. So I'm not surprised to face the Triune God here in tonight's text about Jesus' ascension. Well then, Mr. Tyson, where was God the Father? Well, just listen to those four words in the middle of verse 9. He was lifted up. He was lifted up. You say, well, that's obvious. It was Jesus who was lifted up. Yes, I know. But the verb is in the passive mood. He was lifted up. He didn't lift himself up. He was lifted up. And who exactly did the lifting? There's only one possible answer. God the Father. Yes, the Divine Father God lifted up God the Divine Son. He sent him down and he lifted him up. The ascension of Jesus Christ, the divine Son of God, the second person of the divine Trinity. is one of the clearest and most compelling proofs of the doctrine of the Trinity, isn't it? Who can doubt it? None. Who can grasp it? None. Christ's ascension, however, forms the capstone of the whole wondrous plan of redemption. God the Father lifted up his Son, having earlier sent him down. You remember that the nativity of Jesus was, of course, emblazoned with wondrous mystery, wasn't it? What? A fully human being with no human father? Yeah. That's because of what was happening. God became flesh. And now the ascension, more wondrous mystery. The Divine Trinity comes clearly to the fore. But you might say, where is God the Holy Spirit? There are three, aren't they? Well, he isn't mentioned in words describing the ascension, but the action declares it loudly. As Jesus was lifted up, the disciples got the answer to their earlier question about future events. And it was this. Your witness to the world will achieve the Father's intended goal, because God, the Holy Spirit It's coming upon. It's all there. In actual words or implication. That's going to happen because the Holy Spirit is going to come upon you. So the whole point of Jesus' ascension is right there, Jesus said. I, the Son of God, am lifted up by the Father, so that he, the Holy Spirit, can come down. There it is. Now it's right here that I pause and I need to be very careful that I am not misunderstood. I have a sneaky suspicion that there are going to be some questions of me about the things that I'm about to say. But I need to say something about the actual event of Jesus' ascension itself. And I think that it will impact especially our thinking about another important word that comes to the fore when folks talk about what happened. Then. And what we can expect will be happening in the future. And that word is Heaven. Heaven. Recently, maybe not your home, but our home has been inundated with an ad. Perhaps I could call it a message. But whatever it is, it appears time and again on fat Fox News. Yeah, we we I surrender. We watch Fox News But that ad says, over and over again, just comes in and invades our minds. And whatever we were thinking about, whatever was going on in the news, a voice says. When you die, are you sure that you are going to heaven? Then it goes on to say that if you aren't sure, guess what? You may find out By signing in on our convenience that thing you know where you take your smartphone and you stick it up to the TV and it goes to those little black and white things. And you're gonna find out what you need to do to make sure that when you die you'll go to heaven. I've never done that. And I don't think that's the right thing that we should advertise as Christians. Maybe you've seen it. Whatever. And whoever it is that produces it I'm sure that it is based on a popular and widespread worldwide opinion that there is a place A wonderful, happy, joyful, pain free place where select people Hopefully those who find out what you need to do to become one of those, and that starts with you know using your smartphone, that they may expect to go there when they die. Who wouldn't want to miss out on this? And I have a sneaky suspicion they can get a lot of answers to that. I'm not going to get it from Tom Tyson. Heaven's not a place, a wonderful place, stuck out there, if only I will do the right thing. Heaven is what's going to happen someday for the people who are blessed that we heard about this morning. Yeah, I'll say it. We're in heaven already. We who trust in Jesus. Well, the word heaven, which the ad formulators have chosen in Acts 1. occurs frequently here in the short message of our text this evening. In fact, I think it's found four times in this verse. And you can sign on to it immediately without using any internet equipment. Also, the Messies relayed by the author of the Bible book Came from two men who stood by the apostles Any question or problems or wonderment about who they were? I think you know. Two men who stood by the apostles and declared Not like the ad, are you sure, disciples, that when you die you're going to go there to heaven? But they said rather, and hear it again now for the third time. Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? Into heaven. This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven There's our word three times. Gazing into heaven, looking into heaven. And taken up into heaven. Hear me now. Not a place unto which Jesus went But a sphere into which, actually, through which Jesus went as he ascended. My friends, it was a cloud that took him out of their sight. Jesus ascended up. He went into the air, gravity notwithstanding, into the clouds, into the Earth's atmosphere, and apparently threw it to We're not told. Where? But we can surmise. Jesus said to the people on the cross, today you will be with me. In paradise. Okay, there's a place, paradise. To the Father, that's for sure. Who sent Jesus here The whole incarnate Son of God, spirit and body, in his glorious new human body, resurrected, was taken up To the throne of his divine home, from which he will come down again here to planet Earth To close out the complete saga of redemption by bringing his entire church into, you ready for this? New heavens And a new earth. Yeah, there's a sense in which heaven's going to be. It's part of how you're even blessed. Well we don't have to hope for it that we will be there. We should be grateful to God that it's there now. That, my friends, gives us a different heaven from that which the T V ad purposes and proposes and promises if you will do the right thing. Now I said, listen to me carefully and I hope you have. I know that this is hard to grasp, but remember this is about the Trinity. Figure out the Trinity and you'll understand the ascension. It was hard for the disciples to grasp what was happening to them as well. All that Luke could say Was that they saw they saw Jesus taken up from this old earth Into Uranos, that's the Greek for heaven, the sky, the atmosphere This old universe. He means the sky up there, out there, and away from down here. And all I can say is that the God who at the beginning created the universe. The heavens and the earth will one day replace those old heavens or that old heaven and that old earth with a new and eternal sphere of existence for his redeemed, blessed mankind. Which will elicit praise and glory forever to him. And the ascension of Jesus, my friends, declares with God given confidence. Hang in there, Church of God. Something's coming. And it's coming not only quick. But right here. Yes, down to planet Earth again. Surrounded by these clouds, these heavens That took him out of your physical sight. And everything is going to be changed. And the ascension of Jesus, my friends, stands, I believe, in a sense, at the very midpoint of human existence, history, and destiny. You've heard me preach before that you could divide the Old and New Testaments between right before the fall and then everything after. That was a big division, yeah. But here's another one. I think the ascension is the hinge upon which God's redemption turns. From now Unto then. Now we've got to say a few things about the then, because that's in the text also. The coming return of King Jesus. The two men had something to say about that in verse 11. Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. Up, up through the clouds, and then someday down through the same clouds. I don't know whether it'd be Nimulus, Cimulus, or what's the other one? What what is it? The third cloud? Cirrus, cumulus, nimbus, yeah. I don't know which kind of cloud, but the same ones as we get now. Jesus is coming back through them too again Not fantasy. Fact, said the two angels, you can book it, wide-eyed disciples. You've been granted a theophany, a divine visitation. Those clouds through which Jesus has been lifted up are really, though tiny, vehicles of the triune glory. of which a multitude of the heavenly hosts earlier proclaim at the moment of his coming down through them, at his incarnation. singing Glory to God in the highest. At that time it took thousands of angels to announce it. Here at Jesus' Ascension, it took only two. But that's all that was needed to confirm absolutely the Father's promise. Something's coming. He's coming. What's happening here, Congregation? Well, Romans 4 tells us. That for 40 days Christ had already been enthroned, has already been enthroned. declared with power to be the Son of God by the resurrection from the dead. Now the ascension of Jesus marks the end of those forty days of visitation. And signals the beginning of his new and continued kingly acts. And in that kingdom, as we saw when last we preached on these verses Jesus would empower his disciples as witnesses, as subpoena bearers to bring sinners to salvation. And we saw how that commission continues through his church up to and including us and today. But now I want to emphasize, and finally, the angel's hopeful prediction that this Jesus, who was taken up from you, will come As you saw him go, he's going away, but he's coming back, and they promised that wonderful future hope And they did so as they observed the disciples who stood looking into the sky, the heaven. And they reprimanded the disciples for doing that. Why? Because they expected him to come back right away. Jesus would come to them, yes, but not as they had hoped. He would come soon, in a more marvelous way, by his Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost. That was a coming back. Then it will be that they will receive power by that Spirit come upon them to be those subpoenaed witnesses to the redemptive work of Jesus by the effective grace of God. That they had been commissioned to be. And after that time, the length of which is privy to God alone, At least 2,000 years. The two angels said, Jesus will come back to you, disciples, in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. That means that the second coming of Jesus Christ will not be a spiritual coming, that is, a non-physical, a non-corporeal coming. No, he will come in the same way that he came. Jesus came in the flesh, miraculously, yes, but really And the ascension declares likewise, he really left. And more, promised the two angels, it is a pledge of a real return. It too will be miraculous, but still it will be real. The Heidelberg Catechism Puts it very bluntly and but correctly affirms. We have our flesh in heaven. That's part of our blessedness. We have Jesus, our flesh, in heaven. There's that word again. And however could we grasp its place and nature anyway? It is the forever incarnate Son of God who is there. And he will come back bodily. Your response, dear believer, must be, you know, come for Jesus This is not an empty, meaningless, defeated waiting. With hand ringing. It is a life of obedient witness. To be ascended and reigning King Jesus, calling sinners just like you To trust in Him and thus show that you have been blessed by God