Please open your Bibles to the book of the prophet Isaiah 1 through 6, and then we'll flip over to chapter 35, and we'll read verses 1 through 10. Isaiah 32, 1 through 6, 35, 1 through 10. Behold, a king will reign in righteousness, and princes will rule in justice Each will be like a hiding place from the wind, a shelter from the storm, like streams of water in a dry place, like the shade of a great rock in a weary land. Then the eyes of those who see will not be closed, and the ears of those who hear will give attention. The heart of the hasty will understand and know, and the tongue of the stammerers will hasten to speak distinctly. The fool will no more be called noble, nor the scoundrel said to be honorable. For the fool speaks folly And his heart is busy with iniquity, to practice ungodliness, to utter error concerning the Lord, to leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied, and to deprive the thirsty of drink. The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad. The desert shall rejoice and blossom like the crocus. It shall blossom abundantly and rejoice with joy in singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given to it, the majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the Lord, the majesty of our God. Strengthen the weak hands and make firm the feeble knees. Say to those who have an anxious heart, Be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance. With the recompense of God, he will come and save you. The eyes of the blind shall be opened, the ears of the deaf unstopped. Then shall the lame man leap like a deer. And the tongue of the mute sing for joy, for the waters break forth in the wilderness, and the streams in the desert. shall become reeds and rushes. And a highway shall be there, and it shall be called the way of holiness. The unclean shall not pass over it It shall belong to those who walk on the way. Even if they are fools, they shall not go astray. No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast come upon it. They shall not be found there. but the redeemed shall walk there. And the ransom of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with singing. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, and they shall obtain gladness and joy. And sorrow and sighing shall flee away. The word of the Lord. Thanks. Be to God. Romans eight, beginning at verse eighteen, going through the end. No, not to the end, through verse thirty. Romans eight, eighteen through thirty. We're saving those last verses for another preaching. This is God's word For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed in us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility. Not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption. and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who were called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord, we have this beautiful portion of your word help us to unpack it and apply it faithfully. Be with the one who preaches. Be with all listeners. We ask this through Christ, our Savior. Amen. Well, we'll go right to verse 18. Paul's considered opinion of your present suffering and your future glory. He says, for I consider. He's counting, he's adding up, he's weighing things on a scale. I consider that this present sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed. Paul was not ignorant or blind to the sufferings of human existence, was he? He experienced more than most any of us. He describes them in 2 Corinthians 11, beginning at verse 23. He says about his own sufferings, far greater labors. You think you work hard? Far greater labors, far more imprisonments. How many of you have been imprisoned? With countless beatings. And often near death, five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes less one. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. Three times I was shipwrecked. A night and a day I was adrift at sea. Has that ever happened to any of you? On frequent journeys, in danger from rivers, in danger from robbers, danger from my own people, danger from Gentiles. danger in the city, danger in the wilderness, danger at sea, danger from false brothers, in toil and hardship. through many a sleepless night, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure And apart from other things, there is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all the churches Who is weak, yes, and I am not weak. Who is made to fall, and I am not indignant? So he knows something about suffering, doesn't he? Yet still considering that, he considers that the future glory far outweighs the present sufferings. I think he would say like a bit of dust, just a little pinch of dust on a scale on one side, and then on the other side, a pile of gold bars. Comparing the two. The gold is the glory that is to be revealed in us and to us. Without a heavenly view, Paul considered the Christian life would be foolish and tragic. In 1 Corinthians 15, verse 19 He says that. He says, if in Christ we have hope only in this life, if he's really dead and in a grave somewhere, if we only have our hope in this life We are of all people most to be pitied. And what he's saying there is it as if our faith, the gospel, is just a crutch to get us through life. Just a myth concocted to give some sort of meaning to the futility. He says there's a better way to live than that. You could be a nihilist or a hedonist, and you could just live for pleasure, and then you could just commit suicide when you can't have any more fun. But living in the assurance of the gospel, understanding that you live all of life, even the sufferings. for the glory of God and in view of future glory leads you to accept that suffering. In light of eternity, this is the wisest and best choice anyone can make. Now I have a story. A 20th century missionary named Jim Elliott became a martyr. He had gained international recognition when he died with four others at the hands of the Aka Indians in South America. whom he was seeking to evangelize. Jim and four other Ecuador missionaries began to plan a way to show the Aukas that they were really friendly. Nate Saint was the pilot. He came up with a way to lower a basket filled with supplies to the people on the ground while flying above them. He thought that this would be a perfect way to win the trust of the Aukas without putting anyone in danger. They were very notorious for killing anyone who came into their territory. So they began dropping gifts to the Akkas. They also used an amplifier to speak out friendly Aqka phrases that they had learned. And after many months, the Aukus even sent a gift back in the basket to the plane. So Jim and the other missionaries felt the time had come to meet the Aucas face to face. One day while flying over their territory, the pilot, Nate Saint, spotted a beach that looked like it was long enough for the plane to land on. He planned to land there, and the men would build a tree house to stay safe until friendly contact could be made. So the missionaries were flown in one by one and dropped off on the Akka beach Saint then flew over the Akka village and called for the Akka's to come to the beach. Four days later, an Akka man and two women appeared. It was not easy for them to understand each other since the missionaries only knew a few Akka phrases, but they shared a meal with the missionaries. And Nate took a man up for a flight in the plane, one of the Aka men. The missionaries tried to show sincere friendship and asked them to bring others next time. For the next two days, the missionaries waited for other Aqas to return. Finally, on day six, two Akka women walked out of the village. Jim uh and Pete excitedly jumped into the river and waded over to them. As they got closer, these women did not appear friendly. Jim and Pete almost immediately heard a terrifying cry behind them, and as they turned, they saw a group of Auka warriors with their spears raised. Jim Elliott reached for the gun in his pocket. He had to decide instantly if he would use it, but he knew he couldn't. Each of the missionaries had promised that they would not kill an Akka who did not know Jesus in order to save themselves from being killed Within seconds, the Auka warriors threw their spears, killing all the missionaries. But this is what was found in Jim's journal. He is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. Listen again, he is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. The glory within cannot lose The glory that Paul is describing here weighs against the sufferings, and it is much heavier. The glory that God has put into every believer right now. If you love Jesus Christ, you have that glory within you. It's already in there And it will be revealed someday. Leon Morris, famous New Testament scholar, said: the glory will be revealed, not created. The implication is that it is already existent, but not yet apparent. That's why Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter 4. We have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed. C. S. Lewis in his book, The Weight of Glory, says this about the glory within you. He says, next to the Lord's Supper itself, your neighbor is the holiest object presented to your senses. If he is your Christian neighbor, he is holy almost in the same way, for in him also Christ the glorifier and the glorified. Glory himself is hidden. Remember, he says, later in that book, remember that the dullest and most uninteresting Christian person you talk to will one day be a creature which if you saw it would you would be strongly tempted to worship when the glory comes out All of creation is waiting and longing for the glory. Verses 19 through 22. It says, therefore, the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope Creation. Like baby birds waiting for their mother to drop a worm into their mouth. Creation is craning, longing for this glory to be revealed. The glory that's in you. Paul considered that creation itself is eagerly waiting. This is because the creation, he says, was subjected to futility On account of man's sin. And creation itself will benefit from the ultimate redemption of humans. What happened in the garden that caused that futility that he's talking about? We read it in Genesis 3. And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground. Because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field by the sweat of your face. That's the groaning, that's the brokenness, that's the futility. And then he says, for to dust you will return, for out of dust you were taken. And then in the next verse, the man called his wife's name Eve because she was the mother of all living. And the Lord God made Adam and his wife garments, made clothes for them of garments of skin Something had to die. Creatures had to die. They had to suffer because of man's sin in order to clothe naked man before God. God. The creation groaned to produce those thorns and thistles and weeds and worthless things. The animals that provided the skins groaned when Adam and Eve were clothed. Verse 20, for the creation was subjected to futility. That's what we're talking about here Not willingly, it didn't want to happen that way, but because of him who subjected it in hope, God has a plan. The creation is depicted here as a suffering creature. The perfect harmony and peace that characterized Eden has been infected with a dread disease of suffering and decay on account of Adam. But think of the glory now when things are made right. And Isaiah describes it in Isaiah 11. He says, listen to it, please, please listen. The wolf shall dwell with the lamb. Harmony. Peace. The leopard shall lie down with a young goat, the calf and the young lion and the fatling together. And a little child shall lead them. The cow and the bear shall graze. You know, bears don't graze. They eat cows, but they don't graze. But they shall graze. Their young ones shall lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. The nursing child shall play by the cobra's hole, and the weaned child shall put his hand in the viper's den. Little kids can play in snake holes They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. That's when it's all fixed and put right again Glory, the glory that was lost in the fall. We enjoy, even now we enjoy the beauty of the natural world. Jennifer and I had the privilege to travel to Alaska for our 35th anniversary, and we saw the peculiar form of that northern beauty, the mountains. the glaciers, the islands. But even at its best, the creation is broken and ugly and ruined compared to Eden. God subjected the creation to this condition of suffering, he says, in hope in hope. Not just wishful thinking, but hope that's sure. Hope. This was the ultimate work, not of man or of Satan, but God did this. God did this. And he did it for a reason. That paradise is to be anticipated by this now broken world. Paradise will be restored. That's what we learn here. Verse 21, the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. The redemption provided by Jesus Christ benefits not only the children of God, but all of creation. We should care, by the way, for this broken creation as stewards. We should not pollute and abuse the natural world But, think of this too, if we were able to restore the whole planet to its condition without any of the hazards and pollutions introduced by humans, it would still be broken. Groaning, it would still be full of violence and death and storms and eruptions of volcanoes that spew more carbon than humans can spew in many decades. And it would still be subject to earthquakes and tsunamis and typhoons and many other such things that Paul calls the groanings here. Only God can heal it. We could do our best, we should do our best, but only God can heal it. The whole creation has been groaning together, he says, and the pains of childbirth until now. We have a lot of ladies who have given birth recently and others that will. Mothers know what this means, don't you? When will the groaning cease? When the birth is over. That's when. Creation is not undergoing death pains, says Leon Morris, but birth pains. In Isaiah 32 and 35, which we read, paraphrase Are paraphrased in a hymn that says, About the end of all that groaning, when the birth pangs are over, what will it be like? When the king shall come again, all his power revealing Splendor shall announce his reign, life and joy and healing, earth no longer in decay, hope no more frustrated This is God's redemption day, longingly awaited. In the desert trees take root, fresh from God's creation. Plants and flowers and sweetest fruit join the celebration. Rivers spring up from the earth, barren lands adorning, valleys, this is your new birth. Mountains greet the morning. Beautiful, beautiful poetry from Scripture. Tells us about the groaning creation, waiting for God to fix it. Point number three You also groan and wait with patience for the coming glory. Verses 23 through 25. Verse 23, and not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit. What does first fruits mean? What does first fruits mean? It is the sample of the beginning of a great harvest. That's what first fruits means As a farmer can see and taste what his labor has produced early by picking the first ripening grain and tasting it. And you, my friends, have the first fruits of your redemption within you now. You were not made for death, my friends. God didn't make you for death. You were made to live forever. The sense of the glorious eternity that awaits you is a taste of the glory to come. You cannot be faulted if you long for this fulfillment. You will receive it, but now you have the first fruit. The inwardness, knowing of your eternal life. We groan inwardly, he says, as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. God cares about bodies, you know. Not just our souls that get to fly off and so forth, but our bodies. He cares about them. And he says that this is an adoption. We're waiting for an adoption. Now. You might say, Pastor, didn't you say last Sunday that we are already adopted as heirs? Yes, I did And although there is a sense in which we are already adopted from Romans 8, verse 15, there is also a sense in which we wait for the consummation of our adoption, which will happen. He says, at the redemption of our bodies. God does not ignore our physical bodies in his plan of redemption. His plan for these bodies is resurrection. When this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. 1 Corinthians 15, 53. But while we wait for that, we groan inwardly. Our fulfillment of our redemption is something still distant. Yet we hope for it in faith and with perseverance, trusting God. God, who is faithful to his word, will bring it forth in the fullness of reality. Then in verse 24 he says, For in this hope, the hope I just described, in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he does not see. When children ask for a fantastic Christmas present or birthday present, and you promise that they will get it, They're still hoping for it until they finally open the package, right? They don't have it until they open the package and they're sure they have it then. We hope for what we do not yet see. We wait for it with patience, Paul says in verse 25. Leon Morris, again, on waiting with patience, says, this is the attitude of the soldier who in the thick of battle is not dismayed, but fights on stoutly, whatever the difficulties. We wait for it patiently. My friends, waiting with patience is what we do now. But there is also help now. There is help now. It's not just all future. There's help now And we see that in verses 26 and 27. God's help through the Spirit is available to you now. He says, likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weaknesses. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. When we are weak. When we do not know exactly how we should pray. God Himself Through the Holy Spirit, who lives within us, enters into our prayers, making intercession for us, for you The idea is simply of communication beyond our ability to express. The deep groanings within us cannot be articulated apart from the interceding work of the Holy Spirit. This means that the Holy Spirit within you enables you to communicate with God in a manner that is not limited to your own knowledge or your ability to articulate your heart before God. You pray, and you should. And you groan, and your prayers may be well said or may not be well said. But God, the Holy Spirit, takes whatever you prayed, whatever you groaned, and he fixes it. out of your mouth and on the way up to the throne of God, He repairs it. He puts it right. He fixes it so that it comes to God perfect You might be praying, Lord, take away my pain. But God the Spirit fixes it and he hears, give me the strength to see your work in my pain. That's just one example. Because he prays according to the will of God. The Holy Spirit's help in intercession is perfect because He searches, it says He searches our hearts And he is able to guide our prayers according, it means in harmony with the will of God, according to the will of God. So God's help is available for you right now. This glory is available for you right now, this hidden glory. And fifthly, God's help is the present reality all the way to final glorification, all the way to the end. Verses 28 through 30. These are beautiful verses. I maybe should have preached a whole sermon on this. Maybe I'll come back to it. You know these verses. And we know that for all those who love God, all things work together for good, for all those, for those who are called according to his purpose. What does that mean? It means God's sovereignty and ability to manage every aspect of our lives. is demonstrated in the fact that he causes all things. All things To work together for good to those who love God. Even though we must face sufferings. At this present time, God is able to make even those sufferings work together for our good and His good. Our catechism, the Heidelberg catechism, puts it very beautifully when it asks the question of the Christian, what is your only comfort in life and in death? And the answer that I am not my own. If I were just my own, I'm not really good at managing me. I've been bought. I'm not my own. I am not my own. He also preserves me in such a way that without the will of my heavenly Father Not a hair can fall from my head. You know, I wish I had more. But God knows that I don't need them Not a hair can fall from my head without the will of my Heavenly Father. Indeed, all things must work together for my salvation. All things. God is able to work all things, my friends. Not some things. He works them for good together, not in isolation. One thing by itself is not good, but he harmonizes it all. A difficult event in your life may turn very perplexing, but in the context of the whole of your life It will be seen as good by God's sovereign hand. The promise is for those who love God, not just for everybody, but for those who love God. In the biblical understanding of loving God, those who trust Jesus Christ, those who are in Him, and have the indwelling Spirit working in them. For such persons, God manages. God is a great manager. Some of you are project managers, I know. God is better. He's a great manager. He manages the affairs of your life because you have been called according to His purpose He's got the plan. He's working the plan. And then he gives us a list of Words about the way he saves us. It's called the Ordo Salutis in Latin. A list of words describing the way he saves us. Called. He's called us to salvation by faith Called us to glory, called us to suffer in this world. And since God is behind all of this, you can trust Him even in sufferings. But called here in this word this list doesn't just mean, you know, invited, and you can turn it down if you want. No, that's not what's meant here. Called is more like God's irresistible escort, where he, by his power, brings you with the call. He escorts you. with a call. Morris says Paul is saying that God is the author of our salvation and that that is from beginning to end. We are not to think that God can take action only when we graciously give him permission. No, he calls and he causes by the call. And so we have here this list, which is called the Ordo Salutis, or the Golden Chain of Salvation And that means the logical order of the way God says. And let's just go through it quickly. Maybe I'll preach a larger sermon on it later, but let's go quickly through it. For new Listen carefully because a lot of people get this one wrong. For new does not indicate knowledge about someone or what they will do. But is in the same category as what is meant when the Bible is said in Genesis, Adam knew his wife. See, the word new there, it didn't just mean he knew about her. It means he loved her. He knew her in love. Also consider Amos chapter 3, verse 2, where God is describing his electing love for Israel, that he chose them. He says about that, you only have I known. Doesn't God know everything? Of course he does. But in the sense of knew, foreknew, only Israel he knew. And he knew you, my friends. He foreknew you in that same way. Or Jesus, as recorded in Matthew 7, he says to some people, Depart from me, you who work iniquity. I never knew you. Didn't he know anything about them? Of course he knows them. He knows everything. But he didn't know them in love. He didn't have this foreknowledge that's described here in Romans. So, for new does not just mean know something about people in advance. Know what they're going to do and there and make your decision after you know what they're going to do. No. It means for loved. For loved. And those whom he for loved, he predestined. That's the next word. He predestined to be conformed to the image of Christ. Predestined means to ensure the destiny All believers will finally end up bearing the character of Christ. They've been predestined to look just like Jesus in character, in holiness, in perfection. And those whom he predestined, he also called. That's that word again that I just described a few minutes ago. He called here. Doesn't, again, doesn't just mean invited, but it means dragged in. He dragged me in. Did he drag you in? And those whom he foreknew and he predestined and he dragged in by calling them, he justified As we have taught many times, this means the declaration of righteous character, legal standing before God. which is put here in the past tense. All these have been put in the past tense. He foreknew in the past tense. He He predestined in the past tense. He called in the past tense. He justified in the past tense. And for you and me sitting here today, it is past tense if we really have those things, and I think you do. But then the last one is also put in the past tense. It's future. And yet he puts it in the past tense. Why? Because it's so sure to happen that you can just count it up as done. Glorified. That's what this whole sermon is about, isn't it? This is the future thing that we do not yet have. But Paul is listing it in the past tense. What he means is that it is so sure it's such a done deal. In God's mind, that you can count on it. God ensures it, and it will be revealed in you. Isn't that great news? It is indeed. The eternal chain of God's working is clear in the connection here. God didn't begin a work in the Romans just to abandon them along the way. Not even in the midst of their sufferings. He will keep them in those sufferings. and work all things for their good in those sufferings. Let's just go back over it real quickly. The sufferings that you have now are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed. The creation is sharing in that suffering caused by sin and eagerly waiting for it to be fixed too. And your groaning inwardly is the work of the Spirit within you. And the Spirit prays perfect prayers for you. And God is at work for your good and for his glory and your glory. The process he started cannot be stopped. It will succeed. Praise be to God. Amen. Lord, we thank you for the Spirit's help for the suffering world and the suffering Christian. Help us to be willing to suffer and not to complain in suffering. And help us to rely upon the Spirit's prayers within us and anticipate the great future that is set before us. We were not made for death, we were made for eternal life And we praise you that Christ has given us that by his death for us in our place. And has given us his spirit as the down payment, the first fruits. Amen.