The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures, he leads me beside still waters, he restores My soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear No evil. For you are with me, your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil, my cup Overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. This is the word of our God. Thanks be to God. I call this psalm in the title that you see on the worship folder, the sheep's song. Because it is. It's the sheep who is speaking and singing and praising the shepherd. In this famous and most loved psalm, the Lord reveals himself to us under the figure of a shepherd. This tells us a lot about his nature and relationship with The Psalm also shows us that we are like sheep. Along the way, we also learn something about our nature. First thing we see is that our shepherd provides. It is the nature and the job of a shepherd to provide. both materially as well as spiritually. Psalm thirty-seven, verses twenty-five and twenty-five The psalmist says, I have been young, and now I am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, or his children begging for bread. He has ever leads to our physical and material needs because we are physical beings. In the Hebraic biblical understanding of human beings, we understand that humans are by nature physical, and God affirms that as good. Our bodies are good. They are not inherently evil. But inherently good. God created Adam with a body, and it was good. Alternately, in the Greek and Platonic thought. The human body is to be disparaged. Also, many Eastern religions, such as Hinduism and Buddhism, disparage the physical nature of our body. For them, the goal of spirituality is to escape from the evil physical world to become a pure spirit. They're against the physical world. So it's ridiculous when people say all religions are pretty much the same, that they're completely diametrically opposed in that case. God, however, created the material world and he pronounced it good, and our bodies are bound up with our spirits. When we die, our body is laid to rest, and our spirit is with the Lord. According to 2 Corinthians 5, this condition that he describes there is a temporary naked state. Until the day of resurrection, when according to 1 Corinthians 15, our bodies will be raised incorruptible. They will put on clothes once again, our spirits will. Since God is our creator and shepherd, he provides for our physical care. We are his folk he doth us feed, and for his sheep he doth us take, in the paraphrase of the hundredth psalm Now, the psalmist says he's never known anyone where the seed of the faithful are begging bread. There may be some exceptions to that at times. But the scarcity of them proves the promise. The ancient story of Job. Job was an exception for a while, wasn't he? He lost everything. But God eventually provided for him in suffering and restored him to prosperity. And even if we lose all, all comforts in this life, we can still say with Job, For I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will stand upon the earth, and after my skin has been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh I shall see God, whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold, and not another. Job believed in the resurrection of the flesh and the life everlasting. So it is our shepherd's nature to provide pasture for his sheep. Whether your particular material pastures are as green as you would like them to be or not, he provides for you. And he provides for his church. One of the ways he provides is something that we're doing presently in our training class. He has established the office of deacon for this purpose That no one goes starving or destitute in the household of his flock, the church. Now, as wonderful as this promise is for our material well-being, it is inexorably connected to our spiritual care. In our shepherd's love, he has secured us body and soul, in life and in death. Our shepherd is Jesus Christ. He is God, the eternal Son, who assumed human flesh. And we say it in our creed for us and for our salvation. He came down from heaven and was incarnate of the Holy Spirit and of the Virgin Mary. And became man. Human nature, a real human nature, and was buried. He, the one who lived a perfect life of obedience and love for God and his neighbor, died as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. And by true faith, we know that He has washed us in His blood, signed and sealed to us in baptism. And he feeds us at his own table, where he is the host, giving himself to us whenever the bread and the cup are presented according to his institution. And we eat in faith. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Makes me lie down in green pasture Surely these are the green pastures of his care and provision for us in body and in soul. Because that's how he made it. The second point is our shepherd leads. He leads me beside still waters That's pretty important in the context of an Israelite shepherd. A land of Israel has very few broad, flat places and quiet pools. It has many rocky uplands with crevices and cliffs and ravines. You can get a lot of rock climbing and mountain biking in in Israel if you want to, I suppose. I haven't been there, but I've seen the pictures. It has various other hazards such as briar thickets. And there were many wild predators in these places. The shepherd looking for suitable grazing and watering would act as a scout going before his sheep, looking ahead of his sheep and leading them to safety And our shepherd pioneers the way going ahead of us. So if you're afraid of the future, Afraid for your job, for your family, for your relationship, for your finances, if you're afraid of death, Christ has gone before you as your great shepherd. Hebrews 2, verses 10 through 12 says, For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory Should make the pioneer of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified have one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call Jesus Gives you grace sufficient for each place in life, each situation. And the greatest thing that we will ever face is death. He has gone before us through the valley of the shadow of death. Even there he has gone before us, removing the sting of death. He calls us his sheep one by one through that place, saying Fear not. I am the first and the last, and the living and the one who died, and behold, I am alive forevermore. And I have the keys of death and Hades. Revelation 1, 17, and following. The next phrase to think about is He leads me beside quiet waters Now I have seen many photographs on calendars and greeting cards with the beautiful waterfalls and the lushed forest settings with this verse printed. And I love waterfalls. Who doesn't? The truth is, sheep do not like splashing, rushing water. They don't like it, they're scared of it. They're afraid of the noise and the movement, and besides that, when there's so much noise around them, they can't hear in case a predator is coming, approaching stealthily. They do not like to drink in such places. So what does the shepherd do? He leads me beside quiet waters. The Hebrews also didn't like turbulent waters. As I've said before, the Hebrews had no navy. Sorry. They disliked the turbulent sea. It was chaos to them. But in the book of Revelation, where our shepherd finally leads us, we see the new earth. And it will have a crystal calm sea and a placid river, the river of life flowing from God's throne, widening out and getting deeper But not turbulent. No white water. Before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass like crystal, Revelation 4, verse 6. Christ, our shepherd, is leading us to a place of calm and refreshment, a place of peace and safety. He has gone before us, and we can follow in confidence. Thirdly, our shepherd restores, defends, and comforts. I'm going to keep these three things together because they are not mutually exclusive. They intertwine like A Celtic knot. He restores my soul. The verb to restore can mean to retrieve a wandering sheep. Or simply to refresh and renew the sheep. Perhaps both are in view. Sheep, you see, fall into many hazards, especially when they fail to follow the shepherd. When they stray from the flock, they get into trouble. But because they belong to him, he will not abandon them, so he restores He restores my soul. Jesus said in John 10, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they will Will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. Now this is not a license to wonder. Oh, I can just wander all over the place and fall into all kinds of crevices and traps and troubles because he'll never let me go. That's not what This means. It's not a license to wander. He rescues his true sheep and returns them to his fold. But he does this for his own namesake. His own namesake because he has put his name on us he has called us his own his reputation is bound up with us Isn't it? Ultimately, Satan the accuser can point at any one of us and say, just look at that wicked sinner. Just look at the things she thinks or he thinks. Look at what he did or she did. He's the accuser, but Christ, our shepherd, is the defender. He defends us. And because we are his, and for his own name's sake, he defends us. He says, I have died for that one. I have washed him or her clean with my precious blood. They belong to me. I will defend them. There's another sense of the verb to restore found in Psalm 19. The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. Restoring the soul to what it needs to be, to get its right focus, its right view of everything, restoring it to sanity in a sense, spiritual sanity. Many strayings are prevented by Christ who restores our soul from the insanity of sin. He does this for us because we are his. He loves us and has staked his name, his reputation on us. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you were with me, your rod and your staff, they comfort me. This is where he defends us. Sheep have as enemies predators such as lions and wolves. And thieves, but also their own sheep nature. They are notoriously stupid. Being called a sheep is not a compliment in most places. We are not stupid, but we are often foolish. Stupid is the description Description of intelligence. Foolish is a description of a lack of moral wisdom. That is frequently our problem. We know what's right, but we're too foolish to obey it. We are our own enemy. He defends us. Our Savior, our shepherd, defends us. from evil. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me, your rod and your staff. They comfort me. And then you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. That means in the course of life. When we live in a hostile world where there's all kinds of opposition to us, the world, the flesh, and the devil are all opposed to us, are they not? He Prepares a table for us in the presence of our enemies. Now I know that in Psalm 23, the table is not the Lord's supper. But it is a table of grace, a table of care, a table of nourishment, a nurture. And is not the Lord's Supper, a table of grace and of care, of nourishment and of nurture it is. So I think it fits, even though that's not what was being thought of here. You anoint my head with oil. What's that about? Well, some have said it's about the soothing nature of oil. When a sheep is hurt, scratched, scraped, bruised, um from briars that they got caught in. You know, they got their head caught in a briar patch and they had to be pulled out and or they pulled themselves out, and now they've got this bloody Mess the shepherd would anoint with oil to soothe and heal the mess that the sheep got into. And my cup overflows. What is that? But a picture of wonderful plenty. Not just of things in life, although God does care about things in life. He does care about our physical nature, but our cup overflows with joy, with peace, with comfort. With spiritual riches beyond measure. The immeasurable riches of Christ are given to us as his people. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. That's the characteristic of those who trust in Christ. Goodness and mercy God's wonderful mercy. We need it all the time. Have mercy on me, O Lord, for your name's sake. Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. What a wonderful end to this this beautiful psalm. We have a home waiting for us. Jesus said, I go and prepare a place for So that where I am, there you may be also. And if it were not so, would I have told you? So he promises. There is a placid and beautiful and peaceful home for us. There is goodness and mercy all the days of our life. There is a That allows us to rest even when there are troubles all around us. Because of our Lord who is our shepherd. What a beautiful song the sheep Can sing when they trust in their great shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.