Please turn in your Bibles to Joshua 7. We'll read the chapter, Joshua 7. But the people of Israel broke faith in regard to the devoted things, for Achan the son of Carmi, son of Zabdi, son of Zarah, of the tribe of Judah, took some of the devoted things. And the anger of the Lord burned against the people of Israel. Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is near Beth Aven, east of Bethel, and said to them, Go up and spy out the land. And the men went up and spied out Ai. And they returned to Joshua and said to him, Do not have all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and attack Ai. Do not make the whole people toil up there, for they are few. So about three thousand men went up there from the people, and they fled before the men of Ai. And the men of Ai killed about thirty-six of their men and chased them before the gate as far as Shebarim. and struck them at the descent. And the hearts of the people melted and became as water. Then Joshua tore his clothes and fell to the earth on his face before the ark of the Lord until the evening, he and the elders of Israel And they put dust on their heads. And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God, why have you brought this people over the Jordan at all, to give us into the hands of the Amorites, to destroy us? Would that we have been content to dwell beyond the Jordan. O Lord, what can I say when Israel has turned their backs before their enemies? For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it and will surround us and cut off our name from the earth. And what will you do for your great name? The Lord said to Joshua, Get up. Why have you fallen on your face? Israel has sinned. They have transgressed my covenant that I commanded them. They have taken some of the devoted things. They have stolen and lied and put them among their own belongings. Therefore, the people of Israel cannot stand before their enemies They turn their backs before their enemies because they have been become devoted for destruction. I will be with you no more, unless you destroy the devoted things from among you. Get up, consecrate the people, and say, Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow, for thus says the Lord, God of Israel. There are devoted things in your midst of O Israel. You cannot stand before your enemies until you take away the devoted things from among you. In the morning, therefore, you shall be brought near by your tribes. And the tribe that the Lord takes by lot shall come near by clans, and the clan that the Lord takes shall come near by households, and the household that the Lord takes shall come near man by man. And he who is taken with the devoted things shall be burned with fire. He and all that he has, because he has transgressed the covenant of the Lord, and because he has done an outrageous thing in Israel So Joshua rose early in the morning and brought Israel near tribe by tribe, and the tribe of Judah was taken. And he brought near the clans of Judah, and the clan of the Zarahites was taken. And he brought near the clan of the Zarahites man by man, and Zabdi was taken. And he brought near his household man by man, and Achan, the son of Carmi, son of Zabdai, son of Zarah, of the tribe of Judah, was taken. Then Joshua said to Achan, My son, give glory to the Lord God of Israel and give praise to him. And tell me now what you have done. Do not hide it from me. And Achan answered Joshua, Truly I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel, and this is what I did. When I saw among the spoil a beautiful cloak of sh from Shinar, And two hundred shekels of silver and a bar of gold weighing fifty shekels, then I coveted them and took them. And seized See, they are hidden in the earth inside my tent with the silver underneath. So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent, and behold, it was hidden in his tent with the silver underneath underneath. And they took them out of the tent and brought them to Joshua and to all the people of Israel, and they laid them down before the Lord. And Joshua and all Israel with him took Achan the son of Zarah, and the silver and the cloak and the bar of gold, and his sons and daughters, and his oxen and donkeys, and sheep, and his own. His tent and all that he had, and they brought them up to the valley of Acor. And Joshua said, Why did you bring trouble on us? The Lord brings trouble on you today. And all Israel stoned him with stones. They burned them with fire and stoned them with stones. And they raised over him a great heap of stones. That remains to this day. Then the Lord turned from his burning anger. Therefore, to this day the name of that place is called the Valley of Acor. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Hebrews twelve, one through seventeen Exhortation. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely. And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint hearted. In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not lightly regard the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom the Father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the father of spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them But he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant But later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Therefore, lift up the drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees and make straight paths for your feet. So that what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather be healed. Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness, without which no one will see the Lord See to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble, and by it many become defiled. That no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal. For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we come before your throne asking you to help us to understand and apply your holy word in this narrative from Joshua 7. Help it not to be merely a story of long ago, but by your Holy Spirit bring its truths and applications home to our hearts. In Christ we pray. Amen. The first word in the seventh chapter is the word but. Little conjunction, but. But it is a conjunction of contrasts. But the people of Israel broke faith in regard to the devoted things. For Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah of the tribe of Judah, took some of the devoted things. And the anger of the Lord burned against the people of Israel. But is in contrast to the last Verse of chapter 6, which said, So the Lord was with Joshua, and his fame was in all the land. But The anger of Yahweh burned against the people of Israel. There was the thrill of victory over Jericho. The walls came down. The people went straight in. The thrill of victory, but then the agony of defeat at AI. One commentator said: Never is the believer in greater danger of a fall than after a victory. We are so prone to drop our guard and begin trusting in ourselves or in our past victories rather than in the Lord. One victory never guarantees the next. Only as it builds our confidence in the Lord and develops our wisdom in appropriating God's word, do our victories aid us in the next battle. Always the basis of victory is in the Lord Himself and our faith and dependence upon Him, the commentator says Notice here that the whole community was affected by this sin. There is a corporate and covenantal aspect to sin. Sin. Everyone is affected by it. You don't sin alone, even if you're in the dark and no one else knows it, God knows it. And you do affect others by your sin. It's a strange principle to us Western individualist Americans, but it is a biblical principle, and we need to take it very seriously. Seriously. By the way, that's how you became a sinner. You became a sinner by by being a part of someone else By being affected by someone else's decision. You remember that. Adam sinned, and we sinned in him and with him in the garden and became sinners. And we are sinners by a sinner association with him from birth, from conception. What happened? Jericho's people and many valuable assets called devoted things In the last chapter and in this chapter, were supposed to be completely destroyed. This was evidently to be a kind of first fruits Of coming into the land of promise. Everything was to be given to God, and therefore, in this case, destroyed. These were not to be kept by God's people This has been called barbaric and primitive, nothing less than genocide by some people. But as I said last week, the Canaanites were by no means innocent. They were a vile people. Who practice the basest forms of immorality, including child sacrifice? And if that's true of them, what is going to happen to the United States of America? We have promoted abortion for 50 years. Many millions have been destroyed. God had given the Canaanites over 400 years to repent, but now their iniquity had become full up. It's mentioned in Genesis 15. But the few who did repent and turned to the Lord, Rahab and her family, what happened to them? They were saved. They were spared this wrath. Here's how this thing happened. Go to verse 2. Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, that little town, the next one on the way, needed to be conquered, which is near Bethavan, east of Bethel And he said to them, Go up and spy out the land. And the men went up and spied out Ai, and they returned to Joshua and said to him, Do not have all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and attack it. Do not make the whole people toil up there, for they are few. They are few in AI, so we don't need the whole army. Let's just send enough to take the little town and get the job done. Ai was smaller than Jericho, but its defeat was important because it would give Israel control of the main route that ran along the highlands through the central part of the country. So, verse 4, about 3,000 men went up there from the people, and they fled before the men of Ai. And the men of Ai killed about 36 of their men. And chased them before the gate as far as Shebarim, and struck them at the descent, and the hearts of the people melted and became as water. So what seemed to be an easy thing, just send a couple thousand, get the job done. And there's no negativity about that plan, by the way. Scriptures, what should have been an easy thing turned out not to be an easy thing at all. Thirty-six Israelites were killed, and the rest were chased back. This is shocking to read after so many successes and victories, but this is not unusual in our own life experience. One minute you can be living in victory, the next in defeat. You can be riding high on the cloud of some great spiritual success. You think you've conquered sin, and then you find yourself very weak. You find yourself like the prophet Elijah at one moment standing on the mountain with the prophets of Baal in utter defeat. And the next Hiding under a juniper tree or in a cave and saying, I'm the only one left, and now they're going to kill me too. So here we come now to Joshua's prayer of complaint. He doesn't know how this happened or why. He's in the dark about it. Then Joshua, verse 6, tore his clothes. And fell to the earth on his face before the ark of the Lord until evening, a long time. And he and the elders of Israel did this. And they put dust on their heads. Fell to their face to the ground, their faces in the dust, and they put dust on their heads, they've torn their clothes, they are in utter humility before the Lord, and they're staying in that situation until something happens, until God speaks. Verse 7, and Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God, here's his prayer. Why have you brought this people over the Jordan at all? To give us into the hands of the Amorites to destroy us. Would that we had been content to dwell beyond the Jordan. O Lord, what can I say when Israel has turned their backs before their enemies? For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it and will surround us and cut off our name from the earth. And then this is really important part of his prayer. And what will you do for your great name? See, he's concerned about themselves, Israel. He's concerned about them being defeated, but his ultimate concern is for God's great name. And although he is very unhappy with the situation, he is more unhappy that God's name might be besmirched Downgraded, laughed about by the Amorites, the Canaanites, the pagans. That's always a good prayer, by the way. Way when we're in distress and trouble. We can pray for relief, and it's great to do so, but what we ultimately need to pray for is for God's glory, for God's great name to be glorified in whatever our situation is. This happened yesterday at Presbytery, our Presbytery meeting, one of our brothers, Pastor Tim Flora. um stood up at prayer time and announced that he has renal cancer. And it's pretty advanced. And we gathered around him and prayed for him. But in all those prayers that were said and heard, I heard that God's glory and God's grace and God's power should be made Manifested and known through this. Yes, we prayed for his healing, but we also prayed more than that for God's power and grace and glory to be made known. That's the right kind of prayer. That's what Joshua did. And what will you do for your great name? Your reputation is at stake. sake, God, in your people. So please act for your name, your name, and your people. So then God reveals the situation, which Joshua didn't know until now. In verse 10, the Lord said to Joshua, Get up, why have you fallen on your face? Israel has sinned. That's the problem. They have transgressed my covenant that I commanded them. They have taken some of the devoted things. They have stolen and lied and put them among their own belongings. Therefore, the people of Israel cannot stand before their enemies. They turn their backs before their enemies because they have become devoted for destruction. I will be with you no more. Oh, and that's the worst thing that can happen. When when God was leading the Israelites through the wilderness, leading the Israelites through the wilderness, That was what they pled for most. Please be with us. And God had said in his covenant promises, I will be with you. But now he says, if you don't take care of this, I will be with you no more. So Verse 12. Therefore the people of Israel cannot stand before their enemies. They turn their backs before their enemies because they have become devoted for destruction. I will be with you no more unless you destroy the devoted things from among you. Get up, then on their face, get up, consecrate the people, and say, Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow, for thus says the Lord the God of Israel, there are devoted things in your midst. O Israel, you cannot stand before your enemies until you take away the devoted things from among you. And then there's this process of elimination. this ordeal really to find out where and who is guilty. In the morning, therefore, you shall be brought near by your tribes. And the tribe that the Lord takes by lot shall come near by clans, and the clan that the Lord takes shall come near by households, and the household that the Lord takes shall come near by man And he who has taken with the devoted things shall be burned with fire, he and all that he has, because he has transgressed the covenant of the Lord, and because he has done an outrageous thing in Israel. So Joshua rose early in the morning and brought Israel near, tribe by tribe, and the tribe of Judah was taken, and he brought near the clans of Judah and the clan of the Zarahites. was taken and brought near the clan of the Zarahites by man, and Zabdi was taken, and he brought near his household by man, and Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah. Was taken. And Joshua said to Achan, My son, give glory to the Lord God of Israel, and give praise to him. And tell me now what you have done, and hide it not from me. And Achan answered Joshua, Truly, I have sinned against the Lord the God of Israel, and this is what I did. When I saw among the spoil a beautiful cloak from Shinar, And 200 shekels of silver and a bar of gold weighing 50 shekels, then I coveted them and took them And see, they are hidden in the earth inside my tent with the silver underneath. Francis Schaeffer said about this: Christians should be aware of affluence. Of prestige, of trying to be VIP. And then he says there were two parts of Achan's sins: the simple greed or covetousness And the desire to dress in such a manner as to make himself stand out above others. You see there's this cloak, this mantle fed uh b of Shinar, which fed that latter desire. He wanted to look really good. And the silver and the gold fed the other desire, the covetousness, greed desire. The seriousness of this crime was Aiken's taking what specifically belonged to the Lord and to no one else. In short, he was robbing God. Do you rob God? Well, we go on now to the wages of sin. The sin has been confessed. We come to the wages. Verse 22. So Joshua sent messengers and they ran to the tent. And behold, it was hidden in his tent with the silver underneath. And they took them out of the tent and brought them to Joshua and to all the people of Israel. And they laid them down before the Lord. And Joshua and all Israel with him took Achan, the son of Zerah, and the silver and the cloak, that beautiful thing from Babylon. And the bar of gold, and his sons and daughters, and his oxen and donkeys, and his sheep, and all his tent, and all that he had. And they brought them up to the valley of Achor. And Joshua said, why do you bring trouble on us? That's what Akor means. The Lord brings trouble on you today. And all Israel stoned him with stones. And they burned them with fire and stoned them with stones. Kyle, the famous commentator, says that all the family of Aiken suffered death. Since they were, by the very nature of the hiding place, aware of what had happened, and they were complicit in it. Besides that, Kyle pointed out that in this particular case, God had specifically commanded the execution be carried out. And then in verse 26, this is the last verse, and they raised over him a great heap of stones that remains to this day Then the Lord turned from his burning anger. Therefore, to this day, the name of that place is the Valley of Acor. Now I want to draw some conclusions, recap, and application First, there was the thrill of victory, but now the agony of defeat. The little conjunction that begins this chapter is designed to contrast and to drive home this important truth. Victory can be followed by defeat. The words translated broke faith. Israel has broken faith represents a Hebrew word which means to act underhandedly. It is used of marital infidelity. The sin here was both an act of spiritual infidelity and a faithless act Seeking happiness and security from things rather than from God Notice also that the Lord held the whole camp of Israel accountable for the act of one man and withheld his blessing until the matter was corrected. There was sin in the camp, and God would not continue blessing the nation as long as this was so. This does not mean that there was only one sin and the rest of the nation was sinless. But this sin was of such a nature, a direct disobedience and rebellion against a direct commandment of God, that God used it to teach Israel a couple of important lessons. God viewed the nation of Israel as a unit, as a covenant people. What one did was viewed as a sin of the whole nation. And this illustrates the truth and warnings for us as individuals and especially as family heads. As a warning for the church, it shows us that we cannot progress. And expect God's blessings with known sins in our lives. That is why it is important for us not merely to repeat the words of our confession of sin each week, but to mean them. To truly mean them, to say the burden of them is intolerable, and mean it. Not tolerate them. 1 John 2, 15 through 17, do not love the world, neither the things We saw that in Aiken's sin. Are not of the Father, but are of this world, and this world is passing away. And its desires, its lusts. But the one who does the will of God abides forever. Aiken's behavior illustrates how one or a few believers out of a fellowship, when pursuing their own selfish desires and agendas, can negatively impact the entire group. Such behavior can create trouble. Aiken's name is a play on the word Akor, which means trouble. So Joshua would declare that the Lord would bring trouble, Achor, on Achan, who would become a troubler to the nation because of his sin. Thus, the site of Achan's death and grave is called the Valley of Achor. Disturbance or trouble. Though the crime was committed by one person, the whole nation was considered guilty. The nation was responsible for the obedience of every citizen and was charged with the punishment of every offender. We have similar testimonies from the New Testament. This isn't just an Old Testament thing Hebrews 12, we read part of that, 15 through 16. See to it that no one comes short of the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springs up and causes trouble, and by it many be defiled. That there be no immoral or godless person like Esau who sold his own birthright for a single meal. New Testament Or 1 Corinthians 5, 6 through 7, where the apostle says, Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens a whole lump of dough? Clean out the old leaven, that you may be a new lump, for you are in fact unleavened. For Christ, our Passover has been sacrificed for us. And nothing. Numbers reminds us, Numbers 32, verse 23 reminds us, be sure your sins. will find you out. It certainly found Aiken out by that process of ordeal. So the words, the anger of the Lord burned against the people of Israel, dramatically show us God's holiness. Sin is never a small matter with God. Because sin is, as 1 Samuel 15 says, sin and rebellion is the sin of divination. Even though Christ died for our sins and stands at God's right hand as our advocate and intercessor, God cannot treat sin in our lives lightly. It is against his holy character, his holiness, his righteousness. James, one more New Testament writer. James 4, verses 5 through 6. Says this. Or do you not know that it is to no purpose that the scripture says, He yearns jealousy over the spirit that he has made to dwell in us? But he gives more grace. Therefore, it says: God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. The Spirit yearns jealously for our holiness, for our walk with Christ. But he does give grace to the humble. The principle that we need to think about here is that these These desires, these lust patterns that affected Aiken, illustrate the various lust patterns that we all face, and if not dealt with in faith can dominate our lives. They include things like desire for position, Power, prestige, pleasure, possessions, praise, applause, and recognition, but they are nothing more than human solutions to protect of protective strategies that we find Security in, significance in, and satisfaction apart from God. You see, our real need is to be Not apart from God, but close to God. Jeremiah calls such things that we seek our hope and peace in, he calls them broken cisterns. That cannot hold anything. The sinful nature, with its faulty thinking and reasoning, will do such things That's what happened with Achan. The world and its human reasoning or viewpoint seeks to live life apart from God and his revelation and his plan. And false belief structures lead us in these directions, and it is so prevalent. Though this command was coveting, one of the Ten Commandments, it wasn't just the coveting that was the root cause, but there were other sins Going on in his life. It was a basic dissatisfaction with his lot in life. So I want to wrap these things up, these thoughts up at this point and say this. If we look at Aiken and we see in him This sin, we see the seriousness with which God deals with sin, and we think about ourselves. We think about some of our own inclinations and things that we love and cherish. Maybe apart from God or above God or beyond God, we might be finding ourselves very guilty, very ashamed, very sad, and very defeated But now I want to point to you to the book of Hosea, a latter prophet. The book of Hosea 2, verses 14 through 20. It's a wonderful reference in the context of this grim situation. Because Israel was always characterized by these problems. It gets repeated again and again. Go to the book of Judges and go on and on. This happens over and over, these kinds of things. And we find them in ourselves, too, don't we? But now we go to the book of Hosea, which looks forward to the fullness of the revelation of God and his salvation in Jesus Christ. And it says in verse 14, Therefore, behold, I will allure her. Let me stop and go back. Hosea is the story of an unfaithful wife. And the wife is Israel, and God is the husband. And he's now talking about his unfaithful wife. And here's what he says: Therefore, behold, I will allure her. And bring her into the wilderness and speak tenderly to her. Tenderly. Wasn't very tender to Aiken, but I will speak tenderly to her And there I will give her vineyards. That's beautiful things, grapes, vines, beautiful things. I will give her her vineyards. And then this phrase. It's beautiful. And make the valley of Acor. Way back to Joshua's days. Make the valley of Acor a door of hope. A door of hope. Make the valley of trouble, of condemnation, of wrath, a door of hope. Our crisis pregnancy center is named a door. of hope because of that passage. And there she shall answer as in the days of her youth, as at the time when she came up out of the land of Egypt. And in that day, declares the Lord, you will call me my husband. And no longer will you call me my Baal For I will remove the names of the bales from her mouth, and they shall be remembered by her no more. of the ground, and I will abolish the bow, the sword, and war from the land, and I will make you lie down in safety. And I will betroth you to me forever. God is coming to be our husband. And I will betroth you to me in righteousness and in justice and in steadfast love and mercy. I will betrothe you to me. In faithfulness, and you shall know the Lord. And there it is, my friends. Christ is the door of hope in the valley of a Core. With Christ, we have God as our husband, our beloved, our spouse, who stays with us even in spite of our sins and failures. Without Christ, we end up like Achen, condemned by our own shameful and secret sins, which will all be revealed and shouted from the rooftop someday. But by faith in Christ, trusting in Him for our atonement, made by Him on the cross, where a heap of all our sins was placed and piled upon Him. And by him we have the gift of his perfect active obedience in place of our sins. His perfect life is given to us. Us. Our treachery, our trouble, our acor is removed, and all his faithfulness to God's covenant is received by us, by faith, by trust in himself. And we see echoes of that beautiful thing in Romans 6. What then? Are we to sin? Because we are not under the law, but under grace by no means. Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slave to the one whom you obey? Either of sin, like Which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness. But thanks be to God, the door of hope, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart, because Of Christ, to the standard of teaching to which you were now committed, and having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. God gives us the door of hope, Christ Himself, and then He gives us His Holy Spirit, which is given to us freely. We are enabled to really live for him and really change and turn from covetousness and underhandedness and theft and other sins. To obedience, an amendment of life, this also is the good news of the gospel and a door of hope Amen. Lord, we thank you and praise you that in this very grim tale of sin and disobedience and judgment You have also shown us that by your grace, through the work of Christ, we have a door of hope and the gift of the Holy Spirit to lead us forward. We pray that you will bless this congregation with faithfulness and love and mercy and true amendment of life and repentance in our personal lives and in our family lives and in every way. That we might not fall under your curse. But help us always to cling to Christ and by the power of the Holy Spirit to live for Him. Amen.