Them, and he blessed them and named them man when they were created. When Adam had lived a hundred and thirty years, his father, a son, he fathered a son, in his own likeness, after his image. And named him Seth. The days of Adam, after he fathered Seth, were 800 years, and he had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days that Adam lived were 930 years. And he died. When Seth had lived 105 years, he fathered Enosh. Seth lived after he fathered Enosh 807 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died. When Enosh had lived ninety years, he fathered Kennan. Enosh lived after he had fathered Kenan 815 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Enosh were 905 years, and he died. When Kenan had lived seventy years, he fathered Mahalalel. Kennan lived after he fathered Mahalalel 840 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Kenan were 910 years, and he died. When Mahalalel had lived 65 years, he fathered Jared. Mahalal lived after he fathered Jared 830 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus, all the days of Mahalal were 895 years, and he died. When Jared had lived 162 years, he fathered Enoch. Jared lived after he fathered Enoch 800 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Jared were 962 years. 62 years and he died. When Enoch had lived 65 years, he fathered Methuselah. Enoch walked with God after he fathered Methuselah 300 years ago. Years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty-five years. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. When Methuselah had lived 187 years, he fathered Lamach. Methuselah lived after he fathered Lamach 782 years. And had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Methuselah were 969 years, and he died. When Lamach had lived 182 years, he fathered a son and called his name Noah Out of the ground that the Lord had cursed, this one shall bring us relief from our work and from the painful toil of our hands. Lamach lived after he fathered Noah 595 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Lamach were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and he He died. After Noah was 500 years old, Noah fathered Shem, Ham, and Japheth. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks. New Testament reading, which will be referred to as the course of the preaching as well as the Genesis 5, is from Hebrews Chapter two, five through eighteen. Hebrews two beginning at verse five Now, it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking. It has been testified somewhere. What is man that you are mindful of him, or the son of man that you care for him? You made him for a little Little lower. You made him for a little while lower than the angels, and have crowned him with glory and honor. Putting everything in subjection under his feet. Now in putting everything in subjection to him He left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death. So that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist In bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies, and those who are sanctified, all have one source That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children God has given me. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil. And deliver all those who, through fear of death, were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham Therefore, he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when being tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us join together. Oh Lord, in your light we see light. Without your illumining spirit, these words of Scripture written down would fall on our deaf ears. But by your spirit, please. Illumine them and bring them to our minds and hearts and wills. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we come to Genesis chapter five and a lovely genealogy. Then lots of people, when they see it, just skip it. You know, who needs a list of names and all that business and all those numbers, all those years and all that stuff? But we need to look more closely because there's a point to putting the genealogy here. And I hope you'll see some of those points. One point is this. At the end of verse 5, it says, Adam lived 930 years and he died And in verse 8, thus all the days of Seth were 912 years, and he died. Verse 11, thus all the days of Enosh were 905 years, and he died. And then in verse 17, all the days of Mahalalel were 895 years, and he died. And then in verse 20, thus all the days of Jared were 962 years, and he died. And then verse 24. Thus, all the days of Enoch were 365 years. Enoch walked with God, and he was not. For God took him. And then we go down to verse 27, and all the days of Methuselah were 969 years, and he died. This narrative is a genealogical bridge from Adam to Noah. The central purpose is to demonstrate that God was keeping his word concerning the struggle between the seed of the serpent and the seed of the woman. Another purpose was to demonstrate the prevalence of death in the human race because of Adam's sin. You should notice, you don't see it right in this text, but you should notice that there is a parallel in the seventh generation. A parallel between the ungodly descendants of Cain, who is the seed of the serpent, and the godly line of Seth, who is the seed of the woman. And you see it this way. Both lines, seventh generation, have men named Lamech and Enoch, but they are very different. The Lamak in the line of Cain takes two wives and thus breaks the creation order. Which was one man and one woman creates one marriage. The Lamak there is also a violent killer Who boasts about his exploits. In Genesis 4, 23 through 24, here's the thing. Lamach said to his wives, and then there's a poem that he wrote, I guess. Lamach said to his wives, Ada and Zillah, hear my voice, you wives of Lamach, listen to what I say. I have killed a man for wounding me, a young man for striking me If Cain's revenge is sevenfold, then Lamach's is seventy-sevenfold. By contrast, the Lamech and the line of Seth Brings forth Noah, a preacher of righteousness And then the Enochs. We're not told much about the first Enoch in chapter 4, except that he built a city. Now, this may not seem like a big problem unless you remember this. God had commanded Adam in Genesis 1:28, saying And God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and build a city. No. Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth Building a city is the opposite of filling the earth, as we will see more clearly in chapter 11, where the defiant people in the seed of the serpent Build a monumental city and tower called the Tower of Babel. In contrast, the Enoch in the godly line of Seth breaks the pattern of death. Verse 21, chapter 5. When Enoch had lived 65 years, he fathered Methuselah. Enoch walked with God after he had fathered Methuselah 300 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Enoch were 365 years. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. That's a big contrast. Somehow, the second Enoch in the line of the seed of the woman walked with God and was taken up to God without death. He's the only one. This gives hope, does it not, to a sin-cursed, death-ridden world. Somebody in Adam's line has walked with God. This cannot mean, by the way, that Enoch was sinless, because he too was a descendant of Adam. But his relationship with God is similar to that of Adam and Eve in the garden, where it says there they walked with God in the garden in the cool of the day. Now it was by faith in God's promise that he walked with God. We know that how? Because in Hebrews chapter 11, which we didn't read, It says there about the Hebrews of the faith, the heroes, I should say, by faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death. And he was not found because God had taken him. Now, before he was taken, he was commended as having pleased God. The only ground, by the way, for being right with God after the fall is the blood of Christ. The only ground, at any time, is the blood of Christ. Christ, who is the second Adam, who would shed his blood much later. But with faith and the obedience of faith, it is possible to please God. It is possible to walk with God in life. This is encouragement for those who live by faith and who, like Enoch, tell the truth. In the face of opposition. How do we know that? Jude verses fourteen and fifteen Where Jude says this, it was also about these that Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, Here's what Enoch said: Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of his holy ones. to execute judgment on all and to convict all the ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him. So Enoch, the second Enoch, was a preacher, a warning preacher about judgment He told the truth in the face of opposition. He walked with God three hundred years after he was 65. I hope I get that chance. The second Lamech the second Lamech In the line of the seat of the woman, it's described in verse 28. It says, when Lamach had lived 182 years, He fathered his son and called his name, saying, Out of the ground that the Lord has cursed, this one shall bring us relief. This thing that he says is a little oracle. And an oracle is a word from God spoken by someone like a patriarch. It's a little oracle. This one shall bring us relief. God somehow showed Lamach, the second Lamach, that this child would bring hope. And the name Noah is a note of hope. It sounds like the word for relief in Hebrew. So putting those things together, Genesis 5 traces the line of the seed of the woman from Adam to Noah and Noah's three sons. And I want you to notice one more thing in this narrative. Notice the long, long lives of those who lived. Before the flood. You may be tempted to disbelieve these accounts of these long, long lives. Nobody lives that long. This would be a mistake. It would be a mistake to think that things Are now and were then as they are now would be a big mistake Such uniformitarianism completely, you see, discounts the vast changes that came upon the planet in the great worldwide flood. That cataclysm of the worldwide universal flood changed the whole situation of man. And there will be a rapid contraction of the lifespans after the flood. As we see in Genesis 6, 3, the Lord said, My spirit shall not abide in man forever for his flesh. His days shall be 120 years. And it occasionally happens that people live to be 120 years. Most of us don't. The second point is the preponderance and fear of death. And he died, and he died, and he died. Preponderance and fear of death. Enoch is an exception. He was translated from this life to the next without dying. And Elijah will get that same treatment much later. But God didn't want man, fallen man, to live forever In that state of fallness. In Genesis 3, 22 through 24, listen Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us, knowing good and evil. Now lest he reach out his hand and take also the tree of life and eat and live forever Therefore the Lord God sent him out of the garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man from the east Of the Garden of Eden, he placed the cherubim with a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. God did not want Adamkind to live forever without being reconciled to him. Do you want to know what hell is like? Don't think of a devil with a pitchfork and a pointy tail and horns Life forever without God is the essence of hell Without God, death is the final and irrevocable limit And so, because of what has happened, we now cling to life. We mortals cling to life, even with all its problems and pains and perils Some people would give up vast fortunes if they could just buy 30 years back and get to live them. But death has a purpose in the plan of God. Psychologists tell us that humans, every person from youth on, is continually subconsciously aware of their mortality, of the fact of their coming death. And it brings fear Fear. Hebrews 2. 15 says about us those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. Fear of death brings slavery. Slavery to what? It brings slavery to the devil's counterfeit to life. You see, it works this way. When you realize that you're going to die and you don't know God, your subconscious mind says, death is coming! The devil says, then get all the life you can, run after it, get it, get all the pleasure possible, deny yourself no possession within your reach. In one form of that slavery, life becomes more or less a mad dash to get all the things, all the experiences, all the power that you can. It reminds me of uh a television game show years ago called Supermarket Sweep. In this game show, contestants answered trivia questions, and then those who won got to complete a timed race through the supermarket. They had to go through every aisle. And then the team that had the most valuable items in their shopping carts at the end won the race. That's the way some people live their lives, isn't it? The fear of death does that. It brings slavery to money, slavery to sexual experience, slavery to power and possessions and public approval. And private relationships. And all these can be good in their own place and can be used for good And we can be thankful for them, but they are not the goal. They are not life First Peter four says about Christians, for the time is past And suvices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. With respect to this, they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you. When dedicated slaves to the devil's so-called life encounter God's law, there is a problem. There's a collision, a conflict. You see, we're made in the image of God, and we have moral consciousness. It's always there. It never goes away. Romans 2, Paul says, For when the Gentiles who do not have the written law by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them. The encounter brings another sort of death, a death by limitation. Paul says in Romans 7, I once was alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came to life and I died. The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me. For sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment deceived me, and through it killed me. And so when this collision happens between people's moral consciousness and their fear of death, there's one response to that: rebellion. People rebel at the limitation on their freedom to pursue slavery. Isn't that ironic? I'll say it again. People rebel at the limitation on their freedom to pursue slavery They become antinomial. They become against law because the limits are limiting. Limiting the so-called life that the devil is inciting them to chase after. A life which is slavery. And this is the life that we see in the ungodly line of the seed of the serpent. Power seeking, pleasure-seeking, violent like Lamech. All of us are highly subject to this condition. Because we are by nature in the image of God on the one hand and sinners on the other, and know that we're going to die. Even Christians can objectively know something as true from God's Word and still go for the opposite. It's pathological. That's why we do some really crazy things sometimes. A second response to this encounter. Is the possible second response is moralism or religion. I don't mean Christianity, I mean religion We know that the law of God is in our conscience, and we have this moral training. And so this person says, I'll control this situation of God's law and my future death and all those things, I'll control this situation by being good. I'll be very religious, very observant. I will keep all the rules. Give me a religion with a lot of rules, because I will do it. Keep them all. Every last one. This is a way of controlling God so that he'll have to let me into his heaven on the other side. I'll put God in my debt. see. This is that moralistic religious response. And then certain those certain kinds of people who do that look down on the antinomians big time. These lawless types, the moral code of religionists gives them plenty of ammunition to judge those antinomians. But listen, neither of these two kinds of responses is going to really get people what they want and what they need. If you're a rebel, a party animal, you'll wear yourself out trying to find satisfaction, and you won't find it If you're a religious moral person, you'll spend your life trying to get God's approval, and you may be ahead of the rebel types in some ways, but you will always come up short. And the devil, just like in the garden, wants you to think that God is unwilling to share all that he has with you. And you have to work hard at being good to get it. Neither approach works. Neither the lawless rebel or the religious moralist will get you what you really want, and that is life. A life. A life that we had in the garden, but we have lost. Now, how do we get there? The death of death through the death and life of Christ. Hebrews 2, 14 through 18 is our focus. The life offered by the devil is a counterfeit for something that we really desire. Something that really exists. What is it? It's what we lost in the garden. C. S. Lewis describes it as joy with a capital J. In his book, Surprised by Joy. I'm going to read it just a paragraph. He says, in a sense, the central story of my life is about that of an unsatisfied desire which is itself more desirable than any other satisfaction. I call it joy, which is here a technical term and must be sharply distinguished both from happiness and from pleasure. Joy, in my sense, has indeed one characteristic and one only in common with them, the fact that anyone who has experienced will want it again. I doubt whether anyone who has tasted it would ever, if both were in his power, exchange it for all the pleasures in the world. But then joy is never in our power, and pleasure often is. And then in the weight of glory, he says this, apparently then. our lifelong nostalgia, our longing to be reunited with something in the universe from which we now feel cut off To be on the inside of some door which we have always seen from the outside is no mere neurotic fancy, but the truest index of our real situation. And to be at last summoned inside would be both glory and honor beyond all our merits, and also the healing of that old ache. The whole man is to drink joy from the fountain of joy. We are longing for joy. For the life that we lost. And so Jesus, the second Adam, the seed of the woman, had to come Hebrews 2, the writer says, For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, bringing you and me to glory should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, Here's what he's going to say about you. I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children God has given me. This is C. S. Lewis's joy. Our joy in God, and knowing God's joy over us and with us, that will never end. You see, we were made for God. We were made to be in relationship with God, one where we are fully blessed and loved more than we can imagine One where we are approved, celebrated, and honored because of who we are before God. That is the joy to hear him call you his child, to know that he loved you so much in your weakness, in your slavery, and your rebellion. And your moralism. He will point to you in that great assembly and sing the praise of you before the Father and the Holy Spirit He will say, Here am I, and put your name there, the child you have given me. Going back to Genesis 5 for a moment, Genesis 5, verse 21. When Enoch had lived 65 years, he fathered Methuselah. Enoch walked with God after he fathered Methuselah 300 years, and he had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Enoch were 365 years. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. What happened to old Enoch? The Son of God took him up and presented him And said, look, all you hosts of heaven, look, Father, I brought Enoch home early. But even that was only possible Because Jesus was going to take flesh and blood and die to defeat the death that Enoch deserved. How will you get there? How will you hear him praise you to the heavens? How will you ever find this joy You will find it because Jesus, your great high priest, took on your human nature, died for your sins, and now is mercifully and constantly praying for you. For he himself has suffered and been tempted. He's able to help those who are being tempted. He is a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. He is praying for his chosen children. Praying. What is he praying? He's praying that you will stop trying to find life and things that lead relentlessly to slavery. In the case of rebels. And in the case of moral religious type, he's praying that they will come to know that they can't put God in debt to them through morality. He is praying for you and me to find and know deeply that the God who walked with Adam and Eve in the garden before sin has come down and taken on human flesh, like us children. And suffer hell for us children. We are longing for paradise. We have a primordial memory of a relationship so wonderful. That we cannot be satisfied with anything else. So don't try to find this in pleasures or possessions, not even in relationships, however, good. C. S. Lewis says, for they are not the thing itself. They are only the scent of a flower we have not found. The echo of a tune we have not heard. News from a country we have never yet visited. But Jesus came from that country. And he will satisfy you with the joy of knowing him and walking with him. He is the object of your desire. He is the God who walked in the garden with our first parents, and he came down to rescue you and take you there and present you as his dearly loved child, alive from the dead, forever to be with him. Have you been chasing a poor imitation of all this? Give up trying to find divine joy. In mere earthly things. Have you been trying to control the future through being good? Get out of the saving yourself business and trust the one who came to save you. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Amen Lord, we pray that you would now help us to see the importance of your word and what it teaches us about this great struggle. And give us the grace to cast away the works of darkness and put on ourselves the armor of light, now in the time of our mortal life, that we may dwell with Christ forever. Amen.