Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the first chapter of Genesis. We're going to start at Genesis 1, verse 1. Hear now the word of God. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light. And there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. And there was evening, and there was morning, the first day. And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters. And God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so. And God called the expanse heaven. And there was evening and there was morning, the second day. And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place. And let the dry land appear. And it was so. God called the dry land earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called seas And God saw that it was good. And God said, Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit, in which is their seed. Each according to its kind on the earth. And it was so. The earth brought forth vegetation Plants yielding seed according to their own kinds, and trees bearing fruit, in which is their seed, each according to its kind. And God saw that it was good, and there was evening And there was morning the third day. And God said, Let there be light in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night And let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years, and let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth. And it was so. And God made the two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night and the stars. And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth, to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening, and there was morning, the fourth day. And God said, Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens. So God created the great sea creatures, and every living creature that moves with which the waters swarm according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters and the seas, and let the birds multiply on the earth. And there was evening And there was morning the fifth day. And God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds, livestock and creeping things and beasts of the earth according to their kinds. And it was so. And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and the livestock according to their kinds, and everything that creeps on the ground according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea. and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit. You shall have them for food. And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food. And it was so. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning, the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day, God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. This is the word of the Lord. Now for the New Testament reading, please turn to Ephesians 1, and we'll read verses 3 through 13. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace. with which He has blessed us in the beloved. In Him we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of His grace. which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will. according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ, as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him Things in heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who worked all things. according to the counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him We're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance, until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of His glory. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for revealing yourself to us in words and sentences that we can understand. Words and sentences that really and truly reflect what is in your mind and on your heart. We pray that your Holy Spirit would produce within us the mind of Christ. That we would understand these truths. Because we know the natural man, unchanged by your Holy Spirit, cannot understand them. Give us the ability to understand the truths of your word this morning. In Christ's name. Amen. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, think about this. If someone who had never read the Bible before Ask you where in the Bible they should start reading, what would you suggest? Chapter 1 of the book of Genesis would be a fitting response. Because that's what God put at the beginning of his word to mankind. If a person started reading there The first thing he would read about would be the creation account, which we read earlier. It runs from chapter 1, verse 1, through chapter 2, verse 3. The creation account is not only the prologue to the book of Genesis, but it's the prologue to the entire Bible, setting the stage for everything that comes after it. God has written the creation account in language that is clear and understandable to his image makers. Anyone, even someone who has never read the Bible, can understand its main concepts. And today I want to provide you with some additional biblical context for the creation account. There is much that God has said elsewhere in the Bible that can enrich and strengthen your understanding of who God is, what he did there. why he did what he says he did in the creation account, which is the Bible's prologue. Now first, what about before the creation of the universe, or as it's called, the cosmos? Does God tell you anything about that in his word? Well, Psalm 90, verse 2 says this Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world. From everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Here God tells you that before He created the universe, only He existed. Nothing material in the universe existed. No angels existed. Before Genesis 1. 1, nothing existed outside God. And other biblical passages include the fact that God did not have to create the universe. He doesn't need anything in the universe Therefore, when you read the Bible's prologue, remember that only God existed before he made the universe He made it out of nothing, and it was his good pleasure to create the universe, not of necessity. Also, God's word tells you about what he did within himself, so to speak. before he created the universe. I'm going to read a summary about this, and I want you to see if you agree with this statement. Listen carefully. But here's a warning first before I read it. R. C. Sproll once made a comment about this statement that I'm about to read. And he said in no uncertain terms that anyone who will not affirm this statement about what God did within himself before creation is an atheist See if you wholeheartedly agree with this statement. God, from all eternity Did by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will, freely and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass Yet so, as thereby neither is God the author of sin, nor is violence offered to the will of the creatures. Nor is the liberty or contingency of second causes taken away, but rather established. Now why would R. C. Swell say you're an atheist if you don't agree with that? It's because if that statement's not true, Then God's not sovereign. And if he's not sovereign, then he's not really God. In case you didn't recognize it, that statement was the first paragraph of chapter 3 of the Westminster Confession of Faith. The point is, and there's scripture to back up every phrase in that statement, by the way. The point is you should keep in mind as you read the Bible's prologue that before time began, God ordained everything that has ever happened or will ever happen in the universe. We call this God's eternal decree. Next, Lamentations 3 37 through 38 says, Who has spoken and it came to pass, unless the Lord has commanded it? Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that good and bad come? God ordained the fall of man to occur. This was part of his eternal decree. He did this for a reason. And that is, so God's elect would gain far more in Christ than ever was lost in Adam. Unlike Adam before the fall, true believers cannot fall away from God, neither now nor in eternity. So says Romans 5, verses 17 and 20. But in ordaining the fall, God is neither the author of sin, nor did he do violence to the will of Adam, Eve, or Satan. It is not that God has no control over sin, nor is it that God permits sin, nor is it that he produces sin in his creature. God's Word teaches that man's choices and actions are both his free will. And they are predestined. And you can look on your own time at John 19, verse 11, as one of many examples in the Bible of this. Therefore, you should keep in mind as you read the Bible's prologue that before time began, God ordained that man would fall, and that God's very good universe. would suffer the consequences of that sin. Next, in Ephesians 1, 3 through 13, which we read, And I left off verse 14 in this reference because that deals with the future. But Ephesians 1, 3 through 13, which we read, says that the entire plan of salvation for man Was planned by God in eternity. So this also was part of God's eternal decree. And note that the plan of salvation did not include fallen angels. Once an angel falls, it remains fallen forever. To accomplish the plan of salvation for God's elect, the persons of the Trinity entered into what we call the covenant of redemption. Which is referred to in John 17, verses 5 and 24. In that covenant, God the Father determined to give God the Son to be the head and redeemer of the elect. God the Son determined to be the surety of the elect. And he recorded their names in his book of life. God the Holy Spirit, determined to reveal God the Son and God the Son's salvation to the elect. The Trinity's covenant of redemption is the foundation upon which the covenant of grace rests. If there were no covenant of redemption, Made within the Trinity before time began, there could be no covenant of grace made between God and man once the universe was created and after man fell. If there were no covenant of grace, all of mankind, from the first to the last, would have remained rebellious to God forever and received their just punishment. So you should be aware that the covenant of redemption is not mentioned in the Westminster Confession of Faith or shorter catechism. However, when the larger catechism asks in question 31, with whom was the covenant of grace made? It refers to the covenant of redemption when it answers, the covenant of grace was made with Christ. As the second Adam, and in him with all the elect as his seed. There's an indirect reference to it there. Therefore, when you read the Bible's prologue, You should keep in mind that the persons of the Trinity had already entered into a covenant at that point with one another before God created anything. And this means that before anyone existed, before the fall, and before the gospel could even be proclaimed to anyone. It had already been decreed and established in the covenant of redemption when each of the elect would be born, when and by what means they would be brought into the covenant of grace. And the measure of grace, comfort, and holiness, and the quantity and nature of the tribulations and the crosses they would have to endure in their lives. Out of his sovereign good pleasure and grace, before the events of day one of creation took place, God had already done all this for each of you. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, with his eternal decree in place and the covenant of redemption made between the persons of the Trinity, God was ready to make the universe. He created the universe, the cosmos, to be the theater in which his eternal decree would be carried out. Which person or persons of the Trinity were carrying out the actions described in that creation account? Well, according to 1 Corinthians 8. 6, God the Father is the source of everything that exists. And then Hebrews 1, verse 2 says, God the Father created the world through God the Son. But then John 1, 2, and 3, John 1, verses 2 2 and 3 say that God the Son directly is the creator. But then Psalm 104 verse 30 implies that God the Father created the world through God the Spirit. And Genesis 1, verse 2 shows that God the Spirit directly is the Creator. So, as the Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 4, rightly says, all three persons of the Trinity created the universe. Therefore, when you read the Bible's prologue, remember that every person of the Trinity is involved there. Now, with the creation of the universe came God's providence over that creation. God cares for and governs his creation minute by minute, day by day, year by year Colossians 1. 17 says that Christ holds all things in the universe together. The Westminster Confession, chapter 5, paragraph 1, describes God's providence this way. Every word matters here. God, the creator of all things, doth uphold, direct Dispose and govern all creatures, actions, and things, from the greatest even to the least. By his most wise and holy providence According to his infallible foreknowledge and the free and immutable counsel of his own will, to the praise of the glory of his wisdom, power, justice, goodness, and mercy. Given this, it should be obvious to anyone that there is no luck or chance in God's universe. The Bible says those atheist comments are an impossibility. Now, what exactly is providence? Providence is God's execution of his eternal decree. In time and in the theater of his created universe. You see the connection there? Always remember, creation and providence go together. They cannot be separated. Therefore, as you read the Bible's prologue, remember that you are reading about God's creation of everything outside himself. And you are reading about how God begins to execute the decree He made before creation. Psalm 103, verse 19 describes the created universe as God's kingdom. That verse says, the Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all. God's throne is in heaven, but his kingdom extends over all creation. This is why the whole universe can be called the Providential Kingdom of God. I want you to remember that title. The Providential Kingdom of God. Life in the providential kingdom of God works like this. This is a quote. God is creator, man is creature. God is king, man is subject. God commands, man obeys. God is totally sovereign in all his plans and actions Man is totally accountable to God in all his plans and actions. The mind of man plans his ways. But the Lord directs his steps, as Proverbs 16, 9 says. Therefore, when you read the Bible's prologue, Remember that the entire cosmos is the providential kingdom of God. Per God's eternal decree, near the beginning of the history of God's providential kingdom. The crown jewel of God's creation, mankind fell. Man sinned. Now sin is not a created thing. Rather, it is a broken relationship between God and man. And as a result of that broken relationship with God, it causes broken relationships between man and his fellow man. Thus, sin is not properly a part of creation. Now stop and think for a moment about what things would have been like if God's eternal decree had not included mankind's fall. If man had never sinned. That unfallen world has been described this way: Quote: Before he sinned, Adam was commanded to populate the earth and exercise dominion If man had not fallen, there would have been a worldwide civilization living in direct fellowship and communication with Jehovah. The whole human race would have constituted a kingdom under the direct, loving rule of God Under God's direct and continuous revelation, mankind would have progressively mastered his environment to God's glory. All of man's endeavors, science, art, architecture, agriculture, technology, etc. , would have been developed with a love toward God and man. Now it needs to be added that contrary to what some have contended, there would have been no need for God to renew the cosmos with a new heavens and new earth if mankind had not fallen. But mankind did fall. Sin originated with Satan, who, after being created by God, tried to ascend to be like God, Isaiah 14, 12-14 says. Next, Eve send, and then Adam send. And the fall of man in Adam Rendered the idea of a God-glorifying culture, kingdom, and civilization impossible. All mankind was in rebellion against their creator and became slaves of Satan. The intent of his heart was continually against God, his entire life. All men had hearts of stone. All mankind was dead spiritually, hated the truth. Loving their idols. No one could help himself or others because no one could repent. The entire human race was hopelessly exposed to God's just anger. This is what you read about in the Old Testament. That's the situation. Furthermore, God cursed the ground because of Adam's sin, and the entire cosmos was subjected to the bondage of corruption. However, and you should not forget this when you read the Bible's prologue, God did not give up his providential kingship to Satan. when mankind fell. God did not get rid of the cosmos he created either. God still ruled the universe and was sovereign over all of it. Even though mankind became slaves of Satan. And to give just one example from the Bible, recall that Satan's actions toward Job and his family were sovereignly limited by God. That's after the fall. God was still the king over his providential kingdom. God's providential kingdom remained and his eternal decree carried on. Now let's skip ahead in time. At his first coming, God the Son, in fulfillment of his commitment to God the Father in the covenant of redemption made before creation. Came from heaven to build his kingdom on the earth and in this cursed cosmos that was originally created very good. Matthew calls this messianic kingdom the kingdom of heaven. Mark and Luke call it the kingdom of God. All these names refer to the same kingdom. But don't mistake it for God's providential kingdom, which is a different thing we already learned about. All Christ's actions during his public ministry on earth are evidence of his kingdom. Kingdom of heaven, the messianic kingdom, or the kingdom of God coming to earth from heaven. Now, what exactly is this kingdom of God? Don't think of the kingdom of God as just a piece of real estate. Think of it this way: wherever people are who've had Christ's forgiveness applied to them, And a new heart of love for God given to them. There you find Christ's kingdom in whatever those people are doing as they glorify God. Man's chief end is not only to enjoy God, but to glorify God in all that he does. This is the kind of civilization God wants mankind to have in his universe. The kingdom of God, with Christ at his head, created the church. You see that in Acts. And then in turn, Christ gave the keys of the kingdom to the church, which is why the Westminster Confession of Faith. Chapter 25, paragraph two, refers to the visible church as the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ. But as Robert Webb rightly said, The church is not the same thing as the kingdom. The church is an organization which Christ has formed, with certain officers, laws, and institutions and rights and prerogatives as a means for the establishment of his kingdom in the world. The church exists for the sake of the kingdom of God. It's been put this way. Quote The kingdom of God brings forth fruit such that by means of the visible quality of a person's life His inner state of heart can be discerned. By their fruits you shall know them, Jesus says in Matthew seven, verses sixteen through twenty-one. Christ does not settle for a part time or restricted reign as king. He demands obedience in all things from us. His aim is to subdue all resistance of any nature, internal or external, to his rule So then, even eating and drinking as external activities are included within the Messiah's reign. The inward reign of the Savior in our hearts must become manifest in public righteousness. Genuine hearing of the word, genuine religion, and genuine faith are seen in faithful doing of the law, outward helping of the oppressed, and practical aid to the afflicted, to name just The few ways it manifests itself in the world. Thus, within God's providential kingdom and this is This is the key point here. Within God's providential kingdom, his cosmos, he created, Christ's messianic kingdom began to be built, overthrowing the kingdom of Satan. Don't make the mistake of thinking that both Satan's power and dominion and Christ's messianic kingdom are both growing in strength simultaneously That's impossible. God wants you to know that Christ builds his kingdom at the expense of Satan's. And all this is done within the theater of God's providential kingdom. This means that the kingdom of God has both a positive and a negative effect on the world. For those who enter it by faith, it means redemption. No longer is Adam your federal head. Christ is. But for those who reject the kingdom of God, it means judgment. So, how does Jesus Christ use his church to build the kingdom of God in the world? The church preaches and teaches what the New Testament calls the gospel of the kingdom. In general, the Holy Spirit enables Christ's bride to mirror him in the world. After all, that's the essence of being a helpmeet on a human level. Helpmeet means mirror. More specifically, the church makes the invisible kingdom of God, which is in the hearts of the elect, visible in the world. This means that by the power of the Holy Spirit in your lives, as citizens of Christ's kingdom, you are to live in such a way that bears witness. to the reality of Christ's kingship over you and your family, your work, your education, the way you spend your time, the way you spend your money, and so on. Loyalty and faithfulness to your Lord and Savior is required at all times and above all other loyalties. It is in this way that you can see with your very eyes the kingdom of God in the world. It is wherever people are glorifying God and what they're doing in their lives. Now, how was Christ going to use his messianic kingdom, the kingdom of God, once he established it on earth? The prophet Isaiah saw a vision of what Jesus Christ would do when he came Isaiah 49, verses 24 through 26 say this Can the prey be taken from a mighty man? Or the captives of a tyrant be rescued? Indeed, this is what the Lord says. Even the captives of the mighty man will be taken away And the prey of a tyrant will be rescued. For I will contend with the one who contends with you. And I will save your sons. I will feed your oppressors with their own flesh, and they will become drunk with their own blood as with sweet wine, and humanity will know that I, the Lord, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob. So, when Christ came to earth from heaven, his first coming, Christ planned to take back from the strong man, that mighty man, Satan. The very people whose names he had written in his book of life before the creation of the universe. But Jesus Christ had an even bigger goal. Someone has said, your concept of the gospel is far too small and indeed ill-conceived if you don't realize that Christ came to reconcile the entire cosmos to himself as well. You read this in Colossians 1 verse 20. End quote. Christ came to steadily restore the dominion mandate that he originally gave mankind. counteracting the effects of the fall upon the elect in all nations and over the entire cosmos. So when you read the prologue to the Bible, You ought to have in mind that man would ruin everything God created, but that God's gracious plan, which he determined in eternity, would provide the way to restore his entire created order as well. Well. But Jesus provided his people some very important information about how his kingdom would grow and steadily build Christian civilizations around the world before he died. Luke 13, verses 8 through 21 has two parables. The first says this, verse 18. He, Jesus, said, therefore, what is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it? It is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his garden. And it grew and became a tree, and the birds of the air made nests in its branches. Here the gardener is Jesus. He owns the garden, which is the entire world. It's his providential kingdom. The word used in this parable is cosmos. Jesus' garden, he comes from heaven to this garden which is full of weeds He sows his seeds in the garden, establishing there his messianic kingdom, the kingdom of God. His kingdom grows between his first and second comings. A time frame also known as the last days, according to Acts 2. 17. And then when he returns at the second coming, It's a field of wheat. That's what he sees. A field of wheat. And he says in this parable that the kingdom of God is going to grow to be bigger than any other kingdom on earth. Like a tree planted in the center of the world, it will grow to have branches that reach to the perimeter of the world, according to Daniel 4, 10 through 12. God Himself causes the explosive growth of this kingdom so that regardless of what you see as an individual, with your limited view of the world, this kingdom will spread over the entire earth in God's timing and affect the entire cosmos. Second parable there is first Verses twenty and twenty one. And again Jesus said, To what shall I compare the kingdom of God? It is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour until it was all leavened. Now if you ever have baked bread with yeast before, you know that you don't see the results of the leaven for a while. The baker trusts that the leaven is working, even when he or she can't see the results yet. And although the effect of the yeast is not immediate, And nothing seems to happen for a bit, eventually the loaf grows exponentially in size. Assuming the loaf of bread was well made. We've had some flops in our house. Uh this parable is about the kingdom of God's influence on the earth, the extent of its influence. Nothing will influence all areas of life on earth more than this kingdom. As the church preaches the gospel of the kingdom of God, The Holy Spirit will use this gospel to change not only the mind and hearts of men, but every sphere of life for individuals and societies. It can't be any other way. Thus, when you read the Bible's prologue, you should know that after mankind falls into sin and the cosmos is cursed, God the Son comes to build his kingdom in that very same cosmos. In order to renew it, as Isaac Watts says, as far as the curse is found, it will cover the entire earth According to the first parable we read, and will affect all areas of life according to the second parable we read. Now let's take a look at what actually happened. And what Jesus Christ has actually done with his messianic kingdom on earth. When Christ began his public ministry, the beginning of his public ministry, God announced another kingdom had arrived. Remember, this is not the providential kingdom of God. Speaking of Jesus, John the Baptist said in Matthew 3, verses 2 and 3. three. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Prepare the way of the Lord. And then Matthew 4. 17 states from that time, the beginning of his public ministry. Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The kingdom was at hand, meaning it was near, because its king, its Lord, had arrived This is the inauguration of Christ's own kingdom, his messianic kingdom. And then at his trial, Jesus told Pilate, John 18. 36 through 37a, that his messianic kingdom came from heaven, meaning that it did not originate from within God's created realm. That's why Jesus told Pilate in John 18, 37b, that it was for this purpose to build his kingdom on earth, that he, Jesus, came from heaven and was born into the world. Then during his public ministry, as Matthew 12, 28 through 29 says, Christ entered the strong man, Satan's house. Bound him and began to plunder the strongman's house, the world. Remember what Isaiah foretold. Jesus Christ was going to restrict the power and dominion of the mighty man who was enslaving Christ's elect people. The Bible says the purpose of putting Satan in chains is so he cannot deceive the nations. Christ did this to allow the spread of the gospel of the kingdom around the earth. And Christ tells us that except for a brief period just prior to his second coming at the end of time, he will continue to keep Satan bound so that the gospel can spread and his kingdom can be built. And Christ has chosen not to make Satan totally inactive in this meantime. You need to be aware. But he's restricted. So that his kingdom can be built. Now, all was ready. You see there in this public ministry, all was ready. The king had arrived, his kingdom inaugurated, and the enemy strongman bound. And then on the day of his death, how many faithful followers did he have living on this earth? How big was the kingdom of God at that point in history? Well, John the Baptist was the forerunner of the kingdom. He was dead at that point. He stood outside it. He announced the new order, but he wasn't part of it. The Jews cried out that they would have no other king than Caesar. His own people rejected him. During Jesus' public ministry, his disciples and followers were so few that the entire group could be offered hospitality in even small villages in the regions where they ministered. But then Judas ended up betraying Jesus. Peter denied even knowing him. And the night before his crucifixion, all the other disciples fled from him. So on the cross, Jesus suffered alone, even crying out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Thus, on the day Jesus died in A. D. 30, his messianic kingdom contained but one person, himself. Then, when Jesus ascended to the right hand of God the Father, he was put on the throne as the Lord over his messianic kingdom on earth because he had fulfilled the conditions of the covenant of redemption. His coronation in heaven also included his investiture as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords on the earth. He had succeeded in becoming the surety for the elect, and now he was made the head and redeemer of the elect. Next, at Pentecost, the kingdom of God began to be built by the power of the Holy Spirit working through the newly born Christian church. The renewal of the cosmos had begun. The parables of the mustard seed and the leaven began to be realized. By 100 A. D. , 70 years after Jesus Christ was given all authority in heaven and on earth, Matthew 21. eight eighteen, and enthroned in heaven. And as a result of the Holy Spirit working through the Apostles' faithful work in the Great Commission, and other Christians' faithful work at that point. Christians made up approximately 0. 27% of the world's population. So there are Christians and Christian organizations who track the growth of Christianity throughout the world. And the estimates I have here come from the U. S. Center for World Missions, now called Frontier Ventures. And these numbers are estimates. And a believer is defined as one who, quote, professes to be a Christian. The term embraces all traditions and confessions of Christianity. It includes professing and affiliated adults and also their children. So by one hundred A. D. , Christians made up approximately point two percent of the world's population. By a thousand A. Christians made up about 0. 45 of the world's population, one believer for every 270 non-believers. By 1900, Christians made up about 2. 5% of the world's population, one believer for 21 non-believers. By 1980, Christians made up about 9. 1% of the world's population, one believer for every eleven non-believers. By 1990, Christians made up about 14. 3% of the world's population, one believer for every seven non-believers. By 2021, the beginning of the year, Christians made up about 20. 8% of the world's population, one believer for every five non-believers. Therefore, it took 18 centuries from 100 A. D. to 1900 A. D. for practicing Christians to grow from 0% of the world's population to 2. 5%. Next, it took only 70 years from 1900 to 1970 for practicing Christians to grow from 2. 5% to 5% of the world's population. Then it took just 40 years from 1970 to 2010 for practicing Christians to grow from 5% to 12% of the world's population. Notice the compounding effect of these numbers. Jesus said it would be like leaven in a loaf of bread. Christ has been building his kingdom on the earth and renewing the compounding. cosmos. Now what about what the Bible calls the nations? Make disciples of all the nations, he said. These are people groups from the Greek ethne. The Joshua Project maintains a significant set of data on people groups. and the progress of missions within these people groups around the world. According to their data, there are currently 17,459 people groups. With 7,422 of them still unreached. That's 42. 5% left to be reached. An unreached people group is defined as having 5% or less professing Christians in it. The remarkable thing to note here is that as of 1974, More than 60% of the world's population lived within unreached people groups. This means that there was a 20% reduction in the number of unreached people groups within the last 45 years or so. Now, where on the earth is Christ building his kingdom and renewing the earth most right now? The Pew Research Institute in 2019 found that the world's most committed Christians live in Africa and Latin America. By 2060, six of the countries within the top ten largest Christian populations are expected to be in Africa, up from three in 2015. There is currently a gradual shift away from growth in the U. S. , Canada, and Europe. Christian populations are on the rise dramatically in the third world. Christian population in Nigeria alone, already the largest on the African continent, is projected to double by 2060 Tanzania, Uganda, and Kenya anticipate joining the list of countries with the top ten largest Christian populations, replacing Russia, Germany, and China. Now just a reminder, don't try to calculate when Jesus will return. That's not the point here. Trying to calculate when Jesus will return is not only impossible to do, it is sinful. The timing of his return is one of the secret things that is God's alone, Deuteronomy 29, 29. But here is the point I'm trying to make. Since Jesus Christ gave his church the Great Commission, ascended to heaven to be enthroned over his kingdom, and then empowered his church to carry it out. In the Great Commission, through the power of the Holy Spirit, the rate of growth of the kingdom of God can be described as having a positive exponential growth curve. Regardless of which criteria one may use to measure it. Moreover, if you follow this trend line out through the end of the 21st century, it is possible that all the remaining unreached people groups could be evangelized by the end of the 21st century. Now in conclusion I want to impress upon you the fact that the very same cosmos, the very same mankind that you read about, God creating in the Bible's prologue. Are the ones that today Christ is still working at recreating and renewing. After the fall, God didn't throw away all of mankind. He didn't throw away this cursed cosmos God's approach has far-reaching implications for how you should approach life. You don't just throw things away or give up on people because they're broken. You work at fixing them. And this means that in Christ, things are never hopeless. In Christ, relationships can always be renewed, not just made workable But made new, full of life. It may take time, maybe a long time. It may take serious effort. Maybe lots of serious focused effort, but Christ is your model and your source of strength to do all this. At his second coming, God won't throw away all of mankind and the cosmos he originally created. In 2 Peter 3. 13, in which Peter mentions the new heavens and the new earth, the word he uses to designate the newness of the new cosmos is not Neos. which means new in time, new in origin, but kinos, which means new in quality, new in nature. Bavink said, quote, God redeems and renews the same humanity, the same world, the same heaven. Just as any one in Christ is a new creation in whom the old has passed away and everything has become new, 2 Corinthians 5. 17 So this world passes away in its present form as well, in order at God's word of power to give birth and being to a new world called the new heavens and the new earth. Christ's consummated kingdom of God will be established in this renewed cosmos, on this renewed earth The meek will inherit a renewed earth. The present cosmos will never be annihilated, only purified. Redeemed man's ultimate destiny is a renewed life in a renewed body on the renewed earth, in the renewed cosmos. So remember this when you read the Bible's prologue. The new heavens and the new earth that the elect will live in for eternity will be composed of the same elements. That the cosmos God created in the Bible's prologue were made from. That was God's intention from the start, and that's what he had in mind as he acted in chapter 1, verse 1 of Genesis. One of the ways Christ is renewing the cosmos is through his church's evangelization When the Apostle Paul was working to build the kingdom of God by evangelizing to non-Jews, on which biblical doctrines did the Holy Spirit direct him to focus his attention most? The knowledge of the true God, and the goodness of creation. Francis Schaeffer One of our great nineteenth century Christian theologians and apologists once said, Quote, if he had an hour with a person on a plane who did not know the Lord, he would spend the first fifty-five minutes talking about creation in the the image of God and where that man came from. And the last five minutes on the presentation of the gospel of salvation. And quote. That's a good model for each of you too. He was just doing what Paul did. But I would add an that another topic of your conversation with others ought to be what Christ is currently doing to mankind and the cosmos, and what its final state will be. Now, along with evangelization, Christ is using his church to renew the cosmos in many other ways, and here are two quotes that I hope will encourage you and give your Christian life even more strength of direction. First, quote, being a citizen of the kingdom of God means that we should see all of life and all of reality in the light of the goal of the redemption of the cosmos. History must be seen as the working out of God's eternal purpose. This kingdom vision includes a Christian philosophy of culture. Art and science reflect the glory of God and are therefore to be pursued for Christ's praise. It also includes a Christian view of vocation. All legitimate callings are from God. All that we do in everyday life is to be done to God's praise, whether this be study, teaching, preaching, business, industry, or housework. It all matters. This is the second quote, and I'll end on this. Quote: Personal righteousness, personal religious conversion. Personal religious conversion is not the alpha and omega of all Christian activity in the world. The Christian life is not just Bible reading, prayer, and evangelism. I do hope it is well with your soul, but I also hope you know that you are part of Christ making everything new. Let us pray. Lord, we ask that you convict us of all the truths of your word You are at work in us and the world, renewing all of creation in this day and age We thank you that you do not get rid of the universe you created. We thank you that you did not get rid of us. Enable us all to see the value you place on this material world that you created. and how we are to renew it in all the activities we engage in. For Christ's sake. Amen.