Please turn in your Bible side. Isaiah 61. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me Because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives. And the opening of the prison to those who are bound, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn, to grant to those who mourn in Zion. to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit. That they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified. They shall build up the ancient ruins. They shall raise up the former devastations. They shall repair the ruined cities. The devastations of many generations. Strangers shall stand and tend your flocks, foreigners shall be your plowmen and vine dressers. But you shall be called the priests of the Lord. They shall speak of you as the ministers of our God. You shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their glory you shall boast. Instead of your shame, there shall be a double portion. Instead of dishonor, they shall rejoice in their lot. Therefore, in their land they shall possess a double portion. They shall have everlasting joy. This is the word of the Lord. Thank you, God. Our New Testament reading is from the last part of Galatians chapter 5. Galatians 5, 19 through 26. As we continue our journey through Paul's letter to the Galatians. focusing particularly upon the things after verse 22, beginning in verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality, impurity Sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife Jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions Envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things Will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace Patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Well, we read those works of the flesh again. Terrible list, isn't it? Very dark. Last Sunday, when I was preaching on that particular portion, I threw in some English word translations from the New King James Version of the Bible. That may have been confusing as you were trying to follow along. Many of the words in that list have changed over time. And are better understood by usage and context rather than by a strict or wooden translation. That accounts for variations in the translations such as the English Standard Version NIV, KJV, NASB, etc. Thankfully, in today's portion, the ESV translators kept the list called The Fruit of the Spirit. Nearly identical with earlier translations. The fruit of the Spirit in you and others Verse 22 and 23. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. The works of the flesh are many and varied They infect, and infect is a good word. They infect many aspects of our lives and our society. But God is greater than these things that seem so overwhelming. When you think of someone who is characterized by this list of bad deeds. You may be tempted, you may be tempted to give up on the idea that that person could ever change. But God can change everything and everyone and give them the fruit of the Spirit. The fruit of the Spirit can always conquer the works of the flesh. On the other hand, as you think about these lists of the fruit of the Spirit, you may know some unbelieving persons. Some people who have no relationship to the truth of God in the Bible, who exhibit many of the characteristics listed here in the fruit of the Spirit. Some really nice people who do really nice things, who are kind and gentle and good and faithful to their partners and so forth. How can this be? For someone who rejects Jesus Christ or has no interest in him. How can this be? This is an important place to insert this discussion. Common grace. Common grace helps you understand this. Derek Brown gives three reasons to become well acquainted with the doctrine of common grace. He says, first, common grace helps us account for the relative goodness and virtue in unbelievers. And he goes on to say, those who have a strong theology of sin and understand the nature of human depravity, like we do may have a difficult time making sense of what appears to be good, wholesome, respectable conduct among those who do not know the Lord Jesus. How can it be that those who reject Christ raise respectable families and generally act with integrity, build ethical businesses? Love their spouse, and so on. The doctrine of common grace answers these questions directly Secondly, he says common grace enables the believer to express thankfulness to God as he recognizes the many ways God provides for his creatures through common grace. God supplies humankind, believers and unbelievers, with what we need and many things to enjoy through our mutual interdependence with one another The farmer produces wheat, which the baker uses to make bread for families in town One uh uh one of whom owns the shoe store and supplies footwear for the baker. See the inter interdependency The doctrine of common grace highlights the way God designed the world and how He provides for His people Most often, God supplies the Christians' needs through the labor and skill of those who reject their Creator. Thirdly, he says common grace helps us distinguish between God's common grace and saving grace. For example, It is not necessarily a sign that one has come under God's saving grace if they enjoy significant material blessings and physical health You can be without much in terms of earthly goods, but be spiritually rich. James 2, verse 5. Or you could be overflowing with wealth and headed for eternal judgment. Luke 12, 16 through 21, the story of the rich farmer. You can experience much physical suffering in this life in anticipation of the weight of unimaginable glory. 2 Corinthians 4, 17-18. Or you can be healthy and comfortable, but be rest of a relationship with God, as so graphically put in Psalm 73. The common blessings of health and wealth are no sign that you are the subject of spiritual blessings of regeneration. What is common grace? How should we define common grace? Below is a representative sample of how Christian theologians have defined it. Wayne Grudham says common grace is the grace of God by which he gives people innumerable blessings that are not part of salvation. John Frame says, common grace is God's favor and gifts given to those who will not finally be saved. John Murray says, every favor Of whatever kind or degree falling short of salvation, which this undeserving and sin-cursed world enjoys from the hand of God. That is what common grace is And then a more careful definition, Lewis Burkhoff says, when we speak of common grace, we have in mind either A, those whose general operations of the Holy Spirit whereby he, without renewing the heart, exercises such a moral influence on man through his general or special revelation, that sin is restrained, order is maintained in social life, and civil righteousness is promoted, or B, those general blessings such as rain and sunshine, food and drink, clothing and shelter, which God imparts to all men indiscriminately. Where and in what measure it seems good to him. That's what common grace is. By common grace, you and I have medical technology that was produced maybe by believers, maybe by unbelievers. I met a young man on Friday who who is a uh a tumor specialist at Duke University, studying to be a doctor and uh and to build uh up that area of knowledge so that people can be helped He's a believer, but someone who's an unbeliever could do the same work, probably do, by common grace, you see. Now, why do we refer to these blessings as grace? The reason for why it is referred to as grace is because it is undeserved. These blessings that we get that People without Christ get that the world has our undeserved blessings. We deserve what? Death and hell immediately and irrevocably. We deserve only misery and death after this life and eternal punishment. But God provides for us and blesses his human creatures with good things. even though they are undeserving of any good thing. Matthew five, forty-four through forty-nine. And in have in fact richly deserved only bad things always God is acting in grace toward his creatures by withholding what they do deserve, misery, and giving them what they don't deserve, a measure of earthly enjoyment. And I want to just stop to say here, I have had the privilege in my career of preaching at many funerals of unbelievers. In a small town where I first served, uh the funeral director would call upon me whenever someone died in the community and they needed someone to do the ceremonies, then you know, to do the thing. And they would call on me and I would come and I would learn about the deceased and find out what kind of a person they were, what good qualities they had. And then I would, after reading some scriptures and so forth, I would get up and preach. And I would say, we are so thankful to God. for this characteristic of so-and-so, and that characteristic of so-and-so, and the blessings that came through their life in this way and in that way and the other way I could give all that glory to God for the grace, the common grace that was seen in the lives of these people, even though After doing that, I would have to go on and say, but you, you who are alive here today at this funeral, you need something more than that. You need special grace. You need saving grace. Common grace will never get you to heaven. You need saving grace. So I didn't I didn't pronounce upon the eternal destiny of the deceased. I simply pointed out that we all need saving grace. I'll say that to you here today. If you think, you know, I'm a good person, I'm a nice person, yeah, I I believe in God or something, that will not save you. That's just common grace. That's just common grace. Common grace will end the last breath you take. Now, what are we talking about today? The fruit of the Spirit. Let's move on to that. The fruit of the Spirit here is set forth as saving grace, the work of saving grace. It may be significant that Paul chose fruit as his picture of this saving grace to put in opposition to the works of the flesh. Consider these characteristics of fruit. Fruit develops not by working, but by abiding in the vine or the branch. Jesus said in John 15, I am the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me, and I in him bears much fruit. For without me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me, he is cast out as a branch and is withered, and they gather them and throw them into the fire, and they are burned If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you. But this My Father, by this my father is glorified that you bear much fruit, so you will be my disciples. I think probably Paul remembered those words of Jesus And he used this illustration of fruit. Fruit develops not by working, but by abiding in the vine or branch. Secondly, fruit reproduces itself. It has the seed in it. Thirdly, fruit is attractive and fruit is sweet. Fourthly, fruit nourishes. So it's a very apt. a way to describe what God has done here. Paul used the plural when he described the life after the flesh, the works of the flesh, and a long list. But now he uses the singular. That's an important thing. Fruit, not fruits of the Spirit. These qualities are not the same as the gifts of the Spirit, which are given to the members of the body by the will of the Spirit. This fruit is for every Christian. Leon Morse says it's significant that the word fruit is singular. Paul is not speaking of a series of fruits. that would be shared around so that one believer might have one fruit and another believer might have another. Rather, he is referring to a cluster Such that all the qualities are to be manifested in each believer. Important to note. Close look at the fruit, verses 22 through 23a. The fruit of the Spirit. What is it? He says it is first of all love. Love. In 1 Corinthians 13, that love is the greatest. Love is mentioned first because it is the greatest. Love encompasses all of the other aspects of the fruit. Martin Luther says it would have been enough to mention only the single fruit of love, for love embraces all the fruit of the Spirit. Love here translates the word that we know as agape. And you may have heard this in other sermons or other books that you've read the Greek. has four distinct words for love. Eros is the one for romantic or passionate love. Philia is the word for the love that we have for those near and dear to us, be they family or friends Storge is the word for love that shows itself in affection and care, especially in families. But agape describes a different kind of love. It is a love more of decision than of spontaneous feeling. Is a matter of the mind more than a matter of the heart because it decides to love. It chooses to love. Agape has to do with the mind, not simply an emotion which rises unbidden in our hearts, according to Barclay. This is love created by the Spirit, because it is the fruit of the Spirit This is above and beyond natural affection or loyalty to blood or family or nation. This is loving people who aren't easy to love. Loving people you may not even like. Because by the Spirit's work in you, you have been told to love, and you have decided to love. And you have committed to love, even the unlovely. Spurgeon says, when you wax indignant because you have been badly treated and you think of returning evil for evil Remember this text. The fruit of the Spirit is love. Ah, you say, it was a shameful thing. Of course it was, and therefore do not imitate it, but do not render railing for railing, but contrary wise blessing For the fruit of the Spirit is love. End of quote Each one of these works of the flesh that we looked at before is a violation of and perversion of this spirit-created love. Just think of that list. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality are counterfeits for love. Idolatry and sorcery are counterfeits for loyalty and love to God. Enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy are all opposites of spirit-inspired love. And drunkenness and orgies are sad and futile attempts to fill the void only love can fill. The fruit of the Spirit is love. The fruit of the Spirit is also joy. Guzik, Guzick says one of the greatest false marketing strategies ever employed. was to position the kingdom of Satan as the place where the fun is, and the kingdom of God as the place of gloom and misery. But the fruit of the Spirit is joy. The joy of the Spirit is a higher class of joy than just the thrill of an exciting experience or wonderful set of circumstances. You may have a certain kind of joy when you get a great new job, or you buy a beautiful automobile, or a beautiful house. Or you marry someone that you wanted to marry, all those joys will fade in time. These joys can be snatched away in a moment. The joy wrought by the Spirit can abide and flourish even when circumstances are terrible. Paul knew this personally Remember what Paul did in the Philippian jail recorded in Acts chapter 16? Shackled in a dirty, dungeon Prison, he sang hymns with Silas. Barclay says about joy, it is not the joy that comes from earthly things. still less from triumphing over someone in competition. It is a joy whose foundation is God. Spurgeon said, believers are not dependent upon circumstances. Their joy comes not from what they have, but from what they are. Not from where they are, but from those they are, not from what they enjoy, but from that which was suffered for them by their Lord. The fruit of the Spirit is joy. Next, the fruit of the Spirit is peace. Peace is peace with God. Peace with people, and it is positive peace, filled with blessings and goodness, not simply the absence of fighting That is the way we overcome our social stresses and strains. We simply don't talk about them. No one wants to talk about anything anymore. We have to keep peace. The peace of God is that which surpasses all understanding. Philippians 4 7 The Koine Greek word here is Irene, and it means That tranquility of heart, which derives from all-pervading consciousness, that our times are in the hand of God. When you worry about the election, remember that your times, our times, are in the hand of God. And you'll have this peace. It's interesting to note that two very common Christian names in the early church were Kara, which is joy, and Irene, which is Peace. The fruit of the Spirit is long suffering. Long suffering means that love, joy, and peace are durable even in troubles. This is a work of the Spirit. Luther, who endured much, says long-suffering is that quality which enables a person to bear adversity. Injury, reproach, and makes them patient to wait for the improvement of those who have done him wrong. When the devil finds that he cannot overcome certain persons by force, he tries to overcome them in the long run. And to withstand his continued assaults, we must be long-suffering. And patiently wait for the devil to get tired of his game. Luther always talks that way about the devil. Next, the fruit of the Spirit is goodness and kindness. Kindness and goodness. These two words are closely connected. About the only difference is that goodness also includes generosity. Kindness is intention. Goodness includes action. Action. God is good. And he acted. In kindness, a good God acted. And we see that in the scriptures in Titus chapter 3, verses 3 through 5. Where Paul says, For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others. And hating one another, that's the way we are by nature. But he says, but when the goodness And loving kindness of our gods and Savior appeared. He acted. He saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy. By the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. Goodness, kindness here acts, God acted. And so we act. We bear the same image of God in our kindness and goodness towards others. Also, the fruit of the Spirit is faithfulness. The idea is that the Spirit of God works faithfulness in us, both to God and to people. Faithfulness is constantly parallel to marriage in the Bible. And that is one of the many reasons why God hates divorce. Why does God get so upset about divorce? Why does he say that he hates divorce? Divorce and the causes of the divorce militate against divor This human parallel to God's faithfulness. God's commitment to his people is faithful. Leon Morris says the ability to serve God faithfully through the years and through the temptations of life is not something we achieve by heroic virtue. It comes from the Spirit, faithfulness, imitating the faithfulness of God. So be faithful. In your relationships. Keep your promises. Do what you say. Especially when you've made promises for life to someone else in marriage Next, the fruit of the Spirit is gentleness. The word has the idea of confident humility Not superiority, not standing on your rights. It is not timidity or passiveness Leon Morris says, it is important for the Christian to see that the self-assertiveness that is so much a part of the 20th century life should not be valued highly. It is much better that each of us curtails the desire to be preeminent and exercises a proper meekness or gentleness. The fruit of the Spirit is self-control. Self-control. The world knows something of self-control, but almost always for selfish reasons It knows the self-discipline and denial someone will exercise who perseveres through for themselves. But the self-control of the Spirit also perseveres for others, on behalf of others. That's what we see in our Lord Jesus Christ. We see self-control. He said in Mark chapter 14. Verses 34 through 36, he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful. He was in the garden of Gethsemane. My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch. And going a little farther, he fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cup from me. Yet not what I will, but what you will faithfulness Self-control. Hebrews 12. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him. What is that? The joy of redeeming you and me as a greed with the Father and as a reward from the Father for the joy that was set before him endured. The cross, despising the shame. And as a result, is seated at the right hand of the throne of God Such is the fruit of the Spirit, beautiful fruit of the Spirit, self-control. And then Paul says in summary, against such things there is no law. Here Paul's statement is both irony and understatement. This is a masterly understatement. It draws our attention to the fact that the kind of conduct that Paul has outlined is that which Lawmakers everywhere want to bring about. Some of the Galatians wanted law to restrain them and make them behave wholly That's why they were pushing for a return to the ceremonial law. Paul says there is certainly no law against love. Joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Paul's point is that if a person has this fruit of the Spirit, He doesn't need those laws. He already lives by the Spirit. And he says in verse 24, and those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. Here, you have a response role. As a recipient of God's grace, you were called to imitate Christ by actively Crucifying the sinful nature. That's what it says. This is both something completed. He says, those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh. And it is something ongoing. When you're tempted to a particular sin Perhaps your besetting sin. Maybe no one else here knows about it, but you have particular sins that trouble you, that keep coming back again and again, like a bad penny. When you're tempted to a particular sin, a besetting sin, you were called here to nail it to the cross You must say no to all that list of the deeds of the flesh. And I'll just be very straight up here in kind of ordinary terms. Husband, when you do not feel particularly loving toward your wife, You were called to nail your lack of love to the cross and act in love toward her. That's what agape is. Wife, when you do not want to submit to your husband's leadership, you are called to obey Christ, nailing your will to the cross. Praying for your husband and trusting that God will work through your godly submission. I know there are cases and caveats and all that, but this is the general truth. Children, when you don't want to obey your parents, you are called to crucify your rebellion and trust God to act through your parents for your good. Paul says, and those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh. Have crucified the flesh. The fourth vowel of our membership here in the Orthodox Presbyterian goes this way Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as your sovereign Lord? And do you promise that in reliance on the grace of God, you will serve Him with all that is in you? Forsake the world, resist the devil, put to death your sinful deeds and desires, and lead a godly life Years ago, uh there was a man who was attending our congregation in Wilmington, Delaware, and he attended for several weeks. And he considered make taking membership. But when he heard these vows, this vow in particular, uh, he said, I will never succeed at that. I I will never succeed at At putting to death my sinful deeds and desires. He missed the point of the ongoingness The ongoingness of putting to death your sinful deeds and desires. It's not something you do once and for all and only. It's something that you do day by day, hour by hour sometimes, moment by moment sometimes. John Stott says, please notice that the crucifixion of the flesh described here is something that is done not to us, but by us. Galatians 5. 24 does not teach the same truth as Galatians 2. 20 or Romans 6. 6. In those verses, we are told that by faith, union with Christ, we have been crucified with Him. But here it is we who have to take action. Boyce says the verb is in the active voice and points to what the believer has himself done and must continue to regard as being done. Luther, graphic as always, says, To resist the flesh is to nail it to the cross Although the flesh is still alive, it cannot very well act upon its desires because it is bound and nailed to the cross. And you do this with its passions and desires. And in Christ Jesus you can live above Passions and desires. Our society said, well, I had to do whatever it was because I had a passion. It was a desire. I couldn't overcome it. In Christ, we can overcome our passions and desires. The resources are there in Jesus. Look to him. See your life in him. If you are one of those who are Christ, then you belong to Him, not to this world, not to yourself. It's not all about you. And so you are not to be ruled by your passions and desires. Verse 25, if we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. The point Paul makes is this. The Spirit has given you life. Now let him direct the steps of your life. And the contrary is also stated in verse 26. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. Paul concluded this section about keeping in step with the Spirit with this warning, knowing that someone will become conceited. This can be a masterful plan of Satan. Satan tempts you to be conceited about your progress. Soon you are so sure that you're almost always right and everyone else is wrong. That you become conceited. Let us not become conceited. Morris says to be conceited is to be sure that you are always right, even though that means that other people are always wrong. It is the perennial temptation to believers. It is easy to assume that because you are Christ, you will always say and do the right thing. No, you won't. No, you won't. Paul was warning against this conceit. If you become conceited You will be open to the sin of envy, envy of others more successful than you, and resentful of them with envy. You may come to think that your problems come from others outside yourself. Don't think that way. That's wrong. Envy. Augustine used to pray, Lord deliver me from that evil man myself. United to Christ by faith, trusting in His powerful work within you, you may and you must begin to truly walk and step with the Spirit. Spirit. What will you do with this chapter? What will you do with all that list of things and those definitions and all Will you say thanks for the data, Pastor? Thanks for the analysis. That was nice. And then go away without examining and applying these prescriptions? I urge you to join with Augustine, who struggled with many temptations, from sexual sins to intellectual pride. And say, Lord, deliver me from that evil boy, girl, woman, man, myself. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this beautiful list of the fruit of the Spirit. May this cluster of wonderful Spirit-given things grow in us. And exhibit itself in us by the power of the Holy Spirit. We pray this in Christ. Amen.