Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his generation. Noah walked with God, and Noah had three sons: Shem, Ham, and Jeppah. Now the earth was I have determined to make an end of all flesh, for the earth is filled with violence through them. Behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Make yourself an arc of gopher wood. Make rooms in the ark and cover it inside and out with pitch. This is how you were to make it. The length of the arc is 300 cubits. its breadth fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits. Make a roof for the ark, and finish it to a cubit above, and set the door of the ark in its side. Make it with lower, second, and third decks. For behold, I will bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh in which is the breath of life under heaven. Everything that is on the earth shall die But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall come into the ark with you, your sons, your wife, and your sons' wives with you. And of every living thing of all flesh, you shall bring two of every sort into the ark to keep them alive with you. They should be male and female. Of the birds according to their kind, and of the animals according to their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground according to its kind, two of every sort shall come into you into you to keep them alive. Also take with you every sort of food that is eaten and stored up. It shall serve as food for you and for them. Noah did this. He did all that God commanded him Then the Lord said to Noah, Go into the ark, you and all your household, for I have seen that you are righteous before me in this generation. Take with you seven pairs of all clean animals, the male and his mate, and a pair of the animals that are not clean, the male and his mate, and seven pairs of birds of the heavens also, male and female. to keep their offspring alive on the face of all the earth. For in seven days I will send rain on the earth for forty days. and forty nights, and every living thing that I have made I will blot out from the face of the ground. And Noah did all that the Lord had commanded him. Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of the waters came upon the earth. And Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him went into the ark to escape the waters of the flood. Of clean animals and of animals that are not clean, and of birds and of everything that creeps on the ground, two and two, male and female, went into the ark with Noah, as God had commanded Noah. And after seven days the waters of the flood came upon the earth. In the six-hundredth year of Noah's life, and the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, On that day, all the fountains of the great deep burst forth, and the windows of the heavens were opened, and rain fell on the earth forty days and forty nights. On the very same day Noah and his sons Shem, Ham, Japheth, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, entered the ark, they and every beast according to its kind, and all the livestock according to their kind. And every creeping thing that creeps on the earth according to its kind, and every bird according to its kind, every winged creature. They went into the ark with Noah, two and two of all flesh, in which there was the breath of life. And those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God had commanded him And the Lord shut him in. The flood continued forty days on the earth. The waters increased and bore up the ark, and it rose high above the earth. The waters prevailed and increased greatly on the earth, and the ark floated on the face of the waters. And the waters prevailed so mightily on the earth that all the high mountains under the whole heaven were covered The waters prevailed above the mountains, covering them fifteen cubits deep, and all flesh died that moved on the earth, birds, livestock, beasts, all swimming creatures that swam on the earth, and all mankind. Everything on the dry land in whose nostrils was the breath of life died. He blotted out every living creature that was on the face of the ground, man and animals, and creeping things and birds of heaven. They were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah was left, and those who were with him in the ark. And the waters prevailed on the earth 150 days. The Word of the Lord. And then reading from the New Testament, a portion from Matthew's Gospel, Matthew 24, 36 through 44. But concerning that day and hour, no one knows, not even the angels of heaven nor the sun. But the Father only. For as were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. For as in those days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day when Noah entered the ark. And they were unaware till the flood came and swept them all away. So will be the coming of the Son of Man. Then two men will be in the field, one will be taken and one left Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken and one left. Therefore stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming. But know this: that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into. Therefore, you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. And over to The book of Hebrews, chapter 11, verse 7. By faith, Noah being warned by God concerning events As yet unseen, in reverent fear constructed an ark for the saving of his household By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. And now, Lord, speak to us through the narrative of the great flood, as well as through what Jesus said in Matthew 24, and what Paul says in Hebrews. Help us, Lord, to understand these things. Make good use of them. And may our lives be changed and made new through Christ. Amen. We have read the biblical account of a worldwide universal Catastrophic flood, which came as God's response to an unparalleled pervasive wickedness, violence And human corruption. That was the reason for it. We see here the preservation of Noah and his family. Looking at verse 9, these are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless, in his generation. And I just want to tell you that that word generation could mean that he was free from biological corruption He hadn't been destroyed. He hadn't been infected with the virus that had infected the whole world. His biological generation. His family had not been infected. In that sense, he was blameless. It goes on to say Noah walked with God. And then in verse 10, and Noah had three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And then in verse 11, now the earth was corrupt in God's sight, and the earth was filled with violence, and God saw the earth, and behold, it was corrupt. When it says God saw, of course God sees everything all the time, doesn't he? But this means he saw it in a particular way. He looked at it. He analyzed it and he evaluated it. He saw. What did he see? It was corrupted. All flesh had corrupted their way. Whatever that means. Something dastardly had happened to the whole human race, except Noah and his family, evidently. And God said to Noah, I have determined to make an end of all flesh. For the earth is filled with violence through them. We learned last week about the Nephilim, the giants, the men of renown, and all that business. Behold, I will destroy them. Anthropologists and linguists have found that all ancient cultures Have a version of the original flood account. Eight cultural groups have a version of this flood account The Middle East and Africa, Pacific Islands, have a flood account. The Far East has a flood account. Europe and Asia The Hellenic cultures, North America has a flood account, and South America and Central America all have separate flood accounts Within these 213 tribes each have an account of the flood, according to these studies of anthropologists. Dr. Henry Morris of the Creation Research Society says the universal flood traditions can only have come from a common source. Embellished with their own local color and culture, but retaining enough pertinent data to convey both historical and moral concepts. And Hugh Miller, a researcher, says this: the destruction of well-nigh the whole human race in an early stage of the world's history by a great deluge appears to have impressed the minds of the few survivors and seems to have been handed down to their children With such terror-struck impressiveness that their remote descendants have not forgotten it. Well, we have the original, not just another flood story, we have the original, the divinely inspired account. In preparation, I read the opinions of biblical scholars and anthropologists and geologists. Many interesting points were raised, many questions unanswered. My conclusion is that the biblical account of the flood Can neither be proved or disproved by natural science and extra-biblical historical studies. But we have the inspired record And I accept it at face value. Real history is, it purports to be real history And Jesus accepted it as real history. When he mentions it in Matthew 24, for he says there, for as were the days of Noah. And until the day when Noah entered the ark, he doesn't say, concerning the myth of the flood. No, he doesn't say that. He says, for as were the days of Noah, a real historical person that he believes in. Until the day when that same person entered the ark. Also, the Apostle Peter and the writer of the letter to the Hebrews, Paul, probably, accept the flood account as history. Now, you may ask how forty days of rain could possibly cover the highest peaks on the earth. And I'll point you to this. The text seems to describe something far more cataclysmic than mere rain. Possibly, it describes the complete collapse and rearrangement of the Earth's crust together with the revolutionary atmospheric changes. You see that in verses 11 and 12. Listen again. In the sixth hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that day all the fountains of the great deep burst forth. That's not rain. And the windows of the heavens were opened, that is rain. And rain fell upon the earth forty days and forty nights. So to have the assumption that the world is as it always was uniformitarian view of the world's geology is to discount the great change that is perhaps clearly described here to the earth's crust. I'm not going to play geologists, but there it is in the text, so deal with it. In any case, we must believe what God tells us. And he tells us that this was a worldwide universal flood. Verses 19 through 24. Again, listen. And the waters prevailed so mightily on the earth that all the high mountains, that would include what we now know as Mount Everest, although it might not have been so high back then. Under the whole of the heavens were covered. The waters prevailed above the mountains, covering them fifteen cubits deep. And all flesh died that moved on the earth. Birds, livestock, beasts, all swarming creatures that swarm on the earth. That wouldn't have happened in a local flood, just a local flood. Wouldn't have happened. And all mankind. Everything on the dry land in whose nostrils was the breath of life died. He blotted out every living thing that was on the face of the ground. Can you say it any more clearly than that? Man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, they were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah was left, and those who were with him in the ark. And the waters prevailed on the earth 150 days. I don't think you could say it any clearer than that. Worldwide, universal flood So let's move on and just ask some questions of this account. Why? Why did God choose a flood? Well, we learned, as we studied before, the plot of Satan required this judgment to wipe out a corrupted race. Whether they were superhumans or subhumans or demonic humans or whatever, but why a flood? God could have simply wiped them out with a disease A great coronavirus, right? But God seems to be doing things the hard way And he does it, I believe, this way, for these reasons. A flood would require preserving Noah and family. In faith for an additional 120 years. That's how long it took to build this fantastic art. And in that 120 years Of preserving them in faith, and the witness that came from it. We'll get to that too. God's preserving power is shown, set forth over against the pressures of the world, the flesh, and the devil. Can you imagine how Noah's neighbors mocked him all those years? And said how stupid he was. What a waste of time and what a waste of resources. What on earth do you think you're doing, Noah? You must be crazy. God preserved that man in faith. Faith in what? Faith in what God said was going to happen. He believed God. That's what we see in Hebrews 11:7. By faith, Noah being warned by God concerning events as yet unseen, in reverent fear, constructed an ark. for the saving of his household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. God is glorified, you see. That's why he did it this way. He's glorified in the demonstration of his power to save and preserve and conquer evil in his people by grace, undeserved favor. It wasn't because Noah was perfect. in the sense of righteous, holy, without sin, no. By grace he was saved through faith, which is a gift of God. And God continued to pour out that gift on Noah all those years. God does not owe anyone a warning, but now we see another reason for the flood The flood allowed the 120-year preaching of Noah about a future judgment and the building of an ark as a testimony to the coming judgment. Again, God doesn't owe anyone this warning, but he often extends his offers of mercy for a very long time. No one can ever say they were not warned. Everybody from anywhere around where Noah was knew about this project. Prophecy of the warning of the future judgment. There was no missing it. They were warned, and God was very patient. We read in 1 Peter 3. 9, the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is Patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. And then he goes on in verse 10 to say, But the day of the Lord will come. God has continued to do things this way. He uses his people, you and me As trophies of his power to save and to preserve his own against all the powers of evil, he uses us To bear witness to his mercy. When we bear the offer of the gospel, we succeed in God's purposes. Whether the hearers repent or not. And God also likes to use our human weakness. He likes to display his glory in human weakness. Think of Martin Luther after he went to Worms and stood before the trial there. He was snatched away and imprisoned in Wartburg Castle, hid away, had no public ministry, couldn't see anyone, couldn't preach, couldn't teach, couldn't do anything. But what did he do? He translated the New Testament scriptures into German. God uses bad times for his purposes Weakness for his purposes. And the same could be said of John Bunyan, you know, the famous John Bunyan, the tinker, John Bunyan. He was imprisoned in England for preaching without a license. And what did he do while he was imprisoned? He wrote Pilgrim's Progress. A classic that endures to this very day. And even in our own times, Johnny Erickson Tata Young lady who lived up near Annapolis several many years ago dove off of a pier into the shallow Chesapeake Bay. And immediately broke her neck, completely paralyzed from the neck down. And she has witnessed God's grace to millions. Because of that injury, that weakness. She has witnessed in speaking, in writing, and in singing. In fact, I have a personal story to tell there. In the year 2000, my mom and dad and my daughter Megan and I. Went to Orlando to the Ligonier Conference. And Johnny Erickson Tata was to be a speaker at the conference. And we went down to Baltimore to BWI airport to get on the plane. And we got on. And because my dad was in a wheelchair, they put us up front in the First class area because there's more space for such things as a wheelchair. And when we got on the plane, guess who was on the plane in her wheelchair with us? Johnny Erickson Tata And so we took off and started sharing and talking. Before long, Johnny says, Let's sing! And all the way to Orlando. We sang hymns. I'll bet there were people on the plane that weren't very happy. They didn't say anything though. She, through her weakness, has borne borne witness to God's grace. She could have become a bitter, angry person, angry at God, but no. Sweet, and you can hear her on Redeemer Broadcasting even today. Do you feel weak? Do you feel powerless to make things happen? God loves to show his power in weakness, even yours. And then a third reason for the use of a flood. This is a theological reason. The flood, you see, recapitulates the chaos of the original creation. To bring forth a new order, a new creation from the old. And this is parallel to Genesis 1 and 2, where it says there, there was a flood there too. Genesis 1, verse 2, the earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. God, the sovereign creator who brought order out of chaos, will do the same here after this flood. Do we have any Greeks here? I don't mean people with Greek genes, but I mean philosophical Greeks. The philosophical Greek idea is that there's a dichotomy between matter and non-matter. Matter is evil, and spirit is good. We shouldn't have that point of view. God created a good universe. He said it is very good. And now he's washing it clean. And reshaping it. He doesn't get rid of it. He just makes it right. Do you think heaven will be some sort of ethereal, non-material place? No. God loves the creation. Again, he said it was good, very good. And he will cleanse and reshape and renovate it. And he will never dematerialize it. The final new heaven and earth will have a material continuity with the present one. And likewise, your material body will be raised and renovated and glorified and will have continuity with your present body God is going to reshape things through this flood. Recapitulating the chaos and making a new order. Why are animals included in this ark? What's the deal there? Well, you see the animals were part of God's good creation. And their habitat has become cursed because of our sin. Not because of their sin, but because of ours. And the animals Belong with man. That's the way they were put in the garden with man. They were named in the garden by Adam. And Adam was to have dominion over them And they were to display the glory of God along with Adam made in God's image. And God shows his love here for creation by rescuing the animals who are victims of creation. man's sin. We Christians are still to be the caretakers of all creation. We do not divide the world into spiritual and material like the Greek philosophical view does We see in Isaiah 65 a new heavens and a new earth, and we see there blessings for humans and blessings even for animals. It says in verse 17, for behold I create new heavens and a new earth. The wolf and the lamb will graze together. The lion shall eat straw like the ox, the dust shall and the and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, says the Lord. Lord, that's the new material creation. One more text, one more question we might ask of this text. Why? Why an ark? Why an ark? Now, God could have created an ark, but instead he employed Noah and his family for 120 years. And I want to point out to you in that that God uses our work for his purposes. Our work in this world is not in vain. And there is no higher privilege than to be co-workers with God. And as we work in this world, as we do God's work, Whatever our labor might be, as we are faithful to it, bearing witness to his grace, we judge the world. Not on our own authority, but by the judgment of God's Word. We bless the world with the good news of God's grace and mercy offered, but we also judge the world. God's love for his people and his promise to them, you see, is bound up together with the terrestrial animal creation, and God wanted to enclose it all together. And so that's why an ark. God enclosed them together. And God enclosed his people in a gracious redemption planned by him. And God enclosed them in a fail-safe plan. It says in verse thirteen On that very same day, Noah and his sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with him, entered the ark. They and every beast according to its kind, and all the livestock according to their kinds, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth according to its kind. And every bird, according to its kind, every winged creature. They went into the ark with Noah, two and two of all flesh, in which there was the breath of life. And those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God had commanded him. And then this final word. And the Lord shut the door. The Lord shut him in. You see, the ark here is a type of Christ. Long ago, this ark that Noah built is a type of Christ. It's like Christ. In this this way, we are saved only in, inside, united to Christ. He as faithful God and true man calls us into himself by faith, God-given faith, gift of faith And he shuts us in in safety. We are shut in, we are sealed unto the day of redemption And this old ark shows us that, doesn't it? Christ is our true ark. And Peter makes that same point when he talks about the ark and how we're saved through baptism, the baptismal flood, of the judgment that came and we are floating above it. I won't go into that passage just now. But I want to finally remind you, my friends, that another judgment day is coming. Another one. And in Revelation chapter 20, verses eleven through fifteen it is described. Here it is. From his presence, earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before that throne And books were opened. Then another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them. And they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not written In the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. So I ask you about the second judgment that's coming Are you today shut into Christ? Are you shut into the ark? Are you sealed for the day of redemption? Ephesians 4, verse 30. Are you? By faith in Christ, confessed before the church, together with the outward and ordained marks of the triune God in baptism and in the continual nourishment at His table. You may be sure that you are shut in, never to be drowned in the judgment And to escape the judgment wrath that is yet to come, have faith in Christ. Put all your hope in him. He will shut you in. He will guard you and keep you and preserve you to the day of redemption. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that as we have considered this narrative, you'll help us to first of all Understand it as real history and believe what it says. And then you'll help us to see the practical and theological lessons that are clearly here. Help us to trust in the one who will shut us in, who has shut us in by faith, that we might escape the great judgment that is to come. Amen.