Read from the old testament, Numbers chapter fifteen, verses twenty seven. This is dealing with laws about unintentional sins and sins a high hand, first applied corporally, then individually. So Numbers chapter fifteen, beginning at verse twenty-seven, hear the word of the Lord. If one person sins unintentionally He shall offer a female goat a year old for a sin offering, and the priest shall make atonement before the Lord for the person who makes a mistake. When he sins unintentionally to make atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven. He shall have one law for him who does anything unintentionally For him who is native among the people of Israel, and for the stranger who sojourns among them. But the person who does anything with a high hand Whether he is native or a sojourner, reviles the Lord, and that person shall be cut off from among his people, because he has despised the word of the Lord and has broken his commandment. That person shall be utterly cut off, his iniquity shall be on him. And I'm reading these verses to you because tonight in the sermon talking about how to react to sins of weakness and canons of Dorot give us four ways. And here we see those worked out in the Apostle Paul's own life as he reacts to sins of weakness. So Philippians chapter 3, beginning at verse 1, we'll read to verse 16. Hear the word of the Lord Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is no trouble to me, and is safe for you. Look out for the dogs, look out for the evildoers, look out for those who mutilate the flesh, for we are the circumcision. We worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh. Though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh, also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more. Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, As to the law, a Pharisee, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness under the law, blameless. But whatever gain I had, I counted as lost for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as lost. Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish In order that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law But that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith That I may know him in the power of his resurrection and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death. That by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect. But I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own. Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own, but one thing I do. Forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I pressed on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Let those of us who are mature think this way, and if in anything you think otherwise, God will reveal that also to you. Only let us hold true to what we have obtained This is the word of the Lord. And our confession reading tonight, Canon's adorable. And we're reading Article 2, the Believer's Reaction to Sins of Weakness. And here's what it says. Hence, daily sins of weakness arise, and blemishes cling to even the best works of God's people. Giving them continual cause to humble themselves before God, to flee for refuge to Christ crucified. To put the flesh to death more and more by the spirit of supplication and by holy exercises of godliness. And to strain toward the goal of perfection until they are freed from this body of death and reign with the Lamb of God in heaven. So that's what we'll be looking at tonight. The believer's reaction to sins of weakness. So the subject then, if I could give it to you, is give it to you like this. What we're talking about tonight is how a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ reacts to sins of weakness And maybe to help it gain traction in our lives, right? How do you, believers in Christ Jesus, how do you react to sin's weakness? Do you know how you react to sins of weakness? So how a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ reacts to sins of weakness. That's what we're going to talk about tonight. I think you could also say how Paul, because as I read in Philippians and hope to show through it, how does Paul, how Paul, or how a believer reacts to sins of weakness. Humbling before God, seeking refuge in Christ, mortifying the flesh, straining towards that goal of perfection The teaching tonight, if you look through at that first word, that word hence means from here or from there. And where did it what are they saying? Wh where does this come from? Daily sins of weakness arise? It arises from what we read about in the first article about Believers being freed from the rain and slavery of sin, though in this life not entirely free from the flesh and the body of sin. Because that is the state we looked at last time in Romans 6 and 7 that uh sin's reign has been conquered and I I was thinking a little bit to myself about yeah how can he know Whether somebody's the rain's been breaking What's that balance between the brokenness of the rain of sin? And then as Paul ends there in Romans 7, right, with my mind I serve God's law, but with my flesh I'm still a slave to sin And that's all my flesh will ever be is a slave to sin. And that tension in the believer, that spirit and flesh lunching against each other. When you're dealing pastorally with somebody, friend, family, relative, a believer, you know, struggling with sin, and I just offer a few remarks. Um Take him, leave him, but you know I think using the language Paul gives, you know, about the dominion being broken, like it's a like it's a Lord, I think if someone's afraid of the sin, afraid to do battle with it, intimidated by it Giving up and despairing about it might cause us to question and wonder, you know, are they in a state of grace? Have they really had that you know reign broken from them? Because What Paul does say is not despairing. Paul is not despairing in Romans and he's anguishing. And I hope it's become settled to you as a believer, because that's when you really become aware of your sin You will not be set free from it until the Lord comes or he takes you out of this body. That's what Paul's found out. Uh maybe at one point he he it you know if you have those kind of sudden conversions you think once in my life I feel finally free from sin. And then it settles back in, right? And that so I can get how, right, a new convert or someone convert in those powerful ways. You you ride on that, but then you you realize Oh, sin is a greater foe than I thought. Sin runs deeper than I did think it ran. And so What Paul is anguishing about is he is finding that it's just a settled thing that it will be there I find great comfort in it 'cause I really want to be set free from it. There's times I've been praying the two years a month you and having to take on this role and believe me, there's nothing like getting up and speaking God's word to show you your sinfulness, wishing to be free and I'm so thankful for the reality to know that's that's not the reality But that the grace of Jesus Christ is sufficient for all that we do as Christians, and sin will be there So that means what should we do? How should we respond and react to the sin that is there in our lives, or to use Paul's language, how should we react to the sin that indwells us? Now, a believer, I use the word believer, I'll just roughly define it for you. I define the believer as someone, a man in Christ, a person in Christ. Someone who's been delivered by the Redeemer out of Adam, out of the covenant of works, out of their sins, transferred into the kingdom of God when they became members and united to Christ by His Spirit and remain united to Him through an active working faith. So a man in Christ or someone under this covenant of grace, how how do they respond and react to sins and weakness And before we get into the teaching, let's define sins of weakness. What are sins of weakness? I had a conversation with one of the congregants after the service today talking to this person. They were expressing to me in your response to the sermon, you know, how they they are they're confident that they do love the Lord Jesus And confess him. But what they're aware of is they still want at times to get a pound of flesh when somebody does something wrong to them. They realize they still have the wrong motives for the things they do wanting to please others. And so they're struggling. I'm going, come back tonight. Because that's the sins of weakness we're talking about that I sure you're aware of. That you can be confident and know that you're in Christ That's kind of what this teaching is about. Uh read Westminster Confession of eighteen on the doctrine of assurance. We can come to really know that we are in Christ, have that assurance of salvation, but also be aware I still sin in many ways. I still struggle in applying the teachings of Jesus Christ in my life. So what are sins of weakness? The first thing to say about them, well, they come from the flesh, right? That's the source. We've been regenerate. Given a new heart, which is wholly good, as far as long as it's in the spirit and what is of God in us, entirely good, that seed of regeneration implanted in us. But what remains of our corruption, what remains of our flesh, is the source of these sins of weakness, the remaining flesh in us. That's where these sins of weakness come. And and and not to put it on, oh my flesh, you know, though I do find I find it tricky the way Paul talks about it. He talks about in that struggle of doing the things he hates, it's no longer I but sin. Now he is personalizing sin and showing there but but never think Just sin made me do it apart from me also wanting to do it. Though it seems like he's talking about two people, an inner man and an outer man, and this maybe schizophrenia going on in his mind. And as mysterious as it is, the work of new creation, I can't explain this to you 'cause God this is the work of God, right, in making us new in Christ that we now have this new inner man in doing that. And all that is wholly good, but we still have The flesh, which means we still have ourselves in rebellion of God, that that old man that likes to creep up. And that's where the sins and weakness come from. In the Bible, as I read in Numbers 15, they're contrasted with willful sins, the high-handed sins. High-handed sins are the sins picture like that, where you raise your fist at God and shake it at him in rebellion, knowing what he says, and you defy him to his face and sin against him. I found a helpful quote from the Christian Reformed Church, Northamerica. org, is where it comes from. Here's what they say about high-handed sin. The sin of the high hand Which is nothing less than abuse of the very person of God, appeared in the Bible and appears to be alive and well today. It comes with the spirit of, did God say, and marches right into the church when people basically taunt God by saying, I can do whatever I want. with whoever I want, whenever I want, and I demand that both God and the church bless my actions. According to the Bible, this is nothing less than rebellion, whether it is overt or covert. Since we know from the Bible that rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, that's a quote from 1 Samuel 15, 23, should we be surprised that this kind of rebellion might come of lying and seducing spirits? That's not what we're talking about as sins of weakness. But we're talking about those sins, right, as that struggle of the spirit and the flesh where you want to do what's right. And in moments of weakness, temptation and trial or whatever, you give in, uh, you do, you react. etc. It's not done in the spirit of defiance against God, but done in well, whatever motive and reason that it's done in, in this conflict that we've entered in In the flesh against the spirit. We see that these sins of weakness, according to the teaching of Dorot, is that they're daily. Not a day goes by in which some sin committed in weakness, something we uh omitted to do. Something we failed to keep, failed to be, and live up to what God calls us to be, failed to do what God has called us to do. In Psalm 19, verse 12 Psalm of David, he says, who can discern his errors? Who knows even in all the ways they depart from God's law? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. There's things David is saying, God, I may not be consciously aware at the moment That I'm a sin against you my conscience is at rest. But that doesn't then give David to go to the place to say that doesn't mean I'm actually perfect before you But there's hidden faults even in me that I know I'm unaware of. And then even praise in verse thirteen, keep your servant also from those presumptuous or high handed sins. Let them not have right dominion over me. So David, we know he was a man of God. We know he had the Spirit of God. He talks about that in Psalm 51, God not wanting to take it from him. Wrestling and knowing that sin is a weakness. He knew he was acceptable to him, and he knew that before God he was not perfect, even in the ways he was unaware. So these are daily. And that's helpful for us to see. It's going to help make the first point that Canon's Dort wants to make and how to respond. Thinking of the Lord's Prayer too, right? Do we pray the Lord's Prayer every day? Just on Sundays, you know, but we're asked there, right, Father, forgive us our sins. And it seems to me that's something that we should be praying A daily the uh Heidelberg Catechism in Question 13 asked, can we make the payment for ourselves for our sins? Answer certainly not. Actually, we increase our debt. Every day and it references one of those proof texts, the Lord's Prayer and asking the Lord to forgive us. Daily This is actually a really wonderful teaching, but daily, this is why I love the Reformed faith, that trust only in Christ and His one perfect sacrifice, daily we actually become aware of how much we need in atonement. I think you end your Christian life more aware of how much you need an atonement by Christ than when you begin your Christian life and are thankful for that all sufficient one and come to really grow and understand the depth of God's love for you in the Lord Jesus. And then also in Heidelberg 114, it asks, but can those converted to God keep these commandments perfect No, in this life even the holiest have only a small beginning of this obedience. And the reference is Romans 7, which we had read before, even in 1 Corinthians 13, 9 on love and talking about doing that in part until perfection comes. So daily then are these sins a weakness But let me also, before we pass from that, from our own confession of faith in chapter 16, draw out this for us: that they are covered by the blood of Jesus. Chapter 16 in our confession of faith is on good works. Do you know what it says in Article 5? That we cannot by our best works merit pardon of sin or eternal life at the hand of God by reason of the great disproportion as between them and the glory to come. And the infinite distance as between us and God, whom by them we can neither profit nor satisfy for the death of our former sins But when we have done all we can, we have done but our duty and our improfitable servants, and because as they are good, they proceed from his spirit. And as they are wrought by us, they are defiled and mixed with so much weakness and imperfection that they cannot endure the severity of God's judgment. Now that's again arguing for this idea of still having these sins of weakness attached to all that we do as Christians. But here the word in Article 6 This is really wonderful teaching. Notwithstanding, all right? Notwithstanding what was just said there about our works as being good from the Spirit, still defiled as they come from our flesh. The persons of believers being accepted through Christ. Your person, all that you are, is accepted to God through Christ. Your person being accepted through Christ, your good works also are accepted in him. You are entirely accepted in Christ despite your sinfulness And even what remains of the corruption, defilement of your good works, God wholly accepts them in Christ or through him as the high priest, right? As our mediator. Not as though they were in this life wholly unblamable and unreprovable in God's sight, but that he looking upon them in his son is pleased to accept and reward that which is sincere Although accompanied with many weaknesses and imperfections. Now and I read that not because canons are going here. I read that for our comfort and encouragement, because I needed to hear it. Sin is such a reality still that we rejoice in being freed from its dominion and yet it's still there and it can be discouraging at times to feel its power and know its presence and be there. But the gospel of God's grace gives us so much hope against it and encouragement against that that even what remains in it Because of the work of Christ our Savior, you being accepted, your works are accepted. And so whatever's in there, you should still make that offering to God of all that you do. Well let's get then here in uh to the the teaching or the things that they want to apply it. Because we have these daily sins, of weakness because blemishes cling even to our best works of God's people. The first thing then that we have caused in the way that we react and respond to these sins of weakness is to humble ourselves before God. John Calvin wanted the law read in the Genevan Church Because he knew it would constantly give God's people a cause to be humble before God. Because as Paul says, the law reveals to us our sin. And so that when it is read to the body, we are reminded that though we are saved by God's grace, we are sinners saved by God's grace. And so you might think about that as we come to the church and read the law. It teaches us the holy rule of God and many things, but it's also there as a continual reason for us to approach humbly to God. Dr. Robert Godfrey in his book on the canons adored and their pastoral theology uh said this about this teaching and applying it to us, you know, my sins should humble me before my God. The fact that I sin, I say no to God. I say, I just can't trust you to do what you say. I just can't believe enough in you who made me to really trust you And let go, right? You know, that's us saying you know that's what it means, my sins, me saying no to God Me refusing to trust his promises, me refusing to tremble at his threatenings, me refusing to offer obedience to his commands, that's sin. And that should humble us before God because when we see our sin, right, we're seeing ourselves. What we are apart from the grace of God in Jesus Christ, we're seeing this is Me. That the doctrine of original sin isn't just a nice thing that the church likes to hold on to, but it's real. And it touches in my life in a real way that I'm really a sinner. And as I grow in grace, I come to see how much of a sinner I really am, and I see me for me. As more of those layers of onion are pulled back and we're exposed before God that this is me. And I think that's what it is to truly be humble before God Is to stop blame shifting like Adam. Stop pretending you're better than you are Yeah, I'm a kind of person like that. I I just want to pretend I know far more than I do, and then you get caught in a situation, you get called out, and you have to say, I don't know That's humbling. It's far better if we just go before God and say, Yes, Father, that is what I really want. I really desire that nasty, abominable thing that you hate And I really do love it and have my heart set on it. That's humility. That's Going before God as a sinner, which his law reveals, and our growth in Christ and coming to know Christ reveals to us. So that should daily, or you know, that should be happening in our lives, humility before God, becoming more humble. The second thing, and I I I don't know if they intended these to uh progress, but I think that They progress, I think they build, I think starting here goes the next, and so I'm gonna teach them that way because I do think if you follow these steps I think it is a helpful and appropriate way in in which to do all that it's saying here in a in a good full order response to The sins of weakness. You know, I said that Paul really models that for us. You know, you look in Philippians 3 and verses 7 and 8. Paul says, Whatever gain that I had, I I counted as lost for the sake of Christ Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss. It hasn't been easy to more and more get rid of my sinful boastings, sinful selves, the things that I was and thought that I was when I thought I could stand before God on my own too with his law I've suffered the loss of these things. I even count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ. But here's that Paul in that humility, seeing that When God is pleased to reveal his son to me, and I see Christ, I see everything else as just rubbish then. What can I and my best offer to God? Because Then we don't need Christ. We don't need a Savior. We don't need a perfect substitute. And so I think this is humbling, this going to Christ for refuge. I think, God, do I really have to go every day and ask Jesus for help? It's kind of humiliating. George Herbert has a wonderful poem called The Reprisal because it points back, he's going back to the poem before on the Thanksgiving. And its theme is that I can never outstrip Christ. He's always there first. He says, I have considered it, and I find there is no dealing with thy mighty passion. I considered your sufferings for me, Jesus. There's no dealing with it. For though I die for thee, I'm behind. My sins deserve the condemnation. O make me innocent that I may give a distangled state and free, and yet thy wound still my attempts defy. For by thy death I died for thee. It's only your death which came before mine that I even aspire to dying for you Ah, was it not enough that thou by thy eternal glory didst outgo me? You, the glorious God, couldst thou not Greece sad conquest me aloud? But in all victories overthrow, does even your grief have to be greater than mine? Yeah, your glory is greater than mine. Yet by confession will I come into the conquest Though I can do not against thee, that is set myself up against you in any way your mighty passion, in thee will I overcome the man who once fought against thee. Here he was looking at that offering of Christ, his passion, and coming And saints do this. They burn with love for Christ. They want to give a more. But realizing even in all that, Christ gets the supremacy. Christ comes first in all that he did and we are reacting and responding to him and that's why we should go to Christ crucified for rapture. He said when we sin again and fall into that, we take ourselves to the Lord Jesus Christ, as Paul says there in verse eight Knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, clinging to Him Knowing and understanding. Have you had that experience? Do you go before Christ and say, right into your very arms, I entrust my eternal soul for keeping? And that is it. Because I I can't stand before God. As much as I long to love Him and please Him and we do, it is through Christ and Him alone that we find the refuge. and find peace for our souls and rest against the continual strife. So when we sin and humble ourselves to God, we have continual need to go to Christ Crucified and it is out of resting in Christ again what He's done for us. Going back there, seeing the mercy of God as we go to a yet another depth of seeing our sin, another depth of admitting I am that sinful, we don't stay there, we don't linger at it longer than what is necessary in God's grace to then turn us to the cross And turn us to Jesus again and see the mercy of God. And let that fill us and permeate us, you know, where sin abounds, grace much more abounds. So don't hear this teaching as self-loathing And too much self-introspection that can happen. Again, you stay with that as long as is needed in God's Grace and dealing with us to turn us where our gaze needs to be on Christ and Him crucified, and resting more and more in the crucified Savior for us, because it's been out of that peace And out of that victory that we then go on to mortify the flesh. That's the third reaction. To make war against the flesh, to mortify means to take away its life. They tell us we should do this by the spirit of supplication. That comes from Zechariah 12, 10. It's translating the ESV in a wonderful way. Please for mercy. The context is really great. It's talking about when God's people, the Israelites, will look upon the one named pierced, and they will be brought to repentance because they crucified their Savior And with pleas of mercy they'll cry out to the Lord. So what are these pleas of mercy? Well again, if you start with seeing your sin and honestly own it and find refuge in Christ, well then you can turn to God. Because what what what is mercy, right? Mercy is pity and action Pity is that when those bowels, you get hit in those bowels because you see the destitute child, you you see the abandoned dog on the TV show and you want to take it in, you see that sad sight, and you're hit in your guts. Well many people get hit in their guts and you flip the channel or you just walk on, right? Mercy is when that pity becomes action You stop and you helped him, right? So when you see your sin and realize that you're not, you can't save yourselves, you don't pick yourselves in the boot chaps and you turn to God Having seen afresh the Savior, and you say, Lord, now please help me because I'm really miserable in this sin. And I want your help and deliverance from it. That's how we mortify the flesh. That's step one in prayer. Step two is in practice. And this is important too because so much, and I you know when I I've done a little bit of counseling for people and their struggles against sin, and often it can be all this Cutting out, cutting out. But there has to be a putting in. God wants new habits for you. That mortification isn't just taking out This the things that that provoke it in your environment, whether they be relations or things, uh and and the and the motives and the heart But he wants to put new ones in there so you change your environment. You may that may cost a friend in a relationship. That may cost I know I had to go take my computer cord out of the wall, cut in two, and throw in the trash So you've you have to build new habits, I was gonna have a new life apart from that thing. And you begin adding prayers and Bible reading and church attendance and prayer meetings and fellowship, you start building godly things, you start doing works of mercy with deacons, you start adding and building other things into your life. It's not just about cutting down because what are you going to fill it with? You've got to positively practice what God commands and teaches those good works in Scripture So that's how we mortify the flesh, prayer, and by positively engaging because that's going to wean off, that's going to change your affections, right? As sinners, we are affected by the wrong things, that means we're moved by it. When we see it, we want it. When we smell it, we want it. When we hear it, we want it But by engaging in positively the good and right and holy things, we're changed in that. We begin to desire that, long that, and then when we see that thing that tempted us, we go It has no hold of me anymore. Praise God. He has so changed my heart and affection. We can just go on by it because positively we're being rebuilt and remade. So it's out of Humbling ourselves, not treating being honest about our sin before God. I am the sinner, looking to Christ, out of that peace, God's mercy to us. Fighting that warfare, prayer and practice, and then finally uh straining towards the goal of perfection. You know, that's what Paul's talking about there. In those verses 12. Not that I've already obtained this, so I'm already perfect, but I press on. And notice what he ends in verse 16. Only let us hold true to what we've obtained. Notice those words. What we have attained. Paul tells Timothy, ye came naked in this world and you're going out of it naked. You know the one thing he says you can take with you? The godliness you attain in this life. Godliness has promised not only for this life, it will do you good. God promises you pursue godliness in this life, it will bring blessing to you. And God says that Paul says, not only promise in this life, but in the one to come. So Paul is saying, I haven't attained perfection. What does he mean when I haven't attained? He talks about what he says there in verse 10, I have not yet attained knowing Christ perfectly. I've not yet attained perfectly to knowing the power of his resurrection in me. I have not attained perfectly what it is to share in his sufferings. I have not yet attained what it means perfectly to become like him in his death. This is that wonderful truth of Scripture. Why was Jesus put to death? Because he was perfect He submitted to God. And that's what it will be to us if we if we follow in godliness and God calls us to it, that dying to self, that dying to others. Paul saying, I have not attained these things yet and perfection, I've attained to them in part. So we have real attaining. That though we continue to react against this sin We really reach places. We really attain to Christ like this. And we must continue straining because we haven't reached the goal. Though we are attaining, we haven't reached it. So humble ourselves before God. Seek refuge in Christ crucified, out of that haven, make war against your flesh and prayer and practice, and continue striving towards that goal of perfection. In all these ways. And I like to think too, and I go to perfection, to think of it relationally, as faithfulness to our Lord, more and more able to give ourselves to the Lord Jesus. So if I could let me summarize here, I'm going to summarize this and then give you something to think about. Seeing ourselves what we are as sinners. This should drive us out of ourselves and into Christ so that we may see who we are in Christ, accepted. Forgiven and beloved by God, and then from an experience of God's favor, we make war on the flesh and live crucified to the world and to the flesh Walking the path of Christ-likeness so we can give ourselves more and more fully to God. I think those are the steps I don't know what's been your practice in reacting against sin, but I think these are very wonderful steps in which to build on to get to where properly reacting, I tried to show you from the Apostle Paul, this is what he did, and humbling himself. And owning before God is nothing, wanting to be found only in Christ, warring against the flesh, and striving towards that goal. Let me just leave you to this. Consider the opposites real quick. If your sin isn't causing you to do this, do you boast before God? You go before him as someone deserving and worthy in yourself for everything. You owe me this and so great. If we aren't fleeing to Christ, because everybody's dealing with this. I'm going to read you some ways that's going to sound a lot like the Roman Catholic Church. So I rejoice to be in a reformed church that seeks refuge only in Christ. People are dealing with the remaining sin. If you're not fleeing to Christ, are you fleeing to works to find peace? Quiet your conscience before God? Vigils, prayers, masses, candles, indulgences. People are finding things. To bring peace to their conscience before God. If you're not mortifying the flesh to take away its life, then are you feeding it? Are you giving life to your desires? Are you encouraging them because of the relations you maintain, the habits you keep? And if you're not striving to finish the race, to go towards what's ahead, then have you stopped? Or possibly even going backwards Or left the racetrack. Because the Christian life has a goal, has something we're aiming to. It's not a static journey, but it is I pray and hope, beloved, that how you react and respond to sins of weakness is how Paul did it is how this teaching is here to humble yourself before God. Plead of Christ crucified for refuge. Mortify your flesh through prayers of mercy. Ask God to help you. He will. He's a very pitiful Father. practice holiness, um encourage each other, talk to wiser ones. You have elders here who I know can help you. And strive and strain Towards more and more Christ, like may God give you His grace, Amen