Our reading is Exodus 2. 23 through 310. This is the text toward the preaching, so please have it open during the preaching. Continue our series in Exodus, verse 23 of chapter 2. During those many days the king of Egypt died. And the people of Israel groaned because of their slavery and cried out for help. Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God. And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. God saw the people of Israel, and God knew. Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Midian And he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of the bush. And he looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed And Moses said, I will turn aside to see this great sight, why the bush is not burned. When the Lord saw that he had turned aside to sea, God called to him out of the bush, Moses, Moses! And he said, Here I am. Then he said, Do not come near. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground. And he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God. Then the Lord said, I surely I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. I know their sufferings, and I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of the land of that land to a good and broad land. a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebuzites And now, behold, the cry of the people of Israel has come to me, and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppressed them. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. So far the reading of God's Word. And then the reading of Acts chapter seven through thirty-four. This is from Deacon Stevens' sermon or speech that he made. He's telling the story of the Exodus. Acts 30, verse 7, verse 30. Now, when forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai. In a flame of fire in a bush. When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight. And as he drew near to look, there came the voice of the Lord. I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob. And Moses trembled and did not dare to look. Then the Lord said to him, Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground. I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. And have heard their groaning, and I have come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send you to Egypt. The Word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Oh Lord, you inspired these words. To be recorded, the record of these historic events where you acted to save your people. They are flawless, and yet we are flawed. So illumine our hearts and minds by your Spirit, that we may understand your word in all its depth And apprehending your glory, lay our lives at your feet. Amen. What does history have to do with anything? That's what a student might ask. After they're being forced to study American history or European history or ancient history, what does history have to do with anything What does the past matter to the present? Yet As they might ask that question foolishly, those of you who know something, yet on a more personal level We all know that history matters. On a personal level, we know that what happened five years ago or ten years ago or twenty or more years ago may be very significant to our personal present. The past may haunt us, or the past may be a great blessing to us, depending on what happened in history. The past is always significant because we do not live in a vacuum, but we must trust the God who is Lord of the past. And Lord of the future. This is what Moses learned about the past and the present and the future As we come to Exodus 2, verses 23 through 25, we have Moses here, the narrator, remembering the past. And he says this. We just read it, but I'll read it again. During those many days, the king of Egypt died, and the people of Israel groaned because of their slavery and cried out for help. Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God, and God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenants with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. God saw the people of Israel, and God knew. Here we have Moses remembering the God of the past. And in the larger context We know that this God of the past, the word he uses here in Hebrew is not the personal divine name of Yahweh. That'll come a bit later. But the name of God that he's using here is the generic name of God, Elohim. That's the word that's used in Genesis 1 and 2 and so forth when it's describing how Elohim said, let there be light, and there was light. And Elohim said, let there be waters. And there were waters, and let there be everything, and there was, God, the Creator, is being recalled to memory here. During those many days, the king of Egypt died And the rescue cry came up to Elohim, the God of creation, the God of the fall, the God of the flood of Noah. the God of Babel when they tried to build a tower, and the God who introduced himself to Abraham We're told in these verses that many days have come. Well, we know how many days, if we look into the history a bit. Many days is 40 years. Many, many days, 40 years. And Elohim has heard what has been going on for these 40 years. What has it been? He's been hearing sighing of his people. He's been hearing their groans. And he has been remembering. God never forgets anything, does he? But he's remembering in a way that shows that he's about to act. He's about to act on the situation. And that's the kind of remembering that we hear in this word. He's remembering his past promises to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob. And he's calling all those promises to mind with a purpose to do something about it So we also read that he looked on their burdens. He looked and we looked last week to the word Yara Which means that God doesn't just see something, but God looks with a purpose to have compassion, a purpose to do something about it. So he looked on their burdens And then that last word in the last verse of this little section, God knew. God knew. Well, of course God knows. God knows everything, right? No, here in Hebrew is the same word that we have in Genesis chapter 4, where God said to Adam, Where we're recorded how Adam knew his wife, Eve. What does that mean? He knew her in a very intimate way. He didn't just know about her, he knew her. Well, God knew here. He's heard the crying, he's heard the sighing, and he knew. And so he's going to do something about it. And then we get to chapter 3. And we see Moses keeping the flock of his father-in-law. We did that last week, how he met his bride and married her, a Gentile woman, and how those 40 years have now come. And we see that Moses is out in the wilderness and he's keeping his flock and he sees this bush burning. Now, um That may sound very strange to us, especially in our climate here. You don't see trees just catching on fire and burning. But it wasn't all that strange there. Some of these bushes had a lot of oil in their in their wood and uh it gets really hot and they can just spontaneously burn them So this is one of those. Well, at first it appeared to be one of those, but no. This one keeps burning. Instead of like a Christmas tree that's been dried up for three months, flash and it's over, the bush keeps burning and burning and burning and burning. And he goes, wow, I've got to go see this bush. Why does it keep burning this way? And he goes over And the Lord saw that he turned, and now we have a different word for Lord. It says, The angel of Yahweh, not Elohim, which I mentioned earlier, but the angel of Yahweh, that's the God of the covenant. The angel of Yahweh appeared to him in a flame out of a fire in the midst of a bush, and he looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed, and Moses said, I will turn to see this great sight. When Yahweh saw that he turned aside to see, then it says, Elohim called to him out of the bush, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I. And then he said, Do not come near. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you were standing is holy ground. And I have puzzled a little bit over why does he say, take your shoes off, take your sandals off. Well, sandals are created things created by man. But Moses himself is a created thing created by God. And God doesn't want anything between, evidently. Between his creature, Moses. And his holy ground. And we also see here that when God comes on the scene, he sanctifies the material world. He makes it holy because of his special presence. And we need to ask ourselves, when and where does God make Himself specially present? And see that that is a holy place also. So what's going on here? We see these things coming together. We see the God of creation, Elohim, and we see the God of covenant. And we see a fire. Why is this happening? Why is God appearing in the form of a fire? And why is he saying, I am the God of your father, of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob? Why is that all come together this way? Well, let's just think about it for a moment. And I want to Recall to you Genesis 15. Would you please turn to Genesis 15 for me to see this? And I'm going to actually come down here for a second. to kind of demonstrate this. Genesis 15 is where God appeared to his servant Abram And Abram was an old man, and Abram didn't have any kids, and God had been making promises to Abram that you're going to have so many descendants that you won't be able to count them. And Abraham is really old now, and his wife is really old, and he just can't buy this story. And uh so verse one, after these things the word of the of Yahweh, here's the what God of the covenant Came to Abram in a vision. Fear not, Abram, I am your shield, your reward shall be very great. But Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me? For I continue childless And the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will be my heir. He's saying, You know what? I've got a servant. I guess he's going to get it all You've been promising me a child. You've been promising me an innumerable seed. And yet, looks like to me it's all going to go to this Eliezer guy. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him. Verse 4: This man shall not be your heir. Your very own son shall be your heir. What son? And he brought him outside and said, Look toward heaven and number the stars if you are able to number them. And he said to him, So shall your offspring be. And he, Abram, believed Yahweh, the God of the covenant, and he counted it to him as righteousness And then what happens? And he said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out from Ur the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess. But he said, O Lord, God, how am I to know that I shall possess it? And he said to him, Bring me a heifer. That's a young female cow. three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtle dove and a young pigeon. And he brought these to he brought him all these He cut them in half and laid each half over against the other. So that's a lot of work. A young cow You have to take this cow and cut her down the spine, and you have to flop part of her over this way and flop part of that. Then you do the same with a goat. And what you're doing here is you're creating a path. A path of carcasses, a path of blood and guts and carcasses. And then the birds are one on each side. And what's this path going to do? Let's see. Verse ten, and he brought them he brought him all these, cut them in half, and laid each over each half over against the other, but he did not cut the birds in half. And when the birds of prey came down on the carcasses, Abraham drove them away. So some some buzzards or something are flying around and they see this mess and they're going to have some, but he chases them away Now here's what happens, verse 12. And the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram, and behold, a dreadful and great darkness fell upon him. Then the Lord said to Abram, Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in the land that is not theirs. Now, what's that about? That's about what has happened in Egypt. That's about all those years that they've been in Egypt. And God told Abram that that would happen. They will be servants there. They will be afflicted for 400 years, but I will bring judgment on the nation they serve, and afterward they shall come out with great possessions. As for yourself, you shall go to your fathers in peace. You shall be buried at a good old age. And they shall come back here in the fourth generation, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. And then here's what happens. We just asked the question a few minutes ago, why fire? Why is there a burning bush? When the sun had gone down and it was dark, behold, a smoking fire pot. And a flaming torch. This is the same God. This is the God of fire who comes down. Passed between these pieces. Now, what's happening to Abram? He's over here asleep He's kind of cognizant of this vision somehow, but he's over here in darkness asleep, and this fire pot comes, this manifestation of God comes. This manifestation of the covenant-making God comes, and this fire walks down between the pieces. What's going on there? This is the way people used to say, I promise that I will keep my word to you. This is the way two kings would make a covenant. They would split some animals and lay the halves over against each other and then they would walk between them and they would say, if I don't keep my word to you, may what happen to these animals happen to me. So who's walking between the pieces? Not Abram. God is. In effect, God is saying, I promise to keep my word to you. I promise to give you an innumerable seed. I promise that I'll bring your people out after 400 years. I promise on my own life. If I don't keep my covenant to you, and frankly it goes the other way too, if you don't keep your covenant to me, I will die. I promise to die. On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your offspring I give this land. From the river of Egypt to the great river, the river of Euphrates, to the land of the Kenites, the Kenizites, the Kadbonites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim, and the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Gergeshites, and A Jebusite It belongs to them right now, but it's going to be yours. I'm going to keep my promise to you. This is how you can know it. I, God, the God of the covenant, the God of fire, have walked down the Isle of Death promising to die. Children do this sometimes in a frivolous way. They say, cross my heart and hope to die. What do they say? I promise to keep my word. Or stick a needle in my eye. If I don't keep my word, you can stick a needle in my eye. We do something similar when we go to a court of law, we say, I swear to tell the whole truth, nothing but the truth, so help me, God. We're calling God to witness. And we're saying, if I don't keep my word, may God get me if I don't tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. So God has made a covenant here. That's what this is about. And that's why we have a smoking firepot and a flaming torch. And we have the announcement that I am the God of Abraham, of Isaac, of Jacob. I am the God who has come down. I am the God who has heard your cries. And I have come down. And that leads us on to the God of the future. The God of the future. Because in verses 8 through 10 of our text, over here in Genesis, in Exodus, the God of the future says, I have seen I have heard and I know. He says, I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up out of that land to a good and broad land, a land aflowing with milk and honey. What do we have here? We have a God who comes down in history. He is not distant. He is not a God who's far off. He's not the God of deism. Who created the world and wound it up and let it go and cares nothing for it. He's the God who does care, the God who does come down. He's not distant. And I want you to notice one more thing about this God who makes these wonderful promises. He is the God who comes down to a hard place. Now, a few minutes ago we were talking about a hard place. If a very old man and his very old wife and they have no kids, that's a hard place, isn't it? It's a hard place when you've been told you're going to have an innumerable seed But there's another hard place here, because we see a hard place. I have come down to give you a land good and broad, a land flowing with milk and honey. That doesn't sound like a hard place, does it? Does it? That's a wonderful place. I'm going to give you this land. But then he goes on and says to the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, the Jebuzites. And now, behold, the cry of the people of Israel has come to me, and I have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians have oppressed them. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh. That's a hard place. Do you see it? This is a land that's going to be given to them, but it's occupied by terrible, fierce, warring people. They have been living there for 400 years. They've dug wells. They've removed stones. They have made fields. They've built houses. And they ain't going to give it up very easy, are they? I'm going to send you to them, and it's going to be a land flowing with milk and honey, the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Hammon. No. That's too much. How are we going to take that place? It's a hard place that God comes down to. It's an impossible thing that God promises, and yet God is the God of the impossible. And then he sends him to another hard place. Think about it. Moses was raised in the house of Pharaoh. I know that Pharaoh died, but Moses is now sent back. To Egypt? Where his own people rejected him forty years earlier? Where he was under indictment for murder of an Egyptian? He's being sent back to that place? That's a hard place. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. That's a hard place. Yet God is the God who is able to do everything He promised. When we can't see how it works, when we can't figure it out, we can believe what God has actually promised. We can know the things that we love as Christians to quote from Romans 8. We hear there some groaning and some sighing, don't we? Romans eight. We know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth, and not only the creation, but we ourselves, who are the first fruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait for our adoption as Son. That seems impossible sometimes. Doesn't it? That we could be God's children. The redemption of our bodies. How is it that God is going to raise dead bodies up? How is he going to reconstitute our physical frame and make it new. How, how, how? He's the God of the impossible. That's how We eagerly await for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies, Romans 8, for in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope For who hopes for what he sees, but if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. And then we have this in Romans eight Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weaknesses, for we do not know what to pray as we ought, but the Spirit himself. Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. There's some more of those sighings and groanings. And he who searches our heart knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the word. Will of God. God within us causes us to pray the right prayers. When we can't think the right prayers, when we can't even formulate the right words, the Spirit of God within us Formulates those for us. God sees us, brothers and sisters. God hears our crying and our sigh and our groaning in the Spirit. He knows it all Before you knew God, God knew you. There's an old song that I learned when I was a teenager. Some of the words are these. I was in his mind before the world was made. I was in his mind before earth's frame was laid, because he knew me. Because he loved me. I was in his thoughts the night he prayed for me. I was in his thoughts the night on Dark Gethsemane because he saw me Because he loved me. I was in his heart when Calvary's Hill he climbed. I was in his heart when he died for all mankind because he loved me. Because he knew me. And then it ends this way: I am in his mind, and soon he'll come for me. I am in his mind, and someday with him in heaven I'll be, because he wants me. Because he loved me. Father, mother, brother, sister, child. You and I, living in the present, are no doubt struggling with the past. We have suffered at the hand of the devil, our slave master In some cases, we have suffered from our own doings as well. You and I are struggling with the present, even though we are forgiven in Christ. Our life is not whole, and we live in a world which is a mess. The world, the flesh, and the devil seek to pull us down and ruin us. The devil conspires against us. But God in Christ will deliver us. God will perfect you and me and bring you and me to paradise We can know this for certain because God, the God of the covenant, the God of fire, the God of the altar, has made it clear to us in the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Moses in the wilderness tending his father-in-law's flock was standing, suddenly found himself standing on holy ground. He saw an amazing manifestation of God, the God of the past and the God of the present, the God of creation and covenant, and he saw a manifestation of the God of the future. We have some holy ground here today. We have a holy table set before us. The Lord's table. It's not my table. It's not a Presbyterian table. It's the Lord's table. But you are not told to stay away, like Moses was. You were not told to take your shoes off. But you are told, draw near with faith. Receive the body of our Lord Jesus Christ, which he gave for you, and his blood, which he shed for you. You were told, eat and drink in remembrance that he died for you, and feed on him in your hearts by faith with thanksgiving. God shows himself and gives himself. He who suffered and died and rose that we might know for certain. He will deliver us and bring us all the way home. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we marvel at your love for sinners For the sinner Moses, for the sinner Abram, for sinners that you have loved with an everlasting love and drawn with the cords of kindness, And so we come and we eat and we believe. Amen