First reading in the New Testament is going to be Philippians 2, 1 through 15, and then 4, 1 through 3. Philippians 2, 1 through 15. So, if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord, and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus who though he was in the form of God did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that the name of Jesus, every knee, should bow in heaven and And on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now not only As in my presence, but much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Do all things without grumbling or questioning That you may be blameless and innocent children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine. as light in the world. Then over to chapter four of Philippians one through three. Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. I entreat you, Odia, and I entreat Syntheci to agree in the Lord Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women who have labored side by side with me in the gospel, together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life. And then the text for preaching is John 17, 20 through 26. Jesus praying to the Father says, I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have seen Sent me. The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am to see my glory that you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of me. O Righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you have sent me the same thing. I made known to them your name, and will continue to make it known that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them This is the word of the Lord. So this is the fourth sermon in John 17. This is the last one. This is the fourth sermon in John seventeen. And by the way, before I go further, we're going to have two guest preachers coming up. We're going to have Uh next Sunday we're going to have the committee chairman of our Home Missions Committee, John Shaw, will be here. He'll be preaching in the morning. I'll be helping with leading worship and he'll be preaching God's word and then he'll be consulting with the session. The session is planning to have a day of planning and consultation and all that. So we invited John to come to help. us in order to just pick his brain and understand better things about uh how our church might prosper and grow and benefit this community So that's coming up. And we also have Mark Bube from our Foreign Missions Committee coming later in the month. And he'll be preaching for us. Be exploring some ideas about foreign missions as well. Now, back to what we're doing here. We had a sermon on predestination in the prayer of Jesus. It's very prominent there. He talks about before the foundation of the world, those who were chosen, and so forth. So that was there. We had a focus on glory. Jesus spoke of glory eight times in the prayer. And so we talked about the glory of God and what that means and what he was praying about. And then we focused on truth. The bedrock of truth. Thy word is truth. You want to know what is real and makes sense And comports with reality in this world, you get it from God's word, which is truth. And so we focused in on that. But then I thought there was one more thing that is very clear here: Jesus' prayer for unity. That we should spend some time focusing upon. So today, Jesus prays concerning three unities, if you will. The first is the unity of God. The second is the unity of the church. And then the unity that we will have to the world in our witness. through love. So first let us see the unity of the triperson one God. That will be found in verse twenty-one and twenty-two and twenty-three But let me say this before we get to those verses. From all eternity, the Trinity has existed in love. The three-person God has always existed not as a solitary individual who would be a very lonely being If there was only one person in the Godhead, but God has always existed as a divine community. Let me explain a little bit. bit more about that. God is essentially three persons in constant and eternal relationship. Richard St. Victor said this in the twelfth century. He said, if God is love and always has been love Then he must always have been have had another upon whom to direct his love. And then furthermore, Richard argued, love must have had a third party, otherwise it would be self-indulgent. True love desires the beloved to be loved by another. Hence three So the Father and the Son desire to share their love with another, the Holy Spirit. The Trinity is a community, a divine community of three persons existing always in eternity in love. But the Trinity is more than a community of love or a close family. The persons of the Trinity share one being or one nature. Nature. Here's what we have in verse twenty one. Jesus prays that those who will believe in him will be one, he says, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you That is being in one nature, one being, one essence. And then in verse 23, he speaks of you in me And addressing the Father, he prays that the disciples may be one, even as he says, We, Father, you and I, Father, are one. So there's this This community of three persons, and yet there's this oneness that Jesus speaks of in these verses And that means for us to understand that the Father, the Son, and the Spirit mutually indwell one another. God in Himself, God in eternity, God from all eternity, is therefore a mutually indwelling, loving community. And we can see this the way it works out in our salvation, can we not? Here's what R. C. Sproull says: the saving work of God is Trinitarian. And he says this, all three persons work in perfect unity to rescue the same undeserving sinners. Within the Trinity, there is one saving purpose, one saving plan, one saving enterprise. Those whom the Father chooses are precisely those whom the Son redeems and those whom the Spirit regenerates. The persons of the Godhead act as one Savior. The Trinity is not fractured in saving activity. God is not divided in direction and intent, as if each person of the Godhead seeks to save a different group of sinners. Instead, he says, each member of the Trinity purposes and irresistibly proceeds to save one and the same people, God's chosen people. So there's the unity of the Trinity In our salvation. So in these few verses, these statements, we see the diversity of the three persons who always existed and lived in constant love. And yet are one in purpose and one in essence. Second point: the unity of the church. And that's what Jesus is actually praying about for. That's the direction of his prayer. He bases it on the nature of God, the three persons, and the one God, but he then directs it toward the universe. He says in verse 21 that they may all be one. And in verse 22, that they may be one even as we are one. And verse 23, that they may become perfectly one. Jesus prays for the unity of the church. The church in the Greek Bible is designated by the word ekklesia, and that's a compound word. be out and clesia, or it's from the word kalleo, which means called out. So ek and caleo. Eklesia, the church, is the called out community. the called-out community, the one called-out community, and they, he prays, should be one, one assembly. The church is many, isn't it? Many persons, many expressions, many nations, and yet it is one assembly. Because there is only one body of Christ. Not many bodies of Christ. The church is many persons in one body that enjoys the common life, that is, the shared life, the only life. That we have in union with God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. It enjoys the common love of God, and he says, therefore, because we enjoy that love of God We therefore enjoy that love of one another. In the times of the Old Testament in Israel, God's mission for Israel was ultimately That Israel be a witness to the surrounding nations. That was their purpose. That was why they were called out as an assembly, Ecclesiah, they were called out as the assembly of God. Not just to be his people and nobody else. It was always that they be his people for the world. And so they were to be holy and worship and holy in all their conduct because that's part of their witness to the whole world. They were also to love one another. That's in the book of Leviticus. Love one another. In the times of Israel, God's mission was for Israel to be a witness to the world And so in the Old Testament reading that Je Jeff read, we had that wonderful Psalm of Psalm 133, that Psalm of the Unity. As you see here the the The person of Aaron expressing the whole nation of Israel. What did it say? It said, Behold how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. And then it gave us a strange illustration of it, which is strange to us, but was not strange to the Israelites. It is like the precious oil on the head running down on the beard. Now that sounds Gross. I mean we wash our hair every day to get the oil out of it, don't we? You know? Uh when I was a kid they used to put brill cream on your hair Those days are gone, you know. What nice hair? But this oil running down on his hair and on his beard, dripping little bits of oil on the beard and and running down on the collar of his robes. Yuck. Well what's it about? What's it saying, this was the oil of anointing, you see. This was his the oil that was poured on him when he became the priest, when he became the representative of God's people. And so in that oil running down on their representative before God in the temple, they saw a picture of God's grace and God's love in God's mercy, and they saw that God accepted the whole nation through this one priest, Aaron. And of course, ultimately Jesus Christ is the true priest of God. That's what anointed is in the New Testament. Christos, Christ, means the anointed one And so Jesus is really the one behind that figure. John Hoskins writing about the Trinity and the Church and love. We're going to put all those together today. Wrote this, he said, about Augustine of Hippo. Augustine locates the image of God not so much in the individual human soul. And this is what I've always thought, by the way. The image of God is just every one of us carries around the image of God individually and personally, right? And that's true. There's nothing wrong with that We are rational creatures. We have speech. We think. We have will. We contemplate the future. That's part of the image of God in us. But he says it's not just that. He says Augustine saw the fellowship of the church as an analogy of the Trinity. So the image of God is more than just what I carry around alone, but it is human beings in relation with one another, because God exists eternally in relation to the three persons. So part of being in the image of God means that we care about each other. We're not alone. We're together. We share. Love, therefore, is the characteristic mark of the church, and those who do not have love Love and the Holy Spirit have excluded themselves from the communion with one another and with God, because we were not made to be alone, and we do not prosper alone. Some of you have probably seen the movie from 1995 where Tom Hanks It's called Castaway. Tom Hanks plays a FedEx pilot named Chuck. And while flying through a violent storm over the Pacific, his plane crashed into the Pacific, and Chuck escaped the sinking plane and was saved by an inflatable life raft. But lost the emergency locator transmitter. Clinging to the life raft, he lost consciousness and floated all night before being washed up on an island. After awakening he explored the island and soon discovered that it was uninhabited. Several FedEx packages from the crash plane washed up on the shore, as well as the body of one of the pilots. Pilots, which he buried. He initially tried to signal for rescue and also made an escape attempt on the remnants of his life raft, but could not pass the powerful surf and the coral reefs surrounding the island. During his first attempt to make a fire, Chuck cut a deep wound to his hand. In anger and pain, he threw several objects Including Wilson, a Wilson volleyball, that is, from one of the packages. A short time later, he drew a face in the bloody handprint on the ball And named it Wilson, and began talking to it. Four years later, Chuck has adapted to the meager living conditions on the island, having become adept at spear fishing. And making fires. He has also regular conversations and arguments with Wilson, which has become his only means of socialization And one day a large section from a portable toilet washed up on the island, and Chuck used it as a sail in the construction of the raft After spending some time building and stocking the raft and deciding when the weather conditions would be optimal, he launched, using the sail to overcome the powerful surf. After some time on the ocean, a storm nearly destroyed his raft. He was exhausted in the following day as he was sleeping. Wilson became untethered and floated away from the raft. Just then Chuck was awakened by the spray of a sounding whale Saw Wilson drifting away and swam with all his might after him, but Wilson had gone too far to safely return. Retrieve. Chuck returned to the raft and collapsed in tears. What common human truth is being illustrated By this film. Our human nature, as created by the tri-personal God Always seeks community, always seeks fellowship and love and giving and receiving, always seeks another That's being in the image of God, folks. It says the triune God said in Genesis 2: It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper fit for him. God knew it. Why people bite coins, gold coins? And one of the answers that was given on the internet was you bite it to see if your teeth puts a dent in it or not. If not, then the coin is made of something harder than gold and is fake. If it is just a gold layer over something soft like lead or chocolate, you will bite through the gold and see the lead or chocolate. Our love must be hundred percent the real thing. Sincere, true, all the way through And if it is, then we always seek fellowship and love and giving and receiving. And it's gospel gold. You can take it to the bank. Neither alloy, nor mixed motives, nor soft and sweet without real worth. Is our love, if it's gospel-centered, if it's centered in God? And what will happen? This is where the prayer goes at the end. What will happen if we display this unity? in love. And that brings us to the third point, the unity of the mission. And here's the text again. That they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us. Purpose clause, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. That's the outcome. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them that they may be one, even as we are one, I in them, and you in me, that they may become perfectly one. So that, here it is again, that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Our mission, you see, is the prayer here. Our witness to the world. Now, the modern worldview is quite different from this worldview that's been presented. Here. The modern worldview is that the world is a closed system, God can't get in, closed system in which material and energy are shaped by pure chance. And man is the product of blind evolution. He is, in effect, kicked off out of the slime. There's no basis for morals. No basis for ethics. No escape from the guilt that we all feel, anyway. No escape from shame or death. No hope of meaning. No future. We just get through it, and that's it. The Christian worldview is quite different. The world system was created by God. The triumpersonal God, by the way, but is fallen down, is broken, is ruined because humans have defected from the tripersonal God. And that viral infection has corrupted our spiritual gene pool. Genesis 3 describes it. Here are the consequences of that. The eyes of the both of them were opened, and they knew they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loin claws. Shame came. As a result of this brokenness. And then they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord among the trees of the garden. Fear. as a result of this brokenness. This is the real world now. But the Lord God called to the man and said, Where are you? And then he blamed the woman, and he blamed God. The woman you gave me, she did it. And then the Lord Said to the woman, What is this you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me and I ate. Excuses. That's the result. Excuses, excuses, excuses. And then there's more From the brokenness of the world. I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. Pain is a result of this broken world, the real world that we understand is Christians. And then there's tyranny. Your desire will be contrary to your husband, and he shall rule over you. Tyranny. And then a cursed creation, not just man experiencing shame and pain and all this stuff, but a whole cursed creation Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. Hardship in this world that we understand from the Bible. And then finally, till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust. And to dust you shall return death. And that's not all Chapter 4, the next chapter, after this fall down, Cain spoke to his brother Abel, and when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel and killed him. Murder The exact opposite of love. Now let's go back How will the unity of the church, which Jesus is praying for here, bear witness to the world that the Father sent the Son and the Holy Spirit, who was with him before the foundation of the world? How will this love display that? Unity is what's being prayed for. Is it through a monolithic, highly centralized organization in Rome with one man as its head? Is that what Jesus is praying for here? Or the Protestant version, the World Council of Churches, where all the churches are united under one big organization. We say, no, that's not what Jesus was praying for. The witness of the word is of the church as a decentralized collegial community living under the Word of God written. With mutual submission and mutual discipline, but more important than the organizational character of the church, this This is the final part, is the character of love. Back in John chapter 13, Jesus had said to his disciples, disciples, a new commandment I give you that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. And then he said, and we heard it already in John 17 By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love one for another. This love that Jesus prays for for us Imitates God's self-giving love. And that is the bona fide of the real Christian. I look back over several churches that I've served, and I've experienced Christian love. This is just going to be a few examples. Many more. The Calvary Reformed Church in Orland Park. Come to mind, love. Jeanette. Jeanette's love and care for the youth in that church And for Jennifer and me as intern couple. First Presbyterian Church, Hinckley, Minnesota An old couple, not very wealthy, Kurt and Margaret Sanford, generously, lovingly sharing the summer produce of their garden, as well as the canned product that Margaret prepared in the winter. Faith Presbyterian Church Wilmington. We bought a house there Archie Marconi volunteering many hours and expert painting skills to ready our first home in Wilmington. And Emmanuel Presbyterian Church, Wilmington, Charlie and Eleanor Smith always serving, always full of love, always full of encouragement And daily prayer. I have also seen hateful actions and words And felt the soul ruining hatred at work in myself and in others. This harms the testimony and mission of the church, does it not? It destroys the reputation of individuals and the church. Hate contradicts the gospel, you see. The gospel that we proclaim. Because we say, I believe in the forgiveness of sins. Through the work of the triune personal God who always existed in eternity, who created the world and it fell down, and He came to save and serve and love it and bring it back. That's the gospel we proclaim, the forgiveness of sins. But H says this message of forgiveness and reconciliation doesn't work in the real world. Paul, who was sometimes hated and persecuted, therefore said Out of this Trinitarian love in his heart said, if there's any encouragement in Christ, any comfort in love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being of full accord, and of one mind. There it is And then he gave us the illustration of not being ambitious or conceitful, but in humility, counting others more significant than yourselves. And not looking to your own interests, but to the witness and interests of others. And then he gave Jesus as the supreme illustration of that Who didn't stay in heaven, but came down, and who humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. And then in chapter two he says, Therefore Do all things without grumbling and disputing. But you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish, in the midst of a crooked, twisted generation among whom you shine. As lights in the world, you're different because of this love, this love that's been poured out in your life, poured out in our heart, poured out in our church. We're different. Then it gets really practical, really right down to the nitty-gritty of naming names, practical, in chapter four. Where he says, I entreat Euodia and I entreat Syndeche to agree in the Lord. Someone has joked that Euodia is odious and Senti is so touchy that he says they should agree in the Lord Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women who have labored side by side with me in the gospel together. What did we have here? We had two Christians who were serving the Lord but had come to some disagreement. And Paul tells them to agree in the Lord. He names them, writes their names down in this letter. That's pretty hard stuff, isn't it? Agree. I command you to agree. Many in our day, instead of working toward reconciliation and gospel-driven life together, just separate, there's so many churches to choose from, right? And when they separate, they go somewhere else, they avoid contact, and they seethe with resentment, and they carry their broken pattern on to the next place. But in Philippi there was only one church. The church, the one body for whom Christ died, no other place to go. So, brothers and sisters, we are called in this prayer. Jesus, praise this for us. That we live together in love and unity and service and consider the needs of others as more important than our own needs, even. This is living the gospel here and now So we explored the unfathomable love of the unity of the Trinity, the one God. We have heard Jesus' strong desire expressed in prayer that his people be one. And we have remembered Jesus' promise that the love and unity that we live out in this fallen down, angry, broken world will bear, will bear, will be the main way that we bear witness. Of the reality of the gospel that we proclaim. Does it really work or not? May we have the will and the strength to see it work, being unified in love in answer to Jesus' prayer. Amen. Lord, we we want to be real. We want your gospel to actually work We want to reach this community. There are many people who operate on that That closed system where God is not allowed in worldview. And their lives are messed up because of it. We need To reach out and to love and to display that our gospel message isn't just a list of doctrines, but it really works. So help us, Lord. In Jesus' name Aven.