Genesis 9, 1 through 29. And God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. The fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every bird of the heavens, upon everything that creeps on the ground, and all the fishes of the sea. See, into your hand they are delivered. Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you. And as I gave you the green plants, I give you everything But you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood. And for your lifeblood I will require a reckoning. From every beast I will require it, from from man From his fellow man I will require reckoning for the life of man. Whoever sheds the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed, for God made man in his own image And you be fruitful and multiply, team on the earth and multiply in it. Then God said to Noah and to his sons with him, Behold, I establish my covenant with you and your offspring after you And with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the livestock, and every beast of the earth with you, as many as came out of the ark. It is for every beast of the earth. I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said, This is the sign of covenant that I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you for all future generations. I have set my bow in the clouds, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth. When I bring clouds over the earth, and the bow is seen in the clouds, I will remember my covenant that is between me and you And the waters shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh. When the bow is in the clouds, I will see it and remember everything lasting I will remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth. God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant that I have established between me and He and all the flesh that is on the earth. The sons of Noah who went forth from the ark were Shem, Ham, Jepith. Ham was the father of Canaan. These three were the sons of Noah. From these the people of the whole earth were dispersed. Noah began to be a man of the soil, and he planted a vineyard. He drank of the wine, and became drunk, and lay uncovered in his tent. And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside. Then Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid it on both their shoulders, and walked backward, and covered the nakedness of their father. Their faces were turned backwards, and they did not see their father's nakedness. When Noah awoke from his wine and knew what his youngest son had done to him, he said, Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants shall he be to his brothers. He also said, Blessed be the Lord the God of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. May God enlarge Japheth, and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. After the flood, Noah lived 350 years. All the days of Noah were 950 years. And he died. And now to Leviticus chapter 17, verses 10 through 14. If anyone of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn sojourn among them, eats any blood, I will set my face against that person who eats blood, and will cut him off from among his people. For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your souls, for it is the blood that makes atonement by the life. Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, No person among you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who sojourns among you eat blood. Anyone also of the people of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn among them, who takes in hunting any beast or bird that may be eaten shall pour out its blood, and cover it with earth. For the life of every creature is its blood. Its blood is its life. Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, You shall not eat the blood of any creature, for the life of every creature is its blood. Whoever eats it shall be cut off. the word of the Lord. New Testament reading is from John chapter 6, 41 through 59. Picking up in the middle of a discussion about the bread of life. So the Jews grumbled about him because he said, I am the bread of life that came down from heaven. They said, Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Jesus answered them, do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God, he has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. The Jews then disputed amongst themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him. As the Living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me will also live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Lord, it is in your light that we see light. Without your illumining spirit The inspired words fall on our deaf ears, but you open our ears, Lord. Open our ears that we may hear the truth. receive it wisely. And open our mouths, our lips, that we may praise you as we hear your word. In Jesus' name Amen. So this sermon in Genesis 9 is titled The Post-Diluvian World. means of course post-flood. Anti-Deluvian is before the flood. Post-Deluvian is after the flood. Post-Deluvian world and the God of Shem. I'm going to spend most of my time on that third point about the God of Shem. So the first two points will be a bit of a walkthrough running commentary, and then the third point we will Focus more. But remember the condition before the flood. It is described in Genesis 6. 11. Where it says there, Now the earth was corrupt in God's sight, and the earth was filled with violence, and God saw the earth, and behold it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth. We talked about what that might mean, how they had corrupted their way. There was something very unique about that. And verse 13. And God said to Noah, I have determined to make an end of all flesh. For the earth is filled with violence through them. Behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Then in Genesis 7, we have a narrative of the flood. And then after the flood, we see in Genesis 8. Verse 20 and following. Then the Lord built, then Noah, I should say, built an altar to the Lord, and took some of every clean animal and some of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the altar And when the Lord smelled the pleasing aroma, the Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground because of man. For the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth Neither will I ever strike down every living creature as I have done, while the earth remains, seed time and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night. shall not see. So there's a regularity that comes from this new post-diluvien world. There's a new order of things. Now we come to the text, Genesis 9, and I will just read it fresh, the first few verses. And God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. The fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth and upon every bird of the heavens, upon everything that creeps on the ground and all the fish of the sea, into your hand they are delivered. And every moving thing that lives shall be food for you. And as I gave you the green plants, I give you everything. But you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood. And for your lifeblood, I will require reckoning from every beast. I will require it from every man. and man. From his fellow man I will require a reckoning for the life of the man, of a man, whosoever sheds the blood of man. By man shall his blood be shed, for God made man in his own image. And then verse 7: And you be fruitful and multiply. Team on the earth and multiply in it. We see here in these first verses a change in the relationship with the animals. You shouldn't miss this. What was the world like before sin entered? Seems like a peaceful kingdom Adam is naming the animals, classifying them. He's got control. He's got dominion over the whole thing, and it's working very smoothly, isn't it? And he is given plants to eat before the fall of man. He is given plants to eat. And the animals seem to have the same diet, plants to eat. But now there's a a change in the relationship with the animals. Oh, by the way, the animals on the ark couldn't have been violent and and according to their present natures. You know, lions and tigers and snakes and alligators and all that stuff, they couldn't have existed very well in that ark if they had been According to their present nature. So they must have had a peaceful nature. They must have had a subdued nature while living in the ark. So now we see a change in the relationship with the animals. The fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every bird of the heavens, and upon everything that creeps on the ground. And all the fish of the sea, into your hand they are delivered. That's true, isn't it? Animals run from us. I was taught as a kid, if you see a snake, uh don't worry too much. It'll probably run away from you unless you corner it. You know? It's not going to come after you, chasing you, inviting you. Now it's a change. So notice that and think about it. Also, notice the new diet that is given. Animals are to be eaten. I'm sorry, vegetarians. Animals are to be eaten, as well as fruits. So you can have your diet of fruits you want. want. You want to be a vegetarian, that's fine. But it's okay to eat animals. That's biblical. Amen. Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you. Now there's some things I don't want to eat. Grasshoppers and cockroaches and stuff like that. People eat that stuff. I don't want it. He says, as I gave you the green plants, I give you everything now. So it's a change. The world is different. Please don't miss that. Things have changed. The flood has made a big difference in everything. Almost everything anyway. But with one restriction. You shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood. Blood has to do with life. We hematologists know that today. It's a huge science If you have had coronavirus and you have gotten over it, you can give your blood. It's full of antibodies. It's life-giving. And the life of our bodies is really in our blood, isn't it? Truly is amazing that some ancient text knows that. There must be a great mind behind that ancient text. Ancient text. Blood has to do with life. Sacrifice to, sacrifice to. We read about that first sacrifice. Made on the altar, and God smelled it, and then he said these wonderful things. It has to do with the providence of God in providing life-giving victims Victims, animals to die, to provide food for us, and to provide atonement for us. Now later pagans would corrupt God's will, that is stated here, and they would drink blood. as a way of mystically imbibing the life of the victim. Some pagans even drink the blood of other humans as a way of mystically imbibing I can't prove this, but if you put a whole bunch of things together biblically and theologically Think about it. I think it is likely that God wanted to reserve the propriety of the sacramental drinking of blood for a later application. Which is now realized in our sacramental eating and drinking of the blood of Christ in the Lord's Supper. Pass on from that for now. Also we see here human government is instituted. Human government is instituted. Verse 5, and for your lifeblood, I will require a reckoning. From every beast I will require it, and from man. From his fellow man I will require a reckoning for the life of man. And then here it is in a poetic verse. Whosoever sheds the blood of man, this is law. By man shall his blood be shed. Now God could have said, Whosoever sheds the blood of man, I will strike him down. But no, he doesn't say that. It's a mediatorial government. He says: Whosoever sheds the blood of man by man, human government, shall his blood be shed. And the reason for this government's institution? For God made man in his own image. Therefore, I'm requiring this. And then finally, in this first section, the original dominion mandate is restated. What did God say at the beginning of creation after he had done it all? He said to man and the animals: Be fruitful and multiply, team on the earth and multiply in it. And what does he say here after the flood and this new creation? Be fruitful and multiply. Team on the earth and multiply in it. So that mandate is restated here. Secondly, let's see the covenant with Noah and all creation. The covenant with Noah and all creation, verses 8. I'll read it out again. Then God said to Noah and to his sons with him: Behold, I establish my covenant with you and your offspring after you. And with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the livestock, and every beast of the earth with you, as many as came out of the ark, it is for every beast of the earth. I establish my covenant with you that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood. And never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said, this is the sign of the covenant. Now we just pause to say, when God gives a covenant, there's usually a sign for it. This is the sign of the covenant that I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you for all future generations. I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between you and Me and the earth. I'm going to stop there for a moment. Again, huge changes between the antediluvian world and the post-diluvian world. This is a new thing. Rainbows are new. So there must have been a different atmospheric condition before the flood. Now there's rainbows before There weren't any. Now someone might say, well, there probably were, but God didn't give it a name like sign and so forth. I can't see that in the text. It seems like there weren't rainbows before. Perhaps there was a huge vapor canopy around the whole world that collapsed when this flood happened. And cause this great deluge, as well as the waters that came up from below. Go on. Verse 15: I will remember my covenant that is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh. And between uh and the water shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh. When the bow is in the clouds, I will see it and remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living Creature of all flesh that is on the earth. By the way, just notice this: God sees it. You know, we think we see the rainbow. No, God says he sees it and he remembers his promises. Verse 17, then God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant that I have established between me and all the flesh that is on the earth. My friends, this is a gracious God. Martin Luther said, Where can I find a propitious God? And then he found the gospel. This is a gracious God. This is the propitious God revealed right here. Because this is not earned or deserved. Noah and family are still sinners, as we shall soon see. But God condescends to encourage Noah With his word and sign, God will keep his promise made in the covenant of grace that was first set forth in Genesis 3. 15. When he said, the seed of the woman will crush the serpent's head. This covenant after the flood is but an addition to that first one. God will not destroy the world, but save the world. We hear something echoing in the words of Jesus In John 3. 17. You should remember that verse as well as you remember John 3. 16. Listen to John 3. 17. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. So this is the gracious God who gives this wonderful covenant and sign, which is completely undeserved, as we shall presently now see. And that's the third point. Shameful situation and the God of Shem. I'll read it out, verse 18. The sons of Noah who went forth from the ark were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Ham was the father of Canaan. These three were the sons of Noah, and from these people all of the whole earth were dispersed. Noah became, or began to be, a man of the soil, and he planted a vineyard. He drank of the wine and became drunk, and lay uncovered in his tent. Then Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father and told his two brothers outside. Then Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid it Both on their shoulders and walked backward and covered the nakedness of their father. Their faces were turned backward and they did not see their father's nakedness. When Noah awoke from his wine and knew what his youngest son had done to him, he said, Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants shall he be to his brothers? He also said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. May God enlarge the tent enlarge Japheth and let him dwell in the tents of Shem And let Canaan be his servant. After the flood, Noah lived 350 years. All the days of Noah were 950 years, and he died. The story of Noah's drunken nakedness, seen by his son Ham. is part of the story of what happened after the Lord judged the world in this great universal flood. As we said before, the background to that judgment is in Genesis 6, where God said, every intention of the thoughts of man's heart was only evil all the time, and God was sorry that he made him And so we ask the question: has God purged the world? Has God gotten rid of all sin and all sinners? Has the flood judgment changed the hearts of the remaining sons of Adam, Noah, and his family? And Genesis 8:21 tells us that the answer is no. Tells us that the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth. So there is no ontological difference between fallen humans before and after the flood. Proverbs 26, verse 11 says, As a dog returns to its vomit, so a fool repeats his folly. When Adam and Eve fell, we inherited a sinful nature and became foolish. By default, we return to our folly, our sin, because we are enslaved by it. And the effects are many: corruption, guilt, misery, shame, and estrangement. This, my friends, cannot be, is not, a hagiography. You know what hagiography is? It is really literally holy writing or writing about someone is to make them holy. Hagiography works this way. If you're going to do a hagiography of your your family line, you you say, my great-great-granddad was a member of Parliament. If you don't do hagiography, you might say, my great-great-great-granddad was a horse thief. Hagiography cleans up your family line and makes you look good, you see. And many ancient peoples. Have mythical stories about their origins concocted to make their founders and leaders into heroes. and themselves into privileged people. And if the biblical narrative was written by the Hebrews and the Israelites as some sort of myth, some sort of hagiography to set them up as great people. The inclusion of this story and many others like it would contradict that goal completely. It is not hagiography, obviously. It is an inspired narrative about reality. Look, the new head of humanity, the patriarch Noah, is here seen as a very flawed man. A sinner. A fool. Shameful. The story of drunken naked Noah illustrates the continuing reality of the fall. Noah drinks wine to excess. He enjoys one of God's good gifts too much. Which is idolatry. And the gift overpowers him. Consequently, he loses self-control. And exposes himself in some undisclosed but very shameful way. In his folly, he becomes a stumbling block. Ham. And I just want to pause and say this in application. There is nothing truly private about sin and foolishness. It always affects others. You can't just say, well, this is just my little private thing, and it doesn't affect anybody. Yes, it does And meanwhile, Ham just can't keep the juicy details to himself. That's his sin nature. He revels in the folly of his father and feels compelled to dishonor Noah through gossip or something worse that we don't know. Doesn't this happen in our world today? In our Adam nature, we serve as a stumbling block to others, not looking out for their well-being. Enslaved by our own desires. And in our Adam nature, we love scandal, and we deliciously gossip about the foolishness of others If Ham were a member of an ordinary church, he might have been spreading a quote prayer request about his old man to anyone who would listen. And what happens here in Genesis 9 escalates and morphs into the Tower of Babel incident in Genesis 11. When individuals behave this way, sin affects and corrodes society. God's mandate to spread out and fill the earth, repeated in creation account in Genesis from Genesis 128, is disobeyed by the hubris of the descendants of Noah's son who want to make a name for themselves, that Tower of Babel. It doesn't take long for sin to spiral out of control, and God will have to send another judgment, this time a confusion of language to check the evil. But nevertheless, God speaks into this situation. He speaks by the oracles of Noah. Noah obviously was a shame here and a flawed man, but God uses flawed men sometimes to do his work. If they have the office, he has this office of patriarch, head of the race after the flood. God still uses him, speaks through him, and he says Cursed be Canaan. A servant of servants shall he be to his brothers. That's not just wishful. He's not just saying, you know, I want to wish a curse on you. No, this isn't the way it will be. Cursed be Canaan. A servant of servants shall he be to his brothers. He also said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem. And let Canaan be his servant. May God enlarge Japheth and let him dwell in the tents of Shem and let Canaan be his servant. Can anything be done about our fallen condition? Or are we doomed to repeat our destructive patterns of thinking and behaving? Are we doomed to ruin ourselves and finally be destroyed by another act of God's judgment? In the text, Shem and Japheth cover their father's nakedness without looking. But that's not an ultimate solution to the problem. Because shame must not only be hidden, but removed. Is there someone who can look at the shame and take it away rather than exploiting it? The answer is yes. God elected Shem to be the line of his redeeming promise. The line that would bear the seed of the woman from Genesis 3. 15 Who would deal with human sin as a human? This line of Shem lived in the midst of the other nations that came from Ham and Japheth. The history of these lines is messy, to say the least. But eventually, one of Shem's descendants. Is the incarnate Son of God. God in the person of Jesus walked among us and saw our shameful conduct, yours and mine. He knew your shameful thoughts and mine. And yet he did not blush or turn away. Instead, he took our sin and shame upon himself and died a death under God's greatest judgment to pay its penalty. For those who believe in the God of Shem, announced here in this prophecy, the God who sent our Lord Jesus Christ, there can be change for you. Since power is broken by his death for sin, and we need not obey it anymore, as Romans 6 6 says, we know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. And verse 12 of that same chapter, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies to make you obey their passions. Jesus, the God of Shem, enables us to put away foolishness and live wisely according to God's word. We can be a blessing to others, even when they act shamefully. We can be patient We can forgive. We can help. We can pray. We can teach the gospel, the good news of a deliverer from folly and the judgment of God. Not all believe in the God of Shem. Genesis was written for the Israelites who were redeemed out of Egypt. And God would use them as his army to enact judgment on the rampant perversity of Ham's descendants, the Canaanites. But their ultimate mission, that is Israel's ultimate mission, was to be a light among the nations. Blessing and healing. Messengers of redemptive grace. The New Testament tells of a final judgment of God at the end of history for those who persist in unrepentant sin. And this is reassuring to us too. Not because we don't deserve it, but because God will not be mocked forever. He will not let his name be defamed, and his word scorned, and his son despised and rejected forever Throughout history, those who have honored him have been hated and scorned and attacked and treated with contempt. But he will vindicate us who bear his name, and he will restore his creation to the way it is supposed to be. But until then. We are like the people of Shem here in this little prophecy, the bearers of Christ to one another and to a foolish fallen world. How will your belief in the God of Shem, who takes away your guilt and shame, affect your conduct? In the world this week. Amen. Let us pray O God of Shem, whose blessed Son was sent that He might put away our foolishness and sins, and make us wise children of God and heirs of eternal life. Grant to us, we humbly beg you, that being united to Him by faith, we may have this hope in us and may purify ourselves even as He is pure. That when he shall come again with power and glory to judge the world, we may be found sheltered in him, who with you, O Father and the Holy Spirit, lives and reigns one God forever and ever.