Dear congregation, it is a joy and privilege to be gathered again with you this morning and to minister to you God's word that we all may hear and believe, be encouraged and built up together in our faith. Some of you may be wondering why these readings, why did we read from Daniel? Why did we read from Revelation? Why did we read from Matthew 18? Uh well the short answer is we uh this year have been going through what's known as the Western Lectionary. Uh this has been around since at least 14, 15 centuries. Uh that I don't know the exact origins of who compiled it, but the church had worked, and it's a set of readings you go through the whole year. You might know it's like a Christian calendar. Today we deviate a little bit because it happens to be a holy day called Michael Mass And that means a mass and celebration of Michael the Archangel and other angels giving thanks to God for their ministry to us. But let me pause there and say, we are not having and celebrating a mass Here. That's just customary name. It's a Protestant church, there's not a Mass. But I thought it would be good for us to hear some sermons on angels. If you really want to hear about angels, their nature and their role, you've got to come back tonight. I will focus more on that tonight. So I'm not going to specifically dealt in this morning we'll we'll primarily look at Revelation twelve and the things there. But if you want to know more about what are angels, what do they do, come back tonight and we'll look at their ministering spirits who are sent out to serve for the heirs of salvation. Salvation. So that'll be the focus, right? I'm going to have to be quicker than normal this morning. It's a full service with our baptism. We also have a fellowship nil afterwards that you all are invited to. We hope you stay around for. So we're going to have to move pretty quick. What I want to do is look at Revelation 12 and then end in the gospel just briefly for some application. But the words that I want us to focus on and think about this morning are there in Revelation 12, in verse 12, those words that we read for the devil Ads come down to you. We might be asking ourselves, well, why has the devil Come down to you. And the U being earth and sea. And what it means by that is those who inhabit the earth, see, you and I. I don't know who everybody in this congregation stands with, but I, for one, wholeheartedly believe in the devil. And I know he's real. He's as real as Jesus is real. And he is our enemy. He is down here in great wrath, as Martin Luther pinned, working his will. Craft and powers. But do you know why he's down here? Because he's been defeated. And no eats. You know, I've I don't remember what this past year, maybe in the Wall Street Journal's reading of opinion thing. I think maybe I think it's maybe Nebraska don't take this as Think it was impossible. And and see the Congress there, shrine was set up to Satan. Well Christians are gonna be on Capitol Hill there and you know pushing uh God's law, how we should be doing it. They thought why can't we do that, right? I know we see that, we think his power must be increased. He is the but by God's sovereign, scrutable, holy, will, and given a short leash to him Make war against the saints. Persecute us. Work gods for But he's come down to How do we know he's been defeated? Go back up to verse 7. War arose in heaven. Michael. Now, if you are uh if you were a Jew brought up in the old covenant, When you hear the name Michael, you think this sounds good because Michael is the prince, the guardian on behalf of Israel. Someone is going to war on behalf of God's people. Yes? Michael. And his angels. And they fought against the dragon. And the dragon is his angels. They fought back. Look at verse 8. He was defeated. He lost. In heaven, now there's no more place for him there. He can't go in and bring his petitions. We'll see more in a moment. He's lost his place. It was a route, a decisive defeat. He's cleared out of heaven. And then we read, he was hurled, tossed out, thrown out to heaven. He didn't ask to leave. He was shut out. thrown down the earth. He is why has he come down to you? Verse twelve. Because he's been thrown down the earth. Because he has been defeated. Michael and his angels will see because he has been defeated by Christ. He has lost. We'll talk more in a minute just about what kind of warfare he was fighting, but he's lost. What I'm saying to you is his presence, real presence, and real work in the world, these woes. Are not signs that he is in charge, but because he's been thrown down here, defeated, and his time is short. Well that's why he has come down to you. Earth and he's been thrown defeat. You might think, well, he's been so defeated, what's he still doing? We gotta understand the nature of what he lost. But the next question we want to ask is, well if he's been defeated and he's been thrown down, what does that mean for him? This passage tells us it means four things. Again, we're gonna have to look screaming through this. But it looked four things. First thing you see there in verse ten I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation, the power, the kingdom of our God, the authority of his Christ is the first thing that it means that Satan has been defeated is that the kingdom of Christ is Christ, the cross was not a lie. The cross was Christ's victory over sin. He has risen in triumph, led captivity captive, poured out his spirit. He is in authority over this world. We just sung together Psalm 2. That's the second Psalm David wrote. Those those words you're reading there, right? Men vainly tried to throw off God's yoke, his anointed. They crucified Jesus. They didn't receive him. But Jesus said, I'm the Lord, I'm your God, follow me. They didn't like how he told them to spend their money. He didn't like that he told them you actually have to clean your heart out and not just your clothes. They got rid of them. That was in vain. Because God has raised them from the dead, seated them at the right hand, and said, Son, your inheritance are the nations. Rule over them. There you get the great condition. So the first thing that the defeat of Satan means when Jesus ascended into heaven triumphant, having defeated him at the cross, Is that the Messiah's kingdom has come and it's not going away. You enter into it now by New birth, faith, repentance, and we are raised in glory in it forever with Jesus. That his kingdom has no Yeah. So I ask, have you acknowledged Jesus Christ as Lord? Not because you say he is, but because God said that he isn't. Have you ceased being his crucifier and become his confessor? And now confess him before men, Lord Jesus, and serve. Because that's what the cross and resurrection means. It means get out of Satan come into fight. One of my seminary professors' wives was telling a story when she was in an A I forget which Asian country, but If you've been over there, there's still a lot of id idol worship. Temples are full of them. He told this woman, you don't have to serve those gods anymore. Leave in Jesus. That's what the death that's what the defeat of Satan means. It means if if you and I were to go back to the first century that Jesus lived in and took a little tour around the world You wouldn't find Christian communities like this. You'd find pagan worship because Satan's darkness was over the land. But praise God if you know the history of the Church of Jesus. You know that all those I remember Saint Athanasius, fourth century uh bishop. You get the uh the Athanasian Creed from him, or anyways, he wrote a work on the incarnation of Christ. And you can tell they are reveling because they're saying every day we see the defeat of Satan as the more and more leave the temples and they're being torn down and not being regular, not being up kept, there's not fresh blood on the altars, because all that vain nonsense Men have been converted to the true religion of Christ. They believed in Satan did. That's the first highest thing. Second. You read there in verse 10 as well. The accuser of our brothers has been thrown down. This is the second thing of me. Messiah's kingdom has come, and the accuser of our brother, Christian, has been Now, because of the nature of the U. S. Constitution, because we have the Supreme Court and the way that's taken place in the history of the U. S. and the importance can be given to legal decisions. But all of us, if you know history and know things, there's such things we call landmark cases, right? They're so significant that they change the face of the country we live in. Things are different after this. That's what this text is saying. The biggest landmark case wasn't what Brown versus Board of Education, that's big. Wasn't Robe v. Wade. The biggest landmark case ever to take was in the death, resurrected, ascension. Jesus And you say, Pastor Young, what do you mean? Well, I'll tell you what you mean. See, we have a court case, right? Faton's the accuser. He's bringing charges. He's the plaintiff. Who's the defendant? All these Old Testament saints who died in faith, who God did not send to hell but brought, which their sins deserve, but brought to him And have been living in his presence, and Satan would go in there and say, They don't deserve that. Why are they enjoying your salvation? And so the whole issue, if you look at Supreme Court cases, right, you can ask, what's the issue at stake here? What's this case getting at? The case is getting at this issue. How can God justly save sinners? Their sins do not deserve his salvation. But punishment. How can God justly serve sinners? Or let me put it this way. The question is, can God? I mean, can he do it? Can he justly do it? And the answer, that by the blood of Jesus, and he What's the significance of that? I like to think, I'm speculating because we're not told, that after Jesus ascended there, Satan tried to peek his head back in there, and Michael just flew out Because you have the pro the risen crucified Christ. Satan said their sins deserve death. Jesus bore the punishment. The penalty that Satan sued you. Imagine if you were in heaven. Imagine if someone said, you know what they did. And it's true, you did it, and yet you're enjoying the blessings of God's salvation. That'd be miserable to hear about them, haven't brought up, and someone say they don't deserve it. Christ, he rose triumph. Simon. Not only was his case thrown out of court, he was thrown out of court, utterly tossed out. Because the punishment that we justly deserve for our sins, Christ. And so Satan has no pain. He is a deceiver and liar anyways, because all those sins he's accusing him of, he was the instigator behind, he's the deceiver of them. And yet it seems seemingly true that he had something of a Paul says something like that in Romans 3 The God in the gospel of Christ crucified showed he was just because he had pardoned all those sins of his Old Testament saints, but it didn't look like they met their just deserter. And we might wonder, is God just? Yes, God is and his mercy is to give us the substance of Jesus My question to you, have you put your faith in Jesus? Have you brought yourself before the bar of God? And not try to silence the allegation, not try to play down your sin, but have owned your sin and said, Yeah, I am deserving it. Your grace gets to last, not my sin. And I trust in Jesus. And I receive your full pardon of through the death of Jesus. That's the only way to silence the equation. You do not silence them by denying it. You silence them by bringing the blood of Jesus. Jesus died for me. God gift to me. Satan, go where you're supposed to go. Has the case been settled? My salvation is secure, and you have no case against me. What is your salvation, Best? Your word? Because you do not silence Satan by church attendance You do not make up for your sins by prayers. You do not make up your sins by doing good deeds. Nothing can atone for your sin but the death of. I hope that that alone, fasting. It thirdly means that the faithful have victory over him. Now all the faithful triumph over the devil. By the blood of Jesus. As he brings those accusations, it is by the death of Christ. And by their faithful witness to Jesus, because Jesus does say If you believe in me, you must confess me before men. And so now we trust in the blood of Jesus. We know our salvation is secure, not by our works. by God's grace what Jesus done, that our adversary has been cast down. So think about it, how empowering it is as Satan accuses you as his works are done, it's because he's been defeated and the case is lost and you need to stand on Jesus Christ. And confess them before me. Triumphal. Not loving your life. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Paul says, when we were without, when we before we were Christians without hope, since we didn't actually think there was anything better to come, we clung to what's here. But now you see the history is full of people who love something more than their own life. Then you should love your life, it's precious. We don't throw our lives away. But we are happy to lay him down for him. The blood of Jesus is the testimony of that. As wrathful as Satan, his his wrath cannot be a Jesus. Not even it's apples and oranges I think it's such a beautiful thing to see men and women be men and women again, serving God, praising God, loving God. And not afraid of Satan. Not afraid of what people are going to say about that. Not afraid of the peer pressure. Not afraid of being canceled. Not afraid of being cast out because they have been received and accepted in the heavenly and they have all and they have us. And fourth and finally it means heavenly wheel. Satan ain't there anymore and it's a joyful party. If you want to get there, overcome him by the blood, and you'll get to that. That's not to say we don't rejoice down here, but woe is the word on earth. Let's get to heaven, right? Let's get to that place. If you want to be free of the devil, get to heaven, right? He's not there anymore. You're going to be exposed to him here. He's working, whether you want them to or not He's working. But the hope in overcoming him is there is a place for us forever. We'll be free from his presence, lies, his deceits, his splendor. Whoa, I'll stop here. I won't even get time to go to Matthew because I'll maybe briefly do it. But it what does it mean for us that woes come down? We know the rest of the book. He's going to raise up an horrid beast, that's often state using the state to punish and persecute Christians. He's going to raise up a sea beast or an earth beast, false prophets, false religion. Babylon, the world and all of its goods are going to ride. All these things Satan is going to use to persecute and make war. So that's what he means by woe. Guys, if if you've ever been around someone who slanders, who lies, who's your adversary, it's not night. That's what he means by woes. This is what Jesus means. Why does Jesus say he's so certain woes are going to come? Because he's so certain when he defeats Satan, he's going to get cast down, he's going to come down for a short time. But as Christians, we not only have the love of God and the love of Christ in the church, but we even have angels I don't think it means everybody has a guardian like that. Come back tonight, but it definitely means the church is supported by angels, ministered to, cared for. Come back tonight to hear more of it. I I I was amazed by how active angels still are. Or the protection of saints, or the advancement of the gospel in the world. So let us welcome each other. If that's how Satan's going to treat us in the world, let us welcome Christians Let us have nothing of Satan in our demeanor or behavior. Let this be a refuge for the saints. Let every church of Jesus Christ be a refuge. Let us watch out though. Keep a watch on your life. Keep a watch on your doctrine. Be careful in how you live. From how you live may keep people from coming to Christ. It may hinder people in their walk with Christ. And Jesus has firm warnings because he loves his sheep, but he knows what they're up against, but he loves his sheep. But also know that you are watched over. Because the Father sent his son Jesus, and you are watched over. And I know you're visiting this morning our guests because you're looking for a church to join that will watch over you. May God lead you to a faithful flock where you'll be watched over. and erred as you are here studying uh in your lives and studying at the point. May God give you his grace.