Please open your Bibles to 2 Samuel 23 where we'll read verses 1 through 4. 2 Samuel 23, verses 1 through 4. Now these are the last words of David. The oracle of David, the son of Jesse, the oracle of the man who was raised on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel. The Spirit of the Lord speaks by me. His word is on my tongue. The God of Israel has spoken. The rock of Israel has said to me. When one rules justly over men, ruling in the fear of God, he dawns on them like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on the cloudless morning Like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. The word of the Lord. Please turn with me to Romans 12. We'll read the first two verses of Romans 12 and then we'll move over to Romans 13, 1 through 7. I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God Which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind. That by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. Now, Romans 13. Starting in verse 1, let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God. And those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed. And those who resist will incur judgment For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval. For he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore one must be in subjection. not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. For because of this you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them, taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we are thankful for your word. Without it, we would be lost, utterly lost. We would be fools. We ask that you open our hearts and minds to your word today. Convict us of its truths. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. So this is the second part of a series. Uh the first part was uh taught A while ago, months ago. And we I'll remind you of some of those uh points that were made then one of which is what civil magistrate is. So this this series is on the biblical doctrine of the separation of church and state. And to understand what the state is, you may hear hear the word civil magistrate or civil government. It's all referring to the same thing. And we're talking about all the levels of the civil magistrate from the federal, national level down to the local level. Could be policeman, could be the president. uh Supreme Court justices, any of this. It applies to anybody in the civil government. And regarding the importance of this topic, one uh Christian stated this, the whole life and character of Western Christendom. consists of the incessant action and counteraction of church and state. So this is a critical topic for us, and we need to know what God says about this. So with regard to what was taught last time, first we saw that the Bible describes the origin of the civil magistrate. God created it and gave it specific responsibilities. And well we we saw that there were of civil magistrates before God showed man what the responsibilities were, but those were not godly civil magistrates. And as Romans 13. 1 says, God delegated responsibility to the offices of those in the civil magistrate, not to the people, but the offices. of those in the civil magistrate. Third, we saw that the civil magistrate is inevitably religious because it takes a stance, a particular moral stance on issues. And we saw that the civil magistrate is separate and distinct from the family and the church. Fourth, we saw that the Bible considers the Old Testament laws to still be in effect today. But that, in order to understand how to interpret those, the New Testament shows us the rule for doing so, so we don't have a subjective way of looking at that. I won't go into into that today. You can listen to that if you uh would like. But uh we saw that the civil magistrate also should uphold both tables of the law, not just the second table. We also and lastly saw that Old Testament Israel, the Hebrew Commonwealth, is an example for us today. you uh remove from that though the aspects of it that were relevant only to that time. It was an agrarian society, ancient society. Remove that, and then you have the principles that still apply to us today when we think about the civil magistrate. So let's look at Romans. I'm going to do a little overview of the passage so we get a context here. So Romans 12, 1 through 2, we see there that what Paul is saying is that we as Christians Are to live in submission to Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. And in every area of our lives. And then he goes into talking about how our thinking should be changed. and how our actions are supposed to be perfect and acceptable to God. We're not to think and act according to the world. What he means by the world, this is God's world. He doesn't mean just the world in general. He's talking about the sinful aspects of the world when he says the world. So we're not supposed to act that way and think that way. And then he goes on through the rest of chapter 12 talking about how we, our actions and our thoughts, change how we interact with other people. And so he talks about verses 3 through 13, how we are to relate to other people in the church. You see that there. And then in verses 14 through 21 of chapter 12, how our relationship with Jesus Christ changes our relationships with enemies. And then we get over to 13, and he's talking about our relationship with the civil magistrate. So the bottom line is that Paul's saying how we think and act toward the civil magistrate. is based on, and it should be based on, and should reflect our relationship with Jesus Christ Now notice too that Romans 13, 1 through 7 is addressed to Christians. And what he's saying there, Paul, is he saying. that Christians are supposed to use these principles here in this passage to relate to the civil magistrate. We're supposed to be leaders in society and because we've been given the truth of how to do this. He's equipping the saints, essentially. And he's giving us everything we need to know how to understand what the civil magistrate's role is and how to evaluate candidates. At the very same time, though, by implication, he's telling the civil magistrate what they're supposed to be: who they are, the responsibilities they have. And what a normal civil magistrate looks like. This is the picture we have of a normal civil magistrate What its powers are, its jurisdiction, and its place under God. But today, we're going to look at two things. We're going to look at the fact that the civil magistrate is a minister of God. And second, what the biblical qualifications are for a civil magistrate, a civil minister of God. So first, the civil magistrate is a minister of God. Verses 4 and 6 of Romans 13 uh talk about this. It says, he's a servant he is a servant of God. And it also says down in verse six, for the authorities are ministers of God. Now think about that term minister. That's an ecclesiastical title. Okay? We usually think of it in association with people in the church. We have ministers in the church. But God uses religious titles for civil magistrates. Let's turn over to 2 Samuel 8, and we'll see this. I'll give you two examples. 2 Samuel 8, 18. And we see there the heads the heads of state, David there. We have a list of his chief officers and deputies. It says there. And Baniah, the son of Jehoidah, was over the Cherites and the Pelathites, and David's sons were priests. Now that word there is for priests. You may see, uh say in the King James, you may see rulers, but the word is for priests. And the question is, were those people listed there priests in the church? We go over to 1 Chronicles 1817, a parallel passage. 1 Chronicles 1817, turn there. eighteen seventeen, and we see these same men referred to 1 Chronicles 1817. It says there, and Beniah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherithites and the Pelothites, and David's sons were the chief officials in the service of the king. These are not men in the church. They're part of the civil magistrate only. And then there are some other passages that can show you, also and prove to you that these men were not Levites. They couldn't have been priests. If you want to look at uh on your own time, Ira the Jairite, he's referred to in scripture as Jair. In 2 Samuel 20, 26. In Numbers 32. 41, Deuteronomy 3. 14, you see that this man is not a Levite, and yet he's referred to as a priest. So we see there, God's using ecclesiastical titles. Let's go to Psalm 82, and we'll see more here. Psalm 82. We'll read the whole psalm. It's just a short psalm. And he's God's addressing the civil magistrate here. And he's calling these officers gods, lowercase g. And in the beginning here, we see God speaking. God has taken his place in the divine council, in the midst of the gods. He holds judgment, and now he's speaking to the civil magistrate. How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? Selah Give justice to the weak and the fatherless. Maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute. Rescue the weak and the needy. Deliver them from the hand of the wicked Now he switches and turns to speaking to the civil magistrate, describing them. They have neither knowledge nor understanding. They walk about in darkness. All the foundations of the earth are shaken. I said, you are gods. Lowercase G again. Sons of the Most High, all of you, all the members of the civil magistrate Nevertheless, like men you shall die, and fall like princes. Arise, O God, judge the earth, for you shall inherit the nations. So why does God give ecclesiastical titles, what we would see as ecclesiastical titles, for the civil magistrate? God tells us in 1 Chronicles 29. Let's go there. 1 Chronicles 29. And we see here, so in 2 Samuel 7, God made a covenant with David. And we see it being fulfilled here in King Solomon's being anointed. So the son of David being anointed. And that was promised in that in that covenant God made with David So let's look at 1 Chronicles 29, verses 22 and 23. And this will tell us why God gives these titles to the civil magistrate. We read there. And they ate and drank before the Lord on that day with great gladness. Solomon is being anointed king. And they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and they anointed him as prince for the Lord, and Zadok as priest. Then Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord as king in the place of David his father, and he prospered, and all Israel obeyed him. Now that's a fairly audacious Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord. So let's explain this here. So there are two applications of this passage. One's a heavenly application, which we're not so focused on today. And one that is this covenant God made with David is al ultimately pat of pointing beyond Solomon to Jesus Christ, who sits on God's throne. And we saw that in Jesus Christ being raised from the dead, He now sits on the throne from that point through eternity. And we see that proven in Acts 2. We don't need to go there. Acts 2, 22 through 36. Peter tells that to us. And that also shows because he's ruling there, Satan's not in control of the world, but Jesus Christ is. He reigns and rules. Now, second, this is our focus today, the earthly application of this passage. 1 Chronicles 29, 22 through 23. So these are both applying at the same time. And we see that Solomon is a ruler of an earthly kingdom, is ruling in the place of God. He's prince for the Lord. He was a minister of God, minister with a small M. That was his role. And the implication of that is that every civil magistrate And this applies to us today, not just Old Testament Israel. Every civil magistrate always rules in God's name. We're not just talking about Solomon. And this is why political institutions can never be religiously or morally neutral. They administer or are supposed to administer God's law. They administer some law, but they always represent the authority of God. And then second, the second implication is that the ones who sit in this office of civil magistrate, they're mediators, small m of their national covenant with God. They sit in the place of God, represent God, and rule in submission to God, and administer the covenantal laws and blessings of God. This is what their role is supposed to be. And you see there's some, you'll see in this uh today, there's some of what civil magistrates should be. And then there's some of what civil magistrates always are. And we see what they always are, they're always given these uh ecclesiastical titles, regardless of whether they're good or evil. The title goes with the office. Now, let's look at uh six biblical characteristics of a minister of God. And we'll look at so the The first we already read Romans 13, 4, and that showed us that they are to be a servant of God. And also in the same verse, they are to act for the good of man. And that good is defined by God. It can't be subjectively defined But let's go to 2 Chronicles 34, 31. That shows us some more characteristics of a minister of God. 2 Chronicles 34, 31. We have three more characteristics shown here. It says there, and the king stood in his place and made a covenant before the Lord. to walk after the Lord and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes, with all his heart and all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant that were written in this book. And this covenant's law is the biblical law. And the three characteristics we get from this of a civil magistrate being a civil minister are these. He must be in covenant with the God of the Bible, so an upward covenant. And it's sealed with an oath. And we have, for instance, in our our country, we've always had oaths of office. A good solid biblical uh presidential oath, for instance, um someone wrote, would be like this. I I do hereby covenant before God to walk and rule in terms of his statutes and testimonies. with all my heart and soul. That would be one that could apply to today. So there's a covenant with God that this chief civil magistrate should make. And then there's a covenant that he should make with the people, binding the civil magistrate to act for their good by protecting them by the terms of God's law. So two covenants. And then in those covenants, this minister should be acting within the bounds of this God-delegated. Authority. So only given the power that he's been given. Not trying to expand beyond that. And then also, he's to only do what God requires within his God-given jurisdiction. should stay within the scope of his assigned task. We'll define that later. Now, some implications of all these passages. Four ways the civil magistrate can be delinquent in its duties as a minister of God. The civil magistrate could add or subtract from the judicial laws God's assigned it to enforce. God has not given the civil magistrate any legislative authority. They can find different applications for the laws already given, but they can't add or subtract laws. It could punish sins instead of just crimes. Not every sin is a crime. Crimes are those biblical laws where the civil penalty is given. Third, so the magistrate could increase or decrease the penal sanctions, the penalties for a crime And Numbers 3531 tells us that for the death penalty, for instance, there's no other satisfaction for a capital crime other than the death penalty. For instance, there's no plea of insanity. Is this valid biblically? You cannot take a bribe or any ransom. There's only one way, biblically speaking, to remove the pollution from the land, God says. And fourth The civil magistrate could be delinquent in his duties by trying to make people better morally. We know only Jesus Christ can do that. But ungodly thinking, humanist thinking, think the state Thinks the state can make people better by legislating, passing laws that keep people from doing wrong, and that kind of thinking. Uh for instance, God's given approximately six hundred laws in the Bible. But how many laws do we have in the U. S. today? Back in the 1980s, there was a uh, the Justice Department did a project. took a few years and they tried to calculate how many loss, just the number. And the head of that effort characterized that uh failed project like this. You will have died and been resurrected three times and still not have an answer to that question. That's a quote. We live in a country today that doesn't even know the number of laws, much less the meaning and what those laws state. That means we have a civil magistrate trying to act as God and trying to make people better morally. Not believing that Jesus Christ does so, and it can only do so. Now what happens when the civil magistrate fails to be a minister of God as God requires it? There are two major impacts. One, the civil magistrate steadily becomes a minister of Satan Criminals are protected. The civil magistrate becomes a terror to law-abiding citizens. The state focuses on protecting itself. For example, people start to fear the police. They lack confidence in the ability of the judicial system to administer justice. Those are just two examples. And second, having order, fairness, and freedom in society is impossible. Without political leaders who are committed to a covenant with God, they won't fear God. And this is just like allowing ungodly witnesses in trials. One historian put it this way, this is a quote. At one time in U. S. history, no man could be a witness unless he could take an oath religiously as a Christian. Some judges would allow an unbeliever to testify without an oath, but they would then warn the jury that the man's word was not worth much. Since there was no fear of God in him. Now there is no fear of God even in churchmen when under oath. There is thus a rottenness in the bones of the legal system So political leaders who are not in covenant with God, have no fear of God Can their words be trusted? No. Now, we should realize this. In U. S. history Our civil magistrate covenanted with God. And God's still holding us accountable to that covenant. And we should also realize that whenever a nation changes the basis for its law, it breaks the covenant with God that it has. It's essentially changed God's. And God is holding us accountable for that. Now, that's the end of uh Looking at the implications of civil magistrate being a minister of God, a civil minister. So let's see what the Bible says about the qualifications for a person to hold an office within the civil magistrate. This is God's world. He has qualifications for this. The civil magistrate is supposed to be his civil magistrate. Let's look at Deuteronomy 17. Go there, Deuteronomy 17. Let's look at verses 14 through 20. Seventeen, Deuteronomy seventeen, fourteen through twenty When you come to the land that the Lord your God is giving you, and you possess it and dwell in it, and then say, I will set a king over me, like all the nations that are around me. You may indeed set a king over you, whom the Lord your God will choose. One from among your brothers you shall set as king over you. You may not put a foreigner over you, who is not your brother. Only he must not acquire many horses for himself, or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to acquire many horses Since the Lord has said to you, You shall never return that way again. And he shall not acquire many wives for himself, lest his heart turn away, nor shall he acquire for himself excessive silver and gold. And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself in a book a copy of this law, approved by the Levitical priests. And it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God by keeping all the words of this law and these statutes and doing them That his heart may not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he may not turn aside from the commandment, either to the right hand or the left, so that he may continue long in his kingdom He and his children in Israel. So here we have this address to the chief magistrate. That would be like our president today. And we see in verses 14 and 15, he must be democratically elected by the people. Hereditary succession, unbiblical. But notice something too to give a little background to this. Exodus 19 shows who the first democratically elected king of Israel was, and that was Jehovah. And we see that by uh you don't have to turn here, but when you look at 1 Samuel 8, 7, when the people of Israel said they wanted an another king, and that's what this passage we just read referred to. God says, and the Lord said to Samuel, obey the voice of the people and all that they say to you. They're choosing a different king. For they have not rejected you, Samuel, but they have rejected me, God, from being king over them. They first elected God to be king be their king. And now they've changed. So this is a democratically elected chief magistrate. Second This chief magistrate must be a faithful covenantal citizen of the nation choosing him. He must be a brother, it says there. Verse 15 says that. Verse 16 says he must lack breed. It says there in verse 16 that It speaks of horses, not acquiring many horses. And horses at that time were a sign of wealth and military strength. This means he's not to make himself rich through his office. And he's not to put his confidence in the military strength of the nation or alliances But he should put his confidence in God. Now verse 17 says he's not to acquire many wives, and at that time alliances with ungodly nations were made through marrying the chief magistrates of that foreign nations uh into their family. So this is this verse 17 is speaking to not entering into alliances with those ungodly nations Verse 18 and following talks about how the civil magistrate is to be committed to God's word, fear the Lord, and be humble. He's always to have a copy of the Bible in his hand. So even Thinking about today, even if a candidate is a natural-born citizen, as our Constitution requires, he must be committed to the law order of the Bible. Notice that this passage, which applies to today as a faith requirement to the head of state. Let's go to another passage. Exodus 18, verse 21. So that was addressed to the chief magistrate. Now this applies to all the civil magistrate members Exodus 18, verse 21. And we have Jethro here giving God-given advice to Moses. This is not just Jethro's own personal opinion. This is recorded as God given advice to Moses in the establishment of the civil magistrate. And he says there Moreover, look for able men from all the people, men who fear God, who are trustworthy and hate a bribe, and place such men over the people as chiefs of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of tens So we see here the officers of the civil magistrate must be men of courage, fear God, fearing God, dealing truly, not willing to take bribes. But also in this we see that there's a faith requirement for all members of the civil magistrate. Let's look at some implications here. The overall point to all this we need to keep in mind is that Christians are called to be not political. conservatives, liberals, libertarians, whatever it may be, we're supposed to be Trinitarian in our approach to politics. We must have a biblical approach to it. We're all involved in politics, to whatever extent But we have to have as the basis for our thinking that Jesus Christ is King of kings, Lord of Lords. That's a political statement the Bible gives. And that's stated in Revelation chapter 17 and 19. The head of the church, as we know, is Jesus Christ. He's head and king of the church. But he's also head and king of the state. That's what the Bible tells us We also need to think about ourselves in this. Many Christians today, it has been pointed out, are guilty of bringing rival law orders to our land. By voting for candidates who do not comply with God's requirements for civil magistrate office holders. We need to ask ourselves this. How are we doing Now, how do we know whether a candidate is a biblically legitimate candidate for office? And there are four ways. First of all, the Bible shows us that we should not separate a person's character from the office that they hold Their character will drive the way they decide and make decisions and act in office. We're not to listen to what the candidate promises, but we should look at their past actions for proof of how they are. What they believe and who they are going to be. And as one person put it, the standards for the elder in a church, 1 Timothy 3, 1 through 7, are pretty similar to the standards for a civil official. And that's just because those standards for an elder in the church are just the fruits of the Spirit. It's just showing evidence of being a Christian. That's all those show. A non-Christian doesn't even have these things. And lastly, All kinds it's a style, it's in style right now for candidates to say they're Christian. But our test of whether someone is a Christian It's just a credible confession of Orthodox Christianity. We have creeds. Do they adhere to these creeds? Nicene Creed, Apostles Creed, Athanasian Creed, the Trinity Creed. Do they believe these things? So we see today, God says in the Bible Civil magistrates are civil ministers. They're given ecclesiastical titles. And he has qualifications that have to be met for them to be a candidate. And to hold office. Let's pray. Lord, we so easily fall into ungodly patterns of thought on this subject. We so easily leave the Bible out of our thoughts about politics. We fail to expect our civil magistrate to be your minister. We fail to vote in a way that evidences our belief that civil magistrates are your ministers. We expect biblical moral character from your ministers in the church. But we give a pass to your ministers in the state. Change our hearts on this, Lord We ask this in Jesus' name, Amen