Psalm 127, one of my personal favorite Psalms. A song of a sense of Solomon. Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. Unless Yahweh watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain. It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil, for he gives to his beloved sleep Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, and the fruit of the womb a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children's of one's youth. Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them. He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate. Word of the Lord. Let's pray. Again, Lord, we thank you for this word of yours, illumined now by the Holy Spirit who inspired these things to be written down, that we might have them. Illumine them to our understanding through Christ. We pray. Amen. So I broke this into two parts because it's very, very naturally into two parts. First part is stop worrying and trust God for the future. The second part is bear fruit for the future. So, first, stop worrying and trust God for the future. Unless the Lord or Yahweh builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. The Latin phrase is nisi dominus frustra. I I used to have some stationery for our family years ago, and I didn't use it very long, but I thought it would be cool to have family stationeries. Now send it out to the Christmas list and all that business. And I put on the top of our family stationery, Nisi Dominus Frustra, which is the first three words of this song. Unless the Lord builds the house, those who labor it labor in vain. It's also the first words of The City of Edinburgh, Scotland is on their city motto, Nisi Dominus Frustra. Without the Lord, frustration. Literally. So you can build and build and build all you want, but unless the Lord is in it, It's a waste and it's a frustration. And it really won't amount to anything in eternity. And what matters is eternity. Eternity. I'll dare say this. Bill Gates, and Jeff Bezos, and such people. Build fantastic businesses and it's a marvel, isn't it? The money is astounding. It won't matter in eternity. It really won't. Amount to anything. Honestly, it won't amount to anything in eternity. Now God may use those things in various ways for his glory. He always does. He turns things for his good and purposes, for our good and our salvation. But those actual businesses won't matter in eternity. They don't amount to anything. They're like kingdoms that rise and fall. The Lord raises them up and the Lord throws them down and they're forgotten And their place doesn't remember them anymore, as the psalm says somewhere else. The house that's being built here is actually the family as well as the city and the nation. the house is the family, the city, and the nation. It may also signify the raising of a family, says Van Gemran. Especially because this section precedes the unit in which the family is emphasized as a reward from the Lord. In the Old Testament, it is usual to speak of a family as a house. even as we speak of a prominent family as a dynasty. The Hebrew, the word Ben means son Bath or bait means daughter and bait means house, like bethlahem, bait lahem, house. So they come from the same root word which is bana, which means to build. All those words are related. As Clark says, sons and daughters build up a household or constitute a family as much as stones build up and constitute a building, a structure. So those who hear these words need to remember that unless the Lord is building your family, your church, your nation, those who labor, labor. With frustration, labor in vain. The couplet is next. The couplet is the same thing said again in a different way. Unless the Lord watches over the city The watchman stays awake in vain. The watchman has his role, which is to stay awake and protect. But God's work and blessing are needed to truly guard the city. We could say the same thing about our amazing military might and power and strength in this country. We could say the same thing unless the Lord watches over the country. All that amazing military power and technology and strength won't protect us. Both David and Solomon knew what it was like to build both a house and guard a city. These wise kings understood that though God welcomed and even commanded human effort and participation, His work and blessing were the most important thing. Spurgeon says Note that the psalmist does not bid the builder cease from laboring, nor suggest that the watchmen should neglect their duty. Nor that men should show their trust in God by doing nothing. No. He supposes that they will do all that they can do, and then he forbids their fixing their trust in what they have done And assures them that all creature effort will be in vain unless the Creator puts forth his power. And then we get further amplification in the next verse, verse 2. He says, if you didn't get that, I'll say it again. It is vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil. Again, the writer Solomon did not speak against hard work. You know this because several of his proverbs praise the hard worker who rises early. From the first verse of this psalm, you understand that Solomon intended that the trust that many put in their hard work and the anxiety that is showed in reliance on self, not God, is to to be put away. Long hours does not mean prosperous work. The evening meal may be put off till the latest hour And the tired man sits down to eat it, and it is made bitter by his labor. He's going to get up in just a few more hours and start the whole thing all over again. Thomas Manton said, living a life of misery and labors, fretting at their own disappointments, eaten up with the envy at the advancement of others. Afflicted overmuch with losses and wrongs, there is no end to all their labors. That is, to those who do not trust in the Lord. And then we get this last phrase, for all that, and then this, for he gives to his beloved sleep He gives to his beloved sleep. How are you sleeping? How are you sleeping? My Fitbit gives me a score each morning. It tells me how I slept, how many hours I was in deep sleep, how many Minutes I was in REM sleep, how many minutes I was in light sleep, and how many minutes I was awake, and it gives me a score. And it tells me how tired I'm going to be. No, it doesn't go that far, but it leaves that to my interpretation. How are you sleeping? Here's what Jesus says very similarly. He gives to his beloved sleep. He says in Matthew 6, 25 through 34. To his disciples and all those listening, he says, Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air. They neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? And which of you, by being anxious, can add a single hour to his span of life? And why in fact the opposite happens, right? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they neither toil nor spin. Yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, oh you of little faith? Therefore, do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. Go to sleep. He gives to his beloved sleep. Trust the Lord for the future. And don't worry so much about tomorrow. One writer says, those who are affected by the reliance on their own work experience the anxiety that comes with it. God's blessing is to give his loved ones sleep. They can be at peace knowing that God's hand is at work and his eye watches even as they sleep. So that's the first half of this song. Second half is bear fruit for the future. Bear fruit for the future. Now, what kind of fruit? Talking about those who build the house We'll labor in vain if the Lord's not in it. So we're talking about building something. We're talking about bearing fruit. What kind of building materials are the fruit that are discussed being discussed here And uh as I was reading this, I was thinking of the French commentator Alexis de Toqueville, who traveled to the U. S. in the mid-19th century, and he wrote about this country, America. He said, There is certainly no country in the world where the tie of marriage is more respected than in America, or where conjugal happiness is more highly or worthily appreciated. That was a good report, wasn't it? This Frenchman said that about our country in the mid-19th century. Our society of nuclear families produced a prosperous middle class that was the envy of the world. And our psalmist says, Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord. Same topic. The fruit of the womb, a reward. Solomon considered the wisdom of trusting God in building a house, but he also understood that a home is built by more than bricks and wood. He called upon all to see that, behold, children are a blessing. James Montgomery Boyce says, the Jew would ask, why is the house being built if it's not for a family? And why are the watchmen protecting the city if not for families that live in it? Then as now, the family was the basic unit and most important element of society. And Clark says that the fruitful family, however poor Lay this to heart. Children are a heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is reward And he who gave them will feed them. For it is a fact, and the maximum form on it has never failed. Wherever God sends mouths, he sends meat. I'll say it again. Quoting him, wherever God sends mouths, he sends meat. People have asked us when we had all those children years ago. How are you ever going to get them all through college? And I didn't have an answer, honestly. It's just the Lord will provide. The Lord will provide. We'll manage. God will take care of us. And guess what? He did. He did. He gives children not as a penalty or as a burden, but as a favor. They are a token for good if men know how to receive them and educate them. They are doubtful blessings only because we are doubtful persons, says Spurgeon. I'm going to try to remember this. Some years ago someone told it to me and I thought it was pretty interesting. It's a paraphrase of Psalm 127, this part. We have it, of course, as children are an heritage of the Lord. The fruit of the womb, a reward. And it went something different. It went something like this. Behold, children are a curse from the Lord. The fruit of the womb, a A punishment. Like balls and chains around the ankles of a young man, so are the children of one's youth. How unhappy is the man whose neighbor says to him, Are all those kids yours? That's a poor paraphrase, but it's the opposite, isn't it? It's a blessing. Children are a blessing from the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward. Like arrows in the hands of a warrior are the children of one's youth. Someone has given a list of the ways that children are like arrows. Listen to these comparisons. Children are like arrows because they must be carefully shaped and formed. Children are like arrows because they must be guided with skill and strength. Children are like arrows because they must be given care or they will not fly straight. Children are like arrows because they must be aimed and given direction, or they will not find a direction of their own. Children are in some respects like arrows because they are only launched once. And they are an extension of the warrior's strength and accomplishment. And they have potential for much good or evil. So children are like arrows in the hands of a warrior, the children of one's youth. Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them. If children are a reward, then there is a great blessing and happiness in having many children. And I can testify to that. There was a bishop in England some years ago, Bishop Paul, who was at Waltham Abbey, and he says Listen to his testimony. He says, I remember a great man coming into my house at Waltham, and seeing all my children standing in the order of their age and stature, said, These are they that make rich men poor. Bishop Hall answered, Nay, my lord, these are they that make a poor man rich, for there is not one of these whom we would part with for all your wealth. Right on, Bishop. He shall not be put to shame, it says, the psalmist says, when he speaks with his enemies in the gate. What is that about? The gate, as we have said before, is the ancient city place of business. It's the place of justice. It's like the county courthouse. So this verse speaks of children of the godly as having places of prominence and influence in their communities The gate was a place where justice was administered and where the chief place of concourse. It is therefore improbable that warfare is actually meant, but a different kind of warfare, spiritual warfare. Cultural warfare, if you will. Van Demeron says, as the arrows protect the warrior, so the godly man need not be afraid. When blessed with sons, a house full of children born before one becomes old is a protection against loneliness and abandonment in society. So what is pictured here is that of a prosperous city. Its enemies kept outside the gates And the secret of its prosperity is the house being made up of well-built families that live within. Well-built families. Families Many arrows in the quiver made ready for service. I told you what De Toqueville said about our country in the mid-19th century But now here's from conservative writer in the Christian Post, Phyllis Schlafley. Listen to her. Recent U. S. surveys show that the U. S. taxpayers' money appropriated to, quote, close the gap, end quote, between higher achieving and lower achieving students has failed to achieve this goal Contrary to conventional wisdom, poverty is not the principal cause of the gap. But whether or not children grow up in a family with their own mother and father Compared to kids who lack that advantage, the breakdown of the family has caused the dramatic rise in government spending. The nuclear family, as described in Psalm 127, doesn't need government busybodies to tell them how to raise their children or spend their money. That's Phyllis Slafley. But we have that kind of condition in situation in this country now. The great breakdown of the family. So many children that never knew a father and a mother in a stable family home And they suffer from it. It affects their education. It affects their productivity. It leads to the downfall of the nation even So what was described by the Tocqueville so long ago is no more. We have a growing welfare state. in its place that cannot raise children. Cannot raise children. It's absolutely useless to raise children And make them straight arrows to be sent out into the world for God's glory and for good. But happy to tell you that I recently spent an evening in the home of one such family as described here in this psalm in a beautiful way And there the children were engaged in the conversation with both parents and visitors. And the children offered to help with the preparation and presentation of the meal. And the whole evening was a delight. These children have bright futures as godly citizens and blessings to church and society. Psalm 127 is fulfilled in such families. May you, especially young people here Unmarried yet or soon to be married, may you build such families as are described here in this song. If you do, you will stand out like beacons of light in a very dark world. And you will further the kingdom of Christ, who is building his kingdom And will build it until he returns. In the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Lord, we pray that you would give us godly families. Be with these young people in particular, and also these others who are grandparents. And who are friends to those who have children and grandchildren, and who play a part in supporting and encouraging and blessing them in this arduous work of raising children. And help us, Lord, as we build to trust in you and know that nothing happens. For good without your blessing, and that it is vain to fret and be anxious and toil. Help us, Lord. In this great work of building your kingdom, we pray that this congregation might fill up with godly families who encourage each other And who raise straight arrows to be shot out into the world for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.