Beloved of grace and peace. This is a sermon entitled The Savior of the World And we want to see our Lord Jesus in his kindness and his mercy being sent by the Father in the power of the Holy Spirit. Humbling Himself in order to seek and save sinners As we look at this passage together this morning, I want to invite you all to remember when you First encountered the Lord Jesus when you can first remember or recall having some special love toward Him Knowing that he was speaking to you, knowing that he was working in you I want you to recall those days that may have been many years ago. There may not be a particular moment, but a season when you were being drawn near to the Savior And as we look at this passage, I want us to be reminded afresh that this is God's beloved Son humbling himself. United to our humanity to seek and save the lost. This is the bridegroom seeking a bride for himself. This is the faithful Israelite being the ambassador's son that he is called to be, being the light to the world. This is the Savior coming to redeem, to forgive sinners, even those who are far from the covenant, who know very little He has come to save. Beloved, when we think of this passage I think in terms of photography and film, I'm a very visual person and I've studied film and I've studied photography and I've often thought about this passage. How would I present this if I were to make a film? The opening scene would have mountains in the background, and there'd be wind blowing and sand, there'd be a well, and then the camera would focus in on a water jar. On a water bottle, a water jar that's been left by itself And then the camera would move outward in a wide screen view To show many hearing this woman say to them, Come and meet a man who told me everything I ever did. And yet, though he knew everything about me, he did not judge me He came to offer me himself. He came to offer me redemption. He came to offer me forgiveness. As we walk through this passage, I'd like to walk through in four points. The first is How the Lord Jesus, in his state of humiliation in this present age, how he makes this connection with a Samaritan. The second thing I'd want you to see is how he captivates her mind and heart with the truths of the gospel. How he then confronts her in her sin, and how he then, by the power of the Spirit through the Word, converts her, and then plants a little church in Samaria. Where the gospel of Jesus Christ is made known. The first thing is how he connects with her. We're told the disciples have gone out of the scene. They've gone seeking food. And as our Lord Jesus says later in this passage, he says very clearly, my food. Is to do the will of my Father who sent me and to accomplish his work. And so this passage tells us that Jesus is moving from the south to the north. He's moving from Judea and he's going up to Galilee because of certain circumstances. And the Bible tells us that it was necessary, that he must go through Samaria. Now, Jesus Christ would have known this. His disciples would have known this. Your average Jew would have known that you didn't have to necessarily go through Samaria You could have gone east across the Jordan River and been north. But this necessary that's mentioned here is more beloved than something geographical. Where Jesus is following a kind of ancient GPS. This is because Jesus is here to do the work. accomplish the work of his father to do the will of his father and he in reliance of the Spirit knows that he must go to Samaria. Why Because the promise of the old covenant is that the Savior of the world, as one shepherd, would gather his people, his sheep. under one shepherd, that the Prince of Peace would bring peace to all who believed, even the enemies of the Jews, which the Samaritans were. He knew that it was necessary as the shepherd to seek the sheep, even this one lost sheep from Samaria. He knew that as the Prince of Peace, he was coming to offer peace and reconciliation through himself, so that she could, as it were Experience a kind of pre-Pentecost in seeing the gospel go from Jerusalem To Judea, to Samaria, and then what we know to eventually be to the ends of the earth. And so he connects with this woman And John puts this here in this passage under the inspiration of the Spirit to cause us to contrast this passage, this connection, with chapter 3. Where a man from the Pharisees comes to Jesus by night. A man from the Pharisees, particularly named Nicodemus. And Nicodemus, though he's been trained in biblical truth, he's been taught his Old Testament, particularly the prophet Ezekiel. At this point in his understanding, he is not ready to receive and embrace the gospel as he's held out to him in the Lord Jesus. Though Jesus is faithful to refer him back implicitly to Ezekiel, that you must be born again, you must be born from above. And the connection he makes here is with a woman. Not a man. With a woman of Samaria, not a Jewish leader. With a Samaritan woman that is also sinful and living presently in sin. As the passage clearly says, the Jews had no relationships. They would take no time with these undesirables called the Samaritans because of past history. Because of past idolatry, because of past sins. Because Samaria was the place that we're told in 2 Kings 17. Where the Assyrian exile happened, that the Assyrians planted pagan, unbelieving idolaters in Samaria, and over time they intermixed with the people of Samaria so that the Samaritans, beloved, Are those who were despised? And yet our Lord Jesus seeks them in the power of the Spirit to connect with them. My challenge for us is who is it in your neighborhood, your office place, your family that's an undesirable? That knows a little bit about Jesus and his truth, but enough to make them dangerous, as my father used to put it. A liberal who knows a little bit about who God is and what the cross was about, but has no saving faith or someone from the LGBTQ community that we'd say, we have no dealings with them. Jesus is saying, I have sheep among all kinds of people, among all nations, among those who are women. Samaritans and even living in present sin. She had three marks at least against her. Jesus connects. Where there's a need, he goes to a well. And this woman is there at midday, noon, the sixth hour, contrasted with Nicodemus, who comes a little frightened at night. She comes at noon. How would she come at noon to a well? Shame? Guilt? Beloved, if you've ever felt the depth of your guilt before God because of your sin, you Don't want someone else who looks the gospel, who loves the gospel, who speaks to you the gospel. You get very defensive. And if you're shamed, it's not just that you feel guilty, you think you're no good. Because your sins have made you no good, and this woman came at noon shamed. And Jesus Christ, the shepherd of the sheep. Takes his time to connect with this one. Right where she's at. Behold your Lord. He's thirsty. He became truly human for us. And when he was thirsty, he saw it as an opportunity, a kind of marketplace. To see another woman, a sinful woman, that he knew by the Holy Spirit's leading, that this was one he was to connect with. And so he makes that connection, regardless of what other people would say, regardless of what even his disciples might say. And the second thing he does is he meets her asking for a drink. He starts a conversation. He makes a connection. He's thirsty. Just as we get thirsty, she's thirsty. She's bringing home water for her household chores to drink. To eat food, soup. And here we see Jesus connecting and captivating her. with the gospel. Captivating. You know what captivating is? It's when you speak the truth and rather than self-defense and shame You actually have someone who's been prepared by the Spirit to begin listening, a family, a friend, a co-worker, a neighbor. And you begin to tell them about the gift of God that is so gracious that no one deserves. And they get it. To some degree, they know they don't deserve it They've been bent, like all of us have, by nature, on works, righteousness, doing our best with hopes that God will overlook our flaws. To sin is human, right? He says to her, Woman, give me a drink. First, she's surprised that he would speak to her. Then he speaks truth to her She wants to know, what are you asking for? And he says, if you knew the gift of God, And who it is that is speaking to you and saying to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. Beloved, this is a reminder of how the Lord Jesus connects with us by his Spirit And how he then captivates us by his truth and his gospel and teaches us that God's grace is all a gift. It's not something we've earned. And sometimes the lower we are, the further we are from the covenant, the greater our readiness to hear about this gift, because we know that we have no works, we have nothing to offer the Almighty. And on one level, she's still thinking in a fleshy manner. She's still asking, you know, are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us this well. And she knows a little bit of truth, as we see later, because she asked him. She goes. I know that when Messiah comes, she knows enough about Messiah. She knows enough about truth, but she hasn't believed it yet. And she says, when Messiah comes, he will tell us these things. He will answer our questions that we have. And he says, I speak to you, I am. I am He I am Yahweh in the flesh. I am Jehovah. But he captivates her. She says, Sir, you'll have nothing to draw water with. How are you going to give this to me? And he says to her, everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. You'll be coming back tomorrow. You'll be coming back the next day. You'll be coming back the day after that. You'll be coming to drink from your water jar, and then drink again from your water jar, and then drink from your water jar again. Your thirst will Never be satisfied. And what your thirst is an indicator of is something much deeper. It's not just that your mouth is dry, that your tongue is dry, that you need hydration. No, the problem is your soul is dry. Your soul is lifeless. Your soul is dead. You are separated from God, your life. And I have come into the world to shine my light through the gospel and to bring life and life eternal. Just at the end of chapter 3, he said, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him would never perish. But have everlasting life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but the world might be saved through him. And this is her opportunity. He says, whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. It's not just a thirst quencher, it's a soul quencher. It goes down to the deepest parts so that we can know that our relationship with God, that we have Union with the Creator, the cosmic Creator, King, Lord Judge of humanity. We have a relationship. And through the gospel, received as a gift, through the Son, he gives us living water. He gives us the Holy Spirit. So that the water that Jesus gives, the spirit represented by the water will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. And she's captivated To some degree, she's moving nearer. She's not self-defending. She's not running off angry. She's been drawn near. Because before her stands the gift of God incarnate. Before her stands the grace of God for forgiveness. Before her stands the one who will give the Holy Spirit To all who ask. The one who will redeem sinners, the worst sinners, the ones furthest from the covenant, through precious blood. Who will lay down his life as shepherd of the sheep, demonstrating such love for the Father and for his people? So that He would pay the penalty for our sins, for her sins, for our sins, for the sins of those God knows that are all around us every day that we don't know. The Lord knows those who are his beloved. The Lord knows those who are his. He calls us to connect. He calls us To be those who captivate with the gospel, who show in life in word in our deeds That we believe that grace is a gift, that there really is forgiveness, and we live like forgiven people in reliance upon his grace. And so she says, sir, give it to me. Give me this water. Sounds too good, but be true. And the third thing we look at is he confronts her and beloved. Our sins are ultimately what keep us from God. The gospel is about saving sinners from sin. To reconcile us to God, to fill us with the Spirit, so that then we'll walk by the Spirit and not by the flesh. That we'll not live in our sins. And so Jesus makes it very clear here. He shows us We perhaps can remember when we were captivated by the gospel and that same Holy Spirit who was drawing us to the well of salvation, who is Christ, who was saying to us, You must repent Your thoughts are angry and bitter. Your life is a mess in the way that you're living it now. You are far from the covenant. You are far from God. And so he says, go. And you can summarize this so beautifully, beloved. When he confronts, what does Jesus say? He says, Go. But then he says, Come. Don't miss that. Go, come Go and repent of your sinful situation. You've had six husbands They haven't filled you with that spiritual life, that satisfaction. You're a shamed woman. You're a rejected woman. You're a woman who other women who would normally come early to the well, you come later because of your shame and your guilt. He says, Go. Call your husband and come here. Jesus is showing such kindness and compassion. And sometimes by our lives and our words, we're saying to those like the Samaritan woman, go! Get away from me! We get in our minds, perceiving people in the flesh, or according to political orientation, political parties, or sexual orientation, or we judge them by what they look like. We do! All of us are tempted to such things. And that's self-righteousness that must be repented of. And I'll start with myself. But he doesn't just say, go, get out of here. He says, go. Call your husband and come. That is, go make things right through repentance and come back to me in faith, where you'll find your seventh, your most perfect husband In me. I'm your bridegroom. Six have never satisfied, but I'm the seventh And in union with me through faith and repentance, I will satisfy your deepest longings. I will restore you to God, the Creator, the cosmic Lord. And he will be your father. And I will pour out upon you my spirit that will cause you to cry out to God, Abba, Father. And because I am he in the flesh, the Son of God, sent by the Father in the Spirit I will teach you to worship, not just with temples and tabernacles made with hands. not just outward furniture, but from the heart in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeking worshipers. He's seeking to save you so that you can be in the family to be a worshiper, a forgiven family member, worshiper in spirit and in truth, as you were created to be. And so the time has come now in your presence, right in front of you, woman of Samaria. That you can embrace this gift of the Son, but through repentance and faith. And so, beloved, when we think of our own selves, we remember how the Spirit not only captivated us and drew us near to Jesus, began to show us our sin and misery Began to show us our condition, our shame, our guilt. Then he brought us closer by helping us to see our need and have a desire for Jesus Christ. And we embraced him. And that was all his powerful spirit. And whatever sinful place we were in, we wanted to remove ourselves out of that. We wanted to repent. And find our home with God in Christ. And whatever we were seeking for our satisfaction, we Began that wondrous journey and pilgrimage to daily, to daily, to daily find our home in Jesus. We don't want to forget. We don't want to forget. Israel's great sin throughout the time of promise and the old covenant was that they did not Remember who God was and what he had called them to be, as his beloved son, ambassador, light to the nations. They became like the nations. They became just like the Samaritan. Different name. Different religion. knew more truth. But both were still in Adam, unconverted, under God's wrath, under condemnation. And Jesus says, I've come to call you. Beloved, think of someone perhaps you know, and perhaps you think they're so far gone. Remember yourself. Remember honestly when the Lord drew you. You know that we're all born in Adam. That we're all born as children of wrath like the rest of mankind. You know that we all, even those brought up in the covenant with such privileges, children You have such privileges, but your privileges are with the great obligation to repent and believe and embrace Jesus Christ and live for Him. Don't ever forget that. Don't ever take your privilege for granted. So many do None is righteous. No, not one. All, not just a few, all have sinned against the Almighty. And fall short of his glory. There's no righteousness in us. There's no righteousness in us But all the perfect righteousness that God demands, He provides for us in Christ. As through the Spirit, through the gospel, we repent, we turn from our sins, we turn from how we were living, and we put our faith in Christ. And we, by God's grace, want to offer that to those we are in contact with. Think of one person A family member you've been praying for, a family member you talk to and every time it's self-defense, it's rejection. Think of a friend Think of someone in your neighborhood, your co-workers. Think about praying particularly regularly Asking God to help you to connect, to help you to speak the gospel that can be so daunting sometimes, I know. To ask them that the Spirit would captivate them by your life and by your words, and that then you could confront them in a gracious way as a fellow sinner saved by grace. Because the final thing I want to note here is this, beloved. He converts this woman by the power of the Spirit. We know this because she goes forth having somewhere in this encounter been regenerated, been Called effectually, powerfully by the Spirit of God. She has embraced Jesus Christ, and we know that what she came for She's forgotten because her water jar is left there at the well. She sees a greater mission. She sees something now, motivated by the Spirit, to go and tell everyone what? What was her message? What was her testimony? What was her witness? It wasn't as fancy as some of ours. It wasn't with the knowledge that maybe some of us have. But it was simply this. Come meet a man. Who told me everything that I ever did. And beloved, listen, the reason why that's such a sweet thing that she's saying is that because in her first steps As a believer in Christ, as in her first steps, that's how she's witnessing. That's how she's testifying to God's grace. He's come, come this way Not to the well, first and foremost, not to the water that is that'll cause us to just be thirsty again, but come and meet a man who told me everything I ever did. And why is she telling everyone to come? Because she no longer experiences shame or guilt because she's not the one Who forgives and who, though he confronts, he's compassionate and has called her to himself. And it's amazing Because what she's basically saying is, hey, you remember me, the sinner? You remember me, the shamed woman? You remember me and all my sins? I've met someone who knows all of those things about me and yet loves me anyway. And that's how we're to love by God's grace. As we have been loved by God the Father through Christ, that even in our worst place, even in our difficulty, even in our fur the furthest we've been, when the Spirit made known Our sins, beloved, it wasn't with accusation. That's the evil one. That's the devil. And young and old, here's how you remember the difference between the Spirit of God speaking you And the devil. The devil does it to accuse you and to hold up a mirror to you. I'll say it again. The devil tells you truths about you. By accusing you of those things and then holding up a mirror with no hope Jesus Christ confronts you with those things through his Holy Spirit, but he holds up a window A large glass clear window that we can see a smiling Savior, who though he confronts us, he also is ready to forgive. And so she wasn't ashamed to say, come meet a man that told me everything I ever did. He loves me. He's forgiven me. I found the true bridegroom. I found the water of life. Come and drink from this well. You see, that's what we want to never forget about what God does for us in Christ. Is that each and every day, beloved, though we sin, he's faithful and just forgive us when we confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us and cleanse us through the pure Glorious, beautiful, precious blood of Jesus. See, Jesus is a shepherd here seeking a sheep. Jesus is the faithful Israelite seeking to be a light to Samaria. This is the Prince of Peace, uniting Samaria and the Jews in union with Jesus by the Spirit, uniting two who were at great distance. Who have old history of hatred. And he's bringing them together in a family. And this is Jesus the ambassador, sent from God, faithful to say, God has sent me to you. Be reconciled to God. The same message that we're called to make known to others, confronting their sin, but with compassion. Showing them there's a Savior who forgives and restores and redeems and gives us new desires and longings to be like Him. And so we can go out honestly in union with Jesus by the Spirit and say, come. Meet a Savior who knows everything about me and still continues to love me. We can get up tomorrow, knowing that we're frail, knowing that we fail, knowing that we stumble, to know there's a savior. Who has become sin for us? Because how are we reconciled through the Savior? How do we get this wonderful water? 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, Because the Capital A, Ambassador Son, makes known to us this, in this event, his kindness, through his gospel. We can be ambassadors. With this stewardship of the message of reconciliation, be reconciled to a God who forgives and restores and changes and transforms you, because it's simply In verse twenty-one, for our sake, for our sake, he who knew no sin Became sin for us, so that we might be the righteousness of God in Christ. So that through Christ continuing his ministry. And going to the cross after earning perfectly a righteous record for all who believe. He went to the cross to pay the full and final penalty for our sins against God. So that we could have peace with God, so that we could have peace with one another, so that we could offer peace for those who are furthest from us politically, sexually familiarly those in our families that have heard us. And he can give us the strength so that when they meet us and they get to know us, they come forth saying Come meet a Savior. Come meet a church. Come meet a disciple who has confronted me in my sin. And yet is still compassionate, kind, and gracious. This is what we learn from this passage, beloved So let us be reminded of the opportunities that we have to connect, even with those the other, that other people, maybe even other believers, say they're too far gone. to connect with. Let us pray that they would be captivated by the gospel and that we present the gospel clearly and in the way that we live through transformed lives. And when we don't live a transformed life, to be the first to repent and say we're sorry. Where our confidence is not in our works, it's in the works of Christ And our confidence is in Christ, in his righteousness, his perfection, though we want to gratefully obey. As much as we're able with thanksgiving and and and and the fullness of the Spirit. Let us be reminded that sometimes when we're presenting the gospel, it is the right time to confront. Yet confront with compassion and let that person by God's grace be one who goes away saying, Come meet a man, come meet the Lord Jesus who has told me everything about And who's loved me and forgiven me. Brother, can you imagine if I knew everything about you just this morning in your thoughts? Can you imagine if you knew everything about me? My fault? Everything that I did wrong in my life? Jesus knows these things. And he loves us because he's the one who possesses perfect righteousness as the perfect man. And he gives it to us freely. And he's the one sent from God to forgive us our sins, to live and die, to be raised, to ascend, to be enthroned at God's right hand, full of the Holy Spirit for all who believe. And he's the one who says to us, your sins are forgiven you. Go and sin no more. Worship God. In spirit and truth. But that's what you were created for. Go and live for him. Go and be an ambassador, a witness for him. Go and find the joy of making Christ known. Not as a merely as a church. Do it as a church. Do it as individuals, as families. Amen.