In this part of the Gospel of John, John continues to select narratives, stories. In support of his basic message, he wrote this gospel for a particular message. And what is that message? It is that Jesus is the long-promised Messiah. The long-expected one. He is rejected by many. You see that in some of these narratives. Believed by some. He is the creator of all things. That's from chapter 1. He created the whole world and everything in it. Nothing was created that he did not create. And he has been made flesh. He has come down to take our human nature upon himself. He's one of us. That's John's message as well. He is, according to John, light and darkness. Truth and falsehood, joy and refreshment in a world of pain and sorrow. Now he begins to show that Jesus is the one who can heal. And Jesus is the one who rightly uses and explains the meaning of the Sabbath in contradiction to the Jewish leaders of his day. So we get to verse 1, the act of healing. I just read it, but I'll read it again. After this, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. We don't know which feast this was But it's one of the feasts, maybe tabernacles or some other feast. But he's up there. And any place any time you go to Jerusalem you go up. Even if it's south or north or any direction, you go up because it's a it's a high point and it's a spiritually high point as well. After this there was a feast, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheep gate a pool. Remember that, the sheep gate, okay? By a pool in Aramaic called Bethesda. Which has five roofed colonnades. This pool is near the gate where sheep were brought into the temple area to be washed. Possibly in this pool, and made ready for what? Why would sheep be brought into the tabernacle? Why would they be brought into this temple area for sacrifice? For sacrifice. So there's a connection here between this place and Jesus as the sacrifice Jesus visits this spot most likely to consider and ponder his coming sacrifice for sinners. Let us remember what was said in chapter 1 of John, John 1, 29 and 35, when first he was seen by some The next day it says in John 1. 29, Jesus, the next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold the Lamb. A God who takes away the sin of the world. And again in verse 35, the next day John again was standing with two of his disciples, and he looked at Jesus, and as he walked by, he said, Behold the Lamb of God. So there's a real possible connection. He's the lamb. This is the place where sheep are brought in. There's his pool, so forth. In this location where we find Jesus acting and speaking in a way sure to have him treated like a sacrificial lamb, he's going to do some things and say some things that that are going to get him assent to the well Eventually to the cross. Indeed, from this point on in the Gospel of John, the Jewish leaders are out to kill him. So let's go on in the story itself, verse 3. In this place lay a multitude of invalids. Makes a list of them. The blind The lame and paralyzed. One man was there who had been an invalid for 38 years. Here is the congregation of the fallen, physically fallen, and maybe other ways too. Sickness in body and spirit Is a result of the fall, that is the fall of Adam, as a result of the curse on the world because of sin And here is a contradiction, or a concentration, I should say, of broken people gathered around this portico. Broken people. They were Jewish people who were suffering in the fall. Here they are. So keep that in mind as you picture this scene. Verse 6, Jesus approaches that multitude, and he, there's a bunch of them. He says, when Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he'd already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? Now that's kind of it's it would seem like that's kind of a silly question in a way. I mean, who wouldn't want to be healed? 38 years lying on a mat, you know Who wouldn't want to be healed? But he asked him that question, and it's really a very pastoral question. It's a counselor question One commentator said about this: an Eastern beggar often loses a good living by being cured. Cure has its implications, particularly when the need is so longstanding that a whole way of life has been built up around it. Jesus' question here must be faced head-on by anyone who really wants to be delivered. To the here, then, and now. The question comes to you and me. Do you really want to get free? Of your sin? Do you want to be healed? Do you want to be made well? That's what Jesus came to do, not just cure people of uh various little illnesses, but he wants to make people really well, whole, complete, healed, perfectly in alignment with God Do you want that, or would you rather just get some relief from the pain of it for a little bit and keep your state of situation for future comfort? You see there are some comforts in sin. There are some some comforts in what we've already come to know and live with and get by and get through. It says in Hebrews chapter 11 that Moses Considered the pleasures of sin for a season, but he chose the reproaches of God's people rather than to continue in the pleasures of sin for a season to continue to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, to live in that lavish place and live in that lifestyle, which would have been against God's will. Do you really want to get free from your sin? That's one I'm asking you today, too. And I'm asking me too. It's not an easy question. To many members of the nation of Israel, the ritual sacrifice and the dietary laws, can't eat this, can't eat that, so forth And the Sabbath regulations, what you can and can't do on the Sabbath, had become a way of keeping God under control. Really, a way of keeping God under control. I know how to manage this thing of the re Jewish religious life. You don't do this and you don't do that and you do this and you do that and then you're okay. You can manage, you can live this way But it's managing life without loving and serving God with all your heart and mind and soul and body. It's just managing things without loving God, the lawgiver. To some such persons, I think Judaism must have been like a like a credit card. Indulge now and pay later. Just keep making the minimal monthly payment while going deeper and deeper into debt year by year. Keep up the show. There were others, other faithful Israelites who didn't treat that law that way. I can think of some, maybe you can too. I can think of people like Joseph and Mary, the earthly parents of Jesus. They were waiting for the Word of God. They were waiting for the Messiah to come. They were waiting for salvation. They were longing for it. Or Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist, who was looking for the consolation of Israel, and Elizabeth his wife. And then those two old people in the temple who were waiting for the Messiah to come, and it had been revealed to Simeon that he wouldn't die until he saw the Messiah. And when Jesus, the baby, was brought into the temple, he rejoiced in the spirit, because now the truth had come out. The future Savior was here. So there were those who loved God with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength by grace, and they didn't just use the religious system as a way of managing God. So again, the question is, do you really want to get free of your sin? Sin becomes a way of life. I know there are people who are just absolutely cast into sin. They're into drugs and drunkenness and they're into orgies and they're into all kinds of terrible lifestyle things And there are others who live nice, quiet, clean lives, but also in sin, hiding, even hiding in religion Sin becomes a way of life. We get used to it. It becomes a natural and stubborn way of living. And we don't want to change. You know, lying, for instance, lying can become so habitual that a person lies even when it is no particular advantage to lie. Just because I'm used to lying and I lie when people ask me a question, I just lie, give an answer that's a lying answer. This happened to Augustine of Hippo, a man who lived in North Africa in the fourth century. He he was uh he was in the habit of stealing. He had a lot of other bad habits too. He was in the habit of stealing. As a youth, he would go out and he went out into an orchard And he stole some fruit. It wasn't even ripe. It wouldn't even taste good. He stole this, he writes in his confession, just for the sake of doing what is forbidden. Stealing becomes a habit. Or a lot of other things become habits with us too. Rage Angry words, cynical responses, such things become normal. And we defend ourselves when people may look at us with a a glance and wonder why we are so this way or that, we may say, Well, that's just the way I am. That's it. That's my answer. I'm just that's just the way I am. Do you really want to get well? I used to frequent prisons as a visitor years ago in Delaware, where we lived before, and where we live now as well And I would go in and conduct Bible studies with individuals in the prison. I'll tell you, it was a desperate and awful place. just a warehouse of human misery, uh an awful place Why would persons who have experienced that misery of prison life, that fear in prison, that discomfort? Ever want to return there after being released? Why? Why would they? But there was a study done back in the earlier part of the century, a study of Recidivism on the count of prisoners. Recidivism means going back to jail after you've been out. And this study was done in 30 states from 2005 to 2010. And what they discerned, what they learned from the statistics of recidivism, was that three out of four prisoners will return within five years. Three out of four will return. There are various factors, but one of the reasons why people return to prison is because it is a familiar and predictable lifestyle, and it has a real attraction to many. Now, let's think about this man who was asked this question by Jesus, and who was healed by Jesus. In the text There is no mention of faith in the man who was healed. Sometimes Jesus will heal someone. He'll ask them if they believe and And he'll heal them and then he'll say, go your way, your faith has made you whole, or something like that. There's nothing like that here. No mention of faith. So faith is not part of the picture at this point moment anyway. There was no acknowledgement of who Jesus is by the man healed. He doesn't he doesn't say, oh, you're the Messiah. He doesn't say that. He doesn't get a chance, really. And there's no mention of forgiveness for the man healed. Sometimes Jesus will heal someone and say, your sins are forgiven you. And uh there's no mention of that here either, really, although I do believe he was forgiven The man gave an excuse when he was asked, do you want to be healed? He gave an excuse rather than asking for help. He didn't say, will you help me, please? I need you to help me with this. No It appears that this healing is not so much about this man's faith or this man's salvation, but it is an occasion for Jesus to proclaim his person and work. Verse 7 of the text. The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up. And while I am going down, another steps down before me. What's this about? Well, there was a popular hope of this being a healing spring in this pool The water in this pool was evidently stirred up from time to time by a spring feeding it, or something like that. And there was in some of the manuscripts an angel explanation that an angel of the Lord would come down and stir up the water. And then when the first person who would get into the pool after that happened, they would be healed But that is not very well attested in the manuscript, so we're going to just kind of push that aside. But somehow this pool would get stirred up from time to time, maybe the water, the bubbles, whatever. And there was a popular hope that they would be able to be healed. That's what this man's referring to. I can't get into the water fast enough. So what does Jesus do? Well I'll help you with that. Let me stir up the water right quick and I'll put you in and we'll be fine. No. Verse 8. Jesus said to him, and this is this is Jesus. He is the word of God made flesh. He is now the word of God speaking to this man. And God's word is able to create, God's word is able to save, God's word is able to raise the dead. This is the word of God speaking to him. And he says, get up. 38 years. Get up, take up your bed, and walk. And then the astonishing thing is the text says, at once The man was healed. 38 years, but now healed. And he took up his bed and walked. And then afterward, back down to verse 14, later, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See, you are well, sin no more, that nothing worse may happen to you. Evidently Jesus knew the cause of this man's particular sin, the cause of this man's particular 38 year inability to walk and he knew that it was caused by some particular sin. We cannot speculate What that was, but we can imagine that it might have been that he was injured while engaging in some evil act in the past Or by committing a crime, or by being injured by an enraged victim of some of his deeds? That's possible. We don't know. In any case, Jesus warns him not to repeat whatever that was, or something worse may happen to you. I want to caveat here for a moment, because I know some of you are sick, some of you have been sick at times, and many of us have been troubled with various illnesses. Jesus elsewhere, I'm going to say this, Jesus elsewhere disavows the idea of a direct correlation between sickness and a particular sin. In fact, in John chapter 9, the man who was born blind, Jesus made a point of saying, it is not because of anything he did or his parents did. But this was for the glory of God. So all illness is not from some particular sin situation, but this one was, according to Jesus. So that's the end of that part of the narrative. Now what happens? Verse 9. Now that day was the Sabbath Very important to the Jews. The Sabbath, one of the commandments of God, the fourth commandment, very important. Now, this is one of the ways that they practiced their religion, was the Sabbath. So this was the Sabbath. So the Jews said to the men who had been healed, it is the Sabbath. It is not lawful for you to take up your bed. Not supposed to carry anything. He answered them, The man who healed me, that man said to me, Take up your bed and walk. And they asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Take up your bed and walk? You see, for a rabbi like Jesus to command this man to break the law of God, the Sabbath rule, was worse than the man himself breaking the law. They wanted to find out who this is that did this. Verse 13, now the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, as there was a crowd in the place. He's pretty good at slipping through the crowd, disappearing. In verse 15, the man went his way and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. And this is why the Jews were persecuting Jesus, because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. What's going on here? So it's the question that would then come to Israel as well. Do you really want to get free of your sin, Israel? Do you understand the meaning of sacrifice? Do you understand the meaning of the priesthood? Do you understand the Sabbath? Do you understand the sacrifice of the temple? The Passover lamb that is slain, do you understand the meaning of all this? Or are these just ways of managing God and staving off the debt and penalty of sin? The answer is seen for them at least in their attack on Jesus for healing. They do not love God and they do not love their neighbor. This man is their neighbor. And they're attacking Jesus instead of being happy. Their response is anger and outrage and persecution. They forgot something, didn't they? What was we read from Isaiah 35? Here it is. I'll recap it. When the Messiah comes, when the promised one comes, then the eyes of the blind shall be opened The text tells us that there were some around that pool who were blind. And the ears of the deaf unstopped. There were some around that pool who had lost their hearing. And then shall the lame man leap like a deer. Lame man, there he is. And the tongue of the mute shall sing for joy. And he goes on to talk about the whole transformation of all the creation. Water shall break forth in the wilderness and the streams in the desert. The burning sand shall become a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of water, in the haunt of jackals where they lay down the grass shall become reeds and rushes. Transformation when Messiah comes But they were mad about his telling this man to pick up his mat and walk on the Sabbath. Jesus then says something in response to all that, verse 17. But Jesus answered them, my father. Now that's pretty important. My father. My father is working until now, and I am working. You're mad at me for working? My father is working, and he always does what the father does, so I am working. So What happened in the seven days of creation? The work of creation ended and God rested on the seventh day It says in Genesis 2. 1, Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them, and on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. Yes, that's true. But the work of providence never ends. The work of providence never ends. God continues to uphold all things by the word of his power. He sustains the universe. By his holy word he does this. And so the Sabbath, according to Jesus, is not idleness. But the sign of a relationship that saves, and a world that will that will be made whole, that will be healed, that will be put right. That's what the Sabbath is pointing to. The Pharisees had developed a list of 39, 39 forms of effort which it was not were not allowed to be done on the Sabbath. Now the 39th one was to carry a load from one habitation to another. That's what happened here. It is recorded that some four of the rabbis in Rome had pondered the question of God working on the Sabbath And had maintained that God carried no load outside of his own dwelling. Isn't that funny? And lifted nothing to a height which exceeded his own stature. Therefore God fell within the limits of their interpretation of what was permissible on the Sabbath. But now Jesus puts himself in the place of God by justifying his healing work here, claiming equality with God in God's working. How ironic, isn't it? Here was the true Messiah who keeps all of the law, all of the time, every day of his life, the Messiah who is Lord of the Sabbath, who knows its real meaning And who works the works of God, this one is standing right here, and they are displeased with his works. Very ironic. But this was more than a squabble over the Sabbath observance, because Jesus was making a claim that they simply could not abide. Verse 18 This is why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but because he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. Hmm. Now the Jews sometimes in a collective way called God their Father. He was the father of their nation and so forth. But no one would dare say what Jesus said here. That made himself equal with God, saying that the works that God does are the works that I do. Making himself equal with God. That was absolutely absolutely out of the question So again, I'm going back to that basic idea that the Jews of that day, these particular Jews, were managing God. by uh keeping all these rules. That was the way they managed God, kept God at a distance, didn't love God, didn't love their neighbor, but they they were keeping the rules. The many uh current popular uh minds thinking about whether there is a God or not, a lot of people do believe in God, they don't know who it is, but they believe in some sort of benevolent person, higher power, whatever, um, and they have this God watching over them from a distance. From a distance. Not close. Not right not not right with me, but from a distance, way off somewhere in heaven They do not want Jesus to reveal God up close. These men didn't, and a lot of people don't want God close. They may get a sense of accomplishment from keeping the rules. I did this, I did that, I did the other But if God comes and tells them that they have missed the point, they are outraged. So what John is doing here in this narrative, let's try to put it two things together. John, the gospel preacher, is showing the darkness and blindness and hypocrisy of unbelief on the one hand, and he's showing the glory and grace and light of Jesus the Messiah on the other hand. Jesus here points out their hypocritical covenant breaking for what it is. It is using religion for self-aggrandizement, power over others, and selfish justification, which is power over God. And it is a rejection of God in the name of God. I'll say that again. It is a rejection of God in the name of God. And in contrast to this, what John is preaching is the revealed gospel of grace, my dear friends. It is a work of grace that God wants to be in a loving relationship with you and me. It's a work of grace. He wants you. He wants you. He came for you. He gives himself for you. People of God, he did this by sending Christ as the Savior, the God who is the creator, who is the lawgiver, and the law keeper. Who became one of us. My dear friends, I'm almost finished. Do you want to get well? Would you be made whole? Or is it possible that you like your slavery, that you're stuck in it, that you've learned to manage life with it? I can think of a lot of things that might be. For a lot of men, it's pornography. Now I manage it. I don't look at it very often. For other people, it's other things. But it's slavery. It's absolute slavery. Are you ready for some freedom? Are you ready for some deliverance? John says about Jesus, those who receive him have the power, the authority, the right to become the children of God. And when you become a child of God by faith in Jesus, not by religious rules and rites, then you're given the Spirit, and you're told not to grieve the Holy Spirit. Romans 12 verses 4 through 11. Listen to this, Christian friend. In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood Have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons, heirs? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him, for the Lord disciplines. The ones he loves and chastises every son whom he receives It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons, for what son is there whom the father does not discipline. If you are left without discipline in which all have participated, Then you are illegitimate children and not sons. I think some of these Jews were that way. Besides this, we have all had earthly fathers who discipl disciplined us and we respected them Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live? Do not grieve the Holy Spirit. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit. That's what Hebrews is saying. That's what Jesus wants. Because the Holy Spirit within you, dwelling within you, by regeneration, gives you the power to break free from the past enslavements. Whatever they are. Do you want to get well?