If you open your Bibles, please open them to Exodus chapter twelve, where we'll read verses one through ten. And then skip to 21 through 28. Exodus 12, verses 1 through 10, and 21 through 28. The Lord said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, This month shall be for you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year for you. Tell all the congregation of Israel that on the tenth day of this month every man shall take a lamb according to their father's houses, a lamb for a household And if the household is too small for a lamb, then he and his nearest neighbor shall, according to the number of persons, according to what each can eat, you shall make your count for the lamb Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male a year old. You may take it from the sheep or from the goats, and you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the month. when the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill their lambs at twilight. Then they shall take some of the blood, and put it on the two doorposts, and the lintel of the houses in which they eat. They shall eat the flesh that night, roasted on a fire, with unleavened bread and bitter herbs they shall eat it Do not eat any of it raw or boiled in water, but roasted, its head with its legs and its inner parts. And you shall let none of it remain until the morning. Anything that remains until morning you shall burn. Now verse 21 through 28. Then Moses called all the elders of Israel and said to them, Go and select lambs for yourselves according to your clans, and kill the Passover lamb. Take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin and touch the lintel and the two doorposts with the blood that is in the basin. None of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning. But the Lord will pass through to strike the Egyptians, and when he sees the blood on the lintel and on the two torposts, The Lord will pass over the door and will not allow the destroyer to enter your houses to strike you. You shall observe this right as a statute for you and for your sons forever. And when you come to a land that the Lord will give you, as He has promised, you shall keep this service. And when your children say to you, What do you mean by this service? you shall say, It is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover, for he passed over the houses of the people of Israel in Egypt, when he struck the Egyptians, but spared our houses. And the people bowed their heads and worshipped Then the people of Israel went and did so, as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron. So they did. The word of the Lord. And our epistle reading for this morning comes from Paul's first letter to the Corinthians. And we're going to read in chapter 11, verses 17 through 26. Some words that the Apostle Paul had concerning the Lord's Supper and their keeping of it. So 1 Corinthians chapter 11, beginning at verse 17. Hear the word of the Lord. But in the following instructions, I do not commend you, because when you come together, it is not for the better, but for the worse. For in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you. And I believe it in part, for there must be factions among you in order that those who are genuine among you may be recognized. When you come together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat. For in eating, each one goes ahead with his own meal One goes hungry, another gets drunk. What? Do you not have houses to eat and drink in Or do you despise the church of God and humiliate those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I commend you in this? No, I will not. For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus, on the night when he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me In the same way also he took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup. You proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. And our gospel reading this morning, which is also our sermon passage. is in Mark chapter 14, verses 22 through 26. So Mark chapter 14, beginning at verse 22, hear the word of the Lord. And as they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it, broke it, and gave it to them, and said, Take, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank of it. And he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. Truly I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. This is the word of the Lord. No event more than the Passover marked God's people and their identity. And no event or no celebration besides the Lord's Supper marks the people of God today. If you remember from 2 Kings and King Josiah's day, it is recorded for us that no Passover had ever been kept. Since the days of the Exodus, in the hundreds of years and centuries of God's people in the land, they had utterly forgotten. the right way in which to keep it. And we can think of our own church history and the kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ. How many hundreds of years The church and God's people did not know how to keep this sacrament as it was abused under the Roman Catholic Church and its teaching. And so what joy as Protestant Christians And as reformed Christians, to know and understand the Lord's Supper and what it means. And that's what we're looking at this morning is the institution of the Lord's Supper by our Lord Jesus Christ on the night that he was betrayed during the Passover celebration. So that's our subject this morning is the institution of this supper. by our Lord Jesus Christ. I just read to you from Paul's epistle, where he says that when the Lord instituted this, Mark did not write it in his gospel, Luke put it in his They don't always all say the same thing, but they don't contradict one another. But Paul tells us that as he received it from the Lord, the Lord told Paul, Paul, I instituted this as Sovereignly as you know, I instituted Passover as we read this morning, right? God said to Moses, Moses, command the people to do this. This is me instituting the Passover As sovereignly than we see this morning the Lord Jesus instituting for the church the Lord's Supper. And surely our Lord Jesus intended it. to be kept by his people because he says, Do this in remembrance of me. So we're looking at the institution of this by the Lord during this Passover meal and the night he was betrayed With the understanding, as the Apostle Paul tells us, that our Lord intended his church to keep this until he returns. So we're gonna be looking at what it is and what we are doing when we celebrate the Lord's Supper Because if you're familiar at all with the Christian church, you can go to different denominations and they teach a very different understanding of what we're doing. Some teach it's a sacrifice. Some teach it's just a remembrance. Some teach it is a means of grace as well. So there's In the Christian church, a lot of confusion, misunderstanding, varying of opinions on what's happening. And uh I don't want to enter into all that this morning I commend to you our confessional standards as they deal with that, and you could profit yourself today on the Lord's Day by reading those uh on what they say regarding the Lord's Supper as we understand it in the Reformed Church as they're making uh their protests. So those aren't insignificant, but what I want to do is just set forth Scripture's teaching on it, and which of course as a reformed church we understand to be the reformed teaching and set that before us this morning So let's uh look at our text beginning there at verse 22. We know that this meal had already started. And during that meal, Jesus made that shocking announcement that his betrayer, whom he had told them about months ago, was sitting with him at the table. and was his friend and his fellow and was uh eating bread with him. And I want to make that point as we go here to the Lord's Supper to make a point to you about well Who were the first people that took the Lord's Supper? To kind of get at that question of who should take the Lord's Supper Well, who were these men that the Lord Jesus invited to his table when he instituted for his church the first Lord's Supper? Well, first and foremost, they were baptized men. Now they were all men, it's not to say women aren't to take of it, but men were the apostles because They were the first ones who took it with Jesus and only apostles and ordained servants can be done by men, but women can take it. The point is, but who were these men? What about these men? Well the first thing they were baptized When John came on the scene, they believed the preaching of John, that John was sent by God to prepare the ways of the Messiah, and that is surely what John said. Don't think too much of me because there's a greater one coming. I'm not worthy of him. He's the one you should go to, the Lord Jesus Christ. And they believed his preaching. John baptized them And they became followers of John, and when Jesus came on the scene, they became followers of Jesus Christ and believed the preaching of John, that he was the Messiah. And they held fast that confession. So who should take the Lord's Supper? First and foremost, baptized people. People baptize the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. But what else about these men? Well, if you remember from last week, the Lord Jesus said, For the Son of Man goes as it is written of him. John makes it very clear that they believed that Jesus was the Messiah from the very beginning. Now, the gospel makes it clear that they did not understand that. But they were not following Jesus because they thought he was some vague figure. They were following Jesus because John said he's the Christ and testified to it, and they believed it. And Jesus revealed to them through his ministry just what it is to be the Christ. And that's what he's doing in that statement. When he says, For the Son of Man goes that it is written. He is declaring himself, I'm the Christ of the Bible, the one that's betrayed and crucified, which is a stumbling block if you are looking for a national conqueror. And the kingdom of this world and its political favor, and not a cross before the crown So Jesus, these are men at Philippi Caesarea who had confessed faith that when he asked them, who are you? Jesus said, Who do you say I am? And they said, You are the Christ. And you remember what Jesus says about them. Peter, who was a spokesman for them all, man did not teach you that, Peter. And he knows that because he's heard the human teaching of who he is. He's sat in the synagogues, he's heard the rabbis explain who he was and who he should be. And the fact that they're still clinging to Jesus two and a half years later, and he hasn't done anything that they said the Messiah should do when he comes, and they're still professing him as Christ, must mean one thing. They have a spirit-taught faith. God has taught them and revealed to them who the Messiah is. And so Jesus says, your faith is the right faith. Then what does that mean for us today in the church? Well, who should come to the table? baptize people, and people make a public profession of faith. And in this church, people come before the leadership, those who hold the keys of the kingdom as Jesus held the keys of the kingdom and said, that's a good faith So who should come to the Lord's Supper? If you have been baptized and if you have gone before the session, and the session asks you, Who do you say Jesus is? And you make your profession of faith. And if they say that's the faith, That's the faith of God's elect. That's the faith that the apostles have left from the scriptures. Your faith isn't in line with our word. Your faith is in line with God's word. Come to the table. That's their job. To invite and make sure everybody who has that faith comes to the table. And if you have not that faith, don't be a Judas, because Judas, even at this table, right? Partook of it to his own condemnation as Jesus was still declaring him there, Judith, I'm going as it's written. You will see that I am the Christ of Scriptures, still revealing himself to him as the true Messiah. So if you have faith in Christ crucified and have professed that faith and been baptized, come to the Lord's table. We call that church membership And in this church, we don't go beyond Scripture by asking its members to make vows, because vows, as our confession teaches us, vows only more strictly bind us to our necessary duties. Because the Lord Jesus Christ is one who requires of us to rely on His grace and to lead a godly life, which you're about to do It is the Lord Jesus Christ who requires us to faithfully and diligently serve in his church, worship together when the saints assemble, and to submit to the leadership. Taking a vow is just to say, brothers, I'm really earnest in this, and I want you to see that I'm earnest in this. So the church here at Grace and Peace, Reform, Presbyterian Churches, which generally require vows and ask members to make them Aren't going beyond Scripture because the Lord Jesus Christ requires these things in His Word, whether you bow to him or not. If you've been baptized and professed faith, guess what? You've taken Jesus as Lord, and your Lord says, serve in his church, worship in his church Submit to the leadership in this church, rely upon my grace, I've bought you by my blood, and lead a godly life. Amen. Okay, so I wanted to introduce to us before we get into it, who should even come to the supper? Because it's all right there. They're baptized. Jesus heard their profession of faith. Jesus is fencing the table. Warning, Judas, don't go forward and do this. Don't pretend to be my fellow. Repent now, confess now, or just leave Because you are not serving God. You think you're serving God. You think this is going to be good in betraying me, but it'll be to your own judgment and deliver me up. So there you have it from the word of God itself. Who should come to the Lord's Supper? Okay, let's look at this passage beginning at verse 22. It says, and as they were eating, now I want to say a quick word about this about what they were eating and about this meal as they were taking it because it makes a difference in our understanding uh what what is happening here. Well, what were they eating? Well, they were eating a sacrificial meal. Passover, first and foremost, was a sacrifice. You saw that in the reading this morning in Exodus 12, 27, when they were to come out of the land and their children, like our children here today. Children, have you ever asked your parents, what are you doing at the Lord's table? God said, when your children ask you and they see you keeping this Passover, and they say, What are you doing? You're to say, Well, this is the Lord's service. This is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover. First and foremost, Passover was a sacrifice, or the lamb was slain. And the blood was shed upon the doorpost. Later in Israel, when God put his name at the temple, the the blood was not put on individual houses, but on the altar Because when God came in his avenging, judging might and wrath through Egypt, and he saw that blood, he was reconciled Put his wrath away and did not go in that house and destroy its occupants, but passed over it and destroyed the firstborn of Egypt. So it is an atoning Death. That's what the Lamb stood for. The Lamb stood for an atoning sacrifice by which the sins of God's people were covered. He was reconciled to them not by anything they did, but what he did in giving the Lamb, put his wrath away, passed over that house. Well, did that bring about anything That God would reconcile himself to these people through his own provision and grace, his own lamb, and pass over. What then became of this people? Well, that's the significance of these words, and they were eating. It then became secondarily a meal. Eaten with their God, in fellowship with their God, because that is surely why God has not slain you and left you to your sins and cast you into the fiery furnace, but has redeemed you out of it That you would be his people and sit at his table and have communion with him. So Passover was first and foremost a sacrifice. An atoning sacrifice which redeemed God's people, covered their sins, that they might then have fellowship and sit at the Lord's table, the Passover table, and eat a meal with their God. Now, in the church today, the Lord's Supper is not a sacrifice. You must understand the Passover rightly, though, it is a sacrificial meal. Now, how many of you, when you gather, because we take it every week at Grace and Peace, say to yourself as you come to church, I'm having a sacrificial meal this morning with my Lord. Why is it important to understand this is a sacrificial meal? Because it always reminds us that a sacrifice has been made. That Christ has given that sacrifice once for all on the cross. And I'm jumping way ahead of myself, but I want to stress this now to you. The understanding that we are eating this meal for one reason, the grace of God in giving us a lamb. And that Lamb dying for us, that we might have our sins covered and become God's people and keep communion and fellowship with Him. This is a sacrificial meal. Paul makes it clear in his treatment of the Lord's Supper in 1 Corinthians, particularly in chapter 10, when he warns them and they have written about that, attending idols, they know that idols are nothing. They don't exist. They're not real things. There's only one God. But he does say pagans, Gentiles, when they offered up their sacrifices as idols, they were keeping fellowship with demons. The Jews even themselves, when they partook of the sacrifices at the altar, Paul says, are they not having a sharing, a communion, partaking of the altar? There's kind of three divisions of men. You either Jews who eat at the Jewish altar in the old covenant in the types and shadows, you're a pagan who eats at the table and altar of the demons you sacrifice to Or you're God's people who eat at the table the Lord Jesus Christ and the sacrifice He's made. That's why He said Do not have fellowship with demons because you have fellowship with the Lord. This is the Lord's table. That's the Lord's cup. And are we stronger than the Lord and are we going to provoke him to jealousy? Because it's his table He made the sacrifice and he calls us to eat of it. So please understand the Lord's table not as a sacrifice. Don't hear me say sacrifice. Hear me say sacrificial meal. We don't make it clear as we go through what the Lord's saying, but hear me say to you, sacrificial meal. Okay That's as they were eating. Now, this meal um was sort of orchestrated around four cups. Four cups of wine. And the first cup was uh there's a fancy word for it. I can't say it But it's when you take some wine and it gets uh your appetite going. Somebody here may know what that fancy word is. But that's essentially the purpose of the first cup. These four cups, later in Jewish interpretation, were linked to Exodus chapter 6 in verses, I think it's either 6 and 7 or 4 through 6, and turning there. And uh God's fourfold promise of what he was going to do in bringing out the people from Israel. Uh in verse 6, say to the people of Israel, I am the Lord I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. The first cup represented that promise. The second cup which they took of the meal represented the promise. I have remembered my covenant. I will deliver you from the slavery to them. That was the second cup. The third cup, I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great acts of judgment. The fourth cup, I will take you to be my people. I will be your God. And you shall know that I am the Lord your God. These four promises that God makes there in Exodus chapter six, as he's telling Moses what he's about to do. Uh the Passover meal later was celebrated around these four cups. And that becomes important as we go. I'm not telling you this just to impress you with all the knowledge I crammed in my head over the last two weeks But I'm telling you this to understand the structure which this meal took and its significance as our Lord instituted, because honestly, beloved, I think this is where the church has gone wrong in its understanding uh of this Lord's Supper when it gets so scholastic and and systematic and treats it and forgets its biblical historical basis And it's fulfillment of the Passover, and we lose its roots in the Bible, and we don't go back exegetically to what's happening in scriptures, and we develop all these later things, and it gets clouded So it's important to understand the meal as our Lord instituted it. So the meal began with this cup, giving thanks. Then the youngest person present said, you know, ask that question, what does this mean? And then the head of the house uh would then recite God's grace and redeeming his people Then the elements that we read about, the unleavened bread, the bread of affliction, the roast lamb, the bitter herbs. And I'm told, and I don't know if this was later or original, uh stewed fruit That sorta had the consistency of clay and the color of clay to remind them that they made bricks under Pharaoh. All those things, the bread of affliction, the bread of unleavened, remind them of their time in Egypt, the bitter herbs, the bitterness of their bondage to Pharaoh, and the rose lamb reminding them of the sacrifice which had brought them out. So all those elements of the eight had significance to God in his bringing his people out in Exodus. All this was brought in and displayed on the table. And then the meal would begin. And that's what's going on here. Uh, as they were eating, uh, these elements had already brought in, and at that point they would sing the first part of these Hillel Psalms. Psalms 113, 114, and 115 they would sing at that time, and then would come the meal. Now during this meal, the next thing we see the Lord Jesus took bread, that's that unleavened bread, the bread of affliction After blessing it, he's not blessing it uh in the sense of blessing it so now it becomes something other than bread But the idea was when you bless the bread, it becomes blessed because we praise and give thanks to God who provided the bread. There was a set prayer that Jesus would have said uh over this meal that heads of households would have learned and he would have known. Something along the lines of, Oh Lord, King of all the earth, we bless you who brings who causes bread to come out of the earth. Something along those lines of blessing God for his bread Blessed it, then he broke it. Um breaking it in itself does not necessarily symbolize the broken body. It's not that it doesn't, but the point is to consume bread, right, you have to break it into pieces and take it. What I mean by that is just the significance when you take bread, the Lord's not giving us a whole loaf to try to consume. But He the head of the household would break the bed, then He'd break off a piece of bread to give to everybody at the table. And that's the significance of breaking it. And we know he has sacrificed. The point is he breaks it because he's going to give it to you to have communion in. And if you're going to partake of that bread you must have a peace because That one bread is to feed everybody and not just one person, right? So he doesn't give you the whole loaf and it's you to eat, nobody else gets anything, but he breaks that one loaf and distributes to everybody and they eat of the bread Another reason why I say we must stress the the meal aspect of this, and I wonder if any of us have ever kept it As it was kept in the early truth, it was kept around a meal. If you lose, if you're just given a tiny wafer, you're losing the sense that it's a meal that you're you're missing out on what's here because Some of it again, the whole errors of the thinking is somehow God's saving grace gets infused in these elements and they become other what they are and all the focus becomes on men and you miss what's going on You're having communion and fellowship with the risen Lord Jesus Christ at his table, and you miss the fact this is a meal. So I'm just saying that to remind us we again you can get so focused on these elements And them changing to what they're not, and grace being put into them and myopic and miss what this is as a meal and fellowship with Christ. So he broke bread, uh, he gave it to them and said, take eat. Now then the ESV went with manuscripts that they think eat wasn't original to Mark. I disagree with them, and I go with manuscripts that said it's here. So I go with a tradition that says Jesus says, take and eat. This is my body. Okay. What do those words mean? I I almost tremble to tell you what they mean because Luther would tell you they mean this and Calvin would tell you they'd mean this and Zwingli they'd tell you to mean this and who am I But I think the easiest way to start with what Jesus means when he says, This is my body, is to understand that in context. If you go back earlier in chapter 14 to verse 8, she has done what she could. She has anointed my body for burial. Now of course Jesus is living, but when you anoint the body for burial, is that body alive or dead Is death. It's a corpse. It seems gruesome, or the Lord is saying, This is my corpse. Because the whole context is remembers he's about to die. But he's showing you my death isn't accidental. It's not a mistake. This is my sovereign will, together with my Father, to redeem you. So he's giving them his death for them, his body. Given for you, his body, as Paul says in his account of it, broken for you. So this isn't a strange understanding of this word? 1 Samuel 31, verse 10 and verse 12 The Philistines took the body of Saul and nailed it to the wall. And the faith for Israelites later that night came and took down the body of Saul and the body of his sons. What body did they take down? A corpse, a dead body. We'll get later more than that, but we'll stay here first so that sinks in to us that when Jesus said, This is my body, he means my dead body, after it has been crucified and offered up on the tree for you. To cover for your sins, he's saying, that's what I'm giving to you to partake of. Hebrews 10:10, I think maybe one of the best statements on what Jesus is saying when he says, I give you my body. If you remember here in this part of Hebrews, Paul is quoting Psalm 40: Behold, I come to do your will, O God, as written me in the scroll of the book, a body you have prepared for me. And Paul writes, and by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once. for all. So he is putting his sacrificial body into their hands, making it clear that this is a sacrifice. I am laying down my life. I am giving up my life. Nobody's Taking it from me. I stand here and know my betrayers here. I am the one putting my body into your hands. signified here by the bread that this is my dead body, this is my crucified body, this is the body I offered up on the tree once and for all as a sacrifice to Sanctify you as the God's people. So you can see again the significance of that body as a sacrifice. Immediately understand as they are God's holy people set apart eating at God's table, it's that sacrificial body which created this, the Church of Jesus Christ Without the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, there's no church of Jesus Christ. There's no people consecrated, set apart to God, keeping holy fellowship, keeping this Holy Supper Stopping with the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what Jesus is saying. This body offered to you is what has set you apart, delivered you out of this world, and made you to be God's people. That's the significance of what Jesus is saying when he says, This is my body. I'm not going to get into all those things, but remember that Jesus is bodily sitting at table with them. And he's when he says, This is my body, take and eat, he is in no way signifying that they should start consuming his flesh. Because that's not what he's giving them to eat. And this is where we become distinctly reformed in our understanding of it. Roman Catholic Church, Lutheran Church, make Christ physically present in their understanding of the Lord's Supper That this becomes his body in some mysterious way, actually his flesh, which is consumed and eaten, and they want a physical presence of the Lord Jesus as the only way to secure a Real presence of the Lord Jesus. That's not what we can fast and practice as a reformed church. Um and let me see if I can make that clear to you why. You get no more grace in this supper as a means of grace than you get in the preaching of the gospel. There is not something extra added special here that is automatically conveyed to you, that's given to you, that goes above and beyond Christ The whole Christ, the complete Christ, as he has preached to you in the Word, and you believe that by faith and receive Him. And that is the significance of John chapter 6, if you're familiar with the sermon that Jesus preached in Copernaum. He says, if you believe on me, you have eternal life. Then he says, if you eat my flesh and drink my blood, you have eternal life. So which one is it? What is he getting at? He's saying, if you receive me in the word preached, it's as much as eating my flesh and drinking my blood you get me And you have union with me, you have communion with me and all my graces through the preaching of the gospel word. So there is no extra Christ added at this supper? There's no Christ plus sum given here. This is merely another means. That God has given for us, that we may partake in the same Christ and His gospel and His Word as He's preached. given now in an audible way and a sensory way above and beyond the word preached. So what we say, because Jesus is not just giving his body to them and leaves it at that and says, now leave it on the table As a remembrance of me. But he says, actually take and do what? Eat it. Consume it. What's he getting at? Well, when you eat bread, what happens to that bread? It becomes a part of you The Lord Jesus has chosen the consumption of bread and the consumption of wine, signifying his sacrifice on the cross, showing us That sacrifice alone is what has bound me to you and has brought about the most intimate union and communion that you have with me, with me, really, in this in this meal as a Spiritual presence of Christ is a spiritual communion. We do not need Christ physically in the bread physically blood and the wine to have union and communion with him. We have that by the one Spirit which has baptized us into the body of Christ, has made Christ present in his human nature in his Godhead to us as the Savior who died and rose, he is present, but it is a spiritual union and a spiritual communion that we have with him Through these elements. The key word here is through the elements, not in the elements, not by the elements, not with the elements But through these elements, as they are received in faith, you truly do receive Christ and all his saving benefits as the crucified risen Lord, in union and communion with him. As you partake in His crucified body and His shed blood, making it as clear to our minds as possible. There is no union with Christ, there is no communion with Christ except with the crucified one. Except through his sacrifice on the cross. Apart from that, you and I will never be bound to God, never be united to him, never have communion with him. That has come about solely through one historical act. the atonement on Calvary 2,000 years ago, and as it is applied to us by the Spirit as we are affectionately called and united to Christ's body in time. And that's what the Lord Jesus is constantly reminding us at this meal as he puts His crucified body, his blood into our hands, remind us it is by that sacrifice alone that we keep a holy meal with them. Have a holy fellowship with him. Take him and eat him and have the closest communion with him in spirit as he is present to us by that spirit. Okay, I wanted this to belabor that point and to just set it out for us because again, so much can be said and wrong when we misunderstand what's happening here in these elements. It is through these elements. As they are received by faith in Christ, that we do have communion with him as he is giving himself to his people. So take ye, this is my body. Now, after this part they would finish the meal, they would eat the roast lamb, and then would come the third cup And that's the cup that Jesus took. He took the third cup or the cup of blessing. If you remember, that third cup was the cup of promise where God promised to redeem his people. It is not insignificant that Jesus picked the cup that represented the promise of God to redeem his people to signify as his blood, which is the ransom for God's people in coming out of their bondage to sin. Jesus took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank of it. Now we're used to the words coming first, or Mark tells us that Jesus gave it to them and they all just consumed it And I think he's he's signifying there to tell us when he says, And they all drank of it, even Judah's. Have you ever done something And all of a sudden you realize maybe you ate something and someone says, you you know you just ate a crawfish, you're like, ah too late. You've you've already taken of it or something, right? Too late, Judas Hastily grabbed the cup and didn't know what this was and what I was doing here. Didn't understand me as a sovereign lord of this new covenant to my instituting it to my people, and you partook And you have no saving faith, because you have not received me as the Messiah promised by God, but as the false Messiah presented by the scribes and Pharisees. Too late, Judas. We then read that our Lord doesn't lead them in the in the dark about the significance of this cup. And this again this cup came after the meal, so he gives the bread, they eat the meal. Then after the meal he gives the cup. He says, this is my Blood of the new covenant. You'll see a footnote if you're reading the ESV. Some inserts have news, some have not. This is my blood of the new covenant. What is the significance of covenantal blood? Well, in Exodus chapter 24, you remember that God's people ate Passover? God redeemed his people, brought them out from Pharaoh. Through the Red Sea, through the wilderness, to his mountain, where he entered into a covenant with them. And we read in Exodus 24, verse 8, and Moses took the blood And threw it on the people and said, Behold the blood of the covenant That the Lord has made with you in accordance to all these words. And here as they are fulfilled By Jesus here in the New Covenant, and as Peter writes to the church in his first letter, where he writes and says To those who are left exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Capitocea, Asia, and Bithynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit. For, and what does he mean by that? How would a Jews sit apart as God's people in the old covenant? The law, capital L. Don't eat this Wash like this. Do these things. That was their sanctification. What's Peter saying? What a set apart God's people today? The Holy Spirit. Because holiness is not something common to the world. There is not holiness apart from union with Christ. No, it is the spirit of the power of the spirit of the air, Satan, his spirit, which is in the sons of disobedience, leading them in the course of this world. How are we set apart as God's people? Through this offering of Christ, which is brought about our union to Him and the Holy Spirit in our lives. That's our sanctification, the Spirit. That's what Peter says. So he's using again this covenantal language to make it clear what the Jews were, you are. As God's people under the Messiah as He promised it and has given it for these days of fulfillment. Your sanctification is of the Spirit. For what? Obedience to Jesus Christ Right? They confessed their obedience to do everything Yahweh had told them to do. Your obedience when you became a Christian is to say, Jesus, I will do everything you say to do because you are the Lord of the covenant. I'm going to make that clear in a point in a minute. We profess obedience to Jesus Christ. We say, Jesus your Lord, we will do everything you say as your people, redeemed by your blood. For the sprinkling with his blood. Peter couldn't make it clearer as he applies Exodus 24 to God's church today to make it clear, you are the people of the new covenant. in covenant with the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's the significance of covenant blood. Jesus is saying this offering that I am going to make on the cross Is the very foundation of the binding that God is going to make with his new people, whom he has called and brought to me and represented and seen here as they sit at table with him. Now Jesus says new covenant. Does he mean that this is a covenant utterly new in time? The word here means new in conditions. What Jesus is actually doing here at this table is renewing the covenant with God's people. Because if you know the Old Testament history, you know they had utterly broken that covenant. This is something that's amazed me all week Mark's gospel begins in Malachi with the promise not just in Isaiah 40, but with Malachi. God the Lord is coming to his temple. Now we already saw that when Jesus came and cleansed the temple, the messenger of the covenant. So I mean when I say Jesus is Lord, what's he doing? What is the Lord of the covenant that God made with his people, Moses? What's he doing on earth? But he's making a new covenant. Jeremiah 31, I will make a new covenant with them in that day. I will write my law on their heart. I will be their God, they'll be my people, they shall all know me, and I'll forgive their sins. I'm going to read to you what Paul says about this. In Hebrews 9, you understand the significance what Yahweh, who's taken on flesh Is doing on earth and instituting a new covenant. Remember who's he instituting it with? Jesus was a minister to the circumcision, right? Primarily his ministry to the Jews at the moment. It will go to the nations, as we read in Psalm 22 today, it has gone to the nations. But what is the Lord of the covenant? What is the Lord who instituted that covenant at Sinai doing? What is he doing on earth? Therefore, he, Jesus, is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance. Since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant In Hebrews 9:1, so we're all clear on what that covenant is. Now, even the first covenant had regulations for worship in an earthly place of holiness. Here's what's happening, beloved. I encourage you to read Jeremiah. Because you read Jeremiah and you wonder: is Jesus preaching or Jeremiah preaching? Read Jeremiah, read the Gospels. Is Jeremiah preaching or is Jesus preaching? Jesus, Yahweh, through Jeremiah, lays open. The transgressions and sins of the people whom he made his covenant with. And what's he doing? The Lord of that covenant Has become one of them to die for the transgressions of that old covenant, and in his blood to make a new and everlasting covenant with him. Now let us fall on our face before Almighty God and worship him, because who does that? Who comes and says the people he has graciously freely made a covenant with and given them all his promises, and when they throw that in his face And turn to other gods and commit whoredom upon whoredom against him. He comes and says, I will make a new one, and I'll die for the transgressions of that old covenant But I might make an everlasting one with you in my blood, and bind you to me in a way in which you shall never, ever turn away again. That's what Jesus is saying that this meal means. We are renewing our covenant with the Lord Jesus Christ every week As the Lord of our covenant. He says, I am your God, you're my people. We say, We will be your people. We will throw out the idols in our home. We'll remember our baptismal vows and we'll serve you. That's what we mean by renewing the covenant every week as we sit at this meal. That sacrifice purchased us, gave us this covenant gave us this union, has given us this communion, and we realize and recognize by God's sheer grace, we're his people, and we commit ourselves to more faithfully serve him as his people. That's what's happening when we have this sacrificial meal every week. Those are the truths and things that we are remembering and identifying ourselves as That's what we're marveling at and wondering at in Yahweh's great love and his mercy, and dying for the transgressions of the old covenant, dying for the transgressions of the covenant of works, and Adam dying for all those transgressions. To give us a new covenant and to be as people. Well, lastly, here after Jesus does that, it's also substitutionary. This is poured out for many Isaiah 53. 12 is being represented here, right? This death, Jesus is making clear, is for many people. It is substitutionary. It is in their place. So the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ Is the foundation of our covenant which has bound us to God. Finally, Jesus says, Truly I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine. There's a fourth cup on the table. There is a standing cup that Jesus says, I'm not going to drink of that cup. That was the cup of consummation where God promised to Be his people and bring them to be his. You will read in Revelation 21. 3 in that wonderful vision of the new heavens and the earth where God wipes away our tears That very covenantal promise is said to be fulfilled and consummated in that day when we will be God's people and brought to him forever. Jesus said Like a Nazarene. I agree with scholars who say this is really Jesus like a Nazarene vowing himself to the work he has just depicted to his disciples. of going to the cross and making the sacrifice for their new covenant and salvation, not going to drink the cup, consecrating myself to that work But he also puts him in hope when he says, I will drink it again, but it's going to be on that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. Some think that means after the resurrection, and some think that means when Jesus returns again in glory. I side with the latter. Jesus means I think what this is getting at is Jesus saying, This fourth cup which ended that meal, this is really an unfinished meal, you might say. Every time, what does Paul say? You proclaim the Lord's death until what? He comes. Our Christian lives, our redemption is not fully here yet. We don't have the redemption of our bodies, Paul says in Romans 8. Have we been beamed by the blood of Christ yet? Has it been consummated? Do we have everything that God has promised to give us because Christ died and atoned for our sins? No. But we remember that every week as we come to the table, this is really a provisional meal, the Lord's saying. This meal turns into the marriage supper of the Lamb in Revelation 19. This cup that traditionally ended this meal will be the cup that what a wonderful day when we see the Lord Jesus Christ in person. In the new heavens and new earth, in his father's kingdom, and you see him pick up the cup and bless it. Has that ever crossed your mind and stunned you with its awesomeness When you come to the table, is your heart set on that? Do you remember there is more to your life than these short years? Painful years, hard years, years of tears and mourning and weeping That's what Jesus is saying. He's going, he's dying, but he says, I will rise again, I will be vindicated, and my people will eat with me and drink with me in the new heavens and new earth. That is what is being promised here. That's why the fourth and final thing we do when we celebrate the Lord's Supper is we look forward to his coming again. If you are not eating this in anticipation and eagerly looking for the Lord's coming again, Why? He's your Lord. The same Lord Jesus Christ you have received now by faith. The hope is you'll see him by sight. Faith. gives way to sight. So we do four things, beloved. We keep this every week. We have communion with the risen Lord Jesus Christ in this holy meal. We renew our covenant with our Lord Jesus Christ, remembering that sacrifice, remembering the promises that have been enacted upon that sacrifice. how he's bound us to him by these sacrifices, and how these are yes and amen in him. We also, as we receive Christ, as he gives himself, this is my body. This is my blood. Take and eat as we take and we appropriate Christ and all of his sacrifices, right? You have to take the bread and eat it. The bread does you no good if it's just sacrificed. Christ as he's preached to you does you no good unless you take him by faith. Christ, as he is held out to you as the Lord of glory, as the Son of God, as the Savior, as the fullness of salvation, the redemption is in his hand, if you don't take him And take him as your Lord, he does you no good. That's what this means when you must take him and take the cup and take the bread. So we appropriate Christ. We appropriate the fullness of our salvation in him every week, our justification, our adoption, our sanctification, all the blessings that flow from that, assurance of God's love, peace of our conscience, joy in the Holy Spirit Increase in grace, perseverance in it. All these are things we appropriate at the Lord's table as we receive Christ. And finally We look forward to his coming every time we eat this meal because he stood up and said, I will drink this again, and I will drink it with you, my people. What joy. I'm going to close with a word to the children again, real quick Children, every week in this church, you see us, you see your parents, you see your older siblings, keep this feast And have this meal. And as you look at it and see it, know that that is your baptismal right, as you have been born into this covenant Have you received the sign and seal of your adoption as God has put his name upon you and made his promises to you? This is what your parents are bringing you up in, and this is why we are instituting catechism classes for all of our covenant youth from six to sixteen, because that is the way you bring them to the table. You teach them the faith they've been baptized into. You tell them this is the table of maturation or maturity. This is what you are to go to when you can discern the body, when you can profess faith. When you can take the Lord Jesus Christ and do it, because it is God's will, it is your Lord's will. This table is set before you. Your baptism is calling it to you. So Parents, let your children's baptism preach to them all their life. Their baptism is calling to them to put their faith in Jesus Christ who's redeemed them, to trust in their Heavenly Father who has washed them of their sins and clothed them Take it into their house. So children, know that this table is before you. Know that this is what your parents in the church is praying for you and bringing you up in the end. And let me remind you, beloved, pray for the children that they would grow up and appropriate and take Christ as his own. Now I have spoken a lot of things to you and um praise the Lord because uh this is such an important meal. I hope that everybody has learned something this morning about this meal. I think more than anything, that you long more and more every week to take it. Understanding that This is a sacrificial meal. And why do you see Pastor, why do you keep harping harm? Because if you look all through the history of God's dealing with this people They sat in those sacrificial meals as a sign they're his. If you don't get that it's a sacrificial meal, you don't get that you're God's By sacrifice you don't get the the heritage and what's yours and Christ and the fulfillment. And not only that, the world thinks sacrificing is crazy and they want to just Throw out the idea of sacrifice as weird and strange as it becomes more and more atheistic. It is important to remember. You sit at a sacrificial table every week You sit at the Lord's table every week. So don't go sit at wrong tables during the week. Don't lower yourself because you've been, there's no higher table you've been raised to and been given the right to because you have faith in Jesus Christ by God's grace. So that that's that's how you exhort people from the gospel. You remind them of who they are in Christ and the privilege and blessings they are and say, then don't go to any other table. But stop with the Lord Jesus Christ. So grace and peace. Don't go to any other tables. And join together and let us all pray that the Lord would help us more and more to faithfully keep this meal. And to remember him in it and to receive Christ as he's truly given to us here. Amen