1 Peter four, one through six. Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. The time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do. Living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. With respect to this, they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery. And they malign you But they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached. Preached, even to those who are dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does And then let us turn and read responsively, if you have your Trinity Hymnal, read responsively the Psalm 1 as we begin our series in the Psalms Responsibly Psalm 1 in the back of the hymnal. It's on page seven eighty-five I'll begin. Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, or stand in the way of sinners, or sit in the seat of mockers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in season. Therefore, the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous. Now let me address you from Psalm one and I'll be By saying that I have preached this sermon before. So some of you may have been around long enough to have heard it before. I'm sure some of you have not, but uh I think it bears preaching again. Begins this way. None of you who profess faith in Christ and are living an ordered life before God and the world None of you will suddenly awaken tomorrow and decide to live an immoral life of debauchery, abuse, lying, stealing, murder, and the like. It just doesn't happen that way. People don't snap from one lifestyle to another quickly. Now it may appear so sometimes when you hear the shocking news of someone who you thought was very godly, being involved in some gross immorality Maybe the breakup of what seemed an ideal marriage because of this gross immorality. Or when someone who was respected as a godly leader is suddenly exposed. It may appear as though there was an immediate and an abrupt and sudden change, but that is not how things usually happen There is usually an underlying process of decline. The person undergoing the decline thinks that everything is fine at first. But gradually changes perspective and eventually revolts against faith and the obedience of faith. The writer to the Hebrews in chapter 2, verse 1 and 2 says this, therefore, to the Hebrews, therefore we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift. See that drifting that goes on on behind the scenes, lest we drift away from it. For since the message declared by angels proved to be reliable in every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution, how shall we escape if we neglect such a grace? Salvation if we drift from that salvation. In the beginning of Psalm 1, this person Whoever it is being described here thinks that he or she is the blessed person. And perhaps they really are the blessed person. How does such a blessed man or woman or young person become The discussion of bad news, the object of that discussion. The answer is found in the regression, the slide, the drift, Hebrews Mentions that is warned against in Psalm 1. The regression is described in three phases here. Phase one is walking in the counsel of the wicked. The psalmist here pictures life as a road along which people are walking. As they're walking along the road, they're sharing ideas with those who they are companions with. They're sharing information. They're sharing the perspectives that they gain from others. In this picture, the blessed ones are warned not to walk in the council. of the wicked. Wicked here simply means ungodly. It doesn't mean people who are terrible, awful, just gross, but just ungodly. Not notorious criminals, but simply those who do not take the God revealed in Israel's history seriously. They may even be religious, but they don't have the religion. of Israel, they don't have the religion of the Bible. And ideas have consequences, as someone has so aptly said. Now, this does not mean that Christians cannot learn from unbelievers in the academy or in business and industry. It does mean that we must be aware, as we learn from others, we must be aware of the unbeliever's bias and prejudice as he tries to interpret the things discovered in the natural world. You see, everyone begins with presupposition Beginning assumptions about the reality of things. Assumptions you start with largely determine the outcome of your thinking. For example, if I assume that man is a mere animal, the product of blind chance And then I have to deal with an unacceptable behavior from one of these animals. I will not speak about right and wrong, good and bad, true and false. Instead, I will resort to behavior. Threatening or rewarding to get the behavior I have decided to promote through coercion. I will not treat that person as a responsible being made in the image of God with moral capacities given by God. And such an assumption will have far-reaching effects when it is adopted by a whole society, laws, policies. Change the picture greatly, you see. So here's what is in view: it is the prohibition to not walk in the council. of the wicked. That is not gathering and giving consideration to the opinions of the wicked about things that should be grounded in the Word of God. God should find their roots deep in our world view I'll give you another example. Think of someone who knows the teaching of the Bible about morals and ethics. They grew up in church. They know about God. They are presently walking along the road with unbelievers and hearing different views from them. You think of a college student who goes away to a secular university. They're hearing different views than the ones they grew up with at home and in the church. And they are entertaining these views as alternatives. Even though these are clearly opposing opinions. They're not ready to adopt these views, but they may see some practical benefit in them, some worldly wisdom. They may admire their teachers, their college professors, or they may admire a favorite actor who will give his or her opinion about things current. Or a friend who they admire greatly. Someone who achieves a lot and they wish they could achieve those things. An athlete, perhaps, that's our society seems to put on On a pedestal athletes and listen to their opinions about all kinds of things that have nothing to do with athletics. Some of the people who shared these views with them are very nice people. Maybe even nicer than some Christians. This is to walk in the counsel of the wicked, to gather and entertain the ideas that flow from quite different precepts. Suppositions about God and humans and truth. And so pause to ask you where do you get your advice about the issues of life? How do you draw conclusions about moral questions and even public policy? Is it based on the Word of God, the worldview taught in Scripture Or is it possible that you entertain some ideas that are out there about alternate opinions about the way things could be done? The second phase that's described in the first part of the psalm here is drifting. Phase two is standing, so we'll we'll call this the drift towards standing. It was walking before, now it's standing still, sort of. You know, you're walking along, and then now you stop and really really ponder what they have to say, standing in the way, the road of sinners. This is more a settled thing. On the road of life, this person is not merely walking along casually, listening to the alternative opinions, but is spending some considerable time in the company of and under the instruction of the ungodly. They're not ready to graduate with a full-blown rejection of their Christian faith, but now they're not so sure. Other views may have some good ideas too, and maybe Maybe I should consider them. They may consider their foray into these other ideas as a mere trifle, an experiment. In any case, they do not want to alarm their Christian friends, their parents, etc. , who are now being considered unenlightened, reactionary, overly judgmental. In this connection, I think, of my son Aaron, who graduated from the King's Christian Academy, some of his best buddies who grew up in strong, solid evangelical churches. Have sadly drifted. Drifted. As they've gone off to college, have entertained the ideas, the thoughts, the opinions of others, and they have drifted away. Away from God and His Word, and no longer have any clear idea of what they believe. Understands how it happens. Campbell Morgan describes the standing in the way of sinners as the activity which harmonizes with the counsel of sinners. It walks in step with sinners. It is likely that such persons that stand in the way of sinners will still make it their habit to sit in the pews of the church. As if nothing has happened. Now, they may come to be irritated by the negative tone of preaching. Or even the serious nature of the service. They want a more entertaining service now. They're not so interested in that serious business that They may even possibly appreciate a good scolding once in a while and try to reform themselves a little bit, or they may simply begin to look for excuse. Excuses called reasons why they do not like the church anymore and do not wish to go there. Now, various external pressures may keep them in the church social conventions, friends, spouse, parents, family tradition. But they do not care much for the teaching of Scriptures anymore. To them the sacraments are empty ritual. At the end of this phase, or at the beginning of the next, the facade is smacked. And the shocking truth comes to light. The ungodly ideas and practices that they have adopted are now uncovered. And they come out. We hear a lot about coming out, don't we? They come out into the open with their rejection of God's word and God's ways. In the case of those who do not repent, they are found to be, in the third phase, sitting in the seat of mocker. Now that phrase sitting in the seat of mockers has a definite meaning. They were walking, they were standing, now they're sitting. It probably is an academic term. You see. Because even today in our academies, the heads of departments are given the title The Seat of Theology or the Seat of philosophy or the chair of economics. It's sitting, you see, because the teachers sit in traditional language In traditional Middle Eastern societies, teachers sat to teach while the students often stood. If you read in the New Testament Gospels, sometimes Jesus sits down. And teaches. This is the regress. Those who once entertain the ideas of the ungodly Walking along the road, come to a place where they stood with the ungodly in a more settled way, adopting their ideas, their thought patterns, their morals, indeed their theology And Spurgeon says they go one step further and become themselves pestilent teachers and tempters of others. Thus they sit in the seat of mockers. Teachers of mockery. They have taken their degree in vice, Spurgeon says, and as true doctors of damnation, they are are installed and looked up to by others as masters of devil of devilry. He calls it belile, but devilry. In their teaching of others, they denounce goodness and righteousness and truth. They scoff at the old standards. say something like this to you. Don't you know this is the 21st century? As if the age of an idea proved its falsehood And the newness of an idea was reason enough to accept it as true. So, such a person has completely switched sides. It's taken a while, probably. Once they advocated truth and promoted it, now they scoff and advocate a False religion that makes man the measure of all things, makes man God, really. This is the road that you must not take. If you want to be blessed, you ought to carefully guard against these steps in this direction. And the answer is also found here in the Psalm. contrast part of the psalm where the psalm says but his delight his delight is in the law the instruction of the Lord. Delight. His delight. It's a treasure. Chestful of fine articles. Antique beautiful jewelry or something. something like that, something that you love very much. The table set with fine china and sterling silverware. Under the cupboard platter are lobster and drawn butter, or aged prime filet mignon, and for dessert, creme bolet or something like that, you know. Delight. I love this. This is great. His delight is in the law, the instruction of the Lord. To this blessed person, God's words are pure delight. A rich and exhaustible treasure and timeless resource for living. And then the psalmist says, On his law He meditates day and night. Ed Clownie, former professor and then president of Westminster Theological Seminary, when the transcendental meditation was popular, he wrote a book called Christian Meditation. And Psalm 1 was his text to write that book. On his law he meditates. We are to meditate. We are to let something go on over and over and over in our mind. And heart. He ruminates on it. He mutters about it. He counsels himself in it. On his law, he meditates. I was uh I was looking for something uh to add to uh our repertoire of singing and worship, and I came Came to uh a song that I found called uh it's from Psalm 51. It's Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. It's a beautiful song. It was written in 19 1984 by Keith Green. I hope to bring it into our worship. But that tune and those wonderful words started circling in my singing pattern. my mind, in my heart. Beautiful words, beautiful tune, that's meditation. If you keep a song full of truth like that in your heart and your mind, that's Meditation. And it's a help to me and maybe to you to listen to WXMD. There's quite a bit to meditate upon as you hear teaching and as you hear music. It keeps you framed in good ways to meditate. On his law, he meditates day and night. This person's religion is not segregated from other areas of life. It's not just Sunday, but fully pervades and informs everything in life. Everything. Abraham Kuyper, 19th-century Dutch politician and theologian, founded a political party, a newspaper, and a university in the Netherlands. And he is famous to have said this there is not one square inch of this universe about which Jesus Christ does not say, It is mine It is mine. Everything belongs to Jesus. Saint Paul Therefore, said in 2 Corinthians 9 5, We who meditate on the law of God, we destroy arguments. And every lofty opinion that is raised against the knowledge of God. And we take every thought captive to obey Christ. That's By meditation, you see. By meditation, by orientation on the law of God. We look at the arguments, the the arguments that come after us, the lofty opinions that come toward us from outside, and we take them captive. obedience of Christ and we demolish or destroy those arguments. We say, ridiculous, foolish, throw it away. It's no good. Instead of saying, well Well, that's interesting. Maybe I'll consider that opinion. The psalmist then compares the blessed man to a planted tree. Verse 3, he is like a tree planted by streams of water, that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all he does, he prospereth. Notice that the tree is planted. It's been put there on purpose. God has planted the tree. tree, it's not growing wild. And it's planted beside a source of life The figure of a tree is also used in Psalm thirty seven, verse thirty five, where it says, I have seen the wicked, ruthless man spreading himself like a green laurel tree. And then verse 36 we see the temporary appearance of this ungodly man who's flourishing, changing. But in verse 36, but he passed away, and behold, he was no more. I sought him. He could not be found. He was not planted by streams of living water. The blessed, in contrast, yields its fruit in season. Every phase of his life is characterized by productive godliness And its leaf also does not wither. This person's source for life will never end. Does it run out and then the leaves all fall off? No, there's always a source for this person. In all he does, he prospers. He prospers when he has much. Paul says, I've been happy to have much. He prospers when he has little. He says, and I've been happy to have little. He prospers in sickness. He prospers in health He prospers even in death. As the Apostle Paul said, for me to live is Christ, to die is gain. He prospers Even in death. Psalm 92 also speaks in these terms. Psalm 92, verse 12: the righteous flourishes like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon. They are planted in the house of the Lord. They flourish in the courts of our God. They still bear fruit in old age. They are ever full of sap and green. To declare that the Lord is upright. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him. So what a contrast to those who walked and then stood and then become teachers sitting in the seat of mockers. What a contrast the blessed are. But then there's the contrast on the other side, once again, in verse 4. Not so the wicked. Not so the wicked, not so. It's really redundant there to be emphatic. It's doubled up. Not so the wicked, not so, in Hebrew. What are they like? Well, in harvest time, there would be a threshing floor. And the grain would be brought in and then it would be dislodged from the stems and husks. Then big scoops of the stuff, the grain heads, would be rolled and Till the grain shucks came off to some extent, the wheat shucks came off. And then you how do you get the shucks out of the grain? How do you separate them? Well, you would take a pan of sorts, go out to a threshing floor, usually in a place where there's a nice breeze blowing, and you throw the grain up into the air. And the wind blows the chaff away the husks, the chaff, the worthless stuff, and the heavy, oily grain comes back down and is caught. So thrown up again, more chaff blown away. Grain comes down. Thrown up again, more chaff blows away until there's no more chaff. Now you have the clean The wicked are not so, but like chaff that the wind drives away They won't make the grade. The judgment of God will come. If it doesn't come temporally in this life, the judgment of God will come when Christ returns. But it often does come temporally. Righteousness generally brings prosperity and peace and joy. Wickedness generally brings destruction. Sorrow and death. You need to exercise discretion, going back to the beginning. Discrimination. It's okay to discriminate. You need to exercise discretion, discrimination, and judgment over the things that you are allowing into your life. That's what Bill Shish Was teaching us, wasn't it? Movies, music, books, much of television, things on the internet, express the counsel of the wicked Don't they? They sure do. It's quite an industry. It's billions, maybe trillions of dollars Of industry, just to express the counsel of the wicked. We need to learn to pass judgment on things To denounce them as evil, to denounce them as unacceptable, worthless, trash, waste, mind rot, you get the point. Some people, even Christians, have all the discernment of a vacuum cleaner. Whatever comes, they take it in. They are not going to be the blessed people in Psalm 1. The wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. There will be a congregation, a final form of the church. The church triumphant, the church perfect, the church universal. And the wicked will not be in that congregation. They will not be in that congregation of the righteous The real heaven where Christ has gone is the congregation of the righteous and no sinners will ever be allowed there. All who will be there have Him as their Savior because all begin as sinners and all sinners need a Savior. The Word of God, the Bible, is not merely good advice for a safer, more productive life. If that's what you want and that's all you want, try Mormonism. They have a good life. They are upright folk. But the word of a Savior who saves us from sin, death, and hell and instructs us in life so that we live our lives showing gratitude for this great salvation. That is what we're really after. Because it is Christ who came and died for us, and he is the one who plants us beside the eternal stream flowing from His precious side. And flowing from his throne in heaven. And he is the only one who has already stood in the judgment in our place, where our sins were blown away. If we are his, and now if we are his, we are heavy with righteousness, and we will be gathered into the garner. grain of Christ. Verse 6 ends it this way. For the Lord knows, and pictured in that word knows is the Lord is watching over He sees everything that happens out here. He sees all of it all the time. The Lord knows the way of the righteous, the road the righteous goes, but the way of the wicked will perish. It is a hard way. It ends in destruction. Jesus offers another way. And he watches over And here's the way of Jesus. It's found in nice encapsulated form in Matthew 11, 28 through 30. A beautiful, beautiful verse. Where Jesus says, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. That's what We're to do. Meditate upon the law of God day and night. Learn from me. For I am gentle and lowly in heart. What does that mean? It means that Jesus is a gracious and in And kind and what's the right word? Patient teacher. He's patient with us, as Psalm 103 says. He remembers that we are frail, that we're dust. He remembers these things. He's gentle and lowly in heart. And in him you will find rest for your soul. Jesus says, for my yoke, that is the yoke of discipleship, the yoke of following Jesus, my yoke is easy. It's not nothing. It does require effort to bear a yoke, doesn't it? My yoke is easy, and my burden is light The burden of being a disciple of Christ compared to being judged and condemned, it's very light. My yoke is easy and my burden is light. Amen. Lord, we thank you for your word from Psalm One We pray that you will help us to be careful of walking in the counsel of the wicked and standing in the way of sinners And may we never be found sitting in the seed of mockers. May we be blessed and planted by the streams of living water that are in Christ Jesus, who died for us. And may we be found in the final judgment in the congregation of the righteous, righteous in Christ, righteous because of faith In him because of what he did. Not righteous because we lived a perfect life, that will not happen. But righteous through faith in him. May that be our destiny, we pray. Amen.