These passages are visions of a restored world. The world has was made perfect. It was glorious and beautiful, and there was no problem in it at all. These are visions of a restored world after the After the course of history, after Christ has completed the work of restoration, so let us hear from Ezekiel. 47, 1 through 12. Then he brought me back to the door of the temple, and behold, water was issuing from below the threshold of the temple toward the east, for the temple faced east. The water was flowing down from below the south end of the threshold of the temple, south of the altar. Then he brought me out by way of the north gate and led me around on the outside to the outer gate that faces toward the east. And behold, the water was trickling out on the south side. Going on eastward with a measuring line in his hand, the man measured a thousand cubits. And then led me through the water, and it was ankle deep. And again he measured a thousand and led me through the water, and it was knee-deep. And again he measured a thousand and led me through the water, and it was waste deep. Again he measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the water had risen. It was deep enough to swim in, a river that could not be passed through. And he said to me, Son of man, have you seen this? Then he led me back to the bank of the river. As I went, I saw on the bank of the river very many trees on the one side and on the other. And he said to me, This water flows toward the eastern region and goes down into the Arabah and enters the sea. When the water flows into the sea, the water will become fresh And wherever the river goes, every living creature that swarms will live, and there will be many fish. For this water goes there. That the waters of the sea may become fresh, so everything will live where the river goes. Fishermen will stand beside the sea, from Engedi to Eneglium and will be a place for the spreading of nets. Its fish will be of very many kinds, like the fish of the Great Sea But its swamps and marshes will not become fresh. They are left for the salt. And on the banks on both sides of the river there will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves will not wither, nor their fruit fail, but they will bear fresh fruit every month, because the water for them flows from the sanctuary. Their fruit will be for food, and their leaves for healing. Then Revelation chapter 22 Beginning at verse one, reading through verse five. Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal flowing from the throne of God. And of the lamb through the middle of the street of the city. Also on either side of the river, the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it. And his servants will worship him, and they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads, and night will be no more. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever. Then the sermon text, Psalm one thirteen, nine verses Praise the Lord. Praise, O servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. From the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the Lord is to be praised. The Lord is high above all nations and his glory above the heavens. Who is like the Lord our God, who is seated on high, who looks down, or who looks far down on the heavens and the earth? He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes, with the princes of his people. He gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the Lord. As we approach each one of these Psalms, they are unique. They all have different characteristics and so they can be approached in various ways. You can break them down word by word But since so many of the concepts and so many of the words are repeated over and over in the Psalms, we could get to be a little redundant here on Sunday night. We could point out many things. Of course, it begins with the hallelujah. Yah is the word for Yahweh, so hallelujah is Is the actual Hebrew word, which is translated praise Yahweh. And Yahweh's name is mentioned here four times in these first two verses. And then Yahweh's name is mentioned again and again in the verses. But I decided instead of spending a lot of time on the actual specific phrases and words of this psalm, To see what its basic themes are. And I came up with two basic themes. And they both come out to the same thing: it's praise to God who puts things right. That's what we saw in Ezekiel and in Revelation, that God takes a fallen world and he heals it. In both of those passages, the leaves of the trees Which are watered by the the water flowing from the throne of God. The leaves of the trees are for the healing of the nations. The nations that we talked about this morning, God promised in In Abraham's descendant, all the nations of the earth would be blessed, all the families, nations would be blessed. So this is the healing of the nations through this Figurative water that flows from the throne that heals everything, makes everything good and fresh and lovely again. It restores what was lost. First, let's see the transcendence of this God who puts all things right. The transcendence of God. The transcendence of God Means God is far above all creation. He is not creation. He is not created. He is above creation. The transcendence of God is closely related to his sovereignty. It means that God is above Other than and distinct from all that He has made, He transcends it all. So let's look at those verses. Three. From the rising of the sun to its setting, that's everywhere. No place included, the name of Yahweh is to be praised. Verse 4: Yahweh is high above all nations. So he's not affected by the nations, what they do or don't do, or any of that. He is high above them. He's the king, he's a ruler, he's transcendent above them. His glory is above the heavens. So heavens are the highest thing you can think of, the most distant and the highest things you can think of. In Hebrew thought. His glory is above the heavens. It's greater than and more than the heavens. Who is like the Lord our God is the question. Who is seated on high? So again, this is a rhetorical question that is bringing us to think about the absolute transcendence of God Far above his creation. This is important to note because the pagans had gods who were very down to earth. They had local gods for everything. In fact, they were closely identified with the earth and all of its processes and seasons. There were gods of the storm and gods of the mountains and gods of the sun and gods of the moon and gods of the Nile River in Egypt, in fact, when the plagues were given uh from God by Moses Those plagues in many cases were mocking the gods of the Egyptians. When the river was turned to blood, for instance, that was a mocking of the god of the river It was supposed to bring forth life and it brought forth this horrible death. Nothing could live in it anymore. Um So the gods of the pagans are very, very eminent. They're not transcendent at all. Here, God is seen as transcendent, high above all nature. One hymn that you might like to turn to in our Trinity Psalter hymnal emphasizes the transcendence of God in a particularly striking way. It is number 224, a hymn written by Thomas Chalmers Smith. And the words are these, 224 if you're looking at it. Immortal, invisible, God only wise, in light, inaccessible. You can't access it. Hid from our eyes. Most blessed, most glorious, the ancient of days, Almighty, victorious, thy great name we praise. Verse 2, unresting, unhasting, and silent as light. Whatever that means. Nor wanting nor wasting, thou rulest in might. Thy justice, like mountains high soaring above, that sounds like our psalm. Thy clouds, which are fountains of goodness and love Great Father of glory, pure Father of light, thine angels adore thee, all veiling their sight. All praise we would render, O help us to see, tis only the splendor of light. hideth the. No doubt his most famous hymn. So it definitely emphasizes the transcendence of God. The only thing that sounds the least bit eminent here is Great Father of Glory, and it's still Great Father. It doesn't sound particularly eminent. It sounds very, very transcendent. My former colleague, Dr. Robert Lutham, criticized this hymn and did not choose it for worship On the grounds that it was unbalanced in its emphasis on the transcendence of God. He said it could easily be sung by a Unitarian. And he was right, because there's not a mention of the the Son or the Spirit, just the Father. And the Unitarians uh worshiped God the Father and thought Jesus was a created being. And a prophet and good teacher and all that. And I don't know what they thought about the Holy Spirit, but uh he didn't like that hymn particularly. Oddly enough, he did choose another hymn often, which I wouldn't have thought he would have chosen because he's British and this didn't appear to me to be much of a British hymn But he would choose, it's not in our Trinity Psalter hymnal, but it was in the Trinity hymnal, his eye is on the sparrow. That is a hymn that emphasizes the Eminence of God, the closeness, the nearness, the right here with us of God. Listen to the words of it. Why should I feel discouraged? Why should the shadows come? Why should my heart be lonely and long for heaven and home when Jesus is my portion, my constant friend is He? His eye is on the sparrow, and I know he watches me. His eye is on the sparrow, and I know he watches me. Jesus said that in his teaching. That God sees when the sparrow falls, right? And then the refrain went, I sing because I'm happy. I sing because I'm free. For his eye is on the sparrow, and I know he watches me. Well that brings us to consider the psalm as it teaches the immanence of God. It balances things. out the imminence of God seen in verses six and following. The God who condescends, that means comes down, to repair the effects of the fall. Verse 6. Who looks far down? He's transcendently high and lifted up, but he looks far down on the heavens and the earth. And what does he do? He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes, with the princes of his people. He gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the Lord. So I think about the poor man. He raises from the dust, from the ash heap. I think of Job. who was under such a terrible load, such terrible things happened to poor Job, that he ended up sitting in an ash heap, scraping himself with pot sherds. And uh God lifted poor Job from this position and made him to sit with the leaders of the land, the princes, the gatekeepers. The princes of his people. That was a particularly dire situation in the Old Testament. That's probably the enigmatic one that was to be thought of by people As someone who was raised from the dust and the ash heap. Then there was another thing here, verse 9, he gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. The blessing of bearing children was a great, great blessing. Israelites. Why? For one thing, because that's how God's covenant is propagated. If he's going to ever bring his kingdom to bear on the whole world, it will happen through the bearing of children. The seed of the woman will give birth, and bearing of children was a great, great blessing to the Hebrew mindset So he takes the barren woman, and we see so many cases of that in the Old Testament too. These great people like Sarah and Hannah and others, uh Zechariah's wife, uh what was her name? her name? Um Elizabeth, of course. And he takes these barren women and he makes them the joyous mother of children by giving them a miracle birth, really. a child, so that we see that God restores things that are broken, things that are not working correctly, things that have been cast down and hurt by the fall. We see so we see both those things. We see the transcendence of God, but we see that the same God looks down. And sees heaven below him and earth below that. And then he acts to raise up the fallen sons and daughters of men who were in so much trouble. The literal meaning of eminence is to be within or near in relation to God's creation. Eminence is closely related to God's omnipresence, in that God is always present within the universe, though distinct from it God is within the universe in that God is sustaining the universe. He is its sustaining cause. One verse that comes to mind is Jeremiah 23, verses 23 and 24, where you see both those ideas. He says, Am I only a God nearby, imminent? declares the Lord, and not a God far away, transcendent? Can anyone hide in seek in the secret places so that I cannot see him? declares the Lord. Do I not fill heaven and earth? declares the Lord. So he was rebuking the people for thinking that he was distant, only distant. And he was saying, No, I'm I'm with you. I'm right here. You don't hide anything from me. I see it all And we see, of course, in places like Colossians 1. 17 that Christ is the one who holds all things together. And the book of Hebrews tells us the very same thing. In him all things hold together. So he's eminent as well as transcendent. Someone has said to affirm God's transcendence and deny his eminence is to arrive at deism. Deism. What is deism? The deists, particularly prominent in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries particularly a man named Voltaire maintained that God endowed the world at creation with self-sustaining and self-acting powers and then abandoned it to the operation of these powers acting as second causes. Some of our some of our early um American leaders were deon They thought that God had taken the universe, the world as like a watch, and you wind it up and you just let it tick away until it finally is done. But he didn't have anything to do with it other than to create it. So to affirm the transcendence of God and deny his eminence is to arrive at deism on the other side to deny the transcendence of God, his being above, and to affirm his eminence. completely and only is to arrive at pantheism. Pantheism comes from the Greek word pan, which means all, and theism, which means God, meaning all is God. Or God is all. It is the belief that all things contain divinity, and that God is the sum of all things. Pantheism is the view that God is everything and everyone, and consequently that everyone and everything is God. Pantheism is the presupposition behind many cults and false religions. For example, Hinduism. Is a pantheistic religion. And Buddhism to some extent is a pantheistic religion. The various unity and unification cults and the mother nature worshippers and The spiritual environmentalism of our present day is pantheistic. So a lot of people when they talk about I'm spiritual, they're really being pantheistic. They think that they have the spark of divinity with them within them and so does everybody else and so do the trees and so do the squirrels and you know everything has some divinity in it. That's pantheism And that's a big mistake. So here we have this beautiful psalm teaching both the transcendence of God and the eminence of God who comes to restore all things. One of the great hymns that teaches the eminence of God is, well, there's so many, but I chose one. It's number 520. If you want to look at the words, I'll read them quickly here. 520. Very very strong on the eminence of God. If we only had this one, I would say it's too strong on the eminence of God and not enough on the transcendence. We have others to go with it. Here is the one 520. What a friend we have in Jesus. All our sins and griefs to bear. What a privilege to carry everything to God in prayer. Oh, what peace we often forfeit, oh what needless pain we bear, all because we do not carry everything to God in prayer Have we trials and temptations? Is there trouble anywhere? We should never be discouraged. Take it to the Lord in prayer. Can we find a friend so faithful who will all our sorrow share? Jesus knows our every weakness. Take it to the Lord in prayer. Are we weak and heavy laden, cumbered with a load of care? Precious Savior is still our refuge. Take it to the Lord in prayer. Do thy friends despise, forsake thee, take it to the Lord in prayer, and his arms he'll take and shield thee. Thou wilt find a solace there. So that's very strong on the eminence of God. It's perfectly good. It does neglect the transcendence of God. It only mentions God So you'd have to understand who this God is that is so close to you that you can take it to the Lord in prayer. I mentioned earlier this uh the the hymn, uh immortal, invisible, God only wise, and it's so strong on the Transcendence of God, but the text from which that hymn was written actually is very balanced. Very balanced. It is from 1 Timothy 1, 15 through 17. 1 Timothy 1, 15 through 17. Here's what Paul says. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. There's the eminence of God. Coming down to save sinners, of whom I am the foremost. But I received mercy for this reason that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience. as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life. And then, and only then, he ends with that great trans Transcendent, verse 17, to the King of Ages, immortal, invisible, the only God, the honor and glory forever and ever. ever. So really, it's all there, isn't it? Paul was praising the God who came down to save the chief of sinners, and he's at the same time praising the God who is transcendent, the King, the Sovereign, ruling over everything. So I just ask you to consider how you relate to God. Are you balanced in your relating to God? Do you worship God in his transcendence only? The great and high and lifted up and beyond all things and The greatest king distant from us, so far removed because of his greatness and his majesty and his sovereignty, and not worship the one who came down And is with us who can bear all of our sorrows and sins and hear our prayers, our cries, lift up the fallen, make the Barren woman, the joyful mother of children. You need both, you really do. We need the emphasis of both. Christian understanding of God who is high above creation and yet came down. And I do want to end with just one more hymn quotation. I hope that you will think about these two concepts as you sing hymns and as you hear songs on the radio, Christian songs. And as you worship individually, personally, think about both of those aspects and how the scriptures put them together, but one one One song that puts it so well. 324. 324, as this puts it so beautifully. 324, thou who wast rich beyond all splendor, that's the transcendence of God. All for love's sake became as poor, the eminence of God. Thrones, the transcendence of God, for a manger did surrender. Sapphire paved courts. For stable floor. Thou who wast rich beyond all splendor, all for love's sake became as poor Thou who art God beyond all praising transcendence, all for love's sake became man, stooping so low, but sinners raising heavenwards by thine eternal plan Thou who art God beyond all praising, all for love's sake became as man. Thou who art love beyond all telling. Savior and King, we worship thee. Emmanuel, within us dwelling imminence. Make us what thou wouldst have us be. Thou who art love beyond all telling, Savior and King. We worship thee