Psalm eighty-six A prayer of David Incline your ear, O Lord, and answer me For I am poor and needy. Preserve my life, for I am godly. Save your servant who trusts in you. You are my God. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for to you do I cry all the day. Gladden the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. For you, O Lord, are good and forgiving, abounding and steadfast love to all who call upon you. Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer. Listen to my plea for grace. In the day of my trouble I call upon you, for you answer me. There is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like yours. All the nations. You have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name. For you are great and do wondrous things. You alone are God. Teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth. Unite my heart to fear your name. I give thanks to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify your name forever, for great is your steadfast love toward me. You have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. O God, insolent men have risen up against me. A band of ruthless men seeks my life, and they do not set you before them. But you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Turn to me and be gracious to me. Give your strength to your servant and save the son of your maidservant Show me a sign of your favor, that those who hate me may see and be put to shame, because you, Lord, have helped me and comforted me This is God's word. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord God, we thank you for this portion of your word, for preserving it for us. Through time. Thank you for your love and your grace. And we pray, Father, that you would bless this evening, bless this time that we have together. And that you would bless the words that come from my mouth, and may they be pleasant in your sight. In Jesus' name, Amen. Congregation of Our Lord Jesus Christ. The title of Psalm 86, A Prayer of David, tells us that the verses of this Psalm are a prayer. Obviously meant to be prayed, but a prayer that was intended to be sung. That makes this particular psalm somewhat unique. Only five of the 150 psalms are titled as prayers. They are. Of the 74 Psalms attributed to David, only three are prayers. Psalms 17, 86, and 142. The other two are Psalm 90, written by Moses, and the author of Psalm 102 is unknown. Reading through the Psalms in English and deriving meaning from them can be challenging. When you're reading a psalm, it's helpful to remember that you are reading poetry. Poetry uses form and structural nuances of language and tends to reflect culture. The Psalms were written in an ancient language and at a different culture in a far distant time, which can add a level of difficulty to interpreting and developing a full understanding of their meaning when reading a translation. Comparing Biblical Hebrew to modern Hebrew is akin to comparing Old English to modern English. Maintaining the poetic form and structure when translating poetry written in ancient languages is extraordinarily challenging And conveying the original meaning even more so when the meaning is dependent upon cultural norms that no longer exist. One poetic quality of Hebrew poetry is found in its structure: how the poet or the psalmist aligns and connects ideas. The Psalms make extensive use of parallelism in between the cola, or the segments, of the poetic lines, and in the arrangement of the strophes or the sections into patterns The most common strofe patterns are linear, I think A, B, C, D, E, parallel, A, B, B, A, That's symmetrical, sorry. Parallel is A, B, A, B. And symmetrical, concentric, or chiastic, which uses an inversion order of A, B, B, A. Psalm 86 is so elegant in its structure and its form that it's well worth the time spent to analyze it. The Psalm is made up of three strokes, consisting of verses 1 through 7, 8 through 13, and 14 through 17. Now, while the Psalm looks fairly simple in its arrangement of three strokes at first flush, its arrangement of ideas is far more complex upon further examination. David uses a pattern of movement of ideas within as well as between the strophes, resulting in a concentric pattern A, B, C, D. E, D, C, B, A. And then further employs parallelism within that stroke pattern. I've provided a diagram and your outline to help you visualize the poetic structure of the psalm. The first strophe initiates the pattern. A, verses 1 through 4, which focus on your servant. B, verses 5 and 6, God's steadfast love. C, verse 7, where David describes a trouble. The second stroke is the center point where the pattern reverses. D, verses 8 through 10, the nations will glorify God's name. E, verse 11, teach me to honor your name. Then back to D, verses 12 through 13, repeats the psalmist will glorify God's name. And then the third stroke completes the pattern in the reverse order of the first C, verse 14, as another focus on trouble. B, verse 15, another focus on God's steadfast love. And then A, verses 16 and 17, back to your servant. The parallelism that exists between the A and the A, the B and the B and so forth, is fascinating because the same ideas are represented, but not word for word repeated. David also incorporates phrases and expressions found in other psalms and in texts. A couple of notable examples are, first is verse 1: Incline your ear, O Lord, and answer me. For I am poor and needy. That verse combines Psalm 31, verse 2, Incline your ear to me, and Psalm 40, verse 17, As for me, I am poor and needy. Verse 4b, the second half of verse 4, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. That's quoted from Psalm 25, verse 1. To you, O Lord, I lift up my soul. The first half of verse 11, verse 11a, teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth. That's also used in Psalm 25, verse 4. Make me to know your ways, O Lord, teach me your paths. And Psalm 27, verse 11, Teach me your way, O Lord, and lead me on a level path. Verse 15, but you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. That's quoted from Exodus 34, verse 6. The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. The resulting prayer psalm is a poetic masterpiece of interweaving lines from some of David's other psalms and other portions of God's Word. brought together in a single prayer psalm that stands on its own poetic form, achieving a high level of complexity In an economy of words, with the ability to transcend time so that it can be prayed by anyone at any time. The commentator James Mays pointed out that it has been written so that whoever uses the psalm prays with a sustained concentration on the character of God and the identity of the one who prays. That the identity of the one who prays, that is you and me, can readily identify with the author, David, several millennia after it was written, is part of the poetic genius of the psalm. It also powerfully testifies to the immutable or unchanging character of the God to whom We pray. After analyzing the poetry, the question to be answered is: This: What is God teaching you through this psalm? The answer for Psalm 86 lies in three main ideas. God answers prayer because of his unchanging character Secondly, God answers prayer because of his steadfast love. And thirdly, God answers prayer because of his name. Now, because of the way the psalm is patterned, I'm not going to go through the psalm in verse order from 1 through 17. Instead, I'm going to take you through the psalm as it is poetically patterned. And examine them pattern point by point A through E, which means we're going to be looking at the beginning and the end first and work our way through to the middle from both ends. So, point one, God answers prayer because of his unchanging character. Pattern point A in the first and the third strokes, consisting of verses 1 through 4 and 1617. Are an acknowledgement of the relationship between the supplicant praying and the God to whom he's praying. Let's read them together. Verses 1 through 4. Incline your ear, O Lord, and answer me, for I am poor and needy. Preserve my life, for I am godly. Save your servant who trusts in you. You are my God. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for to you do I cry all the day. Gladden the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. And then verse sixteen. Turn to me and be gracious to me, give your strength to your servant, and save the son of your maidservant. Show me a sign of your favor that those who hate me may see and be put to shame Because you, Lord, have helped me and comforted me. David's prayer teaches us a lot about God's unchanging character. That he is the same today that he has always been and always will be. David prays in confidence that God will respond to his prayer, not only because he has heard the testimony of God's people before him. and has it written in the law, but also because he has personally experienced God's continuing faithfulness in answering prayer. David begins with a very simple statement. Incline your ear. Incline your ear, O Lord, and answer me. The idiom, incline your ear, means to listen intently and receptively to what someone is saying. It's used in several places in the Old Testament, nine times by David in the Psalms. David's son Solomon uses this idiom to emphasize learning wisdom in Proverbs 2, verse 2. Making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understand. And in Proverbs 22, verse 17: Incline your ear and hear the words of the wise and apply your heart to my knowledge. Hezekiah prayed with confidence in Isaiah 37, verse 17: Incline your ear, O Lord, and hear. Open your eyes. O Lord, and see, and hear all the words of Sennacherib, who has sent, who he has sent to mock the living God. Hezekiah knew that he was praying to the Lord who hears, sees, understands, and acts. In Psalm 65, verse 2, David says, O you who hear prayer, our God is not a God of stone or wood. Elohim, the Trinity God, is alive. Not only does he hear prayer, but he interprets prayer The Apostle Paul writes in Romans 8, 26 and 27: For we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is in the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. Because David is praying to the one true living God, he prays with the confidence that he will be heard, understood, and that God will act in answer to his prayer. His confidence comes from the knowledge that God's character never changes. David can depend upon the Lord, and that forms the foundation for the whole of the prayer. God's character is also displayed through David's relationship to him as a poor and needy servant In 2 Chronicles chapter 7, verse 14, God declares, If my people who are called by my name humble themselves, And pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways, that I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land. This idea is echoed throughout the law, and David incorporated it into many of his Psalms. Although he is the king of Israel, David refers to himself as a humble servant. Again, the James May writes, servant, the word is ebid, and Lord. The word is Adon were paired roles in Israel's culture. And Ebed was a person who belonged to an Adon, who lived and worked in the sphere of the purposes in the decision of the Adan, and who had the right to the support and protection of the Adan. This last is especially important here. The Psalm calls God my Lord seven times, and the one who prays names himself thy servant three times, and strengthens the self-designation finally with son of thy handmaid. That is, servant all my life, born to it. The use of these titles establishes the basic relation in which the human being Stands to God. In verse 2, David declares that he trusts in you. You are my God. This trust is founded upon the personal relationship between the servant and his lord, the personal relationship between the ebid and his Adon. Further, David is relying on God's declaration in Exodus 20, verse 2, in the preface to the Ten Commandments: I am the Lord, your God. David knows that he has the support of his Lord and can reliably depend upon his protection. He echoes Psalm 57, verse 1: His soul takes refuge in the Lord. David has experienced God's protection in war with the Philistines, with the king of Goth, and from Saul's rage. He knows what it is to be hunted, to be in the presence of his enemies, and he knows that he can depend upon God to protect him. That brings us to our second point: that God answers prayer because of his steadfast love, which is pattern point B in the first and the third strokes. Verse 5 in the first strophe, and verse 15 in the third strophe, give David confidence in prayer based on what God has made known to Israel during the exodus from Egypt. As I said earlier, verse 15 is a quotation from Exodus. But you, O Lord, are a God, merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. In my exhortation on Ephesians 5, I describe Christ's love for his church. In Psalm 86, as in Ephesians 5, this is a case where the English language is inadequate. to defining complex matters. As I stated before, English has one word for love with multiple definitions. Which can lead to misunderstanding and regular conversation and all the more misinterpretation and translation from another language. David's quote from Exodus 34, 6 is the exclamation point of God's character. The phrase steadfast love used in the ESV occurs 198 times through the Scripture Psalm 118 in particular reinforces the permanence of God's steadfast love enduring forever. The King James Version and the Geneva Bible both use the translation, abundant in goodness and in truth. The Hebrew word chesed translated as goodness is also translated as mercy and loving kindness. Lois Tverberg wrote an excellent description of the concept of Chesed love in an online article entitled Chesed Love in the Long Term. In this article, she wrote, Hebrew has a word for love that is richer and deeper than English has ever conceived of. Fesed. Based in a covenantal relationship, Fesed is a steadfast, rock-solid faithfulness that endures to eternity. And she quotes Isaiah 54:10: Though the mountains be shaken and the hills be removed, yet my unfailing love, She said, for you will not be shaken. Hesed is a love so enduring that it persists beyond any sin or betrayal to mend brokenness and graciously extend forgiveness. And then she quotes Lamentations chapter 3, 31 and 31 thirty two. No one is cast off by the Lord forever. Though he brings grief, he will show compassion. So great is his unfailing love. Hesed is to love as God loves. When God's presence passed by Moses on Mount Sinai and revealed his very essence, God proclaimed his great Hesed Like other Hebrew verbs, chesed is not just a feeling but an action. It intervenes on behalf of loved ones and comes to their rescue After Abraham's servant miraculously found a wife for Isaac by bumping into her out of well, he praised God who has not abandoned his kindness, Hasid. And faithfulness to my master. Because Hesed is often active, it's translated as mercy or loving kindness But neither of these words fully convey that Hesed acts, acts out of unswerving loyalty. Even to the most undeserving. The Apostle Paul captures this concept perfectly In Romans chapter 5, verse 8, when he wrote, But God shows his love for us, in that while we were still yet sinners, Christ died for us. It's because of these inherent qualities of God's character, his chesed covenantal love, that David can confidently pray in verses 7 and 14. In the day of my trouble I call upon you, for you answer me. O God, insolent men have risen up against me, a band of ruthless men seeks my life, and they do not set you before them. He knows with great assurance that God will come to his aid in the time of trouble because of God's fecid love for him. That brings us to the third and final point, that God answers prayer because of his name. The second strophe, composed of verses 8 through 13, form the structural center. of the poem in pattern points D and E, and brings praise and honor to God's name as the center of the prayer. There is none like you among the gods, O Lord, nor are there any works like yours. All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name For you are great and do wondrous things. You alone are God. Teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth. Unite my heart to fear your name. I give you thanks, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify your name forever. For great is your steadfast love toward me. You have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. God's name reveals much about his character. God reveals his name to Moses in Exodus 3, verses 3. 13-15, and in doing so emphasizes the holiness and the permanence of his name. Verse 13. Then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, What is his name, what shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, Say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent me to you. God also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel: The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. The Reformation Study Bible has the following helpful notes on this passage in Exodus In Scripture, a personal name is not merely a form of address, but a description of character and personality. In Genesis, God is known to the patriarchs by different names. For example, God Most High, God Almighty, God everlasting. When God identifies himself as I am who I am to Moses, God declares that he will be who he is. He does not change in his perfections. What he is now, he will be in the future. Back to our Psalm, verse 9. All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name. Recalls Psalm 65, verse 2, O you who hear prayer, to you shall all flesh come. These verses are reinforced by the prophet Isaiah in chapter 40, verse 5. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. And then in Isaiah forty-five, twenty-two and twenty-three, turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is no other. By myself I have sworn. From my mouth has gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return. To me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance. It is in Christ that the prophecy is ultimately fulfilled. Paul quoted Isaiah in Romans 14:11. For it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. And again in Philippians 2. Verses nine through eleven. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed upon him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus Every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. Paul called this the mystery of Christ in Ephesians 3, that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. David's plea in our Psalm tonight in verse 13: For great is your steadfast love toward me. You have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. Foreshadows the work of Christ. It is Jesus that is the fulfillment of God's chessed love for us. It is Jesus that delivers our soul from the depths of the grave. Indeed, it is Jesus Christ that brings the ultimate glory to God's name. Please turn with me in your Bibles to John chapter 12. John chapter twelve, we're going to read verses twenty-seven through thirty-three. Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, An angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to deny. And then turning to Matthew chapter 28, verses 18 through 20. Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. These verses attest that salvation would come to the Gentiles John chapter 3, 16 through 18 is God's promise of Hasid love for you, dear believer. For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. Verse eleven, the very center of the psalm, is David's response to bringing glory to God's name. The Psalm is not only a prayer for deliverance in time of trouble, but a prayer for help in shaping and molding one's heart and mind to seek after God. Teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth. Unite my heart to fear your name. Unite my heart is David's petition for salvation, promised in Jeremiah 32, beginning in verse 38. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. reinforces personal relationship with God. I will give them one heart and one way, that they may fear me forever, for their own good and for the good of their children after them. I will make with them an everlasting covenant that I will not turn away from doing good to them. Hasid It's there. And I will put the fear of me in their hearts, that they may not turn from me Joseph Scribbin's hymn, What a Friend We Have in Jesus, seems very fitting to capstone this psalm, especially verse 3. Are we weak and heavy laden, cumbered with a load of care? Precious Savior is still our refuge. Take it to the Lord in prayer. Do thy friends despise, forsake thee. Take it to the Lord in prayer. In his arms he'll take and shield thee. Thou wilt find solace there. Let David's prayer in Psalm eighty-six be your prayer tonight. Amen.