Congregation, our uh text for this morning will be 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 13. That's the last verse in the chapter. I'm going to read it again for us, and this will be the passage we look at. Paul says, so now faith Hope and love abide these three, but the greatest of these is love And with these words, congregation, the apostle concludes his showing of love that he has been doing throughout this whole chapter, which he had promised to do There in verse 31 of chapter 12, seek these gifts, but I'm going to show you a still more excellent way And here it is, right? This is the way that Paul was talking about love. Love as he has shown it to us here in chapter 13. Paul's told us, right, that love is what transforms noisy nobodies doing themselves no good into helpful bodies. Love is what spreads abroad the Savior of Christ, for Jesus is patient. Jesus is kind. And love is what lasts forever. Love never ends. Except that we're told here That a couple other things also don't end. Love is joined with faith and hope. So now faith, hope, and love abide these three. Love is the greatest among them, and love is the greatest of what abides. That's what this passage is teaching us. These three abide And the greatest of them is love. Now that means two things. That these three abide, and that the greatest of them is love. That means Two things. First, it means that along with love, faith and hope last forever. The greatest of these that abide is love, that also means faith and love are going to abide, or excuse me, faith and hope are going to abide forever with love. They don't pass away with the partial, like the gifts do. That's what Paul means when he says they abide. They don't pass away with the partial, with the gifts, when the perfect comes. That's the first thing it means, but it also means that love is the greatest Abiding activity of our eternal existence in Christ The greatest of these is love. In Christ we believe, in Christ we hope In Christ, we love. And the greatest activity, congregation, of your eternal existence is love. Love God, love your neighbor. Now, the word abide is just a fancier word for remain or stay. These three stays, says Paul. And the greatest of what stays is love. Now you may be wondering, because you know your Bibles, but is it true that faith and hope abide as long as love? Doesn't Paul say in Second Corinthians chapter five, verse seven, for we walk by faith, not by sight. Doesn't that mean faith turns into sight when Jesus comes? And yes, it does mean that. But the exercise of faith that Paul is talking about here when he says we walk by faith. Is not the only exercise of faith. Some of faith's exercises will go away when we enter the next life But not all of them. It is true that for now we walk by faith and not by sight of Jesus present with us. That's the context there. That we walk by believing the report of him raised from the dead and reigning at the Father's right hand as the Lord of all. We walk by that faith, what we believe. Presently that faith is not seen by us, but it is believed by us. We confess it every week at the communion when we use either the Apostles' Creed or the Nicene Creed, right? We believe he's been raised from the dead, ascended to heaven, seated at God's right hand, and coming as judge of all. We walk by that faith, though we don't presently see that. So it's true that one day, as Paul says, what we believe will be turned into what we see. But faith is more than believing reports about Jesus. Faith is also trusting in Jesus. Committing ourselves to Jesus and remaining faithful to Jesus And those exercises of faith will never go away. Our dependency upon Christ. Our God, our Lord, who's promised us eternal life in him. And so our confidence in him as our God and Lord To care and provide for us forevermore, that is never going to go away Even when we live under the same roof as Jesus, if you will, and see him face to face, we will still have faith in him. So Paul means what he says here that faith abides forever. But what about hope? Because surely it cannot possibly abide forever. Doesn't Paul say in Romans 8:24, hope that is seen is not hope? For who hopes for what he sees? And he's right. Who does that? Who hopes for resurrected bodies? That's the context there that Paul's talking about. Who hopes for these When they've come. Who hopes for salvation from death when he's been raised immortal? And live in the consummate kingdom of God. Who's going to hope for that? We see it. We enjoy it. But Scripture doesn't say that we'll see everything at once. When Jesus comes. In fact, it says, we'll never see it all. Because God is infinite And his blessings for his people do not end. King David says in Psalm 16:11, At thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore. Will always live in the hope of more to come from our God. Paul writes to the Corinthians in chapter 2, Verses 6 and 7, and God has raised us up together with Christ. And he has made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come, as they continue to come, on and on forever, that in the ages to come He might show the exceeding or immeasurable riches of his grace and his kindness towards us through Christ Jesus. Paul Paul's saying here that in the heavenly places for all the ages to come We will live in the surehold that God's kindness towards us will never dry up That the exceeding riches of his grace is something that we as children will always live in the hope of enjoying. And maybe I can just Use Jesus' language where he tells us to call God Daddy, right? Daddy's not gonna run out of gifts to give to his children, if I can put it that way You know, children go, I'm bored now. Well we won't say that in heaven, right? We will live waiting and expecting and enjoying what we have, but just living in the joy and knowledge. This will never end. Never yet. I think also you you can get at the same truth if we just think about one of the main ways the Lord's coming is described to us and And the image given of what will take place, right, in the wedding feast of the Lamb. I've never seen a marriage end by a wedding feast, but only get started, right? You have the ceremony, you're married, but isn't the first thing you do go have a feast that kicks the wedding off? But that doesn't come to an end So hope then, congregation, certainly abides for us in the world to come. But what is it about these three? That they abide together. Why can't it just be one and not the others? Or two and not three? What is it about these three? So that they abide together. Well, these three are the center of Christian living, and that's why Paul is focusing this church back upon them. Not gifts, but these three graces: faith, hope, and love. They are the center. Of Christian living. Believing, hoping, and loving are the core activities that you and I do together in the Holy Spirit. They comprise what will always be true of the church here on earth and in heaven and in the new heavens and the new earth. The Church of Christ will always believe in Christ, will always take him at his word and commit herself to him. She will always hope in Christ, right? Waiting upon Him to unveil the eternal riches of the blessedness of His kingdom. Without end. And she will always love Christ, right? Who gave himself for her and washed her clean, serving him, living for him, and keeping his commandments. But as Paul's getting at here in God and in the previous verses, she will not always prophesy She will not always speak in tongues. She will not always see particular gifts of knowledge given in the moment for insights in the mysteries of God's redemption to build the body up with Those will pass away, but Paul's saying these, these three remain. And they remain together. I know it kind of strikes you at first and it seems a bit strange. It feels like Paul just sort of like sneaks in in here to talk about love and all of a sudden wait faith and hope pop out of nowhere and they they join love and go, what do we do with this? But that's because Paul knows you can never separate faith, hope, and love. You can distinguish between them because surely and truly faith is not hope. Hope is not love, and love is neither faith nor hope. But Paul has already mentioned back in verse 7 that love does hope, all things, love does believe. All things. Faith, hope, and love exist in relationship to one another. They cannot exist on their own. They can only exist together. They need each other. And I'll make this clear as we go through, but they need one another. But Paul says one of them is greater than the others. And that's love. Faith, great. No salvation without it. Hope? Amazing. You can endure all the trials of this life. Bereavement is not a despairing moment. The truly sad and grievous, but we mourn as those with hope. Paul says the greatest of them is love. If you have read through the New Testament, you know how these often get grouped together. But they aren't only in the New Testament. They're also, as we saw in the Old Testament. We saw two of them very closely grouped together at the end of Psalm 52, and that's not the only place. I trust. And the mercy of God or the steadfast love of God forever and ever. I will wait, hope, I will wait on your name. So we find these in the Old Testament as well. But it is in the New Testament that these three are distinctly put together. And that's not by accident, and that's not also just by one writer of the New Testament. Paul does it several times. Peter does it as well, and if you think someone else other than Paul wrote Hebrews, then there's a third person who does it. He does it twice in the same sermon. Hebrews is a letter, a sermon sent as a letter. He does it twice in that sermon. He brings up faith, hope, and love. Chapter six, chapter ten. And that that tells us this that rather than this grouping of faith, hope, and love being the I'm gonna use a big word, because I like this big word, idiosyncratic, which just means peculiar to someone, their own way of phrasing it or saying it. Rather than this being an idiosyncratic brainchild of one of the church's pastors to instruct the church by for Christian living, faith, hope, and love are the church's common. And natural core. The common and the natural core of those who live in relationship with the Holy Trinity. Now here's where pray for me because this might get a little dense and I've been hoping I can get through this well. So bear with me. I'm gonna do my best to flush this out. But Faith, hope, and love are the common core of us in Christ, who live in a restored, renewed relationship with our Creator, who is our Savior, who is our Redeemer, the Blessed. and Holy Trinity. One Christian manual for instruction says this about these three. And I quote, they Have the one and triune God for their origin, motive And objects, and I'll tell you what that means. But faith, hope, and love have the one try-une God for their origin, come from Him, motive, He moves us to do these things, and object, He's the one We hope in, believe in, and love. Faith hope and love have God as their origin, motive, and object. God, by virtue of who He is, as infinite, eternal, good Almighty means he's able to do all his will. Nobody can thwart it. So if he promises you something, it's gonna happen no matter what it looks like. Right? Even if you're really old like Sarah was Because he's holy, because he's completely trustworthy, because we'll see as a few weeks as we're going through Hebrews 11, because he's the rewarder of those who diligently seek him, meaning it's going to be worth your while to hunt God down. to seek him out, to love him. Because God is that. By virtue of him being this God burves in us faith, hope, love. God moves us to exercise faith hope in love by virtue of who he is. God is the object of the one of our faith. God is the object of our hope. God is the object of our love by virtue of who he is. I think maybe if we can just put it really simply, these three abide because God abides. If God's their motive, origin, and object, as long as God's around, so will faith in Him Hope in him and love for him be as well. These abode at creation in Adam prior to his fall. Adam believed in, hoped in, and loved God. And they now abide in us, in Christ, who is our second Adam, our second heaven In union with Christ, indwelt by his Spirit, we believe in God, we take him at his word, we wait patiently upon our God to deliver what he's promised. And we love him because of who he is. When God, by his gospel Effectually calls us and brings you to faith in Christ And unites you to Christ by faith, he births in you Through that coming into contact with the living God, faith in him, hope in him, and love for him. We meet the eternal and infinite God in Jesus Christ. He is not a mere man But God, the Son of God, who's taken on flesh. Through our personal encounter with the living God With the gracious Lord, faith, hope, and love are left to us As the abiding and lasting fruit of that ongoing encounter with him. I think that's pretty awesome, isn't it? Amen. Because Paul is getting at, he's telling his congregation, congregation, this is what it means to be spiritual. Believe the hope to love the call upon Jesus Like he's real and there and cares and is Lord. To wait upon him, to fulfill his word. He said it. It will happen. My soul's at rest. To love. And we can talk about that all day. Because as Paul says, love is the greatest of these. But what does he mean about love being the greatest of these? I think he means well actually three things. First That love is more useful to others than faith and hope. By saying that love is the greatest of these, he means that love is more useful to others Then faith, then hope. And second, that faith and hope are for love. By faith, because of hope, we love. And I'll give you the third one at the end. But let's talk about the first one here: that love is more useful to others than faith and hope It's not that faith and hope are useless, Paul's saying. But love is more useful than these. That's why it's greater. In the next chapter, chapter fourteen of this letter In verse 5, Paul will say that he who prophesies is greater than he who speaks in tongues, unless that person also interprets. And he says this because prophecy builds up the body, whereas uninterpreted known tongues only build up the individual. Prophesying benefits the whole body, says Paul, because by it Christians are taught, Christians are comforted, Christians are encouraged. But tongues without an interpreter only benefit the individual, the speaker. And so Prophesying according to Paul is greater because it's more useful to others And this is the line of thinking that is probably what's in Paul's mind here. That's his understanding of the word greater, more useful. You know, James, right, in his letter, he tells us how useless faith is when it's by itself. What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works, loving works Can that faith save them? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled. Without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. Most certainly and emphatically, faith alone justifies. But justifying faith is never alone. If it is, says James, it's because it's dead. And therefore it's not even justifying. Because we've been justified to life in Christ. But supposing this person right had faith, right, it's good for him That he believed in God's uniqueness, the Lord is one, and that he is the sole creator, right, and Lord of all. That's what We're getting at there in the Shema in Deuteronomy. Here is where the Lord our God is Lord alone, not these other gods in the other lands. It's good for that individual to believe those things for certain. But it's only good for him. Having that faith was not very good for those brothers and sisters of his who were cold and hungry. All they got from him was the useless statement, be warmed and filled. If his faith had been working by love, they would have gotten warmed and filled by him. That's what Paul means by faith, or love being greater than faith. Faith truly is great. You know, the just shall live by faith. And we're talking about that in Hebrews in the evening, seeing through chapter 11, how great faith is, and all the wonderful things the saints of old did by faith. Faith. Faith saves you, but as we read here, love saves another. Saves them from hunger. Saves them from shivering all night, cold. Possibly their life. You can die from hypothermia. Remember when the Pharisees on the Sabbath Jesus had to ask him the basic elementary question. Is it lawful to kill or to give life on the Sabbath? And they couldn't even answer that basic question. They didn't even know the heart of God. Love, obviously, kill the man. Obviously, save his life Our Lord Himself says in John 15, 13, greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends when a man does that. He saves his friends, right? Because love. Faith saves you. Love saves others Saves others by taking the gospel to them. We believe, go out and lay down our lives and share the good news. But love also needs hope. We read of our Lord in Hebrews twelve, two. He did what he did on the cross because he had hope. Who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross. despising the shame and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God because of that hope He endured the cross and lovingly gave his life to save us. The truth is, congregation, that God gives us faith. And God gives us hope by his promises, so that we will love. We love from our faith in God. We love because of our hope in God. And that's exactly what the scriptures say. In Ephesus, Timothy had to deal with teachers of the law that didn't know what they were teaching. They wanted to teach the Bible, the Old Testament. They had no idea what they were doing. So Paul left Timothy there to tell them to knock it off, to bring them back to God's purpose. in the law. He tells Timothy in in 1 Timothy chapter 1 verse 5, now the end of the commandment And here, commandment means something like Christian teaching. The Lord's commands. Paul will say in 1 Thessalonians 4:2, for you know What commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus. And if you know the Gospels, you know how all of his commandments deal with love as their whole purpose. The end of the commandment is love out of a pure heart, of a good conscience, and here it is, of faith, unfain. It takes genuine trust in God to love others the way Jesus commanded us and showed us to do it. I'm sure, as you know, congregation, being a good Samaritan isn't easy. Can I afford this expense to my time? Can I afford this expense to my pocketbook? Can I afford to go out of the way and do this? Well, do we trust God to provide or not? I was just beaten up by Roberts. Do I dare stop? What if I expose my own self to harm? I've got a wife and kids to care about. I have I'm aware of the world we live in as you are too. And these are the factors and fears that play in to our life right here. Without genuine trust in God, you cannot love this way. But why does God give us genuine trust in Him like? That we might love this way. You know, love truly builds up Just think back over a few of those things we heard love does. The good Samaritan gave a lot of good things to that person in love, built him back up to life and health. He could have died. Love truly saves others Love will give your neighbor, if you're going to be a good neighbor. Love your neighbor as yourself. Love is going to give your neighbor space to change its ways because love is patient, right? Love is going to give your neighbor good things no matter who he is because love is kind. Love is going to guard your neighbor's things as his and not covet them because love does not envy. Love is going to give your neighbor dignity, honor, and respect. You know, people take their lives because they don't have these. They're overly ashamed. They think they're worthless. They think things don't matter. Because love does not boast. It's not arrogant. It doesn't make people feel like they're nothing and beneath you and no good. It's not rude. Even if it's by accident, it always hurts when someone's rude to us, doesn't it? Love truly is useful to those around us. Faith essential. Very useful to us. But that way may by love be useful to others. But hope is needed as well, as I said, because hope is there as a motivation to a source and a cause. Listen to what Paul writes to the Colossians and 1 Colossians verses 3 to 5. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we pray for you Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Yeah, I'm gonna quote John Calvin because I think he just says it well and and gets at the heart of this. Here's how Hope moves us to love, he says, for the hope of eternal life will never be inactive in us so as not to produce love in us For it is of necessity that the man who is fully persuaded that a treasure of life is laid up for him in heaven will aspire towards it, looking down upon this world Meditation, however, upon the heavenly life stirs up our affections both to the worship of God and to exercises of love. Without hope of eternal life, we would not carry the cross and lay down our lives for others, would we? We would not lay down our lives to take them the gospel of Jesus because some do literally lose their lives to do that. If we're fixed on this world, Paul says, our love grows cold. Philippians chapter 3. He says, Brothers, join in imitating me and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many of whom I've often told you now tell you, even the tears walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction, their God is their belly, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await that's hope for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body By the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. No one can love as Christ requires without faith in him No one can love as Christ requires without hope in him. But by our faith in Christ, because of our hope in him We can and do love as he requires. As God, by his spirit, is at work in us to will and to do all these things That are pleasing to him. I once balked at this comment by Saint Augustine. He said that love is the application of every sermon. I said, no way. I no longer balk at that. But believe it wholeheartedly. Because faith is for love. Hope is for love, and love is the greatest of these. We preach the gospel of God's love to this sin-cursed world so that men might turn to God. From their hatred and love him and love others. We do not have faith for the sake of faith. We do not have hope for the sake of hope. We have faith and hope to love with. The gospel tells us of a God who loved us first. Who gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him shall have eternal life, shall not perish. By that faith and that gospel, by that hope, and that promise, and dwell by God's Spirit We do the greatest and abiding thing of our eternal existence. We love God. We love our neighbors. I'm going to end with this final thought about love's greatness. Think about this: God is neither faith nor hope. Faith and hope showcase our creaturliness. As creatures who are dependent upon God for all things, we cannot provide for ourselves But God is love. Love showcases our participation in the divine nature and fellowship. In that communion of holy love, we image the God in whose image we were made. In Christ, we radiate that image abroad, right, as the sons of the Almighty. So We'll end our hiatus on love here, Congregation. And I'll leave you rejoicing that you will always have faith, hope, and love. And that love is the greatest of these. That is Paul's final work. And may it be ours too. Amen.