Our epistle reading this morning comes from 1 John 3, verses 1 through 8. This will also be the text for this morning's sermon. So 1 John chapter 3, beginning at verse 1. Hear the word of the Lord. See what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God. And so we are The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Beloved, we are God's children. Now. And what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. Everyone who makes the practice of sinning also practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. And our gospel reading this morning comes from Matthew chapter 24. And we're going to read from verse 23 to verse 31. So Matthew chapter 24, beginning at verse 23, the word of the Lord. Then, if anyone says to you, look, here is the Christ, or there he is, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. See, I have told you before him. So, if they say to you, look He's in the wilderness. Do not go out. If they say, look, he is in the inner rooms, do not believe it For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man. And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn and they will see the Son of Man. coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds From one end of heaven to the other. This is the word of the Lord. Dear Saints, you heard in Proverbs That there are two houses and there are two voices. There's the house that wisdom built, of which wisdom calls to man, come in here and live. Have life, have it to the fullest. And there's another house Though it doesn't look like it to man, because it's deceptive, its placement is in the grave. Death And the voice calling from that house is the voice of folly, telling man that what is stolen is sweet. Come and eat it. And men don't know that it's the house of death. It's a shocking thing when God's own house becomes the house of folly. And not the voice of God is heard from it, not the voice of life, but the lies of Satan, the lies of folly And that's what happened in Jerusalem. That's why Jesus is prophesying its destruction. They would not listen to the voice of God. Prophet after prophet sent to her. Stoned. Killed. God sends his son, rejected, killed, will not receive the word of life. But Jesus doesn't only speak about judgment. You know, about the Olivet discourse, you know that's the context of it. He's walking out to the temple, and the disciples meet him going out, and they're saying, Jesus, look at this marvelous place. And he says, but you don't see these things? He's looking at something else. Spiritual science of what's to come. Because they've rejected God, rejected his voice, rejected his kingdom, rejected the way of life. And then tells them that this whole place will be torn down. They want to know when that's gonna happen in their minds Such a catastrophic event, God's own temple being torn down, must also mean the end of the world And part of Jesus' instruction there is to separate those two. No, it doesn't mean the end of the world, but it does mean judgment. That language when Jesus is talking about the sun being darkened and the Moon not giving its light and the stars falling from heaven. He didn't create that language. He just took it from Isaiah. He just took it from Ezekiel He spoke from the prophets. Because when God spoke that way before, he said, that's what's going to happen when I destroy Babylon. That's what's going to happen when I destroy Edom and my judgment comes upon them and I take the seat of power away from them. It'll be so catastrophic. We speak right of an earth-shattering event, right? That was earth shattering. Jesus says it's heaven shattering. That was the locus of God's kingdom on earth. That was where men hopefully could come and learn of the God of grace. And learn who the true God is and hear his righteous ways and be blessed by him. But it was a cesspool of sin. And of greed, and of wickedness, and lawlessness with the veneer of religion. And God brought judgment on it. But he didn't leave a power vacuum. He didn't wonder where is God gonna reign on earth from when he did that. Because Jesus says, you're going to see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of glory. He's not talking about coming here. See, our English versions, unfortunately It's fine. That's why God gives us still the Greek text and people can help us understand it. That coming there is not the same coming earlier when Jesus talked about his coming in lightning. That's his parocia, right? That's his advent in glory. That's the end of the age. He's using a different word talking about his coming to the Father enthroned in heaven and seated there and reigning, that the seat of power now is Christ's heavenly kingdom, who through his sacrifice on the cross has redeemed us and all those who believe in him can now enter that heavenly kingdom and draw near in the true temple in place of God. So God did bring judgment Didn't leave a power vacuum but preaching. You'll see the sign that I'm the Son of Man when you see this temple torn down. You'll then know that I reign. And I'm king, and I sit on my throne, and my word of gospel will be going out as it did and has been going ever since, gathering my chosen ones and bringing them into my kingdom. Now you might think then we should never have to hear again about the voice of folly in God's house. Wrong. First John is all about the voice of folly that has come into the true church of Christ, planted by an apostle, and is deceiving men and leading them away from Christ. Taking them down into that place of death. So even today, right, the church, the heavenly Zion, the people of God, the temple of the Lord, can still As our confession of faith say, a church can so far decrupt and be corrupt that it can fall off that spectrum, right? No pure church, not there yet But there is such a bottom where you become a synagogue of Satan and no longer a church of Jesus Christ. And as Jesus was talking about in there As John says, we're in the last hour. Now, I know when I say that, there's going to be things going off in your head. What's this guy's view of eschatology? What's he going to say next, right? I'll tell you why I'm gonna say next. We'll tell you what John means by that, because my I actually was talking to my uh a repair man this week who came to repair our refrigerator. Believing Christian, we got to talk about end times And uh yeah, we've been in the last days for two thousand years now, beloved. So that's not a statement of uh I know he's coming tomorrow or anything like that. What John means by it is this Darkness is passing away. It means it's twilight. Right at that moment before the dawning of the glory of the eternal light will there be no more Satan, sin, lies, death ever again. That's what he means by it's the last hour. Darkness is already fading away. You're already shining in Christ as his children. Hang on because it's the last hour, and we know we can expect Because of the coming of the true Messiah, every form of opposition to God from that day on has taken on the form of being anti-Christian. If you do not receive that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, you're an Antichrist. You stand opposed to Him. If you teach people false things about Him, like He's not truly God or He's not truly man, He hasn't come and redeemed us, you're a false Christ. If you teach people you can be a Christian and live in sin, you're a false Christ. You're an anti-Christ, opposed to the one who came to take sin away. Because that's all of the world, and John's saying, you're not of the world. You're in Christ. You're in the truth And so let's look at this morning, and I tell you, as I read to you this morning, so you know, you're hearing the voice of truth. I pray you listen to it. This is the voice of wisdom. This is the voice calling to us sons of men that we would live. This is not the voice of error. This is the voice of truth. So let's look at 1 John this morning. This whole section here that John's dealing with, and actually go it goes back a couple verses into chapter two. But you notice there's several references in chapter 29, he's talked about the coming of Jesus Christ. There he uses the parasia. There he's talking about the end of the world. And then he's talked several times in this about Christ's appearance already on earth and why he appeared and his appearance again on earth and what will happen. And so maybe to give you kind of the full picture of what John's talking about here in this letter, he's talking about the salvation of God That what God has graciously done for us in Jesus Christ, that we would be his children and bear his image again But that is the Father's love to us, we're going to talk about this morning, that we would be God's children again received into him by his grace, loved by him everlastingly, but changed to bear definitively his image and end all So he's talking about the salvation in its fullest picture in Christ that has begun with his first appearing and is to come to its conclusion when he returns again. And glory. John is writing this letter to you, to me, that we might keep fellowship, because if you do not believe these things and act this way, you will not have fellowship with the apostles. You would not have fellowship with an Apostolic Church, and therefore you'd not have fellowship with the Father and the Son if you don't receive this teaching. That's one of the reasons why John's writing. I'm writing these things to you all. That you might know the truth, have it. He's assured that he's writing to have the truth, but he's writing because this is the faith. This is what we receive from Jesus Christ. This is the life Live this, believe this, do this, and you'll have fellowship. But he's also writing this morning, and and I really hope this is, I guess I would say I hope Two things would be achieved then that you all would believe this, and we would continue together having fellowship with the Father and the Son, that Christian fellowship. John's also writing because he knows Not the erroneous lies of the devil, but this true voice of God and truth is meant to bring us the completeness of joy. So I hope as you hear again this morning, what God has done for you in Christ to make you a child of God fills you with such joy. That you have now already, as believers in Christ, eternal life That is joyful. That is so great. So let's look at it and talk about it. Starting here at verse one in chapter three. At verse twenty-nine, John said that If you know that Jesus is righteous, if you know that God is righteous, then you also know this, beloved, that everybody who lives righteously Everybody who does that kind of righteousness, everybody who lives like Jesus. Remember in their day Pharisees said that's righteous, Sadducees said that's righteous, Essenes said that's righteous, but if you say Jesus is righteous, The way Jesus walked on earth, that's the righteousness of God. Then John says, you know that everybody who lives that way has been born of God. Has been born of Jesus. If you're a righteous, John said, if you're someone who practices righteousness, if you're someone who bears the image of Christ, if you live Christ like it's because you've been born of Christ. You've undergone the second birth And that's the first mention John makes of the new birth in this letter. And as soon as he mentions it, he then has to stop and he has to say, look, see. Let us all then stop in the midst of church errors and lies and things, everything, and let us, as John's dealing with here, let us stop and see something. Because of course, right Which side of the spectrum do you think John said he was on? See, I think John was on the side who looked at his life and said, I'm bearing the image of Christ. I'm not walking like I used to walk through Galilee three years ago. I walk a very different walk. I follow Christ. I do what Christ says to do. I think as Christ I must have the mind of Christ in me. And what does John say? Does he say, Oh, yea, me, I did all this He says, see this. What love. You know, Samuel Crossman, we sang this morning, love unknown, really nailed it. I hope you know that doesn't mean Love you don't know about. It means what this word actually means in Greek here we translate what sort of love. It originally asked the question, where are you from? Have you ever met someone so strange, you go, where did you come from? That's what love unknown means is who loves like this? I know my wife's love, I know my brother's love, I know love, and thank you know she's in Christ who's very Christian. So try to use a better example, but we know, right, love But who loves like this? We. Now you can imagine how pointed this must be for them, right? Because They were pretty hard-hearted, weren't they? They just refused to listen to Jesus. No, Jesus Don't do that. Don't go to the cross. They were speaking, they were following Satan in the midst of Jesus' fellowship. They all say Peter called down curses upon himself, aggravated his violation of the ninth commandment to the inn's degree. To get as far away from Christ, his God. And all he found out was, what did he accomplish? He just found out how much more God loves him. Saul, yeah, I really am that sinner. But Christ never has been dealing with me because I was righteous. Christ never came to me and said, You're so beautiful. I'm going to love you because you're so perfect. So I'm going to love you. Even the sinner that you are, come. I have life. Just come to me. They've been loving him until the day he called them. You know, they might have thought, wow, this is really great. Christ loves me. They're a bit confused on who he is. And then the death of Christ happened, the horror of it. They saw his prayers, saw they heard his word, this is Zechariah taking place, this is God striking the shepherd. And he rises from the dead, and I think it then stuck struck in It's not that just the Son loves me. The Father loves me. And I've seen it. It was the cross. There's all my sins being borne away. I love you. I've chosen forgiveness. I love you. You're not that old man, Peter, anymore. You'll never be that old man anymore, Peter. You're a child of God. You're redeemed by Christ. That's what John is stopping here when he sees himself in the mirror. He knows what he was. Sees what he is. Is not ashamed to call himself a child of God. No, that would be that would deny God's grace. That would not be pleasing to God It would not be pleasing for him, for you to so play up your sin more than his grace. So falsely hum humble yourself. To not recognize you really do righteous things, really do good works, really do believe Really do call on God as you should. Really do trust his promises. Really do draw near to him. Really do love as Christ loves. I'm not preaching to you perfection. I'm preaching to the reality. And if you're in Christ, sins come to an end. And you need to thank God for it. And acknowledge that you're a child of God. And it's joyful. It's so joyful. And you say, What love is this? That I would be a child of God, that he would do this work of grace in me, that I would bear his image. That I would be like his Son, Jesus Christ. And John is so then I'm sure angry like Jesus would get angry at false teaching. I'm sure grieved because the lies they're speaking is just leaving them in sin. And leading them astray. And John saying, No, you child of God, leave all that. Walk in the light. You don't have to sin. A new possibility has been opened to you of not sinning. You know, I know when I was converted, I said to the Lord, here's the first time I've ever known what it is to have a free will. I say to you, not in any way toting myself, there are sins I don't do anymore. And if you're in Christ, there are sins you don't do anymore. Because if y'all did, I better just we better find out and excommunicate you from the table, right? So this isn't perfectionism, but if you all were the sinners you were, you wouldn't be in the church and you wouldn't be coming to the table and receiving the sacrament Because God's really brought sin to the end in your life. Does that mean let's not watch and pray? And let's be careless? No, the child of God isn't careless. Child does everything he can because he wants to do God's will. He prays earnestly for it. He pushes out everything of the world that gets in the way of him praying. Of him watching, of him obeying. He's not careless. This isn't preaching carelessness. Easy Christian living is preaching the truth. The truth of divine birth. John goes on to say we don't get to in these verses. Someone born of God can't sin? Impeccability. Yay, I can't wait for that day, right? John's not saying don't live fearing the next time you're gonna sin. Be careful. Or rejoice in the possibility that has been opened up to you in Christ to overcome sin. You know, John is so difficult to preach. But he's a master at it. You know, what I want to say to you from these verses, if you're someone in sin, isn't that you're not a Christian. But to preach it's hopeless to you, that's not the gospel. Jesus came to save sinners. That's not just he came to take your guilt away. He came to take sin away. Came to take you out of the bondage of sin that you'll bear God's image again. And you can. Now, John says, you're children of God. And notice what he says: it's something seen. Why? He's leading a different life. He doesn't think the way he used to think. He doesn't act the way he used to act. He follows Christ and he's like, I can see it, and you can see it, and we can see it in the Church of Jesus Christ. We can Actually see that we're children of God when we speak gracious loving words. When we Forgive and choose to forgive in love rather than to keep sin between us and a person and cut them off and have a spiritual death in that relationship. and we make reunite ourselves with the other. That's righteousness. You're a child of God. John then sort of reinforces this for them kind of negatively. He says, Here's the reason, beloved, why you're not recognized by the world anymore. And what he means is those people who went out from the church, why did they go out? Why'd they stop listening to the apostles? They never were of us. They're of the world. They listened to the world. They went out there where they can get a hearing. And why don't they recognize you anymore? They didn't recognize the Father. When was the Father on earth? In the Son. You see in me. You see in the Father. And the world did not recognize God and not recognize the Father. And so he's kind of saying, beloved, this is really Proof as well that you're children of God, if you are unrecognizable to the world, man You used to walk, you used to talk like this. Why don't you talk anymore like that? And you used to violate the Sabbath up and down. Why aren't you a Sabbath breaker anymore? You used to swear like a sailor. Why don't you swear like that anymore? You used to laugh at all those dirty jokes. We love to laugh at. Why don't you do that anymore? Unrecognizable to the world of a child of God. How great the Father's love is of a child of God. He says, beloved, John wants them to know his church that you are children of God now. And he wants us to know, again, he wants the fullness of joy to be a part of our life. He not only wants you to have the joy that you're a child of God now. He wants you to know there's more to come. The creative work of God's love that He has done in making you His child and Jesus Christ, redeeming you through Christ, loving you and giving Jesus to be your sin bearer, loving you so you can Live through Jesus Christ, the risen ascended Lord, who has anointed you with his Spirit. John says God's going to work in his creative way again, and what we will even be, we haven't even seen that yet So you have the you're a child of God, you have the joy of living as a child of God now, and you have the joy of the more to come and what you'll be in that day. Now John says, we don't know what that's going to be, but as soon as he says that, he says, yet we do know this much about it. He says, we know that when Jesus does appear, he's talking about his future appearance, at his parousia, his coming again in glory. We're gonna be like him. Here's one thing you and I can know about the future. We are gonna be like Jesus You should just settle that in your mind. If you're a Christian and your hope isn't to be like Jesus, you need to rethink your profession of faith. The desire you want more than anything is not to be like Jesus. I encourage you to hear again the Christian message, to think again the kind of life you're leading, because it must mean you're leading a life of sin and you need to be redeemed out of it. God is still gracious. You can turn from that and trust in Jesus now. But our hope must be set on what God has purposed to do for us in Christ, and that is to be like him and to bear his image. And John tells us why we're going to be like him, or not really why, he sort of, I think what he's saying here explains to us how this is going to take place. We're going to see him. That's how it's going to take place. You're going to see Jesus. You're going to see God in Christ in all of the fullness of his glory. And you are going to cease whatever old vestiges of fallen Adam still cling to you, and you are going to bear perfectly the image of the heavenly man That's what you have to look forward to in Christ. As we born the image of the earthly, we shall bear the image of the heavenly. First Corinthians 15 John's going to go on later here and say too, that if you're a child of God, you've actually already seen Christ. A true conversion, true Christian experience is already by faith, seeing Christ Nobody can see Christ and stay a sinner. Knowing, as you know, you've heard before, I'm not the first pastor to tell you, biblical knowledge is not just intellectual knowledge, it's that union. Between couples. You can't be married to Christ and stay a sinner. But it's because you are married to Christ and united to Because that great exchange, right, he took everything that was ours, suffered on the cross for it, buried it away, that in his risen glory You might have everything of his. You get his kingdom, or you get to live in his kingdom, get the inheritance. He promises to share his throne with us. What king's going to let some of one of us go sit up in his throne and be king for a day? Sounds horrible. In Adam, it does. Not in Christ. You'll be a great king. Don't take to the extreme. I don't know if that's how it's going to work. I'm painting out though for us. All that is Christ. is ours. We have it already pledged and promised to it, sealed every week in the supper, in the gospel, sealed by the Spirit to us. And we live in the hope of the full attainment of it. And the chief thing that John's dwelling on is bearing again in its fullness the image of God. See you and I can't do that until we have the redeemed body. Because image bearers of God is not a mental, spiritual thing only. It's bodily Decaying, corrupt, dying bodies. No, God didn't make those. Accursed He made them. Don't misunderstand what I mean by made them. That's not what he made them to be. The curse of sin has fallen upon them. And the bodies that he has for us are spiritual and powerful and glorious and strong. No more are we going to just say, I'm so tired. So tired that I can't go out and do righteous things, right? Because we that happens. Saints cease doing righteous things on earth because their bodies die. That's sad. They get to go live with the Lord and continue doing righteous things there, but that day is going away in Christ's comes. I won't dwell on any. He tells us if you have this hope. Because Jesus is pure, you're also going to be pure right now. You're going to seek purification. It's aiming at those who are in church again. That's the lie. A folly saying, don't worry, you can be a Christian, a child of God, assure yourself of grace and salvation, and live an impure moral life. John says, No. If that's your hope, the redeeming grace of God, Christ's death and resurrection, and you have that hope in Christ, because your hope is to be in him. You want everything that is your old buried away, and you want to join everything that is his eternal life. He's saying if that's your hope He's pure, and that's going to work out in your life now. You see people have hope in Christ, you're going to see people leading pure lives like Jesus Christ. John then continues his polemic and lays out a bunch of statements for us. One of John's purposes in this letter is to sift between truth and error. Because again false prophets have come in preaching lies to the saints and leading them astray. And when John that's why he has all these real clear-cut, everybody who does this is this, everybody who does that is that Children of God, children of the devil, light, darkness, love, hatred. Which side are you on, right? He sort of just cuts it all through and gets rid of the middle ground. John says, if you do sin, you are living rebelliously. Samuel Crossman got this so right too Did you catch that line? He gave himself for who? For whom? His foes. But he didn't give himself for his foes that will stay his foes. And continue rebelling against Christ our God. Christ is our God. He's God. The sin is to break Christ's law Now think about what John's saying, right? Yes, God loves sinners, died for us when they're his enemies, but he did it to change us into his children. So to be a Christian and continue sin He's saying is to take God's law and say, nope, I'm not living that way. I'm going to be in rebellion again. What? What? You're telling me that Christ is your God and King and Lord and you're going to live in rebellion against him? That must be the spirit of it. You need to come out of that. You see how clear the argumentation is? And people get so wrapped up trying to excuse sin away in themselves. Please don't hear me not say there's not a struggle with sin. Please don't hear me say that sin's not present and we have to fight against it. Based on every say you're all perfect, not to worry about sin, thou I'm saved. I'm saying what Paul's but what John said. He knows how powerful the re the new birth is. He knows why Christ came. They're not gonna we need to get settled in our hearts, beloved. Sin's going away. It's going to its place. Place of punishment. There is going to be a world forever where there is no sin. So if you are cherishing sin, that's a problem. A serious problem because Christ and God in Christ has acted to take it away And if you're not letting him take it away and holding on to it in some things, you need to leave that. That's the lie, that's the teaching that's in the abode of death. You need to come to Christ. You need to repent of that. You need to call out to Jesus. There is strength and grace to overcome sin. John gives us that definition of sin being lawlessness. We all need to hear that. We all need to know absolutely what sin is. It is saying, God, I'm not going to live by your law. I'm not going to be ruled by you. I will not do what you say. It's as simple as that. And we might do it for several reasons. We're afraid. Well, they might say mean things against me and make fun of me. They may. I know that's real. You have a high priest. Who has your flesh on you still, who was called names, he was called bealzable. He was mocked because he did righteousness. So he knows And maybe that's the root of your sin. You don't know you have a high priest who can help you. You do, Jesus. If you're afraid of what might come to you because you're trying to live without sin in your life, That's real? That's true. I'm not telling you deny that. I'm telling you take it to the Lord Jesus. Go to the throne of grace. He's been there. He's done it. John's gonna say in a minute. There's not sin in him. Jesus is sinless. He lived his whole life on earth sinless. So, as you are seeking to lead sinless lives, and I hope you are, I hope you're not going, I'm going to sin tomorrow, right? You're seeking to lead and follow Christ, he can help you. Maybe it's because we're too proud We don't want to give up that sin and we don't want to go confess our that we're sorry and seek forgiveness because we're too proud. That's a problem. Trying to think on the fly real quick, you know, what are all the reasons why we keep on sinning? Don't trust God? I know that was a big problem in my life. God, if I walk in your ways, I'll not get the life I want. Thank God He didn't give me the life I wanted. That was a life of misery and sin. Trust me, life in Christ is the life, the only life. I don't know, but I I can't see your hearts. Christ, I don't know what is it that keeps you, if it is the case, of not walking in God's commandments. Not living like Christ. I don't know what it is. I'm trying to encourage you that what it is, there's a solution and answer for you in the grace of God in Jesus Christ. And there's hope for you if you're someone struggling in sin, that Christ came to take those away. And you are in one in which there is not sin. John strengthens what he's been saying all along by reminding us Jesus' appearance on earth was not an idle thing. Jesus' appearance on earth was to take sin away He was opposed to it his whole life. He told people to repent because he's opposed to sin. It's not that he just didn't sin. To be sinless is also to be opposed to sin, because it's sin to countenance sin. It's sin to not call out sin. It's sin to leave people in sin. It's called death. You're not telling them to turn to God who can give them life. And he died because he's opposed to sin. He showed how opposed he was to sin by dying for sin. He hates it, and this is the only way he can bear it away that there might be a creation without it. A creation for you and I. Oh God and Jesus have live forever, but God in his grace wants a world of human beings to love and to be loved by him. For your goodness and grace. And the only way that there can be a world without sin is his atoning death. So opposed he is. against sin. I hope one thing is happening in this sermon. You are learning to see how opposed against sin God is. And that at the same time it is strengthening your understanding of how gracious He is to us in Christ. But let us not confuse His grace as being soft towards sin, countenancing sin. But he loves sinners and I've never seen the grace I've never seen a sinner stay in sin who knows the love of God, right? Who knows the grace of God. How can I keep sinning against such a gracious God? And God overcomes and wins us through His grace. Right? That gospel is what makes Christians The gospel of Christ crucified, that message of reconciliation, of justification by faith is what makes us Christians. Praise the Lord, we are in one who doesn't sin, within one whom there's not sin. John makes it very clear, as I mentioned there in verse 6. If you sin and go on sinning and again he's speaking in final terms. We need again because John's dealing with the last he knows what we're meant to be. Speaking in final terms, that if one day sin going away, if sin hasn't come to an end in your life, he's not saying that you don't occasionally sin, but if sin hasn't come to an end, you've never seen Christ And you don't know them because people are going around the church obviously saying they've had Christian experiences, and yet they live no different than the world, and that is going to lead people to hell If you're going to say I've had a Christian experience and live like the world and think that's what it is to be a Christian, You've never come and seen them and you're leaving people in the false hope because you're leaving them and you're s this isn't uh innocent teaching, right? How we walk and live isn't an innocent thing. We're children of God. That's what John's understand that's what John's dealing with. I think there's a lot of this in Christianity today, isn't there? A lot of antinomianism. I know it is. I heard someone tell me, well, if I sin, God will forgive me. He's going to keep on sinning. You know, you you we want to say yes, right? But at the same time, that doesn't that man doesn't know what God's forgiveness is about. He doesn't understand it's relational, does he? Why do you forgive your spouse? So you can live apart as you've been living? Or so you can live together. Why does God forgive us in Christ? So we can keep standing over here away from him? Or come in his house and be his children? That's why he forgives us. It's called reconciliation. He wants the union restored. His reconciling love that we preach in the gospel is to bring sinners to himself. in in his presence change, not to lead them in sin. We don't preach the gospel to lead people in sin. We preach the gospel to bring them out of sin. Because we're bringing them to God because God's come to them. He's taken the initiative He said, You people that know my grace, go tell people of my grace. I've taken the initiative. Go tell them they've got to wash themselves up. I've got the laver. They don't gotta pretend they're righteous and good. I I know they're not. I've got blood for that. I've acted. Be reconciled to me. And that means, be reconciled. That means, Daddy, I won't do that anymore. I did that? Forgive me? I won't do that anymore. We still have to do that as Christians, don't we? It's that same message of reconciliation we have to do to ourselves if we fall into sin. Daddy, I did that? I won't do that anymore. I trust in Christ. Thank you for forgiving me. And turn from it. John's very clear. He says, children don't be don't be led astray. Don't be led astray. Here's a very clear picture. You see someone doing righteousness, he's righteous. Just as the Lord Jesus. You see someone living like Christ, he's a Christian See someone walking like Christ? He's righteous. You see someone in sin, practicing sin, living in sin, counseling in sin, getting sin, he's up the devil. Devil's been sinning since the beginning, and we know this. Jesus came to undo these works. Came to silence the tempter, silence the slander, take away the fear of death by destroying Jesus, so we don't have to live under that fear. Why are many people afraid to turn to Christ, right? I'm going to get cut off on social media. My family might cut me off and kill me, right? We don't fear death anymore and stay in sin. Do you think the fear of death and sinning aren't joined together? You're wrong. Why do you and I and myself not preach the gospel like I should? They might kill me. Fear of death. Not doing what we should. Jesus came to undo all that. That's the work of the devil to silence our mouths about the truth. He just doesn't know the truth said. We're not speaking the truth in love that Jesus came to do all that. We have to live with it undone. Beloved, in Christ, look in the mirror. And see they're a child of God. And then turn to God and say, thank you that you have bestowed such great love on me. May God continue you in His grace now and forever. Amen.