The Christian life is a life of love. Love for God and love for our neighbor And no amount of zeal, sacrifice, or devotion is of value without it. As you know, the Apostle Paul has written In 1 Corinthians chapter 13, the love chapter. While as John more briefly said, the one who does not love does not know God. For God is love. Because of this emphasis in Scripture upon love as a supreme Christian virtue. The notion has become very widespread that the Christian is no longer under obligation to keep the Ten Commandments. Many today seem to feel that there is a complete antagonism between the law of God and the love of God. Thus, we find sometimes professing Christians who reject, actually, or disregard one or more of the Ten Commandments of God's holy law. Giving as the reason that we are no longer under law, but under grace, and not ruled by law, but by love. What do we say to that? Well, when one considers this attitude in the light of the plain teaching of the Bible It seems absolutely incredible, doesn't it, that such blindness could persist among people who are true Christians Was it not Jesus who said, He that has my commandments and keeps them, he it is that loves me And didn't John, the apostle of love, say, For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. Indeed, he most plainly stated that we cannot even know that we know God, much less love him, unless we do keep his commandments in these words. And by this we know that we know him if we keep his commandments. So our text this evening must be seen as further explanation of all this John wants us to see that the very hallmark of genuine conversion is love. Love for God, love for the brethren, and love for the neighbor. And this love is the very fulfilling of the law, not its replacement. In our text, John underlines particularly the love That Christians must have and show for one another. Tradition has it that old John in Ephesus kept repeating Love one another. Indeed, as he writes these words about loving fellow believers He addresses them as beloved persons, that is, persons who have been loved. Now, we know that they have beloved by God, but that's not what John particularly was stressing when he said they are beloved. They are beloved by each other. You get the point? They are loved. Not only loved by God, but also loved by one another. And the beauty of this text tonight is that John so closely unites the Old and the New Testaments here. He marries law and love and underlines so forcibly the utter need For brotherly love among the members of Christ's Church, that he leaves us with little doubt why he is called the Apostle of Love. So that's our proposition tonight. We speak of the old yet new commandment of love. John, the son of thunder, learned to become new, to learn love, yes, but he learned love that becomes new. Without losing the old fire of the law. Listen to him as again he says in verse 7 of our text about the old law. Beloved, I am writing you no new commandment, but an old commandment that you had from the beginning The old commandment is the word that you have heard. And they knew what he was talking about. The Ten Commandments, yes, the Ten Commandments. The commandment to love God and our neighbor, summarized and explicated in the Ten Commandments Is not new. The standard of holiness for Christians is exactly the same as it has always been right from the outset of the human race. Let us demonstrate this by pointing out three facts. First, it is simply impossible to find any new commandment. In the New Testament writings of the apostles, brotherly love is not an exclusively apostolic notion. It was so from the beginning. Cain love Abel Rather the apostles reasserted our duty to keep the Ten Commandments. Second proof. Even Jesus contented himself with this. Remember what he said to the rich young ruler who said, All these have I kept from my youth up. Jesus did not rebuke him and show him where he still fell short. He said rather do these things. Remember also the Sermon on the Mount. That's about how to show your love for God by obeying him. Third, even the two great commandments often expressed by Jesus to love God and to love one's neighbor were not in any sense new For they are also found in the law of Moses. When you don't kill, you love. When you honor, you do love, and so on. Deuteronomy six five says And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. But then in Leviticus eighteen, verse eighteen, the Israelites were commanded You shall love your neighbor as yourself. And so, congregation, when John says that he doesn't write Any new commandment, but rather an old commandment, which has existed from the beginning, he obviously means to say That the command to love God, and particularly the command to love the brethren, other Christians, has existed from the beginning It has always been. It was in the garden, as we've already said asserted to. It hovered over Cain. with the murderous club lifted above his brother's head. It was heard from Mount Sinai. And now, says John, when I speak of love for God and neighbor as the command of God, He says, I bring you no new doctrine. This old command is the message you have heard. That's why Solomon said, There's nothing new under the sun. And certainly the modern idea that the gospel of Christ and his love has set aside the Ten Commandments. Or has put a new commandment in their place is nothing new. It's as old as the hills. Why else would John say, unless it were not believed and not done, I am not writing you a new command. If there were not already those in his day Who wish to set aside the Ten Commandments of God. The Apostle John wants us to know that when he speaks of brotherly love, he speaks of fulfilling the demands of The second table of the law of God, particularly. The standard of holiness under the gospel of Christ is not any different than it was Under the law of Moses. In fact, it is the same standard. It is no new commandment, but the old one, which we had from the beginning. If anything, it is more far reaching than ever, with inner demands not spelled out before. So, when we want to know how to love the brethren, we will have to begin by looking carefully into the law of God. There, we will find the perfect blueprint, our neighbor's authority. Our neighbor's life, physical life, our neighbor's health, and our neighbor's good name. Confess the dreadful lack of love that we so often show for children, for parents, for husbands, wives, schoolmates, workmates We need to go back to that old law of God. But we get verse 8 after verse 7. Hear it again. At the same time, it is a new commandment that I am writing to you. Which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining. In one breath, it seems that John writes a direct contradiction He says that he writes no new commandment, but only the old commandment, which was from the beginning. And in another breath, he says that he does. Write a new commandment. Will you please make up your mind, John? What is this? Is it a contradiction? No, it is not. It is not a real contradiction at all, and we'll understand the truth if we pay close attention to his words. For in these words of verse 8 and following, there are three things that are new about the old commandment. First, the commandment, or we should say, the keeping of the ten commandments, is new in him. It's new in Christ. That is, in Jesus Christ, he who is named as Jesus Christ, the righteous one, in verse one, is the one in whom this is true And in his person it's the case that the commandment is new. Under the Old Testament, the law was the same But in spite of all the elaborate provisions of the Mosaic system, there simply was no realization of the law of God being kept. If you want to summarize the Old Testament, you'll find that it is a story of the violation of the Ten Commandments. The law demanded perfection then, as it does now. But there simply was no perfection. Found to meet the law's demands. The priests who served in the tabernacle Were ceremoniously cleansed and robed with righteousness, but they were not really holy in themselves and in their actions. The sacrifices were made according to strict laws of purity. But the animals that were sacrificed were certainly not really holy. Only in Jesus Christ is actual and perfect holiness to be found. Only in Jesus Christ is perfect conformity to God's law, and especially the law of love to others Actually realized in fact he did it. And he always did it. And that is surely something new. That's why John says, I write both, it is an old commandment, and yet it's new. It's like looking at the moon and actually going there. We've all looked and seen that moon, but only the astronauts actually got there so far. And if we want to have this kind of love that our text tonight talks about, we do need to notice That the commandment finds its fulfillment in Jesus Christ and in his life on earth. That is, its location has altered. We got to the moon in Jesus. His act of obedience, his love of God and his neighbor. Has, my dear friends, actually happened on this earth perfectly. He fulfilled the law of God personally And without omission. How wonderfully true it is, believers. God's all law Has become new in Jesus Christ. That's why I think I've mentioned it before, but I'll say it again. Our forefather J. Gresham Machin on his deathbed was remembered to have said, and it was written down by the one who heard it Thank God for the active obedience of Jesus Christ. But secondly, that's just the first reason why he says that the old commandment is new. The second reason is John says that the commandment is also new because it is true in you, Christians. In other words, it is not only true that Christ has kept them all perfectly for all of his people But it is also true that his people have kept the law perfectly as well. Whoops, Pastor, could you possibly have said that? Yes, I do say that. And I believe it's biblical to say that. By virtue of our union with Christ. His perfect righteousness has been imputed to us. It's put to our account. It's as though we did it That's why his name shall be called Yahweh Sudekenu. The Lord is our righteousness. Take the illustration of the moon again. All NASA workers can say, We did it. Even though only were there two or three, I forget how many, actually stood on the moon. I want to illustrate this also, and I hope I don't miss Need you to be miss to misunderstand me, but I remember something that happened for Jean and I and for our two youngest children after we arrived in New Zealand in 1964 It was just a short time after we were there that there was a tragedy, a storm, a typhoon of high magnitude. And in that in that in that uh wa that uh storm, the Inter island thurry, the Wahine Came aground in right near Wellington and came on the rocks. And it uh It happened that all but about uh 50 people escaped alive. There were deaths. And I would say that it's important to realize that all those people, whether they lived or died, were were on that ship, that ferry. But you know, there was something else that was in the ferry. And I want you to think about the automobiles. There were scores of them in the bowels of the Wahim. And you know what happened afterwards, we read about this, that those automobiles were lifted out of that wrecked ferry. Out of the holes by barracks were refurbished, cleaned, restored, and fixed up, and sold again And they were known as the Wahini cars. And when you would go to buy a used car, it was the duty of the used car salesman to tell you that this was a Wahini car That means it was a car that was in the Wahini. And the result of the storm on the Wahini as a ferry was felt by all those automobiles. I don't want you to think so much about the people because it gets a little confusing if you make that an illustration. But I can have you talk about the automobiles Because all of them were in the Wahini, and they all suffered for it. Now Time magazine says 51 people died, scores of autos sank with the furry, but God Save those 51 or those scores of automobiles. God made Christ to be sinned for us that we might be made the righteousness of God. In him. We're like those Wahini otters. The perfect obedience of Christ was not yet a reality when the old commandment was given. But it is a reality now. And because it is a reality, it is true in us. For we like the Wahini orders. We're in him. We are in union with Christ. And this is wonderfully true, and it's biblical. You have kept God's law because you are in Christ. Here's where we have to stop in our explanation. of what our salvation is all about. Even that's too wonderful a thing to even comprehend. True it is. So the old commandment is new in Christ, and it's also new in us because we are in him. Finally, and this is the third thing that we learn about its newness. There's something new in the commandment because, as John puts it, the darkness is passing away, and the light is already shining. What John is saying then is that in the hearts and lives of the Lord's people, there now is the beginning of true holiness. In actual fact. Not just imputed to them from what Jesus did, but actually found in them. And this again is certainly something new. As the Lord once said through the prophet Ezekiel, a new heart I will put within you. In other words, the new command, the love of the brethren, is not new because of the command itself. That's not been changed, but because of the location of that command. Now the command which is old is new now because God has written it in the hearts of his people. There is in the heart of every true believer, already operative, the power which works the fulfilling of the law, and that power is love. That's why John says, no one who is born of God will continue to sin because God's seed remains in him. He cannot go on sinning because he has been born of God. You see, it's not a matter of degree. Because you know that you still do sin. It's a matter of placement. Of course, you believers are imperfect But God's perfect law has been placed anew in the recesses of your heart. And that won't go away. Don't forget the beginning of this righteousness, loving brethren, is called light. The light is shining in your hearts Not for nothing either. As God's love shows God, so our love for others demonstrate God because He produces it. If you love your neighbor, your neighbor is going to somewhere along the line realize that you must be a Christian. Because otherwise you wouldn't have done that. Behold how they love one another, says the New Testament of the church. When other people see your love for others, they can't help but see God Because he is the source of that love you demonstrate. You demonstrated. And he gets all the credit. Hallelujah. But now thirdly, the effect of the old law must now be seen in its new location. For this, we read verses 9 and 10. Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness. Whoever loves his brother Abides in the light, and in him there is no cause for stumbling. This means that the presence of the law of God in the believer's heart is not an optional virtue. But a telling fruit. Jesus said, By this shall all men know that I am in you, and you are in me. When the law of God is not obeyed by a so-called alleged believer, he or she is properly identified as a hypocrite. Look at verse 9. Such a person is still in the darkness. But obedience of God's law commands and prohibitions identifies the believer. Now, why is this the case? Because the brother peculiarly is another chosen one, and therefore the true neighbor. Not my friend, my brother. Thus, this is particularly relevant to the matter of assurance. You know, if I were an unbeliever, an unsaved person, loving others would be the last thing that I would expect myself to be doing, because I know how selfish and self-centered I can be. Rather, I would in that case want to those want to love those who love me. I would naturally choose those upon whom I was willing to lavish my love. I would love the world. And it's things, not people. But praise God. I thank him for this. When I love the brethren, then I know that God is busy with me. See, the whole thrust of our text tonight is not to order you to love the brethren To tell you that you ought to do that. Rather, it's more. It's to assure you that if you are a believer in Jesus, you will do that. Even more so. This is a message of grace and hope, isn't it? Obedience to the law of God, particularly by loving God and loving others, especially other believers. Is true in him, says John. Yeah, we already saw that. But then he says also, it's true in you. I am the object of Jesus' brotherly love and the beneficiary of his righteousness. But I am a lover of the church. As a result, I'm privileged to be delivered from the kind of scratching. Self-seeking, hateful attitude that characterizes the world. Do I need to tell you that? I grow in assurance as I have opportunity to love the brethren. Providing dinners for other sick believers, calling people in trouble, praying for them Listening to their ideas, giving them car rides when they aren't able to do it themselves. I receive their love. But look around you, outside of Jesus and his saved church. It's a terribly unfriendly world out there, my friends. But inside Jesus Christ, there is active and perfect obedience to God's law. Apply there, and his perfect righteousness will be applied to unworthy, but blessed you. Trust in Jesus. Both you and others will see your life changed. Congregation, I close with this. Remember always, love is a verb. Before it is a noun. The Bible says, herein is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and gay. His only begotten Son, to be the propitiation for our sins. Only then, after God has so loved us, that we feel his love. Or that we are actually in love with him. He did love by his act of redemption through Jesus. By that deed, you believers are beloved by him, and you know it. You know that he didn't just feel sorry for you. But that he did something about your need. He loved you. It's a verb, folks. Now believer, it's yours to copy in, to do love to your neighbor, and that neighbor, especially your brother and sister in Christ. Who will be loved and will thus be shown, it will be shown who you are, a new person saved by God's grace. Yes, nothing so much identifies you as a Christian as when you love other believers. They are sinners like you, but they have been mercifully beloved by Jesus. When you love them You show that you have been mercifully beloved by Jesus also.