Please turn to Genesis three. We'll read verses eight through twenty-four. Genesis three, eight through twenty-four. And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the From the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and above all beasts of the field On your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life. I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. To the woman, he said I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life, thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins and clothed them. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever, therefore the Lord God sent him out of from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken He drove out the man, and at the east of the Garden of Eden he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. The word of the Lord. Thanks, yeah. Listen to the reading of God's Word from the New Testament. Paul's letter to the Romans, chapter 8, beginning at verse 18 For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly. But because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray, O Lord, in your light do we see light. So shine upon the passages of Scripture which have been read and sung. and particularly the one which will now be proclaimed, that we might understand and receive all that you have for us to see and know And respond in love and faith through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. The effects of the fall and the oracles of God. The effects of eating the forbidden fruit. were not like the effects of taking cyanide, immediate demise God had threatened, promised death. But what kind of death? First of all, we will see it was the death of a relationship with God. And a death of relationship between man and woman, and finally, eventually, physical death itself. So now we see the confrontation by the Lord after Adam and Eve's sin. Verse 8. They heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Looking deeply into the Hebrew, it appears that the sound of the Lord God coming through the garden was like a wind. It was an awesome presence. And they knew something was wrong because being made in the image of God, God's word had been written on their hearts, as we are told in Psalm nineteen. and in Romans chapter 1. And so these two sinners, aware of their sin were full of fear, and so they wanted to avoid God. People still do that today. They know down deep about their sins, and so they want to avoid that knowledge. They, Adam and Eve, literally hid, but people hide in different ways. They go to dark places. of the internet or of dark rooms of bars or pornography outlets or other such things, places to hide from the the eyes of any who might see. Other ways that people do this is just by keeping their minds occupied with other things. They amuse themselves to death As Neil Postman said in his famous book. And in Psalm 14, we learn that fools Fool themselves. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. I hide from God by denying his existence. That happens too Jesus had said in John 3, verse 19, and this is the judgment The light has come into the world. And people loved the darkness rather than the light. Why? Because their deeds were evil. That is probably, even by Jesus, a reflection on what happened here in the garden. They hid themselves from the presence of the Lord. And then verse 9. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself. He's never been afraid before. He's never been troubled by his created state of nakedness. There was no shame in it in the last chapter. But now he's afraid and he is naked and he is hiding himself. To try to illustrate in modern terms what this might feel like for Adam at this moment. Just imagine if a fighter pilot at Naval Air Station or somewhere like it was flying around and he made an error while flying. And was forced to eject. And his F-35 Lightning II aircraft crashed. And that's $80 million lost. Imagine how we would feel. And now add to that that the F-35 crashed into a densely populated city, killing hundreds. How would he feel while appearing in the presence of the Admiral in charge By analogy, Adam's perfect body made in God's image was like that $80 million aircraft, and the whole human family was ruined So imagine how Adam felt when he ruined himself and all his posterity, as our confession says. And God speaks again in verse 11. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman you, whom you gave to me, to be with me, she gave me fruit from the tree, and I ate. Notice this. Here Adam blames. He blames God. You gave her to me. It's your fault. And it's her fault. She's the one who gave me the fruit. This is the first abdication of responsibility in recorded history. And I've said this before. Men and young men, the most cowardly thing you can do as a man is to make excuses. Yet it is so common. You shouldn't make excuses about anything, even being late. If you're late, you're late. Just say, I'm sorry for being late. Don't make excuses about this happened and then that happened and then it's not my fault. That's just like Adam making excuses. The manliest thing to do is to take responsibility. No excuses. And it's good for women, too. The woman is better, however. Verse 13, then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? A woman doesn't make excuses. She says the serpent deceived me. That's the truth, isn't it? And I ate. He didn't force it down her throat, did he? She says she ate. So there it is. Following that, we have now the oracles of the Lord in verses 14 through 19. And these oracles, as you see it in your Bible, it'll probably be in kind of a versified form, and that's because it is Hebrew poetry. And in fact, it is something that we call a chiasm. So a chiasm, as you see it in your outline there, is the first part is the man is questioned, and then the woman is questioned, and then in the middle of the whole thing of a chai, an X is the middle. is the serpent is addressed. So that's the central message, the serpent being addressed. And then coming out of that, the woman is addressed again and the man is addressed again. So it Starts with the man, goes to the woman, and then the serpent, and then the woman, and then back to the man. Verse 14, the Lord God said to the serpent, This is the most important part. Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and above all beasts of the field. On your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life. In that word, dust. is the foreshadowing of his defeat. You bite the dust. That's a phrase we still use, isn't it? Someone bites the dust. But this is the central verse. I will put enmity between you and the woman. Enmity, that's strife. Discord, strife. They had recently become friends, hadn't they? He had met her, he had offered her fruit, he had spoken to her, and she had taken the bait, and they had become friends, but now they're going to be enemies from now on, according to the oracle of God. They will be enemies. Not only the woman herself, but between your offspring and the word there is seed. So it's descendants. And that is the seed of the woman is all who follow Satan. as we will see developed later on. Jesus said in John 8, 44, alluding to this probably, To the Jews who were not believing in him, who were rejecting him, who were trying to trap him up and kill him. He said in verse 44 of chapter 8, You are of your father, the devil. And your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and has nothing to do with the truth. Because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character. For he is a liar and the father of lies. So there's going to be enmity, strife between the seed of the woman and the seed of The serpent. There's going to be ongoing warfare, struggle between good and evil. In the world. And we will see how this begins to unfold in the very next chapter with Cain and Abel, a murderer. But then this beautiful phrase, the central most phrase in this chiasm, I think, he shall bruise your head. This is being spoken to the serpent. He, the seed of the woman, shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Now, what's worse? Having your head stomped, Maybe the thought is that the heel of the seed is bruised actually in the act of crushing the serpent. He maybe stomps the head so hard that he bruises his heel. Possibly. That's what's going to happen The seed of the woman is going to win, and the seed of the serpent is going to be defeated Now we go out of the chiasm, the center part, at least to verse 16. And to the woman, he said, What's going to happen to the woman? I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. I remember being with my wife a few times when she was giving birth and she said, Curse you, Eve! What would it have been like without this curse upon the woman giving birth? It might have been easy. But now in the place of ease and pleasure is pain. And yet, in that word, there's still mercy because there will be childbearing. There's a future. But now there is a word which is not so happy. And it's the next phrase, your desire shall be for your husband Now that could be kind of a, oh, that's really nice the guys think. Your desire shall be for your husband. All the women are gonna want me, right? That's not what it means. It means your desire shall be to rule over your husband. We see that when we compare it to chapter 4, verse 7. Where evil wants to di desires to rule over Cain. He says there, if you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire, same word, is for you, but you must rule over it. So the woman will seek to Usurp the man, she will want to take the rule over the man. But he shall rule over you, is the next phrase. Fallen women. This is uh something that is noted in the study done by the the biblical manhood and womanhood. Um group from years ago, fallen women tend to want to take the ruling office of husbands. And fallen men tend to want to let somebody else do it. Abdicate responsibility. That's the fallen nature. Verse 17, now Adam has spoken, is uh addressed here. And to Adam he said Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Up until now it was paradise. The garden was beautiful. Everything was pleasing to the eye. There was not a thing wrong with it. Now, thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you. It's a cursed creation. And Paul says in Romans 8, we're waiting for that cursed creation to be blessed again. And it'll happen when? When the sons of God are fully revealed. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field by the sweat of your face. Hard work. You shall eat bread. Till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. All that is depicting life in a hard world ending in dust. And we're glad we don't stop there, because now there is the gracious provision of the Lord. Verses 20 through 24. The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skin. And clothed them. Note here the sovereign mercy of God. God who initiates their covering And in order for this covering to happen, what did they do? They sewed fig leaves together, but that's no good. Something has to die. Blood has to be shed to cover the shame of the race of sinners. Remember, death was promised. And here's the first instance of innocent death And then notes the mercy of God in banishing them from the garden and from the tree of life. That sounds kind of harsh. He banishes them, you know. No, let's listen. Verse 22, the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever, stop there. You see, God doesn't want people to live forever in an alienated state. He doesn't want people to live apart from him, unmitigated. So it says in verse 23, therefore the Lord God sent him out of the Garden of Eden. To work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man, and at the east of the Garden of Eden he placed the cherubim. Certain kind of angels that guard things. And the flaming sword that turned every which way to guard the way to the tree of life. You see, to live forever without God is hell. That's what hell is. To live forever without God No annihilationism, sorry if that's what you hope for. It's living forever without God. But listen carefully. The seed of woman that we heard about is a singular male person, according to Paul in Galatians. By the way, why does it say the seed of the woman? It would be more natural to say the seed of the man. Women don't have seed. A little biology lesson there. Nowhere else in the Bible are women described as having seed except this one place. Why is that? Because there is a male person coming who will not have Adam as father, but will have Eve as ancestral mother. Son of God, born of Mary, the Virgin, seed of woman He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Remember that And what happened when Jesus came, the son of Mary? He was tempted by the devil for 40 days and withstood. Indeed, Jesus was stricken by the devil. Defeat seemed certain. Death was promised, you see, and somebody had to die in every way. And on the cross, Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That's the worst death, isn't it? To be forsaken by God. Sidney Gridanus says this about it. The devil incited the Jews and Romans to crucify Jesus. But an amazing thing happened. Matthew 27, 51 reports that when Jesus breathed his last, at that moment The curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. This curtain barred people from the presence of God, and the curtain was embroidered with Guess what? Cherubim. As a reminder that sinful people cannot come into the presence of the Holy God. But when Jesus died. The curtain was torn in two from top to bottom. The way was no longer blocked. Satan's victory had turned into defeat. And on the third day, Jesus rose from the dead and ascended to the right hand of the Father. And Psalm 110 says, The Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand. Until I make your enemies your footstool. He's now reigning and ruling, now ascended, sitting at the right hand of the Father, and he's going to sit there until he has made his enemies his footstool. Paul repeats that in 1 Corinthians 15. The Psalm goes on, The Lord sends forth from Zion, your mighty scepter. Rule in the midst of your enemies. Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power in holy garments. From the womb of the morning, the dew of your youth will be yours. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. And he will come from that throne to judge the living and the dead, as we say in our creed. And finally, as we see in Revelation chapter 20, the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire, burning with sulfur. This is all interesting narrative, isn't it? Interesting theology. But let's be practical. Christian Is your personal life full of strife? Stressed marriage? Hidden sins? The way is open for you to be renewed. Return to the way of life and peace. Christ's way brings order and peace, harmony in marriage, even There is a battle going on, folks. But we may enjoy the victory by trusting in the victor. Ask him to do battle for you Ask him to cover you with his robe of righteousness, bought by his shed blood. Turn to Christ. Speak to him. He's good at listening. Lean on him. He's strong. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. If anyone here today or anyone listening in the future or at the present is exploring Christianity, The way back to paradise is to be in union with the second Adam. And that happens when you stop hiding from him and you acknowledge your sin. That's repentance. And you trust in God's merciful and only provision, the seed of a woman, the second Adam, who shed his blood and offers to cover you and clothe you with his perfect righteousness. He says to you, listening now, come unto me, all who labor and are heavy laden And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy. And my burden is light. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that you are merciful and kind, gracious to provide for sinners. Help us each to turn to you not only for our justification, our right standing, but in our troubles, our strife In our hiding of sins, help us to come clean and be clean through Christ. Amen.