Now the reading of God's Word from John chapter fourteen, this great promise of Jesus To do what was prophesied in Ezekiel, the valley of the dry bones, God breathing life into things which are otherwise dead. Jesus promises to breathe his spirit into the church. John fourteen, fifteen through twenty-seven If you love me, you will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another helper to be with you forever. even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more, but you will see me. Because I live, you also will live. In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. Judas, not Iscariot, said to him, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world? Jesus answered him, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you, but the helper, the Holy Spirit, Whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Lord, we thank you for these portions of your holy word which you have providentially handed down to us, inspired by your Spirit. breathed out from your holy mouth, O God, so that we might have them, we might ponder them, we might Be instructed by them, corrected. We might learn of your grace and your power and your love by them and by your Spirit who speaks through them now. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, happy Pentecost. That was last Sunday, Pentecost. And because Pentecost has now come We've had the revelation of God the Father who sent his one and only Son at Advent. That Son of His lived a perfect life for us, died on a cruel cross. was buried and was raised on the third day. He ascended into heaven and he sits at the right hand of God the Father. And he promised that the Father would send the Holy Spirit to us. And so we now have the Father who sent the Son, who also sent the Holy Spirit. We have the full revelation of the Holy Trinity, and that's what we're celebrating here today, Trinity Sunday. Some of our children have been starting their catechism either at home or perhaps even here a little bit at church from last Sunday, and they will know the answers to these questions. I'm not going to ask them to shout it out right now, but in the future I may. Is there more than one true God? And the answer is no. There is only one true God Second question, in how many persons does this one God exist? Answer: In three persons. Third question: Name these three persons: the Father, the Son. and the Holy Spirit. And so today we sang as an opening hymn that that Patrick hymn, Saint Patrick's hymn, I Lift Up as My Shield, or We Lift Up As Our Shield, God's name. the name of the Holy Trinity. And we affirm here, constantly, every Sunday in our worship, we affirm that God is a community of persons. And because we're created in the image of God, we are also to live in community. We live in a personal community, and we mirror the triune God in his life. So now we come to this passage where Jesus promised the gift of the Holy Spirit, the coming, the fullness of the coming of the Holy Spirit. This passage is frequently used on Pentecost, but we're going to use it today to mark the full revelation of the Trinity. The promise was fulfilled The promise that Jesus gave in John fourteen, it was fulfilled on the day of Pentecost, as recorded in Acts chapter two It says there, when the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place, and suddenly there came from heaven the sound of a mighty rushing wind. We need to note that the Hebrew word for spirit is ruach, which means wind. And the Greek word for spirit is pneuma Which means breath or wind or breeze. So there was this mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting, And then it says in verse 3, and divided tongues of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance. So what we have here is a historical marker of the fact that the Holy Spirit, who was promised, was given on the day of Pentecost and is forever now present. with his church. The Holy Spirit is present and indwells, indwells. But he indwells in two different ways. First of all, I want to point out he indwells the church, the ecclesia in Greek, the called out and called together ones. Called out of the world system, called out to be distinct and different, called apart from other gatherings. Called together on the day of resurrection, the Lord's Day. Called into the assembly of the body of Christ. This is a gathering of the body of Christ. It's not just like a club meeting or something like that. It is a divine assembly called together by God. And this assembly, therefore corporately is indwelt by the Holy Spirit. And I want to point that out to you. I'll do it in a way which I think will probably be memorable to you. If you turn to John 14, verses 15 through 20, it's not there in the English, but it's there in the Greek that the Holy Spirit here speaking Jesus speaking is speaking like a southerner. Like a southerner. I know some of you will really like that, but I'm going to paraphrase, or actually I'm going to translate uh the tent the the plurals here. Listen to verse 15. If you all love me, you all will keep my commandments. And I will ask the Father, and he will give you all another helper to be with you all forever. Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You all know him, for he dwells with you all and will be in you all. I will not leave you all as orphans, I will come to you all Yet a little while and the world will see me no more, but you all will see me. Because I live, you all also will live. In that day you all will know that I am in my Father, and you all in me, and I in you all. That sounds funny, doesn't it? But the plurals are there in the Greek. Jesus was promising the Holy Spirit to the gathered church. To the assembly of the saints. This wasn't individualistic at this point, anyway. So God promises the presence of the Holy Spirit to indwell the church. I know of a church somewhere in Southern Maryland. I won't mention it. And on the sign out in front, it says, Christ is in our midst. Well, that's true, literally true of any church where the Lord Jesus Christ is praised and worshipped and constituted biblically speaking. Christ is in the midst of such a church. The Holy Spirit indwells the church. The Holy Spirit is present. And so I want to pause to ask you Since Christ is present in his assembly, in the Lord's Day gathering of his church constituted by his word, my question to you is, Are you present to the Holy Spirit who indwells the gathered church? Are you present? In the gathered church, he is especially active in gathered worship. Our catechism number 89 asks this question about the Word, the Word, the Bible It says, how is the word made effectual to salvation? And the answer is the Spirit of God. maketh the reading over here, but especially the preaching of the word, an effectual means of convincing and converting sinners and of building them up in holiness and comfort through faith unto salvation. God has promised to be here by the power of the Holy Spirit in the reading and the preaching of the Word. Are you present for this? I know you are here today, but I'm asking in a bigger way, are you present frequently, often here? And then he's also present in the sacrament, the Lord's Supper Which is never to be separated from the Word, because the Word constitutes the sacrament. The sacrament isn't legitimate without the Word Question 88, what are the outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicates to us the benefits of redemption? Do you want the benefits of redemption? What are the outward and ordinary means? Ordinary here doesn't mean boring. It means regular. the way Christ does things ordinary, the way he normally, regularly does stuff that you can count on. How are these uh things done. The outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicates to us the benefits of redemption are his ordinances, especially the word, the sacraments, and prayer, all of which are made effectual to the elect for salvation. Where do you get the sacraments? You get them in the gathered assembly of the saints. That's the only place. You can't get them on the golf course or at the beach or at home. You can't. They come with Christ's body in his gathered church. So are you present? Are you present where the Holy Spirit has promised to be present? Where he has promised to be undoubtedly present, speaking and acting and blessing and ministering and teaching and guiding and building and making us holy. Are you present in this place? This is a meeting with God. What can be more important than this? Now I know family is important. It certainly is. And if, as a gospel witness to your family members, your non-church family, you are occasionally with them instead of in the gathered assembly of God's people, that can be for the good. It can. But if it's just leisure or relaxing, then what are you teaching your family? What are you teaching your family if you put such things first in your life? You are in effect teaching them to care little for the ministry of the Holy Spirit. It's promised in the gathered church. But if you put God first, You're creator and redeemer, and you serve your family out of that relationship, then you've got things in the right order. Last summer we went to Ohio in July for a visit there, and it came to pass that the Lord's Day arrived on the calendar. And I hadn't thought too much about where to go. I was willing to go with others if they went somewhere else, but I hadn't really made any particular plans, and so the Lord's Day arrived, and I didn't go anywhere And I didn't bring my family to church anywhere. Now, another person who I had discipled many years earlier, my sister-in-law's husband. He took his family to church. He got on the web and found a church and he went to church. And so when we got together for lunch, Kevin is his name. Kevin was telling me all about the little reformed church that he went to. And uh I realized, mmm, you know, the teacher is is now being taught by the student. And I realized that I had, in effect, led badly. Because we always lead by what we do. Sometimes we lead in a good way, a positive way, sometimes we lead badly. I led badly by not bothering with worship. So I ask you, when you're scheduling travel, Does worship in the presence of the Holy Spirit in the gathered church, does that matter to you? Does that change your schedule? Or does your schedule decide whether or not you're going to church? You see, the Holy Spirit is present. He is present. Pentecost has happened. But you might be absent from the place where He's promised to be present. Are you present to the Holy Spirit in the gathered church? And let me ask it another way, too. Perhaps you're here out of personal duty. Someone in your life made you come to church. Makes you come occasionally to church. Someone makes you come or your parents make you come you come. You didn't really want to come, but your parents make you come. Or your spouse or something like that. If that's the case, you're here, you're physically here, but are you really present for the Holy Spirit? Are you really present for the Holy Spirit? I give it an illustration this way Lately, when I've made visits with people, I have changed my habit My habit before was I have this clip and it's got my cell phone on it and it's got this earpiece and um I look like I'm kind of wired up, you know And I go to visit people and I might remember to take off the earpiece. I I get so used to it it doesn't even bother me anymore. I don't even notice that I have it on or don't have it on. But I've been putting that away and lately I've been actually putting away the phone, leaving it in the car. Why? Because I want to really be present. to the person I'm visiting. I want them to know that I'm there for them. I'm present. So I ask it again, when you come here Are you present here? Are you present for the Lord to speak to you and to teach you and to bless you? Holy Spirit is present. Are you present to the Holy Spirit in the gathered church? That's number one. And the second thing is the Holy Spirit also, not just in the gathered church, but he also indwells every individual believer. Remember all the y'alls or you alls I said? Well, in verse 21, we get to singulars, not plurals. Verse 21, whoever, that is the one who, singular, has my commandments. and keeps them. He, singular it is, who loves me. And he, singular who loves me, will be loved by my Father, and I will love him singular and manifest myself to him singular. So it's not just the gathered church. The Holy Spirit is also present individually in each believer. And Jesus said in singular terms again in John 15, the next chapter, Abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me, and I in him, he it is who bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. And then verse 7, if you abide in me and my words, my words abide in you. Ask whatever you wish, and it will be done And we learned in Hebrews 4, chapter 4, that the Word of God, the Word, is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrows, and discerning the thoughts and intents of the heart. So if the Holy Spirit indwells the the Christian believer individually, What does the Holy Spirit have to work with? Let me tell you, I do not believe that the Holy Spirit speaks directly to people Audibly or otherwise, intuitively or otherwise, they do not believe it. I believe the Holy Spirit uses the word. The word. The Bible, the truth, the scriptures. He uses that to enlighten and open the minds and hearts of individual believers. Recently, my old computer finally broke down. The uh people at the Geek Squad said that the motherboard was fried. I didn't smell anything burning, but anyway. And so Jeff Dronenberg helped me He ordered a nice new desktop screen, much bigger, because I'm getting old and you gotta see, you know. And uh and he ordered a nice desktop unit And then he ordered a tablet to go with it so I can take the tablet with me and go places and use it and and uh but he set it all up, we had it all set up nicely. But I said, Jeff, where's my files? I mean it's got a few things there, you know, it's got Word, it's got all this nice stuff, but where's my files? I gotta have my files. I've been storing stuff up forever, and I have to have my My files. And he said, oh, don't worry. Remember I got you an external hard drive, and we're going to plug that in, and then your files will be there And true enough, thank the Lord, the files were there because I don't know what I do with that anymore. And so I want to try to apply that this way The Holy Spirit indwells each individual believer, but he speaks to each individual believer and teaches and nurtures and helps each individual believer by taking the word. The files that they've stored up in their hearts, the files, the knowledge, the scripture. He uses the scripture to speak to them and teach them and lead them. He doesn't go beyond the scripture. He doesn't make direct and individual and personal revelations to people. He uses, I believe, the scripture So I ask you, believers who are indwelt by the Holy Spirit, how much scripture, how much scripture is stored in your hard drive? How much scripture is stored in your hard drive? A few favorite verses? A favorite psalm, maybe? How much scripture do you need to be in the scriptures? You need to be studying the scriptures. You need to be reading the scriptures. You need to be meditating upon the scriptures so that you have A lot of files for the Holy Spirit to use, to access, to speak to you using His word, the scriptures. Another analogy. Years ago when we moved to Minnesota, our first summer there, I went over to see one of the elders of the congregation. Nice sunny summer day. I went over to Wayne's house. And there he was out in the backyard. It's summer. It's warm in Minnesota. And he's splitting firewood. And uh he had a a machine to do it, so it wasn't this kind of splitting, it was it was a machine. And splitting and stacking firewood. And I said, why why are you uh, it's June, why are you splitting and stacking firewood? He said, Ed, we have something called winter here. And you need to stack up a whole lot of firewood for the Minnesota winter. In the same way, I would say we need to stack up a whole lot of scripture. For the trials and the temptations and the troubles and the fears and the things that will attack us and beset us. In cold and dark nights of our soul. We need to lay up like firewood for the Minnesota winter Colossians chapter 3 says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. How much? Just a little bit, just a few verses here and there, a psalm, a favorite. No, richly. And then he says, then you use that. widely teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. Get a big, big file full or a large stack of Scripture, so that the Holy Spirit, who indwells the believer individually, can use that scripture in your life And some of you have been in church many years and you've heard thousands of sermons and you've studied the Bible and know a whole lot of scripture. You could do very well in a Bible trivia game. But I ask even you, are you listening to the Holy Spirit, who's taking that word of God and speaking to your heart? Are you listening? Are you listening to the Holy Spirit I'll give you another analogy, full of analogies today. We have WXMD up It says California, Maryland, but it's actually up on Macintosh Road in Hollywood. And it covers the whole county and even more, as I said earlier. The radio waves are present. Programs are being broadcast. But to listen, you must turn on your radio. You must dial to 89. 7 FM. In the same way, you may have a whole lot of the Holy Spirit broadcasting God's truth into your life, but you have to be tuned in. To the Holy Spirit who indwells every believer. My third point is this. When you are tuned in to the Holy Spirit Holy Spirit. When you regularly worship in the gathered church where He promises to be present, where He promises to preach, even through fallible preachers like me, He promises to give Himself to you in the sacraments. He promises to give himself to you in the words and the psalms and the spiritual songs of the gathered congregation, where he promises all these things. If you are there, then you will have An unworldly peace. An otherworldly, an unworldly peace. Verses 22 through 27. There it says, Judas, not Iscariot. Isn't that interesting? They make sure that no one wants to confuse this Judas with the one who betrayed Jesus. Judas, not the Iscariot one Said to him, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world? Jesus answered him, if anyone loves me, he will keep my word. And my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home and dwelling. We talked about that recently in the The tabernacle God indwells and is with his people. He will make our home with him. Whoever does not love me does not keep my words, and the word that you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me. And then we're going on. Verse 25, these things I have spoken to you while I am still with you, but the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you And then he said this. So he's talking about the word and the spirit and how God's going to work in the lives of people. And then he says this in verse 27. Listen, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. Peace. The Holy Spirit, who indwells the church and indwells the believer, gives peace. Peace. The world, he says, not as the world gives, do I give to you, not as the world. How does the world offer peace? The world offers peace through money. If you have enough money, you can feel peaceful, right? Now there's certainly a good thing about having your financial peace. Studying that here a little bit too. But it is not the ultimate source of peace. Money could always go away. It always does. Savings, investments, pensions, insurance, all those things cannot bring this peace, this otherworldly peace that Christ promises Some people seek peace through relationships. If I can have the right spouse, if I can have the right friends, if I can have the right relationships. If I can have the right parents, or my parents can be what I want them to be, or if my children will do what I want them to do, if I can have those relationships all right, then I'll have peace. Some people seek peace through health and they work hard at being healthy. They eat the right things. They eat organic stuff and they go to the gym and they do this and they do that. Some seek it through beauty. They want to make themselves beautiful. And when they are looking in the mirror and they see that beautiful physique and that beautiful face, then they feel peaceful. but it won't last. Because it's the world's peace. It will not last. But Jesus says, not as the world gives, do I give to you Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. What does the Holy Spirit do? The Holy Spirit is sent out into the world to convince the world of sin and righteousness and judgment. He's doing that today. But he is for the believer inspiring and comforting and correcting and giving peace. Giving peace that passes understanding, peace that doesn't evaporate when we get old, or when the money's gone, or when the relationship ends. It's a peace that the Holy Spirit gives. He gives it. Are you listening to the Holy Spirit? The Holy Spirit is present. That's a fact. Are you present? Listening to the Holy Spirit. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you and praise you for the gift of the Holy Spirit to indwell the church and to indwell the believer. To give peace as he takes the word which has been tucked away in our hearts, inwardly digested and laid aside for future use. Where he takes that and brings it to our minds at the right times and the right circumstances, and he gives peace. We praise you and thank you. you for the full revelation of the Holy Trinity in the gift of the Holy Spirit. Lord help us. Be with us. Amen.