Turning your Bibles to Psalm five, twenty-eight, I should say, Psalm twenty-eight. This is the word of God. To you, O Lord, I call my rock. Be not deaf to me, lest if you be silent. To me, I become like those who go down to the pit. Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy when I cry to you for help, when I lift up my hand. Toward your most holy sanctuary. Do not drag me off with the wicked, with the workers of evil Who speak peace with their neighbors while evil is in their hearts? Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deeds. Give to them according to the work of their hands. Render to them their due reward. Because they do not regard the works of the Lord or the work of his hands, he will tear them down and build them up no more. Blessed be the Lord, for he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy. The Lord is my strength and my shield. In him my heart trusts, and I am helping. My heart exults, and with my song I give thanks to him. The Lord is the strength of his people. He is the saving refuge of his anointed. Oh, save your people and bless your heritage. Be their shepherd and carry them forever. Now Isaiah 61, 1 to 3. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison. To those who are bound, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of vengeance of our God. To comfort all who mourn, to grant to those who mourn in Zion, to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes. Read a little bit longer. Now Luke 4, 16 to 30. And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read. And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because He has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are Oppressed to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him, and he began to say to them Today that's this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. And all spoke well of him and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son? And he said to them, Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb Physician, heal yourself, what we have heard you did at Capernaum, do here in your home And he said, Truly I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown. Town. But in truth I tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heavens were shut up three years and six months, and a great famine came over all the land, and Elijah was sent to none of them But only to Zarephath in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow. And there were many leopards in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha. None of them were cleansed, but only Naaman, the Syrian. When they heard these things, all in the synagogue were filled with wrath. And they rose up and drove him out of the town and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their town was built, so that they could throw him down the cliff. Passing through their midst, he went away. And finally, John ten one through eighteen Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief. And a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name. and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. This figure of speech Jesus used with them, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If any one enters by me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He was a hired hand and not a shepherd who does not own the sheep Sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he's a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I'm the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. Sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock, one shepherd. For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it Again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up. again. This charge I have received from my father. Here ends the reading. Of God's holy word in four places. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, Did you ever wonder exactly why the Old Testament is called the Old Testament? And the New Testament is called the New Testament? What's old about the one and new about the other? Usually, when old things are replaced by new ones, you get a superior, more advanced version. Sort of like a Model T and a Corvette. Well, what's going on with this view of the Bible Some have suggested that it's obvious. The Old Testament is the book of the Jewish religion. There you read of God's doings with the Hebrews, essentially. And eventually the Israelite kingdom, and extending on to the present day. Jews believe in the God of the Old Testament Period. Then when you come to the New Testament, ah, there you read about the coming of Jesus and the establishment of the Christian church. Catholic and Protestant Christians together believe in the God of both testaments But many of them think that God has given us a new and better version of Himself, of us, and of what we should believe and And do. That would be the New Testament. Or so it is thought. Old equals duty You equals Christianity. But they are wrong. That is precisely the wrong way to look at things. The Bible presents you with one and only one religion. And it may not be so divided as I have described some people have understood it to be. The one and only God is the author of the entire Bible. And in this book of his, he presents us with one and one only religion that earthlings can and ought to admit embrace. That religion is properly named Christianity And it undergirds and embraces both testaments of the Bible. Yes, it is true that the Old Testament focused Upon the race of Hebrews and upon the Jewish people. But it is abundantly true that it was not a religion. Devoid of Jesus Christ. Only to be replaced in time by the new and superior religion that is properly to be called Christian. Yes, my dear friends The truth of the matter is that Jesus Christ is the second person of the Divine Trinity from all eternity past, who indeed did come in time to this sorry planet to deliver from Condemnation people who had fallen into sin. You read all about it in the very opening chapters of the first book of the Old Testament. Genesis, where Christ is foretold as the seed of the first woman Eve, who would come to crush the head of the serpent, Satan. who had tempted her and her husband Adam into eating of the forbidden fruit in the Garden of Eden. And from thence on, throughout the entirety of the Old Testament, you find constant hints of that coming deliverance by the divine Messiah, Jesus Christ. Christ, God the Son, as God the Father, continually impressed upon a particular chosen race of people his plan, not only for them. but indeed for the whole world of men. The Jews were custodians. might put it, of that plan, which the theologians call God's covenant of grace. That covenant, that promise was for salvation not only of people of the race of Jews, but for every race of earthlings. So the Old Testament of the Bible is not about some Jewish religion. It is about Jesus Christ, who was coming, and is therefore about Christianity. Is the New Testament. Well, what we have thus far said, then, is true of every book of the Old Testament And particularly is it true of that book, which we have been reading together throughout these Sunday evening worship services at Grace and peace, Orthodox Presbyterian Church. And that includes Psalm 28, our text for tonight. Oh boy, does it ever include this particular psalm? Try to read Psalm 28 without thinking about Jesus Christ. Christ and you have nothing to believe unless you are Jewish and subscribe to the Jewish religion. And for this Christian, I would have nothing to say from this pulpit except to provide you with an historical account of what Judaism believes. And that would not be what you're here for tonight. You expect and deserve to hear from me a sermon. That is exactly what I hope to provide for you in these moments. But how will I ever be able to do that? While paying attention to the exact text of Psalm 28's words, not imposing my ideas into what is written, But just listening carefully to what God is saying to me and to you Well, if we just glance over the general thrust of the psalm, it seems that we are confronted with a prayer uttered by David, the king of the Jewish people for God to deliver them from the wicked. And not only that, but also that he is confident that God will indeed do that. And that certainly is a good thing to do and to believe. The problem is: why ever should the holy God of heaven and earth do such a thing What makes the Jewish people so special that they should receive such gracious treatment? Are they any better than the surrounding nations? However, does David ground his hope that God, who is a just God, and David knows Would turn away from judgment upon a guilty people and upon a guilty king. Well, dear congregation, that's the question with this humble preacher faced this week as I sought to prepare a sermon on Sunday Psalm 28. It was only when I paid attention to two particular words in the last two verses of the psalm that the light came The Lord is the strength of his people, he is the saving refuge of his anointed. Oh, save your people and bless your heritage. Be their shepherd and carry them forever. Can you guess which two words jumped out to me as I thought about what God is saying here? Any guesses? Two words. That's one. That's the other one. Isn't it amazing? An anointed shepherd. Who in the world is that? Well, one could say, the first word refers to David. Isn't he the anointed king of Israel? And isn't God the saving refuge of his anointed, David? And as far as the second word is concerned, shepherd, Shouldn't that clearly refer to God? David prays for the Jewish nation, be their shepherd, and carry them forever? It sure looks like David is the anointed one. And God is the shepherd, doesn't it? Well then, why ever did I give as the title of this sermon, The Anointed Shepherd? I'll tell you, because the two words belong to one person, not two, the anointed shepherd in Is in truth none other than your Lord Jesus Christ. That's how He is not only in, but He is the key to Understanding Psalm 28. Well, then, this is my proposition for you tonight. The Lord Jesus Christ. Is the anointed shepherd of the redeemed people of God all over the world, as he himself declared indisputably in his words to you As recorded in both the prophets and apostles of Holy Scripture, which is the record of God's single covenant of grace. And we have then just two points to present. First, David's prayer. That's verses one through five. This is a prayer, first and foremost, for mercy. Because if Yahweh doesn't hear him, he will stand guilty and receive just condemnation for his own sins. That's what verses. one and two say. The only help that David can hope to get will come from a holy God who is also merciful. And David knows that Yahweh is not capricious Bestowing judgment willy-nilly upon all. He has entered into a covenant with David, and in With the whole of Israel to redeem them. And for that purpose, he has placed in their midst his innermost sanctuary Which contains the Ark of the Covenant, covered by that blessed lid called the Mercy. There is David's, and indeed the whole Old Testament church's hope. God's mercy. And that mercy is rock solid, affirms David. And so he knows that his cry for mercy will not fall upon deaf ears of the Almighty God of heaven. Secondly, it is a prayer in verses three through five of imprecation. Regarding the wicked, the workers of evil. That is, David calls upon God actually to bring upon these wicked people judgment That's implication. Judgment that David describes very specifically, explaining why it is so well deserved. They will get it because they are clearly hypocrites. They speak peace with their neighbors while evil is in their heart. They will get it also because they both plan to do evil and then carry it out according to their work and according to the evil Finally, and of the most importance, they are what they are, think what they think Do what they do, knowing full well that Yahweh had planned and will surely carry out. They do not regard the work Works of the Lord or the work of his hands. David has good reason for such a prayer. He does not call upon Yahweh to tear them down and build them up no more because they are a threat to him personally, or even because they are a threat to Israel. His imprecatory prayer is based upon the fact that the wicked offend the Lord God. That's why they deserve punishment. And David is far more concerned about the honor of Yahweh than he is about the well-being of his throne and that of the people of Israel. To put it another way, his prayer grows not out of vindictiveness, but about love for the person and reputation. Of his Lord. Thirdly, it is a prayer of praise. That's verses six and seven. Yes, David blesses the Lord. He expresses his thanks, even as he calls upon God for mercy, that God has heard him. And will answer him. He says, the Lord is my strength and my shield. That is, he will surely give David The power not only to resist temptation, to give up on his trust of the Lord, but also to protect him from any adversary that would seek to annihilate him And he does that. He praises God precisely because he believes in Yahweh's covenant faithfulness, saying, in him my heart trusts. And I am helped. And further, if you still wonder whether this is just a doctrinal matter today That he knows the right stuff and keeps up a theologically conservative position. Notice how he ends that seventh verse. My heart exults, and with my song I give thanks. to him. Exults, mind you. Not exalts, a very different word. To exalt is to lift up. It's something you do. You exalt the name of the Lord. And it's quite clear that David does exalt He's been saying it all through the Psalms so far, hasn't he? But not now. Now he says that his heart exudes It's got a U in there, not an A. It exults because, as Webster tells us, the word means he leaps for joy. Inside, it's his heart that exults. To put it another way, David is extremely emotional about these things. He doesn't just believe in Yahweh. He feels very happy about Yahweh. And so he cannot help but say With my song, I give thanks to him. Believer, is this true about you When you come to worship the Lord, does merely your brain think, but does your heart also think So much for David's prayer. Now, secondly and lastly, let's think about David's prayer answered. Permit me to restate the proposition which we suggested forms the summary of this psalm when viewed from the perspective of the whole Bible. Bible. The Lord Jesus Christ is the anointed shepherd of the redeemed people of God all over the world, as he himself declared indisputably in his words to you. As recorded in both the prophets and apostles of Holy Scripture, which is the record of God's single covenant of grace. However, did I arrive at this conclusion? By paying attention to where and how those two key words, anointed and Shepherd appear in Holy Scripture. And it it posed it found uh I found out that in every case they refer to none other Than your Savior Jesus. You see, although David was clearly anointed king of Israel, and he did confess God to be the saving refuge of his anointing. Referring to himself. And although he did affirm that God was his shepherd, Psalm 23, more must be said concerning the identity. Of this anointed shepherd. And that comes clearly tonight when we turn to those three other scriptural passages that we read Before beginning the sermon. First Isaiah sixty-one one through three There, someone, we're not sure who is saying, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because Yahweh has anointed me. To bring good news to the poor, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound. Is it Isaiah himself or some other person who will bring about the fulfillment of this wonderful prophecy? We find the answer when we open our Bibles to Luke chapter 4. There we read of that day when Jesus Christ was rejected in Nazareth, his hometown. The account reads: as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day and he stood up To read. And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written. And there follows the exact quote of Isaiah 61, 1 through 3. Now notice that Jesus was given the whole scroll of the prophet Isaiah, apparently to read aloud some portion either of his own choosing or perhaps it could have been. the passage that was assigned for that Sabbath day. And this is what he read. Then his account goes on, he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him and he began to say to them, today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. He began to say that. So apparently he went on to explain why and how he could make such an assumption. Assertion Because the record states that all spoke well of him, and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth. What a thing to happen. It's unparalleled. Whoever heard of a sun of the congregation who, when asked to read the scripture passage of the day, dares to say that the Bible passage is speaking of himself. Yes, their first reaction to this mind-boggling occurrence was to praise this local boy. As the promised Messiah who would bring about deliverance of the Jews from Roman persecution But that's not the end of the story. For then Jesus said to them, No prophet is acceptable in his hometown. He knew that they would be satisfied with nothing less than a display of his willingness and ability to come to the aid of his own folks. And not that of foreigners. They were truly racial bigots who had heard of what good he had done for those outsiders in Capernaum, and they wanted him to redefine his goals. And discriminate in favor of them. But Jesus responded, Don't you know your Bible? How Elijah helped the widow of Zarephath in Sidon while ignoring the plight of many Israelites suffering from the famine. And how could you forget that there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naoman? The Assyrian. What happened next is extraordinary These hometown churchgoers then showed their true colors, were filled with wrath, and tried to kill him By throwing him off a cliff. But Jesus passed through their midst. And went away. Yes, this one described as the one anointed by God the Father as the Messiah for not Jews only, but for the whole world Was saved. That's what David prayed for in Psalm 28. And it was answered then in Nazareth. But there would come a time when the answer would be no. Yes. That brings us to that other important word in Psalm 28: Shepherd. And for that we turn to the well-known teaching of Jesus recorded in John ten, where he describes himself as the good shepherd. You see, that's how Yahweh is the shepherd of Israel, who carries them forever, as David puts it in our Psalm tonight. And that's because of what Jesus said. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be Be saved. Jesus is the door to the sheepfold of Yahweh because he lays down his life. For the sheep. Yes, that will be the time that David's prayer will not be answered in the positive. The anointed shepherd will not be spared because he will die for Sinners, and all the sheep of God, whether Jews or Gentiles, who enter via Jesus the door Little did David know for what he prayed when he asked Yahweh to save his Anointed. The wonder of God's grace is just this. He saves anointed King David because he doesn't save anointed shepherd Jesus. Yes, Jesus prayed when upon that cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The Father's reply, though unstated to his Son is preached to you tonight. I have forsaken you, so that I might remember Them. All the church of God, both Jews and Gentiles alike, are the recipients of undeserved grace. Their sins having been paid for in full by Jesus Christ, the divine Son of the Father, given up to death by God's Eternal will. Is this anointed shepherd yours? If not, I tell you, you are in serious trouble. And when the wolf comes, the hired hand who is not a shepherd, who cares nothing for the sheep, will leave you and flee. And the wolf will snatch and scatter you. The only defense available to guilty sinners Is found in the defense attorney, the anointed shepherd, Jesus Christ, who redeems the sheep of God from all over the world. As recorded in Psalm 28 and explained by Holy Scripture, the record of God single Covenant of grace. Amen