Our scripture reading is Exodus thirty-five, verses four through twenty-one. Listen, this is the word of God. Moses said to all the congregation of the people of Israel, this is the thing that the Lord has commanded. Take from among you a contribution to the Lord. Whoever is of a generous heart Let him bring the Lord's contribution. Gold, silver, and bronze, blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen Goat's hair, canned ramskins, and goat skins, acacia wood, oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense, and onyx stones and stones for setting, for the ephod and for the breastplate piece Let every skillful craftsman among you come and make all that the Lord has commanded. the tabernacle, its tent and its covering, its hooks and its frames, its bars, its pillars and its bases, the ark with its poles, the mercy seat and the veil of the screen, the table with its poles and all its utensils and the bread of the presence, the lampstand also for the light, with its utensils and its lamps, and the oil for the light. and the altar of incense with its poles, and the anointing oil and the fragrant incense, and the screen for the door at the door of the tabernacle. The altar of burnt offering, with its grating of bronze, its poles and all its utensils, the basin and its stand The hangings of the court, its pillars and its faces, and the screen for the gate of the court, the pegs of the tabernacle and the pegs of the court and their cords the finely worked garments for ministering in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for their service as priests. Then all the congregation of the people of Israel departed from the presence of Moses. And they came, everyone whose heart stirred him. and everyone whose spirit moved him, and brought the Lord's contribution to be used for the tent of meeting And for all its service, and for the holy garments. This is the Word of God. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ You open your church bulletin one Sunday morning, and there you read, Today's offering will not be received, because too much money has already been given. And there's no way too much in the coffins. Impossible? Not at all, apparently. It actually happened on one occasion, at least Well, it wasn't exactly like that, but it amounted to the same thing. We have read all about it in Exodus 35, verses 4 through 21. And tonight we're going to concentrate especially on the first and last verses of that reading, verse 4, verse 5a, and 21. The children of Israel started a building fund and scheduled a work party since they had received instructions from the Lord regarding the building of his tabernacle in the wilderness. But soon afterward, the trustees, if they had them, I don't know what they called them then, had to call a halt. Because the offering receipts and the volunteered labor had exceeded by far the amount needed. Too much The supply was greater than the demand, and Moses actually had to order the people to bring no more offerings and to stop working. Now, wouldn't it be great if that happened in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church? If we had to circularize the congregations requesting them to cease and desist giving to worldwide outreach because too much money had already been given Why, we have created difficulties for our program committees because they can't possibly use all the funds that have been sent in for their ministries of outreach. Just imagine the speeches that would be heard at our next General Assembly in that event. Our congregations will simply have to stop giving so much money. The auditors are having fits, and nobody knows what to do with the surplus. We'll simply have to cancel for starters the thank offering this year, for it would only make things worse. Or on the local level, if our session had to announce we need to stop receiving offerings here at Grace and Peace Because we can't possibly use all the funds that have already been given. What a novel approach. Instead of always falling short and having to call for special offerings Although by God's grace we haven't had to do that in the seven years or so that I've been here with you. Yes, we think that would be a great day. But would it, really On second thought, the idea of no more offerings isn't too attractive either. For when Paul writes to the Philippians about giving and about their stewardship of the wealth God has supplied He explains carefully that he is, quote, looking for the fruit that may be credited to your account. Philippians 4. 17. That is, not more money in their bank account, but rather more fruit produced by grateful hearts in their sacrificial giving. What you need, says the apostle, is to give to your God regularly, liberally, and cheerfully. And when you read, as we have done, the account in Exodus, you sense that those Israelites In that law-oriented Old Testament time, must have fit on some secret of giving, don't you think? Imagine to bring forth so much forward that they had to be told to stop. Don't give too much money. Yes, the Israelites discovered the secret of giving. And what was that secret? And perhaps even more importantly, can you catch it? Wasn't it simply a matter of a willing heart and an obedient hand? Both the gifts and the work were given freely. And those two factors are stressed in the whole biblical account. You see, even in this Old Testament situation, when most religious exercises were compulsory The voluntary aspect breaks through. We can almost hear the New Testament phrase: a cheerful giver. Echoing backwards over the centuries. Could Paul have found a more apt example No, he could not. So our proposition tonight is just this. The secret of giving is when God's people demonstrate willing hearts And obedient hands. First, let us notice what is the Lord's invitation/slash command. Verse 5a of Exodus 35, take from among you, God says, a contribution. To the Lord. Now that was the Lord's command, of course. But it was fulfilled willingly. The Lord would have it no other way. And not of compulsion. The Lord's wish was their command. And they were joyful about it. Time and again we read, whose heart moved them to bring anything for the world. Giving comes from within. God wants your heart, not your money. He wants you, not yours. And those Israelites, by the grace of God their Lord, were willing. Willing both to bring and to work, both in what they gave. And in what they did. Now, of course, the law of the tithe was already in force for the congregation of Israel. And that was their duty. But it is interesting that God did not instruct the Levites To take the cost of the tabernacle construction and materials out of the general fund of the congregation. That is, it did not come from their ties, apparently. It was above and beyond It was an offering in the fullest sense of the term, in that New Testament sense, if we may call it that, in which the fullness of revelation in Christ Jesus comes And the believer basks in God's noontime sunshine. Those ancient tribes of God's people really prophesy By their giving and working, something that Paul would later write to the church of Corinth. 2 Corinthians 9, 7 and 8. Each one must give as he has made up his mind, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work. Yes, here you see the Israelites of old given a foretaste of the joyful freedom. That you enjoy today in this matter of stewardship. It's as if God had said to them, Get past the law of the tide for a moment. Put down your writing instruments, whatever they use, and stop your figuring. I don't want mathematical calculations. I want happy and willing hearts. That's just the way they gave. Oh, it must have been quite a sight, don't you think? All those careful observers of the tithe principle, throwing their arithmetic to the wind to laugh and sing. And give. Not that the law of the tithe was repealed, mind you. Not that it all of a sudden became irrelevant. It was rather this. And it's a beautiful thing. God invited his people to act grown up. He allowed them to just come with whatever, no matter how small or how great, with whatever their heart put into their hand. And he let them volunteer to do whatever job. however menial that their heart stirred them up to do. And it was great There they stood, a whole great congregation with a single heart, throbbing with desire to give and to do. They gave as they liked to give, and they did what they wanted to do. For the Lord on that day wanted nothing that they did not like to give, and he took pleasure only in that work which they freely and joyfully wrought. Building a tabernacle was, after all, much the same as funding through offerings the budget of our church here today. Don't you agree? Could it be that you here in California, Maryland, who enjoy the New Testament stance Are shamed by that infant church of old with its tabernacle building program God's invitation command still stands. You of all people ought to know how to obey Him. Christ your Savior, when giving up his life so that there might be a church at all. Gave his heart to the Father, saying, Not my will, but yours be done. And so the first grand principle of giving was powerfully underlined. Give yourself With your gift. That is, let your giving be with a willing heart. I think that that principle was probably already laid down all the way back. In the Garden of Eden. Remember the difference between Cain's gift and that of his brother Abel? The account there says that the Lord had regard for Abel and his offering, but for Cain and his offering he had no regard. Here it is clearly stated that there is a relationship between the giver and his offering. There was something wrong with Cain's heart. That's why his offering was unacceptable. Perhaps what was wrong with Cain's heart Was that he simply did not give joyfully? He didn't truly like to give to the Lord. He wasn't willing. He did it because he thought he had to give, I'm suggesting. And God didn't look with favor on that kind of giving. Whatever the nature of the gift itself might have been. The writer to the Hebrews says, by faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous. God commending him by accepting his offerings. And through his faith, he still speaks, even though he died. Once more, not a hint that it was the bloodiness of Abel's sacrifice that rendered it acceptable to God. For that, our attention is directed to the stance of Abel's spirit, willingly to believe God To trust him and to gladly make God look good through a happy offering from the hand and heart of his servant. Now I'm well aware that such an understanding of the Cain and Abel offerings runs counter To what most commentators write about the story. Not all of them, but most. And perhaps even to what you've always thought. I know that I've heard more than one sermon in my 88 years about Abel's bloody sacrifice. As a type of Christ's bloody sacrifice on the cross. I just think that this other explanation, which I formerly set before you is both true to the terms of the Genesis narrative and wholly compatible with the biblical principles of stewardship we're surveying tonight. The Lord had regard for Abel, which means he knew what was going on there. Abel's heart stirred him and his spirit moved him. But smile, whether or not we agree on the matter of the nature of Abel's sacrifice. It was still his heart that mattered to the Lord. Now let's go on and talk about, finally, the congregation's response to the Lord's invitation. And command. Verse 21 of Exodus 35. And they came, everyone whose heart stirred him, and everyone whose spirit moved him. And brought the Lord's contribution to be used for the tent of meeting and for all its service and for the holy garments. Those Israelites didn't give that another person might work. The rich ones weren't glad that they could just bring a fat offering and then retire in laziness. They worked as well as Gahe. That is quite apparent in the verses that follow. We didn't read them. But we're told that the people with gold brought that. Those with cloth and skins brought them. Some of the men cut down trees and prepared the boards. Meanwhile, the women were busy weaving linen and goat's hair fabrics. And the rulers, for their part, without hesitation, surrendered their precious stones and wrenched ointments. Now, in this account, we learn two wonderful things about which we ought not forget or deny. One, the Lord is the one who makes his people willing. This is the only explanation for the tremendous display of unity and stewardship. That is why they gave to him as they did. Again, note the restrain that this one or that one acted, whose spirit stirred him, and whose heart Moved him. Now the natural man, though he knows that he owes God everything, fails to acknowledge it or to act upon it accordingly It takes the mighty working of God to crack that hard heart open, that it might act willingly That's why the psalmist promises your people will volunteer willingly in the day of your power. The same is true of you today. You need to ask God to make you willing. Otherwise, the church trustees will just have to send you a bill. Secondly, we learn from this passage that the Lord's people actually willingly give. God makes them willing, but they do the giving. It's like faith. God gives it, but the saints exercise it Or perseverance. God ensures it, but believers do it. There is a wonderful balance here that must not be lost. The people were willing because God made them willing, yes. But even so. They were willing. They wanted to give to the Lord. They didn't just say I just can't help myself. I'm being swept along by some power outside myself, and that's forcing me to give it. Not at all. They said rather, we want to give. Forget this. And the trustees only pray and never report the church's financial picture to the congregation. Herein lies the secret of giving. The heart and the treasure well together. Where the one is, there will the other be, said Jesus. The value of every gift Placed in every offering plate on every Sunday is computed not in dollars and cents, but in joy and in motivation. If you don't give cheerfully and willingly, you might as well keep your money. God doesn't want it. And he won't bless it. Yes, from exodus it is that we learn that the offering belongs to the Lord. Not to Moses, and not to the minister, not to the trustees, not even to the session. And because the offering is the Lord's, you worship him when you give. Think about it. The time of offering is not a necessary little interlude in the worship service when you pay your church dues, so to speak, in order that you can worship. Offering itself is worship. And as all true worship, it is spiritual, that it is from the spirit, from the heart. You give to the Lord because you remember that he is the source of all blessing. And because you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, Yet for our sake he became poor, that we through his poverty might become rich Congregation of Grace and Peace, Orthodox Presbyterian Church, you are rich beyond calculation. Your wonderful Savior has lifted you out of the grinding poverty of your condition as miserable sinners. Destined for eternal blackness, and raise you to share beside him the richness of his father's family. Home and provision. You are wealthy beyond calculation And those Israelites were constructing a beautiful tabernacle that was unto the Lord. Beautiful on the outside, to be sure, but most beautiful why Because it contained the Ark with its mercy seat, covering the tables of the law. Declaring that God's people were right with him by his grace. Mercy was theirs, and mercy is yours. Giving of your substance and of yourself to the Lord for His merciful work of maintaining grace and peace, Orthodox Presbyterian Church, should be the happiest thing you could do. And B. Then there was the work to be done as well as the offering to be given. Everyone was involved. The women with their weavings, the men with their lumber. There was plenty of talent there in Israel. Embroiderers, metalworkers, builders who could satisfy the most stringent building code regulations. They worked in whatever way they could, and there was work for all. So it is always in God's church. He invites you to work with what you have and with what he has given you. And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. Each member of the body of Christ has his or her own God-given function. Together you all work for one goal, the glory of God. Each contributes something toward that goal. Well then, may you do your own thing? You bet. But with this prayer, do establish for us the work of our hands. What's your job? It's not merely to hold down one of the chairs at the end of the row in case of a tornado. Pray. Ask the session to help you identify your job. And do that. The workers came to Moses saying, Please stop. There's too much material and too many workers. Tell them to stop giving and stop working. And then something wonderful happened. Earlier the Lord had invited his people to give, but now he commands them to stop. Through his servant Moses, the Lord said to the people, It is enough and too much. You know why? Because one day for them and for you Our Lord Jesus Christ will also say to you, stop giving offerings in church and stop working to bring in my kingdom. Because it has fully come. This world would have passed away, and the kingdom of heaven will have fully come. Meanwhile, until he says that, he says this. Now is the time for the willing heart to give. And the obedient hand to do. Amen