Well, Congregation of the Lord, we have reached the fourth and final week of Advent. We will celebrate Christmas this Thursday, the birth of Christ our Savior. And in this Advent season, we've gone through these four servant songs. We began with God's sort of mandate, His Christian mandate, how He's going to make the world Christian. He's gonna bring justice to the nations and Christ's law bring salvation to the ends of the earth. And and then we met the one who is gonna do it in his servant addressing all the nations, but having ran into some frustration. And difficulties. But God had not lost confidence in his servant, and his servant had not lost confidence in his God, but God had given him a greater work because that was too little to bring the Jews back to himself, but he would also Take his salvation, his gospel, to the ends of the earth. And then last week we uh saw the nature of that frustration was extreme suffering that he would face in the path is God's servant. And there he was confident and embraced that suffering, that his God was with him, and to vindicate him, and all would turn out as God planned. But we're left wondering through all that why the suffering does. And what was it all about? And that's what this song deals with. The power and majesty, if I could say, of this song, though there's many things, is its explanatory power. Because God has been talking ever since Isaiah 50 when he says, Go comfort my people who are in exile in Babylon, suffering under the curse of my covenant, which they have broke time and again, and are in misery and under my judgment and in bondage and held captive and in no way a free people How is God going to redeem them? Because he's been talking about their glory and greatness, but how is God going to redeem Israel? How is he going to restore Israel? Which is more than just Jewish believers, but we know today all who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Well this the answer is right here. You know, I think one of the amazing things about what we read in the Emmaus account is when the Lord Jesus Christ was raised from the dead, you know, apparently you can meet the risen Lord Jesus and not know who he is In no way understand that redemption had been accomplished by what he did. And you know what the remedy was for that? He said, let's go to Scripture. He said, if you you the reason you don't know who I am is because you don't know who I am. And who I am is who is written here. And see, there is no knowing the Lord Jesus congregation but by knowing him here. And it's not because he's a written word and our faith is in a written word, it's because the written word is him and reveals him, and Jesus does want us to come to know him. He does want us to confess him as the Lord God and our Savior, this substitute for sinner. But the only way you can come to know him is right here in his word. And so, as I've sat with this passage this week, the thing that has stood out to me the most Is the explanatory power of this song in explaining to us the gospel of the Lord Lord Jesus Christ. Because if you know that gospel, and I know you know that gospel, you've read Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, you'll know that It just follows that course right here. He comes up, that's his birth. This song goes from his tomb, or excuse me, the womb to the tomb, but it doesn't even end at the tomb, because the gospel doesn't end at the tomb, but is being exalted as the victor and conqueror and lord. And so this is the gospel. But but the joy about this again is because apparently you can witness the gospel happening. The salvation of Israel and the redemption, but have no knowledge what God is doing, and in no way see the armor of the Lord revealed to you. And so we go back here and see, and have it explained to us. Who the Lord Jesus Christ is. So I am looking with great joy to tell you again who the Lord Jesus Christ is. You know, and your pastor's a great sinner, and your pastor thought this week, you know, they've heard this verse passage, they've probably read it for forty years. And who doesn't know what's said in here? And you're gonna bore them to death if you tell them these things. And so I Googled something and for encouragement and it was a letter to a pastor on the Crossways website, and he is a British pastor, and he told a story, and I forget the man's name I'll I won't even make it up. Nathan. His name's Nathan. I don't think it was Nathan, but I forget the man's name. Nathan spent seven years in a congregation being loved by that congregation, having his questions answered by that congregation He had moved on by that time, but he got a letter one day and said, you know what? Nathan has come to faith in Christ. You know what his point was Pastors, I'm going to plead with you to remind you that sometimes grace is slow. You may have people in your congregation on a seven-year journey or a 70-year journey before they're brought to faith in Christ. So his point was, even if you've preached the gospel five hundred and forty-nine times, preach it five hundred and fifty times. So I'm just going to preach to you the gospel of Christ here. Twelve me. Isaiah 53. This is a a song, it has five stanzas. And uh each stanza has three verses, so it goes from verse really, and just to remind you, uh chapters and verses are not inspired. Do you know that? Uh man, they're helpful, additions, but just because uh somebody puts the chapter ins here doesn't mean the chapter ins here Uh that's why we read at the end of fifty-two at the beginning at verse thirteen, because all that starting there at the end of fifty-three is one song And God begins the song by that word, behold, in the Bible always means pay very close attention to what you're going to read next. It's God's way of saying, look at this. My servant's going to act wisely. Why does God have to tell us wisely? Well, he's going to tell us here in a minute. He people are going to be appalled at him. They're going to see his servant hung on the cross and they're gonna shut their mouths and horror the the reaction is they're gonna cover their mouths in shock and horror and be paled at the sight and we might think that sounds like supreme folly to end up crucified on a cross. cross but God has to tell us what's really taking place there. That is the wisdom of the ages being worked out. The when when God says, My servant shall act wisely, he means from when he is conceived in Mary's womb until he dies on the cross and then buries in the tomb. There's going to be one supreme act Of his glorious wisdom to save my people. And as the Bible is very clear, prudent and wise behavior uh leads to um prosperity and success. Now we often judge that wrongly what is prosperity and success But when we read next, and he shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted, it should come as no surprise. He's acted wisely. The servants dealt prudently. There should be no uh uh shock to us then that he is a very great man. And has been honored very highly. And uh if you know the the book of Isaiah and you think of uh Isaiah's vision of the Lord when he saw him in King Uzzaih's day, he saw the Lord high and if it up. That's that's the Lord Jesus. Holy, holy, holy. That said to him, that's where he's at, and the heavenly temple and the six winged seraphs are there saying, Holy, holy, holy. That's how high he is. And I think it's kind of wonderful that we live in the space age because We thought, well, is heaven even there anymore? We can see to the back of the galaxy. Where did Jesus go when he passed through the clouds? But you know that teaches us maybe we shouldn't measure height by a numerical number, but he is in a whole different realm. Called heaven, where God dwells. That's how high he is. What what who who on earth has been that Paul was taken there and he didn't know how he got there. Did I go there in body? Did I go there in spirit? I don't know what happened to me. I knew I was there. But that's how high the Lord Jesus has been raised up. I could I could probably talk to you as blue in the face and fall short of telling you how high Jesus is. How exalted he is, how great he is. Verses 14 and 15 are they're kind of an enigma There's the you can see verse fourteen begins with an as and verse fifteen begins with a so and the and they're saying there's going to be proportion here between these different But equal and even beyond reactions, at one point many are going to be astonished at you, my servant. And the nature of it is because his appearance was so marred. Beyond human semblance, meaning when you look at the end of the day when he was done with his work and serving God on earth, the end state was he doesn't even resemble a human anymore. We look at him and I don't see the shape of a man. I see a beaten pulp. And I cover my mouth in horror. And I'm appalled at what I see. If you were to ever see a man hung on a cross, you'd be appalled at the sight, I hope But then you get this, that's that's that's looking on for the out and it happened and it's true, but that's not the true significance of it. So shall he sprinkle any nations. That's a word found in the Mosaic law that a priest does when he And he takes blood and water or oil and he sprinkles the altar and he sprinkles the people. And through that sprinkling he provides cleansing. Through that act on the cross, that bloody pulp is going to come consequently. The cleansing of the nations. They'll be sprinkled clean, because I remind you, if you are not sprinkled clean, you cannot come into God's presence. You're defiled, you're filthy, his holy wrath will break upon you and destroy you. It's through that cleansing then that we can live in God's presence. And I remind you that living in God's presence And the light of his countenance shining upon you, that is life. And I know if you know that life, the most dreadful thought to you ever would be if the Lord should turn his face from me. Because it is death to not have God's face shine upon you To have his favor on you. That is life. That is what it means to be alive. And Jesus provides that cleansing that God's face may shine upon the nations. You know, there there's a play here. Many, many individuals were astonished. Many from one nation, the Jewish nation, were appalled, but now many nations. are the benefits of that brutal act and marring of yourself. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him, and why will they shut their mouths because of him? Because they're going to be told about him. Something they've never been told before, something they've never heard is going to come into their ears, and what's going to come? This one whose visage, his visage was so marred, and yet has been raised from the dead. It has cleansed the nations. It has poured out the Spirit. It has exalted the God's right hand as Lord of all and is coming as the majestic King and Conqueror once. day. They're going to hear about him. Before him. You know, it would probably take a lot if you were to go into a king's presence to get him to close his mouth because they think they're the greatest thing there is. And yet before the Lord Jesus, they'll shut their mouths in silence, in awe, pondering and wondering, they hear this remarkable thing So that introduces us the song to say what you're about to hear as it gets detailed historically for us is a story of suffering. To glory. The gospel of Christ. That's the content of this verse. The sufferings and glories of Christ. The gospel is the content of this song. Now we begin to sort of work out how how did the servant become so marred, right? That's where it picks up there in verse 1 of Isaiah 53, who's believed what he has heard from us, to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed, as this passage is quoted in the New Testament by John in his gospel, by Paul in his letter to the Romans It's historically referring to the unbelief of the Jewish people. They did not believe what was reported to them by Jesus himself when he preached himself as their Messiah. And it was not believed when Jesus when Paul preached to them the resurrection of Christ as the Messiah and proclaimed to them Jesus the Messiah. And of course it re it can refer to more than them, but historically This begins to explain in one way to us Christ's sufferings as the result of unbelief. That we'll see as we go through it. That's not the final and ultimate answer, an explanation for a second. Sufferings, but it is one explanation of why the Lord suffered, the disbelief of men. And my question or As I said, this thing, this passage begins to explain many things for us is if you are here this morning and you do not believe in the Lord Jesus, Christ. You do not believe in the gospel. You do not believe God became a man. You do not believe God suffered and died on the cross as this man, Jesus. As an atoning sacrifice. You don't believe he rose from the dead and he is at God's right hand as Lord and He is coming again as the judge and your judge. Why do you not believe There are reasons given as we go on in this first stanza. This first stanza really deals with belief. But my question would be to you, if you're here as a believer and you now believe this gospel, is what is your reason for unbelief? Have you ever written it down? Do you have a reason? Can you state that reason? If God were to ask you what reason you don't believe, what is your reason? As Christians, we can give you a reason. This will give us a reason why we believe. We'll get to it And the reason I'm pushing you that is why. I think many people don't take the time to ask why they don't believe, because a lot of people do believe this. Why am I not one of those? Do you have an answer? They're just foolish, they're moronic, they're idiots, they're dupes. What's your reason? Why do you not believe? You know historically The Bible reveals to us why people didn't believe this is they were very proud. They didn't uh understand God's righteousness. They were very envious of the Lord Jesus. They were very prejudiced towards him. These are the reasons you don't believe You need to have an answer for why you don't believe it. If you're going to be an unbeliever, you need to have an answer for it. And my encouragement is prove your unbelief. Demonstrate to the world why nobody should believe this if you're an unbeliever Where he grew up. There seems to be an explanation of the unbelief. You know, the the uh the song here I think takes on a unique turn That gives us great hope for especially the Jewish people. Because it seems to be written by the perspective of a converted Jew here. Once thought this about the Lord, but now he understands who the Lord Jesus is. Of course anybody who believes in the Lord Jesus can would say these things. But he grew up before God like a young plant. Or a really uh this word in Hebrew means a a a suckling. You know what a sucker plant is on your vines, on your tomato vines, or your flower vines, a little tiny, insignificant thing that you just puck off and discard? That's what the Hebrew word here is referring to. Sucker plant. A root out of dry ground. How many of you have in a vase displayed in your coffee table at home when people come into your house a dry root? You don't put a dry root in a vase, do you, and say, Look at this. I want to show you this dry root. That's what they thought of Jesus. They thought nothing of him Hardship would be his life. He was despised. He wasn't desired. He had no form, no majesty, and look at him. The beauty that we should desire, and we we we judge them merely by how he appeared to our eyes. We thought this can't be our Messiah, this can't be the leader we want because of how he looks We want a handsome man, a strong man, because we think how a man looks and that's what matters Is that the reason that you unbelieved? You look upon the church and you think this is not what I think a society should look like. These are not the people I want to be with. How can this be God's people? Not only was he not desired, he was despised. It's a pretty strong word. Probably have things you despise, and it's a pretty disceral reaction. You don't even want them to be named around you. Rejected by men, the the the by men here, um it's a unique way of saying this, and uh and I it it means uh men of rank, men of power, men of position. He was not surrounded by the elite in the day. He didn't have as his followers those who mattered in the eyes of the world They rejected him and didn't go with him. Yeah, of course. It has to be where God is at, and it can't be over here with this person that nobody wants to have anything to do with. He's a man of sorrows and pains, acquainted with grief or sickness. That's not generally the kind of life we equate with people of power and position and authority, a difficult, hard life. He was one from whom men hide their faces. That's how despised he was. You wouldn't even look at him. You wouldn't even want to look at him. How he spoke, what he taught you, you just hated. But he proclaimed to you that he was the Lord God. You despised him. You wouldn't even look at him. He seemingly broke all these traditions. Well, it had nothing to do with the man. And we esteemed him not. That means in our eyes he had no worth to us And I and I think that really was shown when they asked instead of him a murderer. That's the value they put upon his life. Give us a murderer. We want to have a murderer remain amongst us as a Jewish people. We don't want Jesus. You know this passage explains to us where does true beauty lie at? Maybe you're a person and you don't think you're very beautiful. Maybe you're a person that once was beautiful, but age and life and things have happened to you. And let me remind you, you're all going to turn into dust, and nobody thinks dust is beautiful. So where does it lie? Especially you young ones who the world makes you think beauty is the main thing that matters. I would encourage you to really take to heart, Proverbs 31. Not to wear you down because that's a song of praise. The woman there's being praised, she's not being scolded. Her husband's praising her for these things, her children are praising her for these things, and that reminds us Because the woman who fears the Lord, Jesus feared the Lord. True beauty is the image of God. That's what matters. God looks from the heart He doesn't care what name brand you wear. He doesn't care what kind of jewelry adorns your neck. You might care. He doesn't care. What's in your heart? What adorns your heart? What comes out of your mouth? What's your manner? Especially when you're faced with opposition and difficulty. You know and verse the next the Anza verses four through six really the the theme here is the first one is unbelief, but now the the the veils turn back. Unbelief does explain our Lord's sufferings. He was Not desired, he was despised, but that's uh that that's that's not at the heart of it. This these next verses begin to explain to us the really what was going on is he came as our substitute. Notice what it says. Surely he has borne our griefs. See that's what it means to be a substitute. He's not bearing his griefs. He doesn't have any reason to be grief. He doesn't have any sin that should cause him grief and sickness and misery. And though not uh every sickness is a result of a of an actual personal sin, but because we are sinners born in a fallen world we get sick. And there is a reason, and God has good purposes in it. But He doesn't have a reason. He doesn't have sin. It's our griefs he's bored. It's our sorrows That he is carried. They're not his. Yeah, I've really come to appreciate the song, uh, What Child Is It? I think the hymn writer got it right. Even in the even in the manger, he's silently pleading for sinners. From the womb of Mary to the tomb, he is bearing sin. Because he doesn't have griefs that are to be experienced by him. Is the Lord of heaven. He's the Son of God. He doesn't have sorrows. But we do. And we have a reason for them. And he's born them. He's the substitute. Yet he did that, but what we thought was God was striking him and smiting. We thought God had a case against him and was finally bringing down this great blasphemer and striking him down from our mouth. Who would tell such lies and lead such people astray. That's what we thought. We thought, yes, the judgment of God has been, and of course it was, but they didn't understand it But he was pierced, and that the word means ran through and suffered a violent death are transgressions. And you know what transgressions are, right? Transgressions are when you do what God forbids. And you say no, and you rebel against him. He was crushed for our iniquities. Iniquities is the perversion of our heart, and all the ways we wander and stray and fall short. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. Parents chastise children uh through a punishment or pain to correct it and bring restore peace in the house and peace in the relationship, but the peace restored between us and God, that chastisement that brought that peace fell on him With his wounds, we are healed. He was struck, and what was the result to us? We We're made whole. We no longer wonder. We've come back to the shepherd. We we now follow God. Those those same sins he bore, but we no longer do those. We've been healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. This is just a poetical way of saying, of spelling out what it means that he bore our that were transgressors And that we have iniquity. We're like sheep who go astray. It is wonders we sung this morning. Our heart is prone to wonder from God. It is wonders But more than that, our heart is prone to even just turn, transgress. I want to go my way. I don't want to do it God's way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us. It's in the singular there. It's this idea of this whole collective guilt that is ours, as God's people, God's laid it upon us. You know, and this begins to explain to us our corporate identity as a congregation. What's our identity as we gather weekly together and live together? It's this. The Lord's borne our grief. The Lord's carried our sorrows The chastisement of our peace was on him. His wounds have healed us. The Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. You know, I I am a firm believer. You know I think one of the things we should say during the communion time, especially when we're done having communion, or maybe when you're passing the trade to the person to your left or right. I think we should say, I'm so glad the Lord died for you. Because he did. It reminds us that we're not just bound by mere earthly tides, we begin to transcend. But is merely earthly. And remember, our citizenship is in heaven. This is a different family. This is the body of Christ. We should express that collectiveness as we take the Lord's Supper together You know, this this passage also raises the question for our children as they're growing up and hearing this and coming to an age of wondering, should I take communion or not? Am I ready? Well Here's the sinner's prayer. Surely he's borne my griefs. He's carried my sorrows He was pierced for my transgression, he was crushed for my iniquities. I have gone astray, I've turned my own way, but God put on the Lord Jesus. Is that if that's your faith, if that's what you believe, that's the trust that you have, a personal trust and realization of what Jesus has done to you, then you should come take community. You're ready for it. If that's your faith. You know this passage also explains how we're saved. I'm going to give this task to our 'cause especially our young children got to get this from the earliest age. So parents with young children, maybe you can Talk about children with this today and explain it today, but keep it going. Maybe you can get them to remember this. How does God say this passage right here in verses four through six explain? How does God save? He saves by substitution I think we could all say that. God saves by substitution. He bore our griefs, right? And the substitute is the Lord Jesus. God saves by subs. You know, when you read through the Gospels, I know you've read through the Gospels, you're always seeing Jesus healing, right? There's this immense power and saving grace coming out from the Lord to open blind eyes and heal cripples and raise dead and restore health and cast out demons all this health in life and salvation flowing out from him. Why is that? Because he is taking sin. He takes sin, he gives life Why does life come to us? See, by his wounds we're healed. How does God save? By a substitute. Why is there life flowing out for him? Because he's taking sin and burying it. And so life comes to us. God saves by a substitute. Maybe you're here this morning and you're going, will I ever get better? This passage explains that. By his wounds we are healed You know, Jesus is our perfect health. One day you will be perfectly like Jesus, body and spirit. Maybe you're somebody here and you've been struggling for a long time with the sin and wonder if I ever gonna get past this. Yes, you are, by his wound. You're healed. There's no Christian that stays stuck in sin. You might wrestle with it. You might even lose to it. You might give into it. You're going to overcome it by his wounds. We've been healed. That's the truth. We're healed. We're gonna be healed. Even as we face old age and we lose our health and our strength, we're gonna be healed God has a health plan for each of us. The resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's our true health insurance. It's our true hope. That's the only answer. That's a healthy one. But he starts with restoring your spirit. He starts with restoring you to himself because without that, there's no health. The true health comes from a renewed relationship with God. The peace that He's made. Why is God at peace with us? Because He's made peace with us. Why does God say it was grace and peace? Well, He's made peace with us at the cross. After this, in the next stanza, really the idea in this one is willful submission. Okay, he bears all these sins. He was oppressed. He was afflicted. Another way to translate this, he he he submitted. That gets to the idea, he opened not his mouth like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheet that before its shears is silent. So he He opened not his mouth. He submitted himself. Why did he submit himself? Well the Lord has laid on him. The iniquity of us all. Jesus understood, but what he was undergoing transcended the human treatment, the unjust human treatment he was receiving. But he knew who he was as the bearer of our sin. He submitted. He endured. By oppression and judgment, right? He was taken away as For his generation. Who considered in that day that the Lord was cut off out of the land of the earth? That's always a statement of a violent removal from the earth. that this was happened because of the transgression of my people. The stroke that should have fell on Israel didn't fall, it fell on Jesus. Who who considered that on the cross and is being cut off and put to death was God's stroke. Falling not upon his people where it should have fell, and could have fell, but upon him. And they made his grave with the wicked, with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence and there was no deceit. in his mouth. And here we see the sinless nature of the substitute. Our Lord's holy innocence, in no way deserving any of the affliction that fell upon him. But in every way, willingly and lovingly shouldering it and enduring it and bearing it to save his people And then the last stanza begins sort of to give us the ultimate explanation for all this suffering. It was the will of the Lord to crush him. I prefer the older translation, it pleased the Lord. Not because the Lord was pleased so much at beating having his son being put to death. I mean he was, but it's not the idea of taking pleasure in it in that sense. It's meaning It wasn't anybody else's pleasure but the Lord's. He came up with it. It's his will. The Lord was not acting to please somebody else, a higher power, another God. A different person, not even acting to please you, because you said, you know what, Lord, give your son for us that we may be saved. No, we were wondering like sheep. It pleased the Lord to do. this. It teaches us that salvation is the good pleasure of God. This is what God wanted to do. This is what the three persons of the Trinity wanted to do. This is what they covenanted and do and came to do and have done for us. It pleased the Lord to do this He's put him to grief as just a a way of saying you could sum up the Lord's sufferings as being put to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring, he shall prolong his days, the will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Here we begin to turn to exaltation. Because you can't have offspring if you're not alive. You can't have your days prolonged if you're dead You can't have the Lord's will prosper in your hand, meaning through your power and might, what you're doing if you're dead. So the resurrection is implied here in his glory. As I said, this passage explains a lot to us. Here it explains what is the nature of Jesus' sacrifice on the cross. Again, they saw it, but they had no idea what what was taking place. And this passage explains, it says right here, and you make his his soul an offering for gift. And the uniqueness about a trespass offering, though his His offering fulfilled all of them was that it was a ransom, it was a compensatory payment. It was uniquely a satisfaction to divine justice. God's justice demanded that sin be punished, and Jesus offered the punishment, or to take the punishment, by sacrificing. himself. So the nature of the atonement, the nature of the Lord's sacrifice is what we call propitiation. The wrath of God has been appeased By what Jesus did in bearing the punishment for his people's sin. His pastor begins to explain to us what's the fruit of this? He's got a great seed, the children of God. Born again and the Spirit poured out. Why? Because they've received justifying righteousness. It says later in verse 11. He shall provide righteousness to many people. And they shall live. He shall, if he and his many people, he shall prolong his day. He shares his eternal life with us as our head. And the will of the Lord prospers in his hand. That's where we go back to Isaiah forty-two and begin there again. Now he's going to be bringing justice to the nations as the crucified, risen, extended, and enthroned Lord. Now he's going to take salvation to the ends of the earth. Now he's going to call and gather his people and keep them. And then he's going to come in glory and rule because the will of the Lord is going to prosper in his hands. Explains us what is Jesus doing right now? He is executing the will of the Lord. And reigning and ruling over the very universe we live in and every facet of every person's life. I said this passage explains, and it explains to us, maybe you have the question here this morning, does my life matter? Every life matters. But here, as called believers, the will of the Lord has prospered through your life. You belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. You may not see in all the ways that's going to carry out. And sometimes we think maybe you can feel like the Lord, I've toiled in vain. What's it been? The will of the Lord is being prospered through your life. Your life matters. The Lord Jesus is the the church matters the Lord The gospel doesn't go forth people aren't gathered in, saints aren't built up, saints aren't kept Apart from God's people as well. Our lives matter. Therefore, verse 12, I will divide him a portion with the many. He shall divide the spoil with the show. And this is this language of saying he's going to be like every other conqueror in history. He's going to have a spoil and a portion going to be. He's going to be a victor. Why? Because he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors. Yet he bore the sin of many, and he makes intercession for the transgressors. Yeah, this passage explains to us what's between you and God now. Is it still your sin? But if you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, what's between you and God is the Lord Jesus, the mediator. Paul quotes this, well, whoever you think wrote Hebrews quotes this passage to remind us Jesus is, you know when Jesus comes back, you know the one thing he's not going to be dealing with? Sin. Because he's dealt with sin. He's coming back to save you by raising you from the grave and bringing you into his kingdom and maybe saving you from people who are persecuting you, but he's not coming back to deal with sin. He's dealt with it. It's done. The unique, unrepeated sacrifice for sin. It has been offered, accepted, and sin is no longer the legal thing controlling your life between you and God, but Christ's righteousness. Christ is what's between you and God. And you know what the command then is? Draw near. In in I want to emphasize the word you draw near. Not the person you would think God would like to draw near, and the person that you hope to be, and the person you want to make yourself a little bit better to be You draw near to God. Because it is only by drawing near to God that you will be the person you've always wanted to be. Because you can't be who you really want to be unless you're in God's presence. Unless you're drawing near to Him. And the only way you can do that is you don't have sin between you and God anymore. You have a mediator. He makes intercession for transgressors. He makes intercession for people who break God's law Do what he forbids. Finally, this explains to us. What should I tell the kings of this earth? Everything I just told you. Go back to the beginning, how it begins. It says they will shut their mouths because of him. What are we to tell the nations? Tell them about him. It's a good place to start to tell the nations about him. Philip, it began with the Ethiopian preaching Jesus from this panel. This is what we proclaim to the nations. Jesus is who we proclaim to the nations. Him is the one we tell. Now, congregation, let me close by saying this. As you know, this is God's love for us. This is how God has loved us. We need to believe this love and stand in this love. And this is also the kind of love as God's people we need to show, a very patient, self-sacrificing, gracious love. But as I was thinking on this passage and preparing it, it's only after going through this, and maybe you notice this in all of the Advent hymns and Birth of Christ hymns we sing. You know, none of those hymns stop merely at the birth of Jesus, do they? The birth of Jesus doesn't do anything by itself. It's the beginning. It's after you go through Isaiah 53. Then I feel like I can say to you now, Merry Christmas. Because what you just heard here is what makes Christmas very merry. And uh honestly, if I think God were to make a Christmas card, I think this would be the passage that He would put in it, is Isaiah fifty-three, and he would say now Merry Christmas to all of you. So Merry Christmas to all of you. Come out