Please turn with me in your Bibles to Deuteronomy five. Just three verses eight through ten. Deuteronomy five, eight through ten. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children. to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Reading of Titus three, four through seven, this is the preaching text. And then I'll ask Reverend Rowe to come up and pray a prayer for God's blessing on the reading and the preaching of his word. Titus 3, 4 through 7. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness. But according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, Whom He poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. So that being justified by His grace We might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray and ask God's blessing upon the word that will be broken for us today. May His Spirit So work in each of our hearts to receive it as it is, not the words of men, but the word of the living God. Let us pray. Oh Lord, we do pray that your Spirit, who alone can open the heart of man, Can take the darkened mind of man and bring to it the light of Christ, who is the light of the world. If any man would have this divine light, he must Be enlightened by your Spirit. For your Spirit alone leads us out of darkness into the glorious kingdom of light as the children of light we are told. And so, God, as we have your word for us today, we have read the scriptures of the old and new covenants. And we are mindful that we need to have your word stored up in our hearts. And as we are reminded, even practicing it in our lives. That the word is as well to govern our deeds, our conduct. As the apostle reminds us, we are to live in a manner pleasing to you. May your words so instruct us, not as though we would by our own righteousness merit these things. But we live solely day of gloria, for the glory of you, O God, and for your goodness and mercy, which endures forever, through the merits of your Son, Jesus Christ. We pray. Amen. I do thank you for the privilege of being here today. Pastor Kathy and elders, as Is your bound and duty to even watch over the preaching of the word and as well the administration of the sacraments and We do not take this lightly because we know that it is an awesome thing that we do when we open the scriptures. We speak those words which are words of eternal life. without which man would perish in darkness. And I come to you this morning to speak to you particularly of a subject that sometimes is kind of uh secondary. We we hear much about the grace of God, and indeed we should. But I want to speak to you especially today about the mercy of God and what that means to us as His people, and what it would mean to those who would not have the mercy of God. We first read from Deuteronomy 5, 8 through 10, you have the law of God recorded. in that second giving of the law. And you see that we are commanded, that we are not to have images Not merely the ones shapened by our hands, but even those shapened by our minds. And if we would be honest with ourselves, we'd have to admit that all of us are guilty of idolatry. The Apostle John would warn us, he's saying, little children, keep yourselves from idolatry. It's a continual battle for each of us. But as he concludes that brief section there in Deuteronomy 5, 8 through 11, he speaks about the mercy of God. He doesn't just warn us of our sin and our iniquity and what happens that comes from being idolatrous But he says this that not only is there this visiting of the iniquity of the fathers upon the third and fourth generations of those who hate me, but he shows mercy. Under thousands of them that love me and keep or treasure my commandments. Mercy is brought to us here. And what do we witness in that? The mercy of God is poured out upon families under those generations. God is a covenant, faithful God. And he looks upon us not just in an isolated way, but he sees us and he understands that You have in the in the bond in the in the bond of a family the love and the unity that affects The family in its totality, when there's a believer in it, that's why even Paul would say in Colossians that You have the blessing of baptism that comes, it's our circumcision in Christ. And then again he would speak of it as a blessing that comes to all the generations, as many as are baptized in Christ. And he speaks of it to families that they would receive his blessing and mercy. Now we sometimes confuse the grace of God with the mercy of God And the best definition I know of these two wonderful truths is that the grace of God, as I think we well know, is that God gives us unmerited favor. Salvation is a free gift, freely bestowed by God in His goodness, by so loving the world, even the fallen world, that he would send his son into this world To give himself a ransom for our sins. What then is mercy? Yes, it is that we do not deserve salvation, but the mercy of God is in a sense like the other side of the coin. It is where God withholds that which is our due. What we actually deserve is His wrath. That's what we have merited. And God withholds His wrath. By his mercy, that's the idea and the concept in Scripture that encompasses what God does in withholding that wrath And of course, personified in Christ. That He is the mercy of God personified. He came into this world and gave himself. For our sins, graciously, yes, but also to receive the wrath of God that was poured out upon him, to receive what was our due. We believe in a substitutionary atonement. That is, that Christ died in our place. And in doing that, he was receiving As Isaiah so well prophesied, the stripes which were due. And Peter takes up the same in his epistle, first epistle, that it's by his stripes that we are healed. And I submit to you, that's the mercy of God. Because he received that punishment so that he would withhold it from us, so that he could. So we could say that, as I said, two sides of the coin, grace, unmerited favor, mercy, God withholding his wrath, which is our due. That's why it's so foolish when you have people who would argue, you know, to want to stand before God, as it were, and to argue their their goodness. Surely God would receive me into heaven. I'm good enough. I've not done that much that's evil. I've had people say that to me openly. But they don't understand. To stand before a holy God, even the great man, we could say the good man, Isaiah, in the presence of God, he fell down. And said, I'm a man of unclean lips, I'm undone. And so we dare not try to argue with God on the basis of justice and and justifying ourselves by our own merits. That's why we read Titus in that passage. It's so clear one we ought to often keep in mind, Titus 3, 4 through 7. There will be those who turn their ears away from the truth and be turned aside. Excuse me. Backing up a little bit, I'm sorry. Speaking of uh those who are Speaking of uh those who are saved by his grace alone, but as well his mercy, listen, but when the kindness and the love of God our Savior toward man appeared Not by works of righteousness, which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. Now that statement alone should tell us mercy is just as important as grace. I was thinking maybe you should modify the name of the church, Grace and Peace and Mercy. But uh it's a great name that you have. It it it speaks of the gospel of Christ. The story's been told of a mother. Who sought from Napoleon the pardon of her son? The emperor said that it was the man's second offense. And justice demanded his death. Now listen what this wise mother said. She said, I don't demand justice. I plead for mercy. But said the emperor, he does not deserve mercy. Sir, cried the mother, it would not be mercy if he deserved it, and mercy is all that I ask. Well then said the emperor, I will show mercy. And her son was saved. That's the true story. I think that well illustrates it Do you not think this mother rejoiced over the mercy of the emperor? Of course she did. And so ought we to rejoice over the mercy of God in Christ. That the Son of God, the holy Son of God, the Lamb slain before the foundation of the world. pure and holy and harmless, would himself receive the stripes that are were our due. Is the most merciful God. The most merciful display of love. What a wonderful truth. And so we know the God of the Bible is the God of mercy. A lot of people don't apprehend him that way. He's, you know, the media for years has just portrayed God and Christas as just bigoted, hateful, mean-spirited people. And that's not God at all. Or why would he send his only son to die for sinners such as we are? What a wonderful truth it is that God is merciful. And as the psalmist says, his mercy endures forever. Psalm 136, a beautiful litany. that the church ought to often recite. And some people get bored with it because it continually the congregation is to refrain. His mercy endures forever. His mercy endures forever. We need to have this hammered home in our hearts. Another illustration. Long ago there was a woman from the slums of London who was invited by a group of people for a holiday at the ocean. She had never seen the ocean before. Now you might think that's strange, that uh England and Britain being an island nation, that uh her not having seen the ocean, but she was Very, very poor, and these people very kindly invited her. And they thought this would be a wonderful thing. And so when she came upon the ocean, she burst into tears. and started weeping almost uncontrollably. Those around her thought it was strange that she should cry having such a lovely holiday given to her, but They asked her, why in the world are you crying? And she answered, pointing to the ocean, she said, This is the only thing I've ever seen that there is enough of. God has oceans of mercy. Oceans of mercy. There is enough of it. And God delights in showing his mercy to us. People miss that when they read the law. They think the law is somehow our enemy and oppressive. The law teaches us to come to Christ and to find everlasting grace and mercy. To the love of God and the merits of Christ our Saviour. Micah said this. He said He will again have compassion upon us, He will subdue our iniquities, He will cast all of our sins in the depths of the sea. See. That's a merciful act by a merciful God. Jeremiah, Jeremiah 32, 18, thou showest loving kindness unto thousands. And recompense the iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children. But the great and the mighty God, the Lord of hosts, is his name. Is a merciful God keeping covenant. Daniel said it this way: And I prayed unto the Lord my God and made my confession and said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God. Keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him and to them that keep his commandments. Why does God indeed show himself as merciful? Because we do not deserve it. It absolutely is his mercy. Another illustration is there's a story told of a politician Who after receiving the proofs of his portrait that he wanted painted of himself, I suppose politicians love portraits of themselves. He was very angry with the photographer, though. He stormed back to the photographer and arrived with these angry words. This picture does not do me justice. The photographer replied, Sir, with a face like yours, you don't need justice, you need mercy. And if we were honest with ourselves, we look in the mirror of God's perfect law. We need mercy. The justice of God is fulfilled in Christ. We need his mercy. And what a wonderful thing. God's mercy is abundant says in Deuteronomy that it's unto thousands. That's just a metaphor for it's unlimited. There's not an end to it. Here's some of the Psalms on this. Psalm 36:5: Your mercy, O Lord, is in the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. Psalm 89, 1. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord. Forever with my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all the generations. Psalm 103. 4. Who redeemeth my life from destruction? Who crowneth thee with loving kindness and with tender mercies? As the Hebrew Pesed type of love and merciful love that God has for his people. It's from the depth of his being that he loves us, mercifully so. Psalm 138, the Lord will perfect that which concerneth me. Thy mercy, O Lord, endureth forever. Forsake not the works of thine own hand. Do you see as a child of God that this is a blessing and a gift from God? Do you understand this? The Christian ought to. That's what it is to be a Christian is to apprehend his grace, his mercy, his love, and to possess it for yourself. To possess it for yourself. To claim Christ as your own. He is my Savior. Not merely another's. He's mine. He's the author and finisher of my faith. And so our eyes are fixed upon him. And so it's written in here Hebrews. Peter would say, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his who according to his abundant mercy. Has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. You would think, perhaps he would say, that by his grace we were born again. Here he says, it's by his mercy. And so we understand they are together. They're not separate. Just as his love is tied into that as well. The best of men, Matthew Henry wrote, owe their best blessings to the abundant mercy of God. All the evil in the world is from man's sin. But all the good in it is from God's mercy. Regeneration is expressly ascribed to the abundant mercy of God. And so are all the rest. We subsist entirely upon divine mercy. Sometimes we make the Lord miserly in the way we approach people. And I'm just as guilty as anyone. That we forget about the parable of the Good Samaritan, that only but by the grace and mercy of God we would be in that place But we'll see people sometimes and we wouldn't say it. We might not even just think it out clearly in our minds, but our response is almost to say is that they couldn't possibly be saved They couldn't possibly receive the grace and mercy of God. Who are we to limit God? Who are we to limit his mercy? It flows from him who is without limit in that gracious and merciful gift of salvation. Many of us are probably even more acutely aware of that. If you've come from, you know, uh quite a reprehensible black background. I could say clearly of myself there was a day When I was just a scoundrel, and God took pity upon me and remind me of the scriptures that I had been taught as a child and from my father. But it was by his grace and mercy, or I would have stayed a scoundrel, reprehensible, the way that I was. And it's only in God, as Matthew Henry says, that says that we subsist entirely upon his divine mercy. Psalm 103, 13 puts it this very tender way to us, beloved. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. Verse 17, but the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him. And his righteousness here we go to the family. again under the children's children. God loves to keep covenant with his people. He delights in that. And certainly, how could we be miserly about it? We should not be afraid to bring the gospel of Christ to any man, any woman that we meet No matter how low their condition may be, the homeless, the drug addict, the indigent. The prostitute. Jesus ministered to the very type of people. He said, I came to heal those who are sick, not those who are well, or at least who think they are well. we would add, but those who know their condition. Those who God saves He breaks first and brings them to their knees to the cross. And so God's mercy is abundant from everlasting to everlasting. That's the Oh, we can take confidence in this, beloved. We have an accuser, Satan, who stands there constantly accusing us of our standings. In our conscience, in our hearts often, how often are we pricked? We come to the Lord's table. We know we're not worthy. In fact, we may even argue with ourselves, perhaps I should not come. I'm such a wretched sinner. Well, if you know that, then you know you ought to come. And know the abundant mercy of God. Yes, you do need to come. Yes, you are a sinner. We confessed our sins already in this service. We should do it again. And finally, God's mercy is especially toward his people. As Deuteronomy, it says, to those who love him A parent knows how this is. When a child is suffering from a severe cold, perhaps, or with a sore throat, a running nose, congested aches and pains. All he can do is throw his arm around your neck and cry. What does this invoke in you as a parent, to those of you who have had that privilege? Why it? Compassion. There's nothing that, at least in my experience, that's torn my heart more than to see my own children suffer, whether physically or spiritually. I remember our our son, who was our firstborn, when he was just an infant, got scarlet fever. It was just frightening. And you're helpless, and it just tears your heart out I just had never experienced anything like that. But then it flashed before me that, oh, how I must have grieved my own parents. When I was the prodigal. But I thank God that He brought me back a year and a half before my father left this world. A prodigal son, to rejoice together in Christ. God's mercy is abundant. Always hold it out and extend it. Even if your child is wayward, don't forget. compassion and the abundant mercy of God that flows from his heart, even as your own heart is touched God's people know his mercy is toward them. When our children are sick, it awakes in us a pity We try to reach out and bring comfort to that distress. And in this matter of our spiritual illness, and God cares for our bodies as well, but there's no one No one who can take the place of our Savior who mediates that mercy to us. What a wonderful truth. He ever lives to make intercession for us. Not just in grace, but in mercy. Remember how Moses pleaded for the people of Israel? He pleaded for God's mercy, not to destroy them. That's what they deserved. Moses knew that. He himself was upset and broke the first copies of the law, shattered them. But he still interceded for his people. It's a picture of Christ to us. Luke says his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. Generation. Never think that anyone so far that God cannot bring them back. It's not too much for him To save the lowest sinner, the most reprehensible person, because it's by his merits, it's by his grace, and his everlasting mercy that we are saved. Let us go to the cross. Let us see Jesus with his company of thieves and the mercy that was bestowed upon them, even though one rejected it How foolish. As Copernicus, the great astronomer, was dying. A copy of his great book, The Revolution of the Heavenly Bodies, was placed in his hand. But it was not his brilliant work that was on his mind. Instead, he directed the following epitaph be placed on his grave, which is at Fraunburg. Germany. Oh Lord, the faith thou didst give to St. Paul, I cannot ask. The mercy thou didst show to St. Peter, I dare not ask. But Lord, the grace thou didst show unto a dying robber, that Lord, show to me. Now he was not perfect in that prayer. I would say he could add mercy to that. You can ask for the mercy. Of God. But he was understanding that it was not by his merits. And he understood that well. He didn't want a copy of his work. He didn't want his works at the end of his life. We don't want our works. We want the mercy and grace of God. We want Christ's righteousness to be put in our place. As Micah again said, Who is a God like unto thee, that pardoneth iniquity, that passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? He retaineth not his anger forever, because he delights in mercy. That's the character of our God. Edward Sills shows us clearly the nature of the wisdom of this with a fool's prayer. Now you might think that's Strange, but there's a lot of wisdom in these words. Listen carefully. The royal feast was done. The king sought some new sport to banish care. And to his jester cried, Sir fool, kneel now and make for us a prayer. The jester doffed his cap, and kneeled upon the monarch's silken stool His pleading voice arose, O Lord, be merciful to me, a fool. No pity, Lord, to change the heart from red with wrong to white as wool. Thy grace must heal the sin. So Lord, be most merciful to me, a fool. These clumsy feet, still in the mire, go crushing blossoms without end These hard, well-meaning hands we thrust among the heartstrings of a friend, The ill-timed truth we might have kept. Who knows how sharp it pierced and stung, The word we had not sense to say, Who knows how grandly it had rung Our faults no tenderness should ask. Christ's chastening stripes must cleanse them all, but for our blunders owe in shame, before the eyes of heaven we fall Earth bears no bomb for our mistakes. Men crowned the knave and scourged the tool that did his will. But thou, O Lord, be merciful to me. a fool. The room was hushed. In silence rose the king, and sought his gardens cool, and walked and murmured lo merciful to me A fool. Would God give us more kings like that man, who recognize before the Lord, He is the sovereign. We are His servants. Even by ourselves we would be fool May God bless you and keep you. May God make His mercy to fill your hearts and lives. always. Shall we pray? Lord, we thank you that you are merciful. May we never forget this great and grand attribute of yours. We can understand it. We love mercy for ourselves. We love to be forgiven when we have wronged and not receive what is our due. May we live in the same manner, O God. As our Lord taught us to forgive those who have transgressed against us. Forgive them without limit. Seven times seventy. Because so your mercy is great to forgive us. And it's our misery that calls forth your mercy, O God. And as a father pities the children, So, O God, you pity us as your children to those who love you, who cherish and desire to keep your commandments. We pray your blessing, O Lord, upon your people gathered here this day. In the blessed name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.