For the reading of God's Word. I'm going to read together from Romans Some from chapter 6, verses 1 through 14, and then from chapter 7, verse 7 to 25. So Romans chapter 6, beginning at verse 1. Hear the word of the Lord. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. How can we who died to sin still live in it Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father We too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like his We shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self Was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin. Now, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died, he died to sin. Once for all. But the life he lives, he lives to God. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God. As those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law, but under grace. And we'll go to Romans 7, beginning at verse 7. Read to the end of the chapter. What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means. Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness For apart from the law, sin lies dead. I was once alive apart from the law. But when the commandment came, sin came alive, and I died. The very commandment that promised life Prove to be death to me for sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment. Deceived me, and through it killed me. So the law is holy And the commandment is holy and righteous and good. Did that which was good then bring death to me? By no means. It was sin, producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin. And through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. For we know that the law is spiritual. But I am of the flesh, sold under sin, for I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. Though if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law that it is good. So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Now, if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me. So I find it to be Allah. That when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of God, in my inner being. But I see in my members another law, waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Wretched man that I am Who will deliver me from this body of death? Thanks be to God, through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then, I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. This is the word of the Lord. And our confessional reading this evening comes from the canons of Dort. We're starting the fifth and final head of doctrine in the canons of Dort, the perseverance of the saints. And we'll be looking at Article 1 tonight, the subject of which is the regenerate not entirely free from sin. The regenerate not entirely free from sin. And here's what the synod says. Those people whom God, according to his purpose, calls into fellowship with his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. And regenerates by the Holy Spirit. He also sets free from the rain and slavery of sin. Though in this life not entirely from the flesh and from the body of sin. That's what we'll be looking at tonight. Now we have been set free, those called to Christ and regenerate, free from the rain and slavery of sin, though in this life not entirely free from the flesh and the body of sin. Some of you may know that these five points of Calvinism are often referred to as the doctrines of grace. Now God's favor that has been revealed to us through the gospel of His Son, Jesus Christ, through that message that life and immortality has been brought to life through the death of Jesus Christ. Is lying under the grave in its power for three days and rising from the dead nevermore to see corruption through that gospel and that message of God's Son as our sin bearer. God has shown his grace to us in making a new world, redeeming it and making it new. And the first head of doctrine we looked at was particular election, that not everybody has a place in this new creation, in Jesus Christ, but those whom God has chosen before the foundation of the world Given then to his son, which we looked at in particular, redemption of those the Father gave to the Son. The Son did come in time and redeemed on the cross, dying for their sins, and effecting Their release, a ransom paid for that soul, those sins remitted. But we do not naturally find ourselves in Jesus Christ. So we looked at the doctrine of total depravity, which states that there is nothing we We can do to get into Christ. But God in His grace and particularly calling us, calls us through this message of Jesus Christ and the gospel, the message of reconciliation through Christ and the forgiveness of sins. sins, the message of the hope of glory for repentant sinners. Through that God calls us by His Word and His Spirit, regenerating us, bringing us out of that death, and uniting us to Jesus Christ. So we are called into him. And then now we're looking at those who've been called into Jesus Christ and are united with him by faith and holding to him. The question is shall they hold on? Shall they make it to the end as they cling to Jesus Christ? And the answer that Synod gives, the answer which Scripture gives is yes. By God's grace, through his preserving them, they shall continue in the faith of Jesus Christ. A couple goals as we go through this teaching. They're actually found in the last article on it. Where it talks about the bride of Christ has always loved this teaching very tenderly, right? Those whom Jesus died and loved for. They want to know, am I always going to be with him? I can imagine coming to know the Lord and then not knowing him someday. You could maybe imagine a wonderful person, your your own spouse, when you first knew them. You probably hoped I will continue knowing them, and it won't last for two months, because you have so fallen in love with them. And those who've so come to love Jesus Christ, his bride, love this doctrine because it assures them He will always love you, and you will always love him and be with him. They've also defended it steadfastly as a priceless treasure. So maybe the chief goal besides these individual teachings is I hope you come to love this doctrine if you don't love it. Love the fact that by God's grace you will persevere through all the trials and temptations of this life and come uh to glory in perfect consummate union with Jesus Christ and also as you love it to defend it because it will add as you get at it Satan and his horde and many to want to destroy this doctrine and not knowing whether you belong to Jesus or not, not knowing if faith is all that's required to save you, not knowing in the perfect work of Jesus Christ being done. All that whole system of man's salvation is utterly torn down by this doctrine of assurance that when God began, He will finish. So this, I hope you come to defend and love it. Uh I brought a coin to illustrate, so here illustrations are helpful. Everybody knows a coin, so I hardly have to show you a coin. One other seed I would like to plant in your mind as we look at the doctrine of uh perseverance. There's fifteen of these, so and Tom and I switch every week. So it could be the next thirty weeks that we look at these. So two-thirds of the next uh year. But on one side right is the head. And what we're looking at right in this doctrine tonight in particular, or what I want you to see, is on one side of the coin, the head side, is God's preservation of us. God preserves those whom He's chosen and redeemed and given to Christ and called united. And on the other side of the coin, the tail side is the saints then persevere. These go together. God preserves us, we persevere. God preserves us, and the saints persevere. That will get made known as we go through it, but I just want that to be in your mind that The doctrine of perseverance is built also on the doctrine of the preservation of God and his faithfulness towards us and all of his grace, all our lifelong, as he continues to recover his erring sheep. And keep them going forward and feeding them and nourishing them. So God's preservation, the saints' perseverance And tonight, beginning with this teaching, we're focusing on why we even need perseverance, right? And the great reason why we need perseverance is because we still have sin in us. And if you are listening to what the Apostle Paul is saying in Romans 7, that is a great soe It will deceive you. It will kill you. As soon as you begin to want to do what is right in your regenerate heart, you are going to find this great power there all your lifelong seeking to lead you astray. Thank God then, right, for his preserving us as we persevere in this struggle against the flesh. So starting off We're looking at why we need God's preserving grace of us, and that's because the teaching here is that the regenerate are not entirely free from sin. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this first part, we've already dealt with these That God has called the people by his purpose. He's brought them into fellowship with the Son Jesus Christ. I hope and pray that's all of you He's regenerated your heart by the Holy Spirit, so you believe in Jesus, you receive Jesus, you trust in Jesus, you serve Him, you cling to Him. Faith is man's response to God's revelation of Himself Jesus said, I'm a savior, you go to him to get saved. Jesus says I'm a teacher, you go to him to get instruction. Jesus says I'm a physician, you go to him to get healed. That's what it means to cling to him by faith. He reveals who he is, and you say yes and amen, and you take that. And you receive that and you act accordingly to who God says that he is, to who Jesus says that he is. That's what it means to live By faith. God reveals Himself and we respond to that according to His revelation in the proper way. And what we want to look at first is that well these people called into fellowship with Christ, he sets them free from the rain and slavery of sin. That's the first thing we're going to look at briefly and apply And that's dealt with in Romans chapter six, all the way through Romans seven, verses one through six. We're not gonna look at all that, but I'll point some highlights out so you get it. have been set free from the rain in the slavery of sin. Now what this is built upon, if you're listening to the reading there, and I'm sure this is a familiar passage to many Christians. What this is built upon in our freedom from the rain and the slavery of sin starts with the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, right? Jesus Christ died once and for all to sin, Paul asserts, and Jesus Christ definitively rose from the power of death, never to come under it again, and is alive to God. So we start with what is true for the man Jesus Christ, and obviously us in him, but for Jesus Christ, his dying to sin, he taking our sins And therefore coming under its power and coming under the power and dominion of death for us to atone and satisfy for our sins, when he rose from that, he rose definitively to God forever And then we're talking about, I did not read these verses for you, but it's there in Romans 5, it's there or 6, and it's there in these first six verses of chapter 7. That one Spirit union that we have then with the risen Lord Jesus Christ. That as God unites us to the crucified and risen Lord Jesus Christ, we have also, as baptism teaches us, died a death to sin. If you are a Christian and born again, you have died to sin. You've had a definitive death to it. One day you will know what that means. That you have already happened in your life. And you have definitively risen to God, and He is all yours, and you are all His And you don't know sin. And you're saying, I wish that was true right now. It will be one day. That's what that means. Jesus definitively died to sin, done with it, buried it, left it behind. rose definitively to God and glory and lives for him forever to serve his father, and that is true in Christians even now You have died the sin and you are alive to God. And now we're in this time and period we'll deal with in the end of wrestling through the full implications and the reality in that of dying the sin and rising more and more to righteousness and to God. And it is by that spiritual union which Paul teaches there in Romans chapter seven. Why Jesus died was that through his death we might get we might come out of that first marriage which was not doing us any good, the law. Not that the law was the problem, we were the problem. We were the adulterers who lusted after everything. And God and His grace said I know how I'll deal with this. I'll put them to death through Jesus. They'll come free from that marriage And I'll unite him to my risen Son Jesus Christ, who has been received as Spirit in full, and in him and in that spirit we serve in that new way, keeping God's Holy commandments. So that's what this is built on as far as Paul's dealing with in Romans six, dying to sin through baptism, rising definitively to Christ. So that Paul can say there in verse 14, sin will have no dominion over you. You're not under that law. But you are under grace, meaning you are united to Jesus Christ. You are in God's favor. Well, how does how do we apply that? What does that mean for the believer? That you are not under the dominion of sin. You are not taken. It is not your king. It does not reign in you, and you've been freed for it. How does Paul tell us to live He tells you one way to think and he tells you one way to do. In verse 11, he tells you that you must think like this. You also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. I remember when I was newly converted, and my lust still raged in me, and it would want to take over me. And I would say these words to myself over and over and over again, because this is the logic of the gospel. Paul's telling you, here's how you must think. Jesus died Rose to me, you believer, died and rose to your life. And I would sit there and say over and over, I'm I am dead to this, I'm a new man, I'm dead to this, I'm a new man, I'm a dead to this, I Manu Man Until it sunk in. And I walked. As I ought to walk. So that's how Paul tells you when you are tempted. The sin, and you feel sin once again, dominion and take over, remind yourself it will not have dominion. Here's how you are to think. You must consider yourself dead. This seems I am dead to this I have died definitively and absolutely to this very sin. I am new in Jesus Christ and I've risen. That is the mentality you must adopt When you face the temptation of sin and it wants to take the Lordship in your life. If you are a believer in Jesus Christ and you heard the gospel, That is what Paul is saying. Here's how you apply what I'm talking about, and you're sharing in the death and resurrection of Jesus. You need to think this way. I have died to that particular sin. And name it. You know it. I've died to it, and I have risen to new life in God. That's how you're to think. I have found nothing to break the power of sin, not my own strength But to remind myself of what God has done for me in Christ, and to believe it, and to apply it, you must consider this, Paul says. This is how you must think as a believer. You've dead to sin. You are alive. Paul also says though in verse 14, because he's afraid of being misunderstood about what it means to not be under the law, but under grace. That's what the rest of chapter 6 deals with, from 15 to 23. And I think maybe the best way to illustrate this, and this is stereotypical, so I'm just using the stereotype, I'm not advocating for it But often, right, dad, moms and dads, dad is usually seen as being under the law, right? When you're with dad, you're under the law, and what he says goes, and you you know he's the strict one But when you're a child and you're with mom, right, oh, it's so easy. Mom is so gracious, right? Mom's a loving one. Mom's the one you can get away with anything And Paul's afraid of telling Christians that you're not under the law but under grace, they may get the idea of this means being with mom, and I don't have to wait, you know, and I can live how I want because I can get by with mom And if you go to verse 23, Paul says, no. The free gift of God, the grace of God, is eternal life in Jesus Christ, and he just told you How you reach that eternal life, it's by persevering in a life of sanctification which has as its end eternal life. The grace of God brings about the end of sin and not the continuing of sin. Yes, you will know yourself, don't get me wrong, God will be a nicer mother than you've ever known And you will know the sweetness of his grace and favor, but that sweetness of his grace and favor is not to excuse our sin But that we might turn to Him again continually in repentance and faith and trust and persevere in sanctification so we can reach the end of eternal life that's promised to us. So Paul says, you need to think this way, and you also need to act this way. You need to say, I am not sin's servant anymore. I am God's servant. I put my eyes at his use. I put my ears at his use. I put my hands at his use. My knees, my body, my whole self, and my house. I put everything I have Not to sin's use, but to God's use. That's what it means that you, believer, are not under sin's dominion and not under its slavery You need to think that way when you feel like it is having control in your life, and you need to positively give yourself to God and serve Him But used to serve a sin, you now serve God with. That's not just the bodies right. That's everything we have. We can put our money to sin. We can put our goods into sin. But anything to sin's use. You think, no, you put it all to God's use now. You and everything I've given you. Raven sin, serve me with. That's what it means to not be under sin's dominion. What about the the second one? So that's to let us know, right? That for Christians, and we're going to talk about the second part, although we may have to come back to it because we're getting close, and I think that this is um Very important teaching. I was hoping to talk about the wretched man tonight. Because the wretched man is the Christian man, and it's good to know that we're wretched men. And it's very freeing to know what's happening in us in this struggle where we so badly want to serve the Lord. I think I can make my point pretty briefly to you, so I will. We'll go on to the second point. The first point is let you know for the Christian you're not hopeless and the answer is never sin made me and I had nothing I could do. And yet at the same time as Paul goes in here in the strongest language, crying out, wretched man, and if you go back to verse 14, here he begins to talk about a Christian He knows that the law of spiritual, when you become a Christian, you've learned what actually is involved in God's law, you begin to meditate on Christ's life, you want to imitate him, you see what he's like, you make the best efforts to try it You don't skip over those passages in Matthew 5 and the Sermon of the Mount. That just seemed impossible to live that way, but you try to do it. You begin to see, wow, this thing is spiritual. And I have such a low inability to do it that I'm flesh and really I'm just sold under sin. Then he goes on. I don't even understand you could translate that. I don't condone what I'm doing. I do the things I don't want to do, but the very thing that I hate is what I do. Because if I if if this is my state that I'm unable to do the things that I want, I agree with the law and I'm saying that it's good, what what is it then that is causing me to do this It's sin that dwells in me. There's this other thing inside of me called sin. Paul goes on that I know nothing is even good is in me. He qualifies that. He knows something very good is in him, the regenerating work of the Spirit, the new man. But he says, in my flesh, I still have flesh that I have to deal with. In that I know is absolutely nothing good. I have this desire to do what is right, but no ability to carry it out. And I think of people who are paralyzed. Who want to get up, want to roll over because the pain hurts and you can't, you feel trapped. That's what I feel like. I want to do the right thing and I can't do it. I have a desire and I'm paralyzed. I'm trying to paint for you what this wretched man is. I wonder if you know this. I don't do the good I want, but the evil, that's what I keep on doing. Again, if if that's my state, it's not I, it's this sin in me. Then Paul says, if that's the case, I find another law there, something fixed, something certain, something unmovable, something with authority. And here it is. What I want to do right, I know right there lying close to me is evil. Yes, I do delight in God's law and my inner being, but in my very members, in my own body, there's another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive. You get this Get this picture of your whole body's turning on you. You're this captive prisoner in yourself who delights in God's law, loves it, wants to keep it, and yet you find everything against you warring against it, and you can't No wonder then he says, Wretched man that I am, that's not a cry of despair. It's a cry of anguish. He knows he will deliver him. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ. We wait for the redemption of our bodies, the adoption of sons. Roman 8. 23 Paul then sums it up. Here's the Christian life, not for immature Christians, not for mature Christians, just for the Christian life. I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. But you say you're both a slave to God's law as a Christian? And you're both a slave to sin. And you're going, well, what about everything you said in Romans 6? But now you're telling me I'm actually a slave to this? And it's paradoxical. And I don't think the proper exit Jesus is to try to relieve the tension. But to understand that the wretched man is a product of God's grace, you're a wretched man because you've been renewed? You have this holy desire for God's lawn, something good in you. And you live between the ages. The powers of the age to come have come. You've already risen with Jesus. And you're coming to see how great the actual power of darkness is and whatever stays in you, and how great the glory of what is to come of this law of God and the delight and joy and good in it, and all that is swirling and wrestling in you. And you feel at times this wretched man. But how does Paul apply this to our life? I wonder if any of you know this, and I really pray and hope it brings to relief to you. First Paul says in verses 18 and 19, talking about, I know that nothing good dwells in me in my flesh. I have this desire to do good. Uh but not the ability to carry it out. I uh I do not do the good I want, but the evil that I do not want, so I keep on doing. What's Paul saying this state as Christians You will find frustrations and failures when your heart is set at right to doing good. I cannot tell you How many times I've come before you to lead you in worship? Lead you in prayer? Preach to you and go away saying I feel like the biggest, I had such the greatest desire is to glorify God, to glorify Christ, to teach them the world, to edify them and build them up, and feel like I went away and just nothing but sinful demon who talk to you. Because of this failures and frustrations that come about. Maybe you know that as you sought to do a good work and serve and you have these great intentions to go help somebody and you Try to carry it out, and it just doesn't go to plan as you want, but your sin's there and it frustrates what you want to do, and it fails in your very purpose. It's good to know that that's the case because you are not under the law but under grace, that you do have something good in you. There is hope. You will One day fully be able to carry out what you desire. Well also talks about there in verse 21, I find this law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. I don't know if you're a household, but as soon as I say family, let's sing to the Lord, it's as if every evil thing pops out of the closet in his mayhem, and you go, When I want to do good. Evil there, that's what that means. No, beloved, no Christians, when you set your heart and you're going to do a right good thing, you can expect evil is going to be close there in you and in others. What patience we should have with each other, what knowledge and understanding, what pity and compassion, knowing the wrestlings and ragings going on in us, that we feel wretched That we want release, we wish we were better, we wish we could do better, we're trying to do better. And sin is in us. Finally, Paul says, what does it mean? It means blessed release. One day Jesus Christ will deliver us from this wretched state. When he redeems us fully and gives us those new bodies and what we yearn to do now in our hearts of serving God fully and never being frustrated in our tensions. We shall do. Why do we need God's deserving of us Because we still have sin indwelling us. Always there wanting the upper hand, frustrating your plans, bringing them to naught, lying close at hand. That's the Christian life. That's the state of grace we've been brought into by our God. Where we learn to see what great evil He's rescued us from. We learn to see what great glory lies ahead of us. And we learn to see how great and awesome our God is in His grace, that He loves us so. How wonderful a God that we have. How good it is to know that by His grace we shall persevere to the end. And know that the lessed estate that we are longing for and yearning for now as Christians. May God keep you in His grace. Amen.