Please open your Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter 4 where we'll read the entire chapter. 1 Samuel 4, verses 1 through 22. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out to battle against the Philistines. They encamped at Ebenezer, and the Philistines encamped at Aphak. The Philistines drew up in line against Israel, and when the battle spread, Israel was defeated by the Philistines, who killed about 4,000 men on the field of battle. And when the troops came to the camp, the elders of Israel said, Why has the Lord defeated us today before the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the covenant of the Lord here from Shiloh, that it may come among us and save us from the power of our enemies. So the people sent to Shiloh and brought from there the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of hosts, who is enthroned on the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, were there with the Ark of the Covenant of God. As soon as the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord came into the camp, all Israel gave a mighty shout, so that the earth resounded. And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, What does this great shouting in the camp of the Hebrews mean? And when they learned that the Lark of the Lord had come to the camp, the Philistines were afraid. For they said, A god has come into the camp. And they said, Woe to us, for nothing like this has happened before. Woe to thee in the wilderness. Take courage and be men, O Philistines, lest you become slaves to the Hebrews as they have been to you. Be men and fight. So the Philistines fought, and Israel was defeated, and they fled, every man to his home. And there was a very great slaughter, for there fell of Israel 30,000 foot soldiers, and the ark of God was captured. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, died. A man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes torn and with dirt on his head. When he arrived, Eli was sitting on his seat by the road, watching for his for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city and told the news, all the city cried out. When Eli heard the sound of the outcry, he said, What is this uproar? Then the man hurried and came and told Eli. Now Eli was ninety eight years old, and his eyes were set, so that he could not see And the man said to Eli, I am he who has come from the battle. I fled from the battle today. And he said, How did it go, my son? He who brought the news answered and said, Israel has fled before the Philistines, and there has also been a great defeat among the people Your two sons also, Hophni and Phineas, are dead. And the Ark of God has been captured. As soon as he mentioned the Ark of God, Eli fell over backward from his seat by the side of the gate, and his neck was broken, and he died, for the man was old and heavy. He had judged Israel for forty years. Now his daughter in law, the wife of Phineas, was pregnant, about to give birth, and when she heard the news That the ark of God was captured, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed and gave birth, for her pains came upon her. And about the time of her death, the women attending her said to her, Do not be afraid, for you have borne a son. But she did not answer or pay attention And she named the child Ichabod, saying, The glory has departed from Israel, because the ark of God has been captured, and because of her father-in-law and her husband. And she said, The glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God has been captured. The word of the Lord. Second Corinthians four one through six. In the Old Testament reading we heard that the glory The glory has departed. So now listen to the reading of 2 Corinthians 4, 1 through 6. Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart, but we have renounced disgraceful and underhanded ways We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word. But by the open statement of the truth, we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience in the sight of God And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled only to those who are perishing In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants, for Jesus' sake. For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God. in the face of Jesus Christ. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, as we approach this narrative of the history of your covenant people, people to whom you made great promises. People who were delivered by great power of yours, people who were offered mercy and grace at many, many points in their life. We pray that we, who are also offered many great gifts from you, might listen to their history and learn from it and follow you all the better as we go forward in our lives. In Jesus' name, Amen. So the verse begins this way, and the word of Samuel came to all Israel. That means that God's word through Samuel, he's now a prophet, you see, God's word through Samuel came to all Israel. And we learned last week that that was from the north, Dan, to the far south, Beersheba. So this word of God through Samuel, the new prophet, spread everywhere. People were talking about it. And sharing it and discussing it. And none of his words fell to the ground, as we heard last week. God's word came to all Israel. It was no doubt a word of rebuke. And reformation, as well as a word of hope for those who were repentant. This is the only mention, this first verse is the only mention of Samuel in this chapter. Up to now we've heard about Samuel all the time. How he was conceived, how he was born, and his early years, and on and on. It's all about Samuel, but now this is the only mention of Samuel, and for the next couple of chapters, there will not be any more mention of Samuel because the topic has Been changed a little bit. Up till now, Samuel's conception, birth, early life have been the focus, but now he's not the focus in these next three chapters. What is happening now during this period? The corrupt leadership of the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, was still in place in Shiloh, even though Samuel is now a prophet. They are still in place. They're still doing their duty, not from a heart of spiritual love for God, but just doing their duty at Shiloh. There is no indication that they were affected by the word of Samuel. Perhaps, in the new context of Samuel's preaching, perhaps they covered their wickedness a little better, maybe. Perhaps they were a little less open about their immorality that they were doing with the women particularly that came to the tents of meeting. But Hoffney and Phineas days were numbered. They had to go A year ago, on November 20th, in the morning, the Georgia Dome stood commandingly on the Atlanta skyline. It had been host to the 1996 Summer Olympics, two Super Bowls, and countless Atlanta Falcons home games. This imposing stadium was a fixture for roughly two and a half decades since its completion in 1992 at the cost of $214 million. But within one minute, it was reduced to little more than a massive heap of concrete, steel, and fiberglass. The demolition took some forty-eight hundred pounds of explosions, explosives, including about forty-five hundred pounds of dynamite. But it came crashing down largely under its own weight when the supports Were destroyed. This chapter is about the demolition, the implosion of the house of Eli, and at the end, about a glimmer of hope that we will see. First, let's notice the defeats orchestrated by God. As we go on in verse 1, now Israel went out to battle against the Philistines. They encamped at Ebenezer, and the Philistines camped at Aphak. The Philistines drew up in a line against Israel And when the battle spread, Israel was defeated before the Philistines, who killed about 4,000 men on the field of battle. That's a pretty bad defeat. 4,000 foot soldiers dead. A lot of bodies to carry away. And verse 3 says, And when the people came to the camp, the elders of Israel said, Why has Yahweh Defeated us today before the Philistines. It's a good question, isn't it? Why has God allowed this to happen to us? Aren't we his people? Didn't he promise us this land? Didn't he deliver us through the Red Sea and bring us into this land? Didn't He defeat us, defeat our enemies in the past, and now we go to battle and This happens. Now they should have pondered that question for a long time They should have thought about God's covenant and their place in it and who was in charge and the way they were doing things. They should have thought about that and thought, we got a problem here we need to deal with. But no, no, no. Hey, look for an easy solution. Someone got the bright idea to get the Ark of the Covenant. The next verses say that. Let us bring the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord here from Shiloh. That's the place where the tabernacle is set up. That's the place of central worship. That it may come among us and save us from the power of our enemies. They think the ark is going to save them, right? So the people sent to Shiloh and brought from there the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of hosts. Host means armies. So there we've got to get this ark, which is the covenant piece of the Lord of armies, so we can defeat the army that's against us, right? Verse 4. So the people sent to Shiloh and brought from there the ark of the covenant of the Lord of hosts, who was enthroned on the cherubim. God is there. We bring the ark, we'll have God with us. He'll be on our team. Going on reading. And the two sons of Eli. Haphne and Phineas were there with the Ark of the Covenant of God. So they weren't out in the battle. They stayed back in Shiloh doing their religious duty. But now they have to come out to bring the ark. They're the only ones allowed to carry it on those poles, you see. And so they bring it out. I'm going to pause here because what we have going on is a bit of religious superstition. Religious superstition. People have superstitions. Even people who are very religious sometimes have some silly superstitions. Did you know that Saint Joseph is the patron saint of families, carpenters, and working people in general, but that he is also the protector and patron saint of home sellers? Did you know that? This is what our realtor named Francine told us when we were selling a home in Delaware. Many sellers believe that burying a statue of Saint Joseph will help them get their house sold. A small, simple statue of Saint Joseph is all you need, the internet tells us. You can buy one online. In fact, there are websites dedicated to selling them, even in kits with instructions and prayers. The statue should be wrapped in a clean cloth, such as a small towel, to protect it. Some people also use a plastic bag with a seal. But when it comes to the actual burial, sources say that you should, number one, bury him near your for sale sign. Bury him 12 inches deep. Bury him close to the road, facing it, as a sign that you're leaving the house soon. And this is important, number four, place him upside down so that he will be motivated to free himself by getting your house sold. This strategy suggests your prayers tell him he's stuck until the job is done. So Saint Joseph will get your house sold for you. Now this is similar, the silliness, isn't it? Similar to what the Israelites were doing now with the Ark of the Covenant of God. Children, you may remember the Battle of Cherokee. There are songs about it When the Israelites were entering the promised land, they were commanded by God to march around the city with the Ark of the Covenant of God following each time for six days. But the march around would happen seven times on the final day. Then the priests were to blow trumpets and the people were to shout a great shout. What would happen then? What did happen then? The walls fell down flat So God commanded that Ark of the Covenant to be carried around that city of Jericho, the first city and the conquest, for six days. And on the seventh day, seven times around, and then this happens, and the walls came down. But here's the difference: God has not commanded Israel to bring the ark into this battle. There's no place that indicates that. It's just a bright idea of somebody. A religious superstition. The people are presuming to do this as superstition, a good luck charm. One commentator calls it rabbit's foot theology. And maybe the worst thing If you want to get a battle and you want God on your side, there are two people that should not show up. The worst thing probably was that Eli's wicked sons, Hopni and Phineas, had to be the ones to bring it. What happened? Verse 5. As soon as the ark of the covenant of the Lord came into the camp, all Israel gave a mighty shout. Kind of like Jericho, remember that happened there too? So that the earth resounded. And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, What does this great shouting in the camp of the Hebrews mean? I paused to say that Hebrews was a derivat derisive term. They didn't, it wasn't a compliment. It was like calling them a bad name. The Hebrews. Not Israel, the Prince of God, but the Hebrews Going on in the reading. And when they learned that the Ark of Yahweh had come into the camp, the Philistines were afraid, for they said, A God has come into the camp. And they said, Woe to us! For nothing like this has happened before. Woe to us! Who can deliver us from the power of these mighty gods? These are the gods who struck the Egyptians with every sort of plague in the wilderness. Take courage and be men, O Philistines, lest you become slaves to the Hebrews, as they have been to you. Be men and fight. So they were afraid. They were remembering the stories they had heard about how God had delivered long ago. The powerful things that Israel had with them, the gods, they called them. They didn't call the name of Yahweh, but they were afraid But they drummed up their courage. Instead of running away in fear, they said, no, we're going to stand fast, we're going to fight, we're going to win, or we're going to become slaves. So they fought. So verse 10 says, The Philistines fought, and Israel was defeated. And they fled, every man to his home, and there was a very great slaughter for 30,000. Foot soldiers of Israel fell. They fled to their homes. That's important. Not back to their platoons or their squadrons. They went home and disappeared in hope that no one No one would ever look for them, the ones that survived. This is a great defeat. 30,000 foot soldiers. Not nameless faces, but fathers and brothers, sons, dead, laying on the battlefield, 30,000 of them. It's a lot of people. At the Battle of Antietam near Sharpsburg, Maryland, Twenty-two thousand seven hundred and seventeen died in one day, September seventeenth, eighteen sixty-two. At the Battle of Gettysburg, between 46,000 and 51,000 died in three days, July 1 through 3, 1863. But this is 30,000 in one day. Instead of it being like Jericho, what we really have here is like what happened after Jericho at the Battle of Ai. What happened at the Battle of I? God commanded that the Israelites keep none of the riches of Jericho. But there was a man named Achan, don't name your baby Achan. Achan kept some of the good stuff. He just couldn't see it go to waste. And in Joshua 7, 19 through 21, it says this: then Joshua. Said to Achan, my son, give glory to the God, the Lord God of Israel, and give praise to him. And tell me now what you have done. Do not hide it from me. And Achan answered Joshua, Truly, I have sinned against Yahweh, the God of Israel. And this is what I did. When I saw the spoil, a beautiful cloak from Shinar. And two hundred shekels of silver, and a bar of gold weighing fifty shekels, I coveted them, and took them, and see they are hidden in the earth, inside my tent, with the silver underneath What happened? Achan's sin had brought defeat to Israel And it was now discovered, and he confessed it. He and his family received the death penalty. So what we have as we go on is the implosion of the house of Eli. Verse eleven. And the ark of God was captured, and the two sons of Eli, Hothni and Phineas, died. The Ark of God was captured. You need to pause and think how awful that was. That belonged to the To the tabernacle, the place where God's people met, where atonement was made. It was supposed to stay inside the Holy of Holies behind the heavy curtain Where the priests would only go in once a year to make atonement for the people. It was not seen, but now it had been dragged out and it had been captured. What was inside that glorious gold covered box? Three and three quarter feet long by two and a half feet wide It had in it copies of the Ten Commandments on stone tablets. That's the word of the covenant A jar of manna from the wilderness, remembering God's constant supply to his people. An Aaron's rod, that is a stick. That budded miraculously to show that Aaron was given this leadership of God's people And on the lid it had two cherubim representing God's throne in heaven, and it was called the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of Armies, and it was now In the hands of Philistines. Some archaeologists have dug up through places where the Philistines live, and they were not a good people. They were a people who were violent and angry and sexually immoral and some of the artifacts demonstrate that they had it an enormous uh love for beer Now, it's not wrong to have a beer once in a while, I'm not going to say that. But their containers that were dug up were just so many of them, and so big. Beer, beer, beer. It's all they did was drink, it seemed. like. They were not the kind of people that should have the Ark of the Covenant of God. And I want you to note this. In the capture of this ark, God's name and reputation. Was marred and diminished by this capture. He's supposed to be the strong God, the greatest God, the creator God, the Lord of heaven and earth. And that his ark has been captured by these warrior drunken people. The Philistines could now mock Yahweh. As the weak God of the Hebrews. God's reputation suffered because of the deeds of Israel. And let's go on in the story to verse 12. A man of Benjamin, that's a tribe, ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes torn and with dirt on his head. He threw dirt on his head, no doubt, out of sadness. That was the way you showed your sadness. Put dirt all over your head. Verse 13. When he arrived, Eli was sitting on his seat by the road watching, for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city and told the news, all the city cried out. And when Eli heard the sound of the outcry, he said, What is this uproar? Then the man hurried and came and told Eli. Now Eli was ninety-eight years old, and his eyes were set so that he could not see. He was blind. And the man said to Eli, I am he who has come from the battle. I fled from the battle today. And he said, how did it go, my son? And he who brought the news answered and said, Israel has fled before the Philistines. There has also been a great defeat among the people. Your two sons, also, Hapni and Phineas, are dead. And the Ark of God has been captured. As soon as he mentioned the Ark of God, Eli fell over backward from his seat by the side of the gate, and his neck was broken, and he died. For the man was old and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years. Here is the complete implosion of Eli's house. God brings it down in order to raise up a faithful leader, a faithful priest, and eventually a great king, a messiah. But in order to bring about the new order, God first destroys the old corrupt order. God's ultimate plan for Israel was to save Israel, but for now it requires defeat of Israel But please notice this. Because you might think, where is Christ in all this? Please notice this. God Himself suffers and goes into exile, into the hands of sinners, as part of his great plan to rescue. His people. Does that sound familiar? God's sovereign presence went into exile, into the hands of the enemy. Does that remind you of anything How about Jesus in Luke 24, verses 6 through 7, when he said, Remember how he told you while he was still in Galilee? That the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful man and be crucified and on the third day rise. To my third point, the glory of God is departed. The glory of God is departed. Pick up at verse 19. Now his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phineas, was pregnant, about to give birth. And when she heard the news that the ark of God was captured, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed and gave birth, for her pains came upon her. And about the time of her death, the women attending to her said to her, Do not be afraid, for you have borne a son. But she did not answer or pay attention. And she named the child Ik Kabod. Saying, the glory has departed from Israel because the Ark of God had been captured, and because her father-in-law and her husband And she said, the glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God has been captured. What was her meaning in naming this child, Ich Kabod? I think she meant the glory of her life in connection with her husband's office and the glory of their lifestyle of wealth and immorality connected with the ark. was spoiled. It was gone. The good days were over. Ichabod means glory has departed. Kabod means glory. Ich is the depart part. Gone is another name not to give your baby. Incidentally, kabod, which is translated glory, also means heavy, heavy. It's interchangeable, heavy As we read verse 18, as soon as as the messenger mentioned the ark of God, Eli fell over backward from his seat by the side of the gate, and his neck was broken, and he died, for the man was old and kabod. Hebrew kabbot right there. He was glorious with heaviness, but not with God The whole weight of the structure of Eli's house had come to an end. And it would completely be wiped out in chapter 22 when Ahimelech was killed by jealous crazal. Ploated in God's plan in order to make Israel into a holy people, in order to make them into a light to the nations. But for a while, the glory of God, enthroned upon the mercy seat, went into exile. Good news, my friends, good news is coming. The glory of God will return Much later, another prophet, Isaiah, tells the people of Israel about going into exile in Babylon in the east. And though not as visible as in earlier days, with the cloud by night, or the cloud by day and the fiery pillar by night, not as visible, God would go with his exiled people into Babylon. In the east. He would go away from Jerusalem, away from the Temple Mount, and he would suffer with his people in Babylon. His disgraced people, his defeated people in Babylon. But Isaiah, the seer sees that God's glory will return with his people. Isaiah 40, 1 through 5, we know this from Messiah and from readings at Advent. Comfort, comfort, my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem, and cry to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. A voice cries, In the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. He's coming back. He's been in Babylon with his people, but he's coming back. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up. Engineering. Every mountain and hill made low, engineering. Why? The uneven ground shall become level and the rough places of plain Highway. Verse 5, and the glory, here's the glory coming back from the east. The glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. That's the glimmer of hope. God goes into exile. His name is ruined and disgraced by the people's sins, but he does it in order to save them, and he will return with them. Think about this, my friends. Jesus, he is the glory of God that came to be with us. The exile, that exile or any exile is not over until he comes. People live in exile today, far from God. Their lives are a mess. They are in exile. And only are they free from that exile when the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ comes to them. The glory returns. Because someone, Jesus, was willing to suffer with sinners Be disgraced and spat upon and hated and rejected like sinners deserve to be, in order to bring sinners back in order to bring the glory of God back into the lives that have been ruined by the fall. Ezekiel the prophet in verse 1 and 2 of chapter 43 sees this beautiful picture Then he led me to the gate, the gate facing east toward Babylon. And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was coming from the east, and the sound of his coming was like the sound of many waters. And the earth shone with his glory. And the book of Hebrews, the writer of Hebrews in the New Testament It says, so Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood. He was crucified outside the city in exile. And by doing so, he was saving you and taking all the punishment of your covenant breaking And Hebrews 7:25 says, consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. The rest of the story in chapters ahead will reveal how God is not out to destroy his people. But to save them, to show them the glory of God. We read in 2 Corinthians For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, that's the God of creation, has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So I ask you today, is He all your hope, all your trust? All other glories will fade, dear friends, beloved children. All other glories will fade. The glory of youth so soon fades. The glory of pleasures and treasures all fail. But for those in Christ, we all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to To another. This is the good news. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Amen. Lord, we thank you that we see these repeated patterns over and over in history, the history of your covenant people. How you were always out to help and save them, even though you sometimes let them go into exile. But even there, you were with them, and you were planning to save them We thank you that in Jesus Christ, as we trust in Him, we come out of the exile of our lives apart from God. And come into the knowledge of the light of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. We praise you and thank you for that. Help us to live in that light. Amen.