Please open your Bibles to the book of Isaiah, where we will read chapter 59, verses 1 through 8. Isaiah 59, verses 1 through 8. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save, or his ear dull, that it cannot hear. But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear. Your hands are defiled with blood and your fingers with iniquity. Your lips have spoken lies. Your tongue mutters wickedness. No one enters suit justly. No one goes to law honestly. They rely on empty pleas. They speak lies. They conceive mischief and give birth to iniquity. They hatch adder's eggs, they weave the spider's web. He who eats their eggs dies, and from one that is crushed a viper is hatched. Their webs will not serve as clothing, men will not cover themselves with what they make. Their works are works of iniquity, and deeds of violence are in their hands. Their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity. Desolation and destruction are in their highways. The way of peace they do not know, and there is no justice in their paths. They have made their roads crooked. No one who treads on them knows peace The word of the Lord. Thank you. Reading is from Romans chapter 1. That is chapter 3, excuse me, 1 through 31. We covered part of this last Sunday, but we will briefly look at it again. Please note that the Isaiah 59 passage was quoted or is quoted here in Romans 3. So please notice that as we hear God's word for Romans 3, beginning at verse 1. Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the value of circumcision? Much in every way. To begin with, the Jews were entrusted with the oracles of God. What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means Let God be true, though every one were a liar, as it is written, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you were judged. But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? I speak in a human way. By no means. For then how could God judge the world? But if through my lie God's truth abounds to his glory, why am I still being condemned as a sinner? And why not do evil that good may come? As some people slanderously charge us with saying, their condemnation is just. What then? Are we Jews any better off? Not at all. For we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin, as it is written None is righteous, no not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under their lips Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood, and their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. For by works of the law, no one, no human being, will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins It was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No. but by the law of faith. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also Since God is the one who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that you help us to understand the reasoning of the Apostle Paul. And help us to make good use, applying it to our own thoughts about who you are and what you have done in our own lives as we live them before others. As we understand ourselves and our spiritual standing with you, help us to sort these things out by your Spirit in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, this chapter, this chapter three, is the gold standard of Christianity. The doctrine that is preached here is the core of the Christian faith. It perfectly complements and fulfills all that came before That is all in the Old Testament and is the basis of all Christian theology going forward. It is the gold standard, as I said, by which all other religious ideas must be judged So follow carefully as Paul reasons his way to the summit of gospel truth, where we find it in verses 21 and 21. through 25. But we have to get to the summit by climbing. And here's the climbing. This is the deal. First, everyone is justly condemned. Verses 1 through 4. What advantage has the Jew? What is the value of circumcision? And he talks about that. He says, if we boil it all down, that God gave to Israel, the Jews, great gifts and great callings. But they did not prove faithful in the use of those great gifts and callings. And you might remember that I preached to all of us. Especially perhaps to young people, that you have great gifts and callings, but you must make the right use of them. The Jews didn't make the right use of them, and Paul says they will be judged to be unfaithful by God. And that God will be glorified as faithful no matter which way they go. And then we get to verses 5 through 8. And he's arguing with an imaginary opponent here. He says, But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? And he follows this kind of reasoning, and I'm going to boil it down for you here. Someone will reply that if God is glorified by displaying his unrighteousness in contrast to my His righteousness in contrast to my unrighteousness, why should he be displeased? Why should he judge me with his wrath? After all, God gets to be glorified by judging my sin, and I like to sin, so it's a perfect arrangement, is the argument here. Why does he find fault with me for it? And then he actually says that someone has been accusing him of preaching that we should do evil that good may come. This is a twisting of the glorious free gift of God in Jesus into a supposed license to sin. And this is the peak of man's depravity when he takes this glorious, beautiful, costly gift of God and perverts it and mocks it and twists it. And Paul says this as the last thing that he condemns here. This is the worst possible way to deal with God's truth. Paul won't even answer this foolish question. Instead, he says that those who reason this way and accuse him of teaching this way are rightly condemned. And he ends it there. One commentator says, in theory, a very dramatic example of someone who might argue this way would be Judas. You know, Judas who betrayed Jesus. Can you hear Judas making his case before God's throne of judgment? Lord, I know that I betrayed Jesus, but it was predestined, and you used it for good. In fact, if I hadn't done it, Jesus wouldn't have gone to the cross at all. So what I did even fulfilled Scripture. How can you judge me? And the answer to Judas might go like this. Judas, yes, I used your wickedness, but it was still wickedness. And it was still your wickedness. There's no good or pure motive in your heart when you did it. So it is no credit to you that I brought good out of your evil. And Judas would stand guilty before God, not justified. That argument simply won't work, and Paul doesn't even argue with him about it. He moves on. And he moves on to verse nine. What then? Are we Jews any better off? Not at all, for we have already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin. So in the final analysis, no one is without sin. And all are under the condemnation of God. And then, in order to illustrate that, Paul launches into a series of scripture texts that prove what he is saying here. that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin. And you want to notice this as he goes through this list of of uh Epitaphs against the human race, he starts with the head and he moves down the body to the feet. Uh verse 10. As it is written, none is righteous, no not one. No one understands. That's the head, you see. Your head, you understand things. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. He's moving down from the head to the throat now. Their throat is an open grave That's the ultimate bad breath. They use their tongues to deceive. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. The venom of asps, that is snakes. Poisonous snakes. The venom of poisonous snakes is under their lips. Fangs are in their mouths, he says. They're describing this. And then he goes down from head to throat to mouth and and all that to the feet. Their feet are swift to shed blood. They're running, they're hurrying to do evil, to shed blood. He moves back to the eyes after that. This survey of the human condition is depressing, but it's necessary. The Apostle Paul wants you to understand Your complete and utter inability to save yourself. Because sin corrupts every part of every human And his inventory of body parts proves this. So then he comes to verse 19. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped and the whole world may be held accountable to God. He's back to the Jew, and he's saying, You think that law that God gave you is going to save you just by having it? According to Paul, God tells the whole world To shut up. To shut up with your excuses, your justifications, your impious arguments against God's justice that he just outlined. And stop pleading innocent. You are guilty beyond all reasonable doubt. You have no saving health within you. And he concludes in verse 20. Since the Jews were thinking that because they possessed the law that somehow they were going to get into heaven, he says in verse 20, for by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, that's the judgment site. Since through the law comes the knowledge of sin, the law just shows us how bad we are Far from being a free ticket to heaven for the Jew, the main work of the law in this context is to reveal human unrighteousness and to convict humans of sin. And if you think about it, Jesus did this when he was here on earth and he was preaching. In that famous passage in Matthew 5 called the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said. You therefore must be perfect, as your Heavenly Father is perfect. That's perfect. This comes at the end of the section of the sermon where Jesus corrected his listeners' misunderstandings of the law. And Jesus said that his hearers want to enter the kingdom of heaven. Their righteousness must exceed The righteousness of the Pharisees, the meticulous outward obedience of the Pharisees must be exceeded by all of his listeners. And then in Matthew 5, verses 21 through 48, he shows how that's impossible. He proceeds to radically redefine the law from mere external obedience, which is Characterized by the righteousness of the Pharisees to an obedience of both outward and inward conformity. When he says things like this, you have heard that it was said, but I say to you. to differentiate between the ways the Pharisees were preaching it and the ways that God was actually teaching Jesus to preach it. What he's saying here in the sermon is obeying the law is more than simply abstaining from killing and committing adultery and breaking oaths in the outward way. He's saying it's also not to get angry with your brother in such a way as you might want to feel like murdering him. And not lusting in your heart. And not making insincere oaths that you don't intend to keep. And at the end of all this, you learn that you must exceed the meticulous, outward righteousness of the Pharisees. And at this point, your natural response is, but I have not been perfect, and I can't be perfect. And that is absolutely true. Another place in Matthew's gospel, Jesus summarized the law of God this way. He summarized it in two parts, two commandments. The love of the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength And love your neighbor as yourself. That's an amazingly lofty goal, isn't it? Has anyone ever loved the Lord their God with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength? And their neighbor as themselves. The truth of the matter is, on your own and by your own efforts, you can't possibly be as perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. And that's just the point Jesus was making. Because you have a problem called sin. You were born with it, and you cannot overcome the effects of it. And sin radically affects you down to your core. Sin affects what you do, what you say, what you think. In other words, it taints everything about you. The theological name of this condition is total depravity or root depravity. And it means this. So no matter how good you may try to be, even if you're relatively good, and even if you're good according to the latest social standards, you will never meet God's standard. Of righteousness. The Bible says in Isaiah 64 that all your righteous deeds are like polluted rags. Your own righteousness is far short of the standard, and all of your unrighteous deeds will be on the record. Even if you manage to live perfectly from this day forward, all the ones in the past will be on the record. You can't get rid of them This is depressing and sad if we end here, but we won't. Because we come now to that summit, that gold standard that we must focus upon and understand very, very clearly. And that's where I'm going to spend most of my energy. Verse 21, but now. That's a huge transition. All that before was enough to convict and convict and convict. But now. The righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. for all who believe. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified as uh as his as his grace, as a gift, by his grace as a gift Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. This has been manifested. Paul says in Galatians 3:1 that he placarded Christ is crucified. This is the manifestation, the placarding of God's righteousness is the cross of Jesus Christ. Him hanging there, dying, suffering, condemnation because of our sins. The righteousness of God was placarded, it was manifested. That's why Jesus lived a perfect life in full obedience to the law of God, in thought, in word, in deed. His inner self was in complete comport with his outward self. And Jesus' mission in doing that wasn't simply to die on the cross for our sins, but also to live a perfect life. of perfect righteousness and acquire a record of perfect righteousness. Theologians refer to the total of all this as the active Listen to the active and passive obedience of Christ. Let me outline that for you. The active obedience of Christ refers to Christ's life of sinless perfection. resulting in his perfect record. The passive obedience doesn't mean not doing anything. Don't think of it that way. Think of passive as suffering, passion. The passion of Christ. His suffering. His passive obedience refers to his dying on the cross, his submission to the crucifixion. He went willingly to the cross and allowed himself to be crucified without resisting. His passive obedience paid your sin debt before God. But it is his active obedience that gives you the perfect record that God requires. You see those two sides? He takes away sin, but he gives you his perfect record. He had to have a perfect record. That's active obedience. He had to die and suffer for our sins. That's passive or suffering obedience. The Apostle Paul writes, but now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. That is the righteousness that pays for our sins and the righteousness that gives us a perfect record. By the instrumentation of the gift of faith given to us by the Spirit of God. To rest upon and receive Christ, by all that, the righteousness of God is credited to you. You This is called imputed righteousness. To impute something is to ascribe or to credit something to someone What it means is this: when you place your faith in Christ, God credits the perfect righteousness of Christ, that is his act of obedience. To your account, so that you become perfect in his sight. As Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5:21, he made him to become sin. For you who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God And this was illustrated by a Puritan theologian named John Slavell. He in his writings, imaginatively recreated a conversation between God the Father and God the Son in eternity past. And here's the imaginative conversation. The Father says to the Son, My son, here is a company of poor, miserable souls that have utterly undone themselves and now lie open to my justice. Justice demands satisfaction for them. Or justice will satisfy itself in the eternal ruin of them. What shall be done for these souls? And the Son answers the Father, O my Father, such is my love to and pity for them, that rather than that they should perish eternally, I will be responsible for them as their guarantee. or surety. Bring all your bills that I may see what they owe you. Lord, bring them all in, that there may be no after-reckonings with them. At my hand you will require it. I would rather choose to suffer your wrath than they suffer it. Upon me, my father, upon me be all their debt. And then the father says, but my son, if you undertake for them, you must pay the last penny. Expect no discounts. I spare, if I spare them, I will not spare you. The son says, I am willing, Father, let it be so. Charge it all to me. I am able to pay their debt. And though it will undo me, though it will impoverish all my riches and empty all my accounts, yet I am content to undertake it. That is what this means. That is the great transaction. So not only is Christ's righteousness imputed to you through faith, but in that grand exchange, your sin is imputed to Christ. And that is how Christ paid your sin debt to God. He had no sin in himself, but your sin was imputed to him. So as he suffered on the cross, he was suffering the just penalty. Think of this. Think of your sins. Think of all of them Think of the worst one. As he was suffering on the cross, your sin was imputed to him. He suffered for your thing that you Sin are all the things in which you sin. That's why Paul later on can say in Galatians 2, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself in my place. Paul is not boasting that he has begun to live perfectly, but that he has a record, a record by faith of a perfect life And he's living in the joy, in the strength of that record that he has by faith. Again, by having Christ's righteousness imputed to you, God considers you to be as sinless as Jesus was sinless. This perfection is his, but it is attributed and accredited to you through faith. When God looks at a Christian, he sees the holiness, perfection, and righteousness of Christ. Therefore, you can say with confidence. By faith in Christ, I am as sinless as Jesus is sinless. Paul goes on in the next verse, verse, the next half of verse 25, he says, This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. And here's what this is about. He's looking back into the Old Testament. And he's thinking about the animal sacrifices of the Old Testament and those who believed the gospel of the coming Messiah through faith. And he says, in effect, that through their faith in the Messiah who was coming and through their acting in the animal sacrifices, they were being covered temporarily by a sort of IOU. That would be called forth when the actual sacrifice, Christ Himself, would come forth. And that he says is how you could be both, that God could be both just, that is, doing what is right, judging sin, and at the same time declare that those who have faith in Messiah are perfect. So we get finally to the third point. There is therefore no room for any bragging, no bragging rights here, no boasting. What becomes of our boasting? He says, it is excluded. Draw a line through it. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by a law of faith. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Or is God the God of the Jews only? Is He not the God of the Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also, since God is one who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? He says, by no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. Paul asserts That the law of God suffers no harm by this gospel that he's preaching. The law of God suffers no rejection. The law is based upon the eternal character of God in his word. The moral precepts of the law are based upon the eternal moral character of God, which is immutable. The law of God cannot change, so justice had to be satisfied according to the law of God, and that is the gospel that Paul is preaching. In conclusion, I want to say this to you: the doctrine that is preached here is the core doctrine of the Christian faith. It perfectly complements and fulfills all that came before it in the Old Testament. There's no disagreement. It is the basis of all Christian theology which will be expounded and understood in the future. It is the gold standard by which all other religious ideas must be judged. Each and every false religion denies this doctrine. All the major world religions. Deny this grace of God doctrine. That's why we have missionaries, by the way. And beyond that, every aberrant cult or apostate church that calls itself Christian denies justification by the imputed righteousness of Christ and replaces it with some sort of credit, some sort of human effort-based idea. Or, and this is more recent, or in the case of liberal Protestants They have replaced all this good news with some squishy, spineless benevolence. Grounded in non-justice, because their God is a weak and sinful God, and basically their God is a God of their own making, and He's very much like them. That's how they get around the justice of God. They just deny it completely. But friends, you must be ready to explain this doctrine To the misinformed and confused people all around you. And you must get it right. This is not negotiable. When I lived in Delaware, I became a prison chaplain through an outreach program there, and I regularly visited one of our local prisons in order to offer Bible studies to inmates. There were very bad men there. Some were guilty of violent crimes, including rape and murder. For example, I remember that I baptized a man who was guilty of crimes against little children in his own household. He brought me water from his side of the booth where we were meeting. And I reached through and grabbed the water, and he put his head down in front of the hole where I was speaking to him, and I baptized him. Guilty of crimes against little children in his own household. Now imagine what it would be like for me to go there and say to such men. This is the good news of Jesus Christ. Be good Is that good news? Be good? That would not be good news. It would be true to the law of God. They should be good, they will be condemned for not being good. But my be good is not good news. Or if I were a liberal and I just went in and said, you know what? God's okay with you. Everything's fine. Don't worry about it. That wouldn't be good news either, would it? Doesn't change a thing. You're still left in the same miserable condition. The good news is, although all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, verse 23. They are all justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. That beautiful word redemption. That is that payment of the price and that exchange of his perfect record for your imperfect record. That is redemption. That is good news. And Paul says, God put forward. He put this forward. He threw it out there for the whole world as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This doctrine is good news for sinners. So-called gospels that differ from this and contradict this are false. Such gospels are not good news, and they are in essence be good or doesn't matter. They must be rejected and opposed. And religious bodies that deny or contradict this message are not acceptable as Christian churches. I don't care how tall their steeple is. We have many true brothers and sisters in many denominations. I'm not trying to be denominational here, but any who believe doctrines that differ from this doctrine are not gospel believers. And their faith is not faith in Jesus Christ. Our catechism asks the question, what is faith in Jesus Christ? And it gives a beautiful and simple answer. Faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace or gift whereby we receive and rest upon Him alone for salvation, as He is offered to us in the gospel. God put him forward. And so he's offered to us in the gospel. So my last word to you on this chapter today is this: you must grasp and hold fast this truth. In order to think right at all about God, and you must receive the offered salvation by personal faith. Which is a gift. Amen. Lord, again we thank you for this amazing Description of how broken and ruined and far from your goodness we are. We needed to know how bad our condition was in order to see how marvelous and how wonderful your grace is. And help us then to not think any other thing other than what you teach about yourself, about your righteousness, about your wrath, about your justice, and also about your wonderful mercy to us. Which is in our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.