We're jumping in, and as you know, the Apostle Paul wrote this letter, and he wrote it to the church at Corinth. And the occasion for writing this church, as I mentioned, is they've lost sight of love. They are, as he acknowledges in the first opening words of his letter, they have been enriched in every gift. And of knowledge, and of tongues, and of learning. And that became the measure of their spirituality. And their focus of it. And so really what is what is at the heart of this passage, as Paul is having to deal with this church, is what does it mean to be spiritual? And Paul's answer is love. But it's at the heart of it. If you don't have Christian love, you don't have Christ, and as Paul says here, you don't have anything. And that's what we have to hear this morning. The theme of this morning's sermon is the necessity of love. And Paul makes that point. Well. And so we're going to listen to them here. And the goal as we listen to those verses will be by the Spirit searching our hearts and we will hopefully go away. Desiring love and pursuing love as we see that without love we are just nothing. It is Love and I and I I want to say this too. I keep saying love, but I wrote my notes because I know I gave your point. Love is essential. Stretch out the word love and write loving or loving others. I want to emphasize the verbal aspect here Loving others is the essential thing for Christianity, for Christians and Christian living. Loving others. That's the only context in which the giftedness in your life is to be lived out in loving others. So I just want to emphasize, as Paul does, loving others is essential thing. So cross out love is essential, but loving others is the essential thing for Christian living. They've lost sight of this. In their knowledge, they're so puffed up by it that they destroy their weaker brethren whom Christ died for. As they lead them to engage in idolatry and then engage in it themselves by their knowledge, they will sit at tables, pagan tables. Where the sacrifices are being offered to idols, and Paul says offered to demons. And their wisdom that they boast of in having, they oppose themselves against Paul and his gospel of a Messiah who's been crucified. In their assembly, when they gather together, rather than condemning blatant sexual immorality, they boast in it and do nothing about it. And there's when they come together, they come together for judgment and not edification. As they utterly have lost any discerning of the Lord's body at the table and what it means to be the one people of God, as they propagate their rivalries and dissensions, boasting in men and not in God. And Paul wants to address all that through this whole letter, but he gets to the heart of it by focusing them on that more excellent way. Love. And he hopes for the to fix all of an immediate fruit he's aiming at is that they would stop using these God-gifted use of tongues. other human languages that the speaker doesn't know, but others know and hear, in their assemblies, because it's just causing how they can building nobody up and driving others away as it looks Like a noisy gong. Because they are not pursuing love as the way in which they are serving God And understanding their spiritual significance and giftedness. So verse 31 is really the intro into chapter 13. Where Paul tells them, earnestly desire the higher gifts. Paul is not saying in these verses it is love versus gifts. The gifts are good, the gifts are God given, and the gifts are for the good of the people. But he's saying love as the way and the only way for the exercise of the gifts is what he's saying. So desire them and have them. That is how the Spirit manifests himself to us, and people come in and say God is amongst this people. by the spiritual gifts being manifest through the members of the body who have them and possess them and use them for the good of the assembly. But Paul says, and I will show you a still more excellent way And what he means by that, he uses a word that you could say something like this: I'm going to show you a way that's off the charts. You cannot measure. How excellent this way is. And Paul is going to show them that. And that is Paul's purpose. in chapter thirteen as he makes clear as he resumes um the talk of spiritual gifts, which is where chapter twelve begins now concerning spiritual gifts. They had written a letter to Paul asking him questions on different aspects of the Christian's life, and he's been answering those for a while now. He's answering the ones on gifts. And he resumes that in chapter 14 What Paul's aiming at in chapter 13 is to get them to pursue love. And he wants them to pursue love by showing them the most excellent way of love. And he does that in kind of three movements. Verses 1 through 3, the necessity of it, which we'll look at this morning. Verses 4 through 7, the character of love, which is Christ-like, and we'll look at that next week. We may spend two on it And then lastly, verses 8 to 13, the greatness of love, it never ends. Now, I want to why say myself what someone has said better? I'm going to read you this quote from John Chrysostom A church father. He was born in three hundred forty seven in Antioch, Syria. In Antioch, he died in the year four hundred oh seven. He has this wonderful comment on what Paul's doing here Uh and and when he says, I'm going to show you this most excellent way, instead of immediately talking about love, which he does in verses four through seven, he stops. Right? He talks about verses one through three and the necessity, and I think John here gets at the heart of what Paul's doing. So here's what he says. He says, wherefore, what reason does he not at once unfold love? But he first excites the hearer, you and me, by the promise and says, I'm going to show you more excellation. Paul's promise, I'm going to show you this excellent labor, going, all right, I can't wait to see it. What is it? And so having led them to desire it, we should be desiring this. Because again, this isn't, don't seek the gifts saying gifts are good, but let me show you something better. Desiring us to see it And he does not even thus straightway proceed to it, but he first augments, that means adds to and an addition and still Furthers and extends our desire. That's what the that's the purpose of verses one through three here to build up and extend our desire to see and know and have this way He discourses first of these very things in verses 1 through 3 here, and shows that without love they are nothing. Reducing them to the greatest necessity of loving one another Seeing also, this is hear this, seeing also that from neglect of it, not loving one another, sprang that which caused all their evils. So that in this respect also it might justly appear great if the gifts not only brought them not together, But divided them even when united. Think of that the gifts did not bring them together. And even when they're united in one body, divided them. But this, when now they're in the divided, when many were so divided, love would reunite them. By virtue of its own and make them one body. Think of that. Paul is reducing the congregation. to the necessity of love as the only thing that will reunite solve our evils and reunite division and separation strife That is the power of this Christ-like love that Paul commends to us as the one thing necessary to Christian living So let's listen then to verses 1 through 3 and what Paul says to us. Paul says, If I speak in the tongues of men and angels, why does he pick on tongues? Because tongues is what they picked on. That was their favorite spiritual gift. In that list that I read to you there at the end of chapter 12, Paul put at the bottom, demonstrating where he puts it, not because he disparages any of the gifts that God gives us. Because tongues, especially tongues without interpretation, do nothing for the body. They do not build it up. And they are not the greatest ones that we should seek. We should be principally, as he resumes this thing there, especially they may prophesy because you should go on and say Speaking God's word to each other, even if it's just five intelligible words, can build the body up and encourage believers when you assemble. So Paul says, if I were to speak in tongues of men and angels, which means the languages of men and angels and angels, if I could speak in every language known to man on earth If I could speak in the language that even the angels communicate in, and in whatever language that is in heaven as they talk, remember language comes from God. The reason we speak is is God communicates. If I could do all of that, but have not love, here's what Paul says: I am. I'm a noisy gong or a clanging symbol. Over vacation and our visits to one of our relatives, and William's not here, so I got a pick on him this morning. He picked up a brass instrument. He was actually pretty good at it. Some of his other cousins picked it up Have you ever heard a child just blow through a brass instrument? Yeah. Do you want to keep listening? Paul's saying, here is what speech is, no matter how eloquent No matter how much, without love, people just want to go like this. Will you please shut up? Alistair Begg said you're just a noisy nuisance. Have you ever seen a child write pick up an instrument and pick up symbols? What do they do? All they know to do is go pssh ph. Who wants to listen to You're loud. It's offensive. You just don't want to listen. Paul says in God's eyes, if you exercise this gift given, or any gifts, and you speak this way, you're just noise. Paul's saying without love, your speech is just noise. But We're going to talk next time and emphasize on the love piece as Paul shows it, but let's be clear what Paul means by love here He loves to talk about all the different languages, words God gives that we have in the human language about love. As you know, the Greek word here is agape. Paul's not talking about eros desiring love. Paul's not talking about philia, which is mutual affection or natural sympathy. He's talking about agape. And agape most likely came into the New Testament as the word that is used for the love that God has shown in the gospel because The Septuagint, that's the Greek-speaking Jews who translated the Hebrew scriptures into Greek. They use this word agob. Very often in that to translate the love of God there. So that's why it kind of naturally made its place. Agape is not a word common in in Greek. If you and I are Greek speakers I don't know all the context would use it if if ever we'd use it's not common. But in the New Testament, as you know, it's very common And Paul, for Paul, love here is behavior. It's action. If you're not loving, you're not loving. John Stott Which I heard this quote from him through Alistair Begg, who wished it was his quote. And it's a great quote. He says, the agape love here is a servant of your will. It serves your will. You choose to show this love. It is not a victim of your emotions. You don't wait until you fall in love with your enemies to love them. You don't wait until you fall in love with your Christian fellow member and then love them. This love is not a victim of your emotions. It's a servant of your will. That's what Paul said. Without this loving, without this behavior marking your life, without this acting and action. Your speech, your exercise of these gifts of tongues, is just noise in the congregation. And of course, we'll get to that because that's what they sound like. Have you ever been in a modern congregation that thinks they're doing it? That's what it sounds like. Unintelligible noise. Paul then says in verse two And if I have prophetic power, so now he goes to the other gifts. If prophetic power means if God has given me insight into His redemptive will so that I should understand Every mystery, every secret that God has decided to lay bare and known of his redemptive purposes for his creation. And if I were to have all knowledge of those mysteries and of him And if I were to have all faith, and he's and he's thinking of the special gift of faith, which Paul talks about up in uh verse 9, and to another faith is given. Now faith is given to every Christian to unite us to Christ. This is a special gift of faith, meaning those people have such a sure and absolute confidence upon the power of God to act in a miraculous way. for the good of his people. If even if I had all that, so if I could look at a mountain, if if maybe I had to go this way and that mountain is in the way, is in my way of pursuing God's will, I would just say, get out of my way and get out of my way if I had that faith By the way, remember Jesus tells that parable as he's going into Jerusalem. Guess who's still in the way of the gospel? An entrenched religious bureaucracy. But they couldn't even stand against the Word of God. And so he prayed, be cursed. And it was cursed And is removed. And so that's what he's talking about. If I had that now, you and I would think we were quite something. And we were to look at that person and think Man, there's something. That guy knows everything. Paul says that even if you have all of that If you had every spiritual gift to the highest capacity that God would give them, that's what he means by all mysteries, all knowledge, all faith, the fullest capacity in the exercise of that. But you do not have love. You're nothing. I don't think anybody sets out in life to be nothing We all want to be something and we try after it. Paul says, without love, despite all your giftedness. You are still nothing. You're nobody. Alexander Bay got a really great illustration here. If you have notes, you can you can do it to the full, but write one zero zero zero zero zero zero on your note sheet. And what's that number? One million, right? Or 0, 0, 0, 100 million. Now cross out the one. What do you have? Nothing. You get rid of you get up nine spiritual gifts, six spiritual gifts. Remove love, and you got nothing. You're nothing. Paul then says in verse three He he really he departs here from gifts and he just and he talks about sacrificial service. If I give away all I have, uh the Greek is something like if I portion out as morsels of food is what it means my properties. So if I took the time to liquidate all my assets Divide it up and portion it out to people. Think about how time-consuming that effort would be. And it would of course be helpful to those you did that for. If I were to go through that great effort and labor, or suppose even if I were to deliver my body To be burned. Now there's as you if you have if you're reading the SV, you know that there's a footnote that's telling you there's a textual question here. Did Paul write burn or boast? Because the difference in Greek is one letter. It's either kauphesamai burned or kau tasumai boast. And uh I'll let you do research on this side because it doesn't make much of a difference either way. Paul's saying, even if I were to hand my body over, could we talk about martyrdom? Probably is. Or Paul can acknowledge under grace a legitimate boasting, right? Paul will boast in his weakness to the Corinthians and 2 Corinthians, right? Paul will write of the day of the Lord when his boast will be in those people he begot through the gospel. And he hopes that their boast would be in him and the labors that Paul bestowed upon them all under God's grace. So there is a place under God's grace. Where we can legitimately boast in what we've accomplished by that grace, right? Paul thinks that even if I were doing one of the greatest acts of that and laying down my life for the good of some other person or persons. Without love, I've gained nothing. It is of no profit to me. It may be a profit to you. It does me no good. Has Paul made his point clear to you this morning? You are just noise without love. You are nothing without it. And your religion doesn't matter one bit because it does you no good. There's no getting around this love. There's no substitute for this. I was trying to think what's an illustration. You could probably think of a lot better ones than I did. How many of you have ever cooked a great Loaf of bread bit into it and went the 'cause you left the salt out That might be the greatest looking loaf of bread. Try baking without salt. It's nothing. You don't want to eat it There is no substitute for Christ like love. That's right And so we need it. So Paul's point, beloved, is loving others. A real person beside yourself, be it God, be it man. Is the essential thing for Christian living. Now I am certain, right? You could preach this word, maybe I'll have time more to explore it. If if you were to just to go probably anywhere in the land. In any assembly and gathering of people and stood up and said love's essential, you'd get a amen, and that could be a Satan cult. Because everybody loves love. And everybody talks about love. And everybody thinks they're loving. And people think you just need love because while I was on vacation, a family member said, I think we just need the golden rule. I said, I think we need Jesus Because how good are you at keeping the golden rule? Everybody thinks we just need love and it's essential. Everybody can say yes and amen. The disagreement is what is it? And we'll get to that next week on what is love as we talk about it, as Christ-like. But everybody loves to preach love's essential. But what kind of love? That's the question. But that's next time. So, what does that mean for us? How do we apply it to our lives? Paul makes it very clear: pursue it, pursue loving others. Make it the pursuit of your life. I know you all have other pursuits. Some of you are pursuing marriage, pursuing raising kids, pursuing discipling them, pursuing Vacation, pursuing retirement, pursuing careers, hopefully you're pursuing heaven. This is the way, by the way, love. Above all of that And as the context for all those other pursuits that you're doing, pursue love. Christ-like love. But how do we do that, right? How do we pursue that? Well the first thing is what Paul is talking to us about. You have to see the necessity of it. You have to see how essential it is. You have to come to understand that without it, I don't care how godly you are How much of a big name you're made in Christendom and broadcasted across social media and made much in the church If you do not live this way and have this behavior in love, I don't care what men say in God's eyes, you're nothing in noise and is doing you no good. So what you need to do, this comes from Gordon Fee and his helpful commentary on this, is you need to give it expression to your own life You need to take this paragraph, verses 1 through 3, and you need to go home today, and you need to give this expression to your own life and how you think of that life to be spiritually significant So apply it to me. I could preach like John Calvin. If I if Damien could preach like Martin Luther, John Calvin, and Charles Spurgeon put together and had not love, what does it matter? It's just a bunch of noise I can have the greatest, most devoted, heartwarming, devotional time in my morning and have not love, and it is I'm nothing. How many of you done that? So really close to God when you're quiet in your study and you're a jerk to everybody else in your day. There's a big disconnect on what you think spirituality is. So think through your life and give expression of how you think of your life to be spiritually significant. And then then add, without love, none of that is anything. Secondly And this is why I read to us from the passage in Deuteronomy, God wants us to talk of love to others. Hero Israel, love the Lord your God. We give expression of that love by also loving our neighbors. God wants us to be talking about love. Let's talk about His gospel love every morning as families Let's talk about Christ's love every morning as we must talk to our children about love. Let's talk to our spouses about love. Write it on our hearts, write it on our doorposts, talk and talk and talk of love. Yeah, let's talk of heaven. That's great. Let's talk of everything God's done. Let's talk about love As we keep it as the chief pursuit. Because you can you can know every theology book. And if you don't have love, it's not going to do you any good. Thirdly, how do we pursue love? Well, stay in the assembly. We're going to uh Hebrews in the evening. Don't forsake the gathering together because Paul says, let us consider How to stir up one another to love. I think it's better translated. Let us consider one another well. And through our thoughtful consideration of each other and where they're at in life, suffering loss, grief, struggling, just got married, good thing, whatever, let us consider each other well. And through that, that will provoke us. There will be a response towards love and good works in the congregation. Not neglecting to be together. You can't experience that if you're not part of it. So then we also can pursue this love by loving. Like considering each other is going to move us to pursue it. Because, you know, Reverend Steve Doe, when I gave shared this example and I preached on it, he's a lovely man. I wish he was my pastor. He just out of the blue. Get a card in the mail, totally unexpected, from him, saying, Damon, thanks for that report you gave at Presbytery. I know it's difficult to give difficult reports. You're doing well, brother. Hang it up like That just makes me want to present love. Yes, that is awesome. It's so good. So loving others moves others to pursue love. But I think most importantly for the pursuit of love, and this is why I read those Luke 10 and those verses of Martha and Mary, you have to know Christ. You have to sit at his feet and be schooled in the life of love. I'm probably shared with you now the Lord and my conversion How I read through God's word for a year, didn't know much of the Old Testament, like, what is this? But just persevered through reading the year Bible program And God just was working through that. Never give up Bible reading. J. C. Rowell says people give up Bible reading because they think for two reasons it's not doing them any good or they don't know what it means So just reach out to someone who knows, get a good commentary, trust you, it's doing good. Keep reading, and I just started praying, Lord, teach me to love like you love And he made it very evident. You can't do that if you don't know me. You have put that person in my place. And you made that person your God. And you don't know my love, you don't know me, you haven't called me Lord, and you've not trusted and received my love to you as a sinner. Because you can only love well if you're loved well Do you grow up in a loving home? You learn to love. You grow up in a loving home. Now God can redeem you out there, but it's because He's loved you and set His love on you and you're now in Christ and you're being loved well by Christ You only love well if you are loved well. And nobody loves us as well. As God, as his Christ, as our Savior Jesus. Here's another great quote by John Chrysostom. I'll read it to you I'm almost done. He just nails right Christ's love. Listen to this. He also talks about Paul here. He says of what then must we be worthy compared with him, the Apostle Paul, who neither contend well for our sake Nor did he give up the superfluity, the excess of our goods. But not so Paul. Rather, both soul and body did he use to give up. That they who stoned and beat him with rods might obtain the kingdom. That's love and action, seeking the good of someone else. For thus says he, Paul, has Christ taught me to love? Where did I learn to love like this? Christ. He's taught us to love. Remember John's words, right? We don't have to guess at what love is. We know what it is. Jesus took on flesh and laid his life down for us. God gave his son for us. Who left behind him the new commandment concerning love, love as I loved you, which also our Lord fulfilled indeed for being Lord of all and of that blessed nature, meaning God, from men whom He created out of nothing and on whom He had bestowed innumerable benefits from these Insulting and spitting on him, he turned not away, but even became man for their sakes and conversed with harlots and public and other tax collectors, disreputable figures in the community, and healed the demoniacs and promised heaven And after all these things, they apprehended them, took them, they beat him with rods, they bound and scourged and mocked and at last crucified him. And not even so did he turn away, but even when he was on high upon the cross, he says, Father, forgive them their sin. But the thief who before this reviled him, he translated into very paradise, and made the persecutor Paul an apostle And he gave up his own disciples, who were his intimates, and wholly devoted to him, unto death for the Jews' sake, who crucified him. He sent his own people to be crucified, out of love. To bring them the knowledge of Jesus and the Son. That's the school of love that we are being discipled in by the God who is love in the Christian church. Only as we know Christ and sit at his feet and make that the one thing necessary and push aside the other cares and distractions. And walk in this way and learn it from Him, will we be something and our Christian life matter? So let me close with by saying that and reminding you, as I have emphasized it, you are nothing without this. And the Church of Christ is nothing without this. Our witness and existence is imperiled by this. Think of all those people coming to hear the gospel, and all they hear is a bunch of people stammering noise. What if the people come in and what are they going to see and hear from us as we talk, as we behave, as we act? How are they going to know God's amongst us? As Paul says, as John says in 1 John, here's how we know God's amongst us by love. Because love is at the heart of the gospel, right? Why is love so essential? Is there a gospel without love? No. The deepest foundation of your salvation is God's free love. Unmerited love. Unconditional love. You take away God, you take away Christ, you take away his love, there is no good news for this world And what he has done to save you from your sins, to make the propitiation, to justify you through his obedience to death. It is the very luster of the gospel, too, right? Jesus, here's how they'll know you're my disciples. By your love. It is the luster of it. Who are these loving people? Where did you learn? Who taught you to do that? Jesus. Come know him. He'll love you the same. But I also think there's good comfort here because what Paul is saying, this can simplify things for us. Pursue this. Make this the pursuit of your life, and everything else will fall into place And I think you'll really experience the peace and the joy of the gospel when you're less worried about your standing and others and worried more and focused on how can I love them. How can I show love? Because there's a lot of distractions in the world, and there's a lot of pursuits, and there's a lot of things, and there's a lot of places, and some people get so crippled by it that they can't even make a choice Because there's too many options. Which way do I go? And Paul says, here it is. It has been marked out for you in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Love. Pursue it and know him. So, congregation, I thank God for his love for you. And I thank God for the love that you show each other and have shown me. Let us continue together To pursue Christ and pursue love. Amen