Beloved Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, this morning, as I said, we will continue our study in 1 Corinthians 13. And we will consider two more of the Apostle Paul's do's and don'ts of love in this chapter. Love does not rejoice in wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love, as you know by now, if you've been with us this past month, is Paul's theme in chapter 13. And his purpose in the chapter is to show us love so that we, God's people, will pursue that love. He shows us its necessity. He shows us its character, and we're continuing to look at that again this morning. And he shows us his greatness. And we'll be we'll be getting to that in another week or two. And his reason for doing this is to clean up the mess of hurt feelings, jealousies, damaged relations Ineffective gospel witness and divine judgment brought upon this congregation by their pursuits of gifts, As what it means to be truly spiritual in conducting life together without love And so the only question is, right, as we read this, as we ask ourselves, well, will they do it? Will they go on? And pursue love. Will they go on after Paul shows them this most excellent way and say, yeah, you know what? That's better than how I've been doing it in the body of Christ. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Lord, and I'm sorry, my brother and sister. I'm going to go down this way. Let's go together. Because love congregation is as you know is not easy. The world loves To talk about love and we love love. And you could probably get everybody to come together from every camp there is if you said, our conference is going to be on love. As soon as you try to define that, then you know it's going to be very different But everybody loves love. But love is not easy. But it really is, I hope as you know. And in Christ, really find your joy and contentment in loving this way and in learning to love this way. Because it is God's way. It really is the most excellent way. So let's put, as I mentioned last time, these 15 do's and don'ts are the lanes of love or to walk on together. The do's and the don'ts are the guardrails to keep us from wandering into the ditches or colliding into one another. So we want to put up another lane this morning, and we want to put up another guardrail in our minds and in our hearts of love. So love does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. That's our text this morning. And Paul in in this passage here gives us both the negative side when he says love does not rejoice at wrongdoing. But he also gives us the positive sign, but rejoices with the truth. And this is uh unique for this list He's not done that in any of the other characteristics of love here. He's not given before both its negative and its positive. For example, he he just starts off the list by saying Love is patient. He doesn't go on and say you're not impatient. He writes, love does not envy, but he doesn't write Or excuse me, he says love does not envy, he ends there and he doesn't go on to say, but is content. And so the question, right, we ask ourselves, is there a reason for this? Is there some reason why Paul gives us both the negative, love does not rejoice in wrongdoing, and the positive, but rejoices with the truth? And I think there is. And I don't think it's some super deep insightful meaning. I think as we've been going all along and and and coming clear to us, it just has to do with the context As I mentioned last week, there is more to love than these 15 do's and don'ts, but there's not less. And it's exactly these seven do's and these eight don'ts that this congregation needs to start doing and needs to stop doing. And Paul lists here then the negative and the positive because they were rejoicing at wrongdoing and they were failing to rejoice with the truth. And we see that in two places. And so we're going to look at those two places together because they illustrate for us What it means that love does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth, and then it can help us to apply that to ourselves as we see. Is God's people. A holy love, right, versus an unholy love. What I really enjoy about this passage is it it shines its light on the fact that love is pure. Love is holy. And there's a lot of unholy talk about love in the world today, but God's love, true love, is pure. Now we see in chapter 5, and I'm not going to take us back there, I'm just going to summarize for us, but we see in chapter 5 of this letter, this congregation is rejoicing at wrongdoing. Paul's not with this congregation, and he has received a report from them of a case of sexual immorality. A man had his father's wife, and we're told that this is something that not even pagans and what that word means in scripture is people that don't know God They've not received a revelation of his truth, his life, to not dwell and live with him. That this was a a practice of sexual morality that they don't even tolerate. And rather than mourning over this as a congregation, and not only mourning, but then desiring the purging of this individual for the sake of the congregation, they are glad about it. They're even puffed up, and there's an arrogancy about how spiritual they are as a body, and yet tolerating such evil in their midst. Paul says they even boast about it. And I think when we read that, right, that seems hard to us to imagine, right? Hard for us to imagine a congregation of God's people would actually boast about a sexual sin that pagans don't even tolerate in their midst. And we we wonder, could could a congregation really do that? Now we don't have to wonder because they did it, but we wonder how they could do that, right? But as you may well know today, many congregations still do this and are even right quite arrogant about it. What we call depravity, departing from God and his ways and his truth, right? They call progress. But we are all good at justifying our own sin to ourselves and to one another And even maybe being proud about it, unless otherwise convicted by God's Spirit and through His Word As it is lovingly declared to us by the minister, by your parents, by your brother and sister, by your friend, by your fellow congregant. And we should really praise God here, right, for Pastor Paul, who takes up this tearful letter, as it's called in 2 Corinthians, 1 Corinthians, is this tearful letter to speak the truth and love to them. And so one thing I want to encourage you with this morning, beloved, is keep speaking the truth in love Even when it's hard to those people in your lives whom you love, but they are just puffed up by sin, even arrogant about it. Because by God's grace, as it did for this congregation, it will get through. And it will be a joyful day when it does. So they are proud, but Paul points out to them the obvious problem with their position of rejoicing over this wrongdoing. And it's simply this. They were holy, and this is unholy. He writes in 1 Corinthians verses 6 through 7 in chapter 5, Your boasting is not good Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are, unleavened. For Christ, our Passover Lamb has been sacrificed. As you I'm sure well know Israel under the Old Testament was commanded by God to remove from its mist all leaven, beginning at Passover and continuing for the week afterwards. And you probably also know that leaven in Scripture is used to symbolize sin. God wanted his people to understand by this practice. That by his redeeming grace, the Passover sacrifice, they were his, and they were to live lives consecrated to him. Be holy, as I am holy. And Paul tells them in verse 8 what that means for them. He writes, Let us therefore celebrate the festival. Not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. So you see the problem. God had redeemed them by Christ to be holy, but they were rejoicing at wrongdoing. They were rejoicing at wrong done. They were rejoicing at wrongdoers. They were failing to see that a life consecrated to God requires the removal of the old leaven of malice And evil in every area of your life. And Paul's word for evil here Another way to translate what we would probably call wickedness, and it is in some, refers to doing evil with delight. You know, if you know what matzah bread is, it's kind of like a cracker, right? An unleavened bread. God called them to be matzah, and yet they were like a loaf of wonder bread. That's a very different thing, isn't it? If you've ever held motz in your hand and bought a loaf of wonder bread, you're going, those aren't the same. Their sympathies were with evil, because they smirked at it and laughed at it and found it funny and amusing. But their sympathies ought to have been with what's true and good. Think what a horrible thought. It would be, if this were true about God, you could go a lot farther than I go. I'm just going to go a few places. Think about how horrible a thought it would be if God rejoiced in a wrongdoing. You and I may laugh when others are put down. May laugh to see Trump put Biden down. But God doesn't laugh when others make fun of you. You and I may rejoice when that person, we all know, who has it coming, gets it. But God doesn't rejoice when you and I are finally humbled. He may be glad that we are humble now, but he's not rejoicing in our humiliation. You and I may rejoice when we do wrong to others, but God doesn't rejoice when others do wrong to us. You and I may delight in gossip, but God doesn't delight in the lying things said about us behind our backs. You and I may find our siblings, I see this one quite often, our siblings disobedience funny, but God isn't laughing. His sympathies are not with evil, but with good. And so our congregation should be with good. And not evil. There should be no place in us to rejoice at wrongdone, at wrongdoing, or at wrongdoers. If we find ourselves chuckling along with internet put downs or cracking up at raunchy jokes or even favorable to gossip. We need to ask ourselves, why is that? Because all that is old leaven. But in Christ I'm a new lump. And love does not do these things. Here's a question that I put to myself. Here's a question I want to put to you. If your Savior were to knock on your door one night, would you invite him in to watch with you whatever you're watching on television? Or whatever movie or show you're streaming on Netflix, would you read aloud to them whatever book you have open? Are the shows you watch or the books you read full of the things that God hates? And if so, why? You know, I I get that this world is full of the things God hates. And that by virtue of just being in it, you and I are going to be exposed to sin. I I get that. Paul gets that. Paul actually had to correct that in this letter. He said, When I told you to avoid immoral people, I didn't mean those of this world because you'd have to leave it. I just meant those who call themselves Christians but are And notice, I've not said anything about watching television or Netflix or reading book. I just said, what are you watching? I get that some movies which have sinful things in them, because they're trying to capture real life, and that's good. That's right. And you're going to see that, and that they can be good and edifying. I get all of that I've seen this. God when I was preaching on the cross used a modern show, a detective show that had a gay couple in it, convict me of the truth that God Christ wanted to die for the penalty that even homosexuals deserve, because he loves them. Because God doesn't love a more sinful world than this or a less sinful world, but just this sinful world. So I get it. But what's your purpose in it? Because there were other times I watched a show and I went away feeling utterly defiled from it. And said, I I no more to that. Our God hates sin, and for us to expose ourselves needlessly to this, just for entertainment It just desensitizes us to the truth. Because it's putting on you all the lie that this is right and good and you should just live for today. We should just be happy. Who where did God say that Being a holy lump should inform all that we do, even what we do for entertainment and leisure. And I'm picking on these because that's generally when we're laughing, right? Laughing's fine. That's nothing about laughing. It's just regenerative happiest and glad and rejoicing. Is that these things? But love does not The joyous, the wrongdoing. And we ask ourselves, well, what does it do? It mourns over Psalm 119, right? Rivers of water stream from my eyes because they do not keep the commandment. That should be the heart of God's people when we see the sinfulness of this world. Now before we go on to the positive side, I want to say one more thing here about love's not rejoicing at wrongdoing. Because as I mentioned earlier, many churches today, many Christians, so-called Christians, delight in sin. They rejoice at pride parades. They rejoice at abortion clinics. They rejoice in congressional chambers where sinful legislation is being passed. And many young Christians, I think, possibly are being caught off guard by what some are calling the negative world. I think Aaron Wren is the guy who coined this term. And what that is, it's the world that we live in America today, where rather than as something positive or neutral Official elite culture since roughly 2014, so decade, views Christianity negatively, or at least skeptically. And so to be known as a Bible-believing Christian is a potential negative in elite domain society He writes, Christian morality is expressly repudiated and is even in some ways seen as a leading threat to a new public moral order. The negative world. Whereas Christianity used to be viewed as something positive. And this is the first time he's saying in our 400-year history Where Christianity has been being viewed at least skeptically, if not just negatively, as something positively harmful to the good of society. And I think it can be a quite negative experience for us all, and maybe especially for our young and youthful Christians, to be called and attacked as unloving for not accepting this new public moral order, which just repudiates the rule of Christ. It can be especially difficult, right, if it's another so-called Christian who's doing the attacking. Because no one wants to be labeled unloving. And we all want to show just how loving we are. But here is where I think this text can help us. Because wrongdoing has not changed between the covenants. I know you talk to some Christians, I think that's old covenant, this new covenant. Wrong. We don't have time to go on that today, but wrong. Wrongdoing has not changed between the covenants. In fact, wrongdoing hasn't changed since creation. Wrongdoing doesn't change. There's no progress in God's law. It's perfect. Wonderfully perfect. It doesn't need improved by additions, by subtraction. If love does not rejoice at wrongdoing congregation, it certainly does not participate in it. Those who are rejoicing at and participating in wrongdoing, no matter what they say, are not loving. Love has nothing to do with sin. They should rather be mourning. And I hope we're mourning at it. Paul even writes to this congregation, and you are arrogant. Ought you not rather to mourn? I'm saying this, beloved, because I don't want anybody here. It's taken me about four years. It's taken me time that now your children are becoming my children. I care for you Don't want anybody here taken in by this unholy love that delights in sin that is not love Love does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth, and here we can be equally at fault. If we fail to also rejoice with the truth is what we should take delight in And that we see in Chapter twelve, we see there a case of not rejoicing with the truth There in that chapter, chapter 12, Paul talks about both the unity and the diversity of the body. He says, though we are many members, like your earth physical body, we are one body. And although we are one body, we are necessarily diverse in membership because you're not just a bunch of ears put together, right? There's necessity, necessary diversity in your body, necessary diversity here And by this diversity, God does not mean to divide us, but rather unite us. He writes in 1 Corinthians 12, 24-26. But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it, that there may be no division in the body. But that the members may have the same care for one another. If one member suffers, all suffer together. And here's the one I want you to get. If one member is honored, he's elevated, he's praised. All rejoice together. Oh, same word. Absun Cairo. Rejoicing together Let me give you an illustration, right, if we were to go back to Corinth. When Jobob Corinthian received from the Spirit his gift of tongues. Mary Sue and Bobby Blue Corinthian. You can laugh. It's funny. And Bobby Blue Corinthian, they weren't rejoicing together with him, and that's the problem. They weren't so happy that he was being honored when they failed to rejoice with the truth, because the truth was that God had honored Jehovah. By giving him a gift to serve and build up the body with, but they could not find it in themselves to be happy for Job and to rejoice together with him in the truth. We looked at these other reasons of love. Love's kind. They were being mean. Love doesn't insist on its own way. They were being selfish. Love does not envy. They could have really wished they had that gift and not Joe Bob. But love congregation rejoices with the truth wherever And whenever it finds it. That's part of the joy that I love about this. Because let me ask you this question. How many of us rejoice when our opponent gets it right? Whether we're locked in theological controversy, right? Interdenomination, or maybe even the same denomination, just different view on something. Or whether we're embroiled in arguments at work, or we're just debating amongst each other, amongst spouses, right, about whose plan to organize the kitchen was better, right? Love should be so pure. Our love should be so pure that we are ready to rejoice whenever and wherever we see the truth. We should delight when other denominations get it right and thank God and rejoice with them and mourn when they don't, and mourn when we don't. We should be glad when our calling at work is kind of a jerk, we can't really stand, is right. Because it's the truth. And we want to rejoice with the truth, not just want to be glad when we get it right. We're going to be glad when someone else gets it right. We should be happy that our spouse right is always so right again. Because the purity of love rejoices with the truth, regardless of who has it and when it's shown. Love rejoices with the truth. Now I don't know. Some of you may have this question going in your mind. Is truth really the opposite of wrongdoing? Because I imagine, right, if we had if I if we had a fill-in-the-blank quiz, we'd probably put doing right or righteousness as the opposite of wrongdoing. And I don't think many of us correct each other by saying, Hey, stop your wrongdoing and do the truth. But that is a biblical way of speaking, and and they really are opposites in a sense. Paul writes in Romans 1. 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. And the truth here that Paul is talking about is that God is, and we are his. And when we don't live like that, we don't practice the truth. We suppress it By our unrighteous living. By the way, that word unrighteous is the same word we translate as wrongdoing in this passage. Adakia. It is very wrong to deny God. For it is not true that God is dead. It is very wrong not to live to please him. For it is not true that we should live any other way. Love will rejoice with the truth that God is, and that we were made for Him. And here's what I want you to get. I think this will really help us apply this teaching. What we're being taught here is that for our love to be pure, Truth must be our companion. If we're going to rejoice at the right things, if we're going to have true love and love each other, Truth must be our companion. Paul writes, love rejoices with, together with the truth. Let me give you an example. In the garden, we see Adam rejoicing with the truth of marriage. Bone of my bone, right? Flesh of my flesh. It is true that of all of God's creatures, only Eve was a fit helper and companion for Adam. It is true that one man and one woman meant for life is marriage. But how many today no longer rejoice with the truth of marriage between one man, one woman for life? Love does not rejoice at wrongdoing, unlawful divorce, or fornication, because we ought not to call marriage what they call marriage because it's not. That's not true. It's just marriage. What God said. He rejoices with the truth. And what's true, I think it is true to say, is good. Because truth comes from God who is good. And what is good is beautiful. And therefore, when we see what is true, we should delight in it. Wherever and whenever, and whomever we see it. That's how pure our love should be. When when Paul wrote the we're the new leaven of sincerity He uses a word that talks about if you were to take something and and out into the light of day and let light shine on it. You know, sometimes in your house you got something and it looks clean, and then you shine turn the light on or take it outside and you're like, whoa, that thing is nasty Paul's talking about we need to be so pure in our hearts that all that we think and do can stand up to the full light of day shining upon it. And that requires us to rejoice with the truth. It's true, as Paul was trying to tell this congregation, right, that God has made this body. The church. But God has assembled together that each member and it matters and we should rejoice when even one is on it. Let me give you another example. In the garden, Adam surely called the Sabbath a delight. Now I know I don't have an extra version of the Bible that you don't where I read those words explicitly. But God calls His people to the call the Sabbath day the light. And the Sabbath does not come from Mount Sinai, but from creation. Didn't it come through Moses? God ordained it in the beginning. It's a creation ordinance, as we call it. And the truth is that God rests. And God delights in his work, so that he wants us to rest in him and also in this day. But again, how many today no longer take any delight in the truth of a Sabbath rest? They're probably happy that they don't have to go to work. And they get to spend their time doing all kinds of leisurely things like watching sports or going shopping. But how many delight with the truth that God meets with us in this day? And that it is a day for remembering him. Because, beloved, the loss Of the knowledge of God in this country, because this day is so profane, is the reason why so many of its members are so miserable in their sin. This is why you have a pandemic and epidemic of mental health problems and crisis. Because we have utterly cut God out of our lives and do not want to keep the knowledge of Him and rejoice with the truth that He is and I am His too. Sabbath breaking isn't a little peccadillo. It says a lot about your heart and what you rejoice in. And if we're going to properly love, as Paul says, and rejoice with the truth, then right, we need to know it. And right to know it, right, we need Jesus to teach us. And we must keep praying, right, with Paul, Lord, renew our minds by the truth so we'll no longer be conformed to this godless world, right? But transform. So that we might do what is good and pleasing to you, our God, that we may delight with the truth. I want to end this morning by focusing on our Savior Jesus and what He delights in. I had us here again this morning what we hear every Christmas, right? About our Savior's kingdom there in Isaiah 9. I say Isaiah peace So that we should see that God wants us, right, to rejoice with the truth of redemption, right? The people walked in darkness. That's the Galileans Dwelt in a land of deep darkness and the light, Jesus. There's never been such light. There's never been a man who stood up to Satan and said no. Who's ever said yes to God and has walked amongst their midst? Who is this? Man, a light. You've multiplied a nation, right? Look, God, you've increased its joy. Look at the kind of joy God's people have in His redeeming grace and love for them. It says with the joy of harvest. We divide this for you and when grandma, my mom, sends us a care package, there's a lot of joy as we open that thing on the table and pull out all the cookies And everything good grandma sends us. It's the kind of joy and delight that we have in our redemption. Why? Because You're no longer slaves. The yoke of his burden, the staff of his the rod of the oppressor has been taken off you as God's people. Broken as in the day of Midian. All your enemies, right? Destroyed. Every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tone, every garment rolled in blood, burned as fuel for the fire. Hallelujah. For God has done. You know, present what he's getting out, right? Present redemption, right? Our heart set free should bring us joy, constant joy Future redemption, right? Our bodies liberated, all our enemies scattered, right? That is going to bring us great joy. I found three places in the gospel where Jesus rejoiced. First, he rejoiced when sinners repented. Because the truth is, as he taught us, there is joy in heaven over even one sinner who repents. Think of that. It should delight us, thrill us as a congregation when even one sinner repents, when we see one another repenting. When we see even tiny microscopic changes and growth towards the good and true and holy in each other. We should have our eyes on that and rejoicing and saying, I've seen the work of God in your life, brother and sister, it rejoices me. Because I tell you before the Lord, that the most joy any of you have brought to me is you of you, and you know who you are, who've come and told me, Pastor. I no longer do those things that God forbid. I do those things that He wills. That thrills me. My joy is so great. I am leaping in my heart when I hear that. Jesus also rejoiced in opportunities for faith, even tragic ones. In John 11, right, he rejoiced, he says. Same verb, when Lazarus died and he wasn't there. He wasn't rejoicing at Lazarus' death. He was rejoicing at the opportunity for his disciples to come and believe in him as the resurrection and the life. And as you know, as you are, and as you've met, and I've met many a Christian, right, who even in tragic times can still find a reason to rejoice because they've seen already Or they know that God is going to use this as an opportunity to bring others to saving faith in Jesus Because that's rejoicing with the truth that Jesus came not to condemn us, but to save us. And I think of that and I only hope I can do the same in tragic times. You should mourn in tragic times too. They're tragic. But think also of the good that our great God can do in them. Lastly, Jesus rejoiced to abide in his Father's love and to do his commandments. We read that this morning there in John 15. And we heard in verse 11 that that's the joy Jesus came to give each one of us. These things I've spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. Our joy, Jesus' joy is in us, Congress, when we abide in God's love, the love that our Savior has for us, when He lovingly brought us to Himself, and when we do those things that please Him Our deepest joy should be that we are God's beloved. And our greatest delight should be that we do our Heavenly Father's will. Even as we've been looking at in context and know, even when that means loving people who are kind of unlovable, right? As sinners can be. Because I am sure that the experience of the cross for our Lord was not a fun experience, right? But since it was God's will, he would rather be there than anywhere else. Think of that. Because the joy was set before him that this was the truth, that by this sacrifice He would see his people, you and me, no longer rejoicing at what is wrong, but rejoicing together with him with the truth. And so abide congregation in God's love. Love one another with this love. Pursue it. Because part of that joy He's given us. That our Savior has left for us is to see others come to abide in this love through loving them like Jesus loved you. And I think as we see that, that will cause a great joy amongst us, a great rejoicing. As we build one another up in this love, and as we see others come to abide in that love, and we'll say, Yes, Jesus, this is the truth of why you came. Hallelujah.