Would you please turn in God's Word to Acts chapter seven, verse fifty-four Hear now the reading of God's holy, beautiful, and powerful word, starting with Acts chapter 7, verse 54 through Acts chapter 8, verse 3. Now, when they heard these things, they were enraged and they grounded their teeth at him. But he, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus. Standing at the right hand of God. And he said, Behold, I see the heavens opened and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at him. Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul. And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. And falling to his knees, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And when he had said this. he fell asleep. And Saul approved of his execution. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem, and they were s all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the Apostles. Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him. But Saul was ravaging the church and entering house after house. He dragged off men and women and committed them to prison. The word of the Lord. Thank you, God. Let us pray. Lord God, illumine our hearts and our minds by your Spirit, that we may understand your word, laying it up in our hearts and practicing it. You know, we talk a lot nowadays, brothers and sisters, about how it's a bad day in the history of the church. church. And I don't know why we do this every generation, but every generation we talk about how the church and society with it are going to hell in a handbasket. And it's funny because every generation says this. The Lord must have a lot of hand baskets in order for that to happen. But we look at all these signs around us and we get discouraged, do we not? Politically, we feel like our liberties are somewhat under attack in the society. Of course, the church can relate to that in most every age. Culturally, less and less are people even sharing our basic values. You know, it was remarked upon recently in a study that lo and behold, only 70% of our country now claims to be Christians. Uh the scandal is not that the numbers have gone down to 70%. The scandal is that 70% of our countries still think that they are Christians. There's no way that it's that high. The scandal is that there are still so many in our country who believe that just being a good person, being a patriotic American, is somehow synonymous with the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Theologically. We all know this as OPCers. We can track the theological drift of Christianity in our country. How over time, in so many denominations, Jesus Christ has gone from the transcendent king of his church to a mere moral man, a good buddy for us to talk about in times of dis We can track all these things. You can even look into your own hearts. Where oftentimes, and I know I can relate to this, you feel a lot less like Jonathan Edwards and a lot more like John Doe. Brothers and sisters, there are plenty of reasons to lament. I would argue that that is not the story of Christ's church. That is us looking at the tea least of our circumstances And ascribing to God's providence our petty feelings regarding our circumstances. That is not the story of God's church. That is not the story of our lives. Again, these are just their circumstances. Even if we were simply to look at other world examples of why that's not the whole story, I hope we understand that we are simply looking at our own little pocket of Christianity in the West When we are talking about these setbacks and these declines. Now we talk about the decline of the church, yet we refuse to note that, for example, right now, approximately 10,000 people are coming to Christ every day in the underground church in China. As best we can estimate. It's hard to estimate because they're underground. But it's huge. Right now there are more Christians in China than members of the Communist Party. And South Korea right now, we have more missionaries being sent out than in any other country in the world, including our own. Little South Korea. And by the way, a lot of that uh zeal for missions was nurtured by our own Presbyterian missionaries about fifty or sixty years ago. Now the number one exporter of missionaries throughout the world especially to the Middle East, where they have a lot more of a foothold there than unfortunately we're able to make. You know, we say this in a day and age in which right now the small African country of Malawi, the size of Pennsylvania, You have approximately two million sturdy confessional Presbyterians. Compare that with a couple hundred thousand in our country. Compare that with less than two million in the whole West combined You have more in a small African country the size of Pennsylvania than in the entire West. So just on that superficial level, you can see how really narrow our view of the church and our present circumstances are. But it goes much deeper than that. You see, there's a whole storyline with regards to the church and with regards to our lives that go way beneath our present circumstances. It's a storyline given to us in the book of Acts. A storyline that starts in Acts 1, continues throughout the entire book, by God's grace continues in and through our hearts and our minds and our lives in God's church and into the very end of the age. And that's the bottom line for our passage today, brothers and sisters. It's that the storyline goes beyond our circumstances. It goes beyond our sight. And the storyline of God, brothers and sisters, and sisters, for his church is unforwardable. It is invincible. It is undeterrable. In fact, right now he is waging war against the gates of hell. It's not just that they won't prevail against the church, but the gates of hell don't stand a chance. even in this present evil age. And so to see that story, and we're going to see it especially in our passage today, but in order to understand that, we've got to start for a second at the beginning of the book of Acts, in Acts chapter 1. You see, something really hard for the church happened in Acts chapter 1. Jesus ascended into heaven. Jesus ascended into heaven, and with that, everybody who wanted a greater sense of authority and power and experience of Jesus Christ tried to fill the vacuum Our theological, um, I guess we could say our friends and the Roman Catholic Church couldn't put up with the vacuum of authority that was created when Jesus left and ascended on high. And so they created a a human substitute, a human, a steward to fill that role because Christ has ascended. And that is their way of compensating for that loss of authority, apparent loss of authority. Our Pentecostal friends. They've lost the experience of Jesus Christ in the flesh doing all the miracles. Is that Jesus Christ is on high that compensates by trying to continue all these various charismatic gifts? the tongues, the prophecies, etc. Trying to create the miracles where Jesus Christ is not here to give them to us. Even as you know, we consider ourselves as part of a larger evangelical framework. You know, when we use that language of inviting Jesus into our heart, I think in a sense it's another way in which we're trying to compensate for the fact that Jesus has ascended on We are, since inviting Jesus to come back here and be with us, but he is on high. It's not that we're inviting Jesus into our hearts. It's that Jesus, by his eternal grace, has invited us into his heart. And now gives us his Holy Spirit to remind us of that. There's all these various ways in which we try to compensate for the loss of Jesus Christ here in the flesh. Well we really don't need to do that. You see, when Jesus Christ ascended on high, he gave his people a promise. He said in verse 8 of chapter 1, But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you will be my witnesses in Judah in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria until the ends of the earth. And then he ascended. He said, I don't need to be here in the flesh. I'm still going to be ruling over my church. That's what he has tended to do as king of his church currently. But I will give you my Holy Spirit. And my holy word, because they're going to be his witnesses in Judea and Samaria and beyond, and these are going to be, this is going to be the power of my children. This is the storyline of the church, brothers and sisters, and hopefully this will inform your understanding of the book of Acts. The book of Acts is not the Acts of the Apostles. That's simply the label we gave to it. The book of Acts is the Acts of King Jesus building and preserving his church by his Holy Spirit and by his holy word. There are no superheroes in the book of Acts. There is no golden age. There is simply King Jesus building his church by his holy word and by his holy spirit. The same things he offers to us today. You then will see this thing stretched out through the entire book of Acts. Think, for example, the next chapter, Acts chapter 2. The Holy Spirit, as Jesus promised, is poured out. And what immediately follows after that is the proclamation of his word. Word and spirit going hand in hand. And by the way, by the way, you never see his word and his spirits divorced from each other. Whenever you hear somebody say, I have a word from the Lord, it does not come from his word, they are a liar. God does not speak with a forked tongue, only with a tongue. serpent does. The word his word and his spirit always work in unison. But you see word and spirit in unison Through Christ by Christ Jesus in Acts chapter 2. Think about Acts chapter 4 when the believers pray for greater boldness. What happens? They are strengthened by the Holy Spirit, and then they go and share the Word of God. Again, the storyline that you see permeating the book of Acts is very ordinary, broken people strengthened by Christ, by his spirit, and by his word to accomplish his purposes. Whether they're ready for it or not. And so we get to seemingly the main character of our story today, Stephen. In Acts chapter 6, he's introduced to us. Why is he appointed as a deacon? Because we're told he's a man full of grace and power. He was doing great wonders and signs amongst the people. When they were picking out the deacons, he said, Pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of spirit and of wisdom. He's constantly remarked upon for being full of the Holy Spirit. And as he is full of the Holy Spirit, using the Holy Word of God, he was able to continuously refute the wisdom of that age. By the grace of God. Again, his life is fully imbued with the power of the Holy Spirit and the Holy Word under the lordship of his King, Jesus Christ. He was no greater than you or me. He is a regular sinner saved by grace, who had a mighty Savior, who was willing to continue to use him in his grace, by word and by spirit. And we see even when Stephen is brought into this ordeal which we see today, he is brought there by Christ's Word and Christ's Spirit. Those are the things that bring him into his ordeal. You know, it's interesting. You look at this passage and you see what a hard, hard ordeal this is. And you think maybe this is an accident of God's providence. The same way we do today. Now, obviously, the condition we're in right now, the church in this country, must be an accident of God's providence, or maybe we haven't been faithful enough. You know, maybe it's just a series of very circumstances that have led us to this point, as opposed to seeing God's hand of providence directly pushing us to this very moment. This is not an accident, brothers and sisters, that we are brought into this time of trial. This was God's providence. But we've got to be able to take solace in that. The fact that we were brought here for such a time as this. And so by Christ's word and Christ's spirit, Stephen is drawn into this encounter. And you get there a lesson about how we will interact with the world. First of all, we'll be very general, hopefully very gentle, very gracious. But at the same time, because Christ is always at work through his word and his spirits, you're always either moving under Christ's hand with his word and with his spirits, or you're moving against them. And that's really the bottom line of Stephen's speech to S. Heacher. He turns the table on them. They think that they are putting Stephen on trial for blasphemy. He says, You want to talk about blasphemy? Let me give you a quick tutorial on the history of God's people. A people which has been, in many ways, just as rebellious against the Lord as has been the world at large. A people who, whenever they've been confronted by a spirit-driven prophet currying his word, have persecuted or even killed that prophet. When finally God sent his only beloved son to bring that word to you You condemn them to death, you crucify them. Stephen concludes that fiery speech by saying, you stiff-necked people, this is verse 51 of chapter 7. Uncircumcised in heart in heart and ears, thus they rebuff his word. You always resist the Holy Spirit as your fathers did, so do you. You which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the righteous one, whom you have now betrayed and murdered, you who received the law as delivered by angels and did not keep it. Christ, through his word and spirit, prepared Stephen for this very moment. So that even in his time of trial, he was guided by Christ's Spirit in proclaiming Christ's word. And even when the word he shared, he was condemning the world for their unbelief, for the rejection of Christ's word and Christ's spirit. Either you are being led under Christ's righteous right hand by his word and by his spirit, or you are directly in opposition against all of that. There is no static place for you. You are always moving, either for or against. And that is what Stephen is condemning these people for. You have rebuffed his word, you stiff next people, you have resisted his spirit. At the same time, at every point here, you see Christ working through this situation by his word and by his spirit. We finally get to Stephen's final moments. Moments that we often can't relate to. And in reality, the greatest persecution we can speak of this day is uh People don't embrace one of our key biblical values regarding marriage, and so we get forced from the free market. Stinks. It does. That's about the most we can say in terms of persecution rate. now uh when we have people being slaughtered by ISIS uh this very day. But Stephen reaches this point. Again, this point is not an accident. Of God's providence. It's not a failure of God's providence. Christ's word and spirit has driven Stephen to even this very moment on the cusp of death. And as we read in our passage today, Look what's guiding him in this very moment. When they heard these things, they were enraged and they ground their teeth at him. But he, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed in the heaven and saw the glory of God. And Jesus standing at the right hand of God. Full of the Holy Spirit. And look at how the Holy Spirit, by Christ's power, is even now gently comforting. His broken, simple servant Stephen. Stephen's given this vision of glory. And a sense Christ opens the eyes of his heart to see what awaits him on the other side. Side, a precious glimpse of glory. And notice what it reveals to Stephen 2. I'm not sure you can ever notice this. This is the one time in Scripture in which Jesus is pictured standing at the right hand of God. Every other place he's sitting at the right hand of God. Gary's standing. Why is that? Because right now you have a mob of people representing really the whole of the world standing in judgment over him Condemning him, preparing to stone him to death. God in his grace lifts Stephen's eyes up into glory. It shows him the true judge of the world. Standing in the posture of a witness, of an intercessor, saying, the world condemned me first. And now by my righteous blood, by my righteousness, You know that you are atoned for. Soon, Stephen, we will be standing before the throne of God as his justifier, not as his judge. Who is he that condemns? Christ Jesus, who now sits at the right hand of God and intercedes for us. This is what the Spirit does for Stephen. And even as he is approaching the throes of death, the Spirit again places upon his heart his word. You know, I don't know about you. I often think, man, if I'm placing where These situations. How will I fare? Will I be faithful? God prepares us for such moments when such moments come. And by his spirit, he gives us the strength we need. It's funny, there were, I'm not sure you often have heard of them, there were martyrs in the early church who at first ran away from faithfulness to the Lord, and then through various providences were given a renewed opportunity. To stand fast for the gospel. For example, they would see their brothers and sisters being martyred. And they would say, you know what? I recant of my recanting. And they would embrace the throes of death as well. Christ, through his word and his spirit, brought Stephen to this point. Even as Stephen is approaching death, Christ is strengthening him by his spirit, give it giving him a vision uh a vision of Christ's grace and his glory. And he's enabling him to share the very word of God as well. He shares his vision of this experience with the crowd. That just makes them more mad. Of course it is because they're feeling the word and the spirit butt up against their hearts. And they can't stand that pressure. None of the world can They cast him out of the city and stoned him, and the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul. We'll talk about him in a moment. And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out to them. Here's the Lord's word. Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Sounds a lot like a line we've heard before, right? Very much like the words that were on Christ's lips. cross. But notice this, Stephen had just seen that vision of Christ his judge on high as his justifier. Christ just addresses the Lord. It says, Receive my Spirit. Stephen here says Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. The one who earlier bled and died for him is the one who now intercedes for him. And he shares this beautiful news with the people. people around him, even as he approaches death. And falling to his knees, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. Again, the words of Christ from the cross. His final words for us now are God's word, but also we're him. His prayer. His prayer that those who are putting them to death, as they put his Savior to death, would themselves receive the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. Notice how the Word and the Spirit Accompanying Stephen with each successive step all the way to the very end. All the way to the very end. It brought him into this trial. Christ did through his word and spirit. Christ's word and spirit carried him through the trial and has now walked him to the very end of that trial. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. This does not by any stretch mean that Stephen's death was pretty. He was thrown off a cliff. This is what stony was back in that day. He was thrown off a small cliff so that people could then roll giant boulders on top of him and crush them. A horrible, ghastly death. But for the Christian, death is but sleep. It doesn't matter whether we die with a hymn on our lips or a prayer on our lips. Death can often be really ugly, brothers and sisters. We all know. We've seen examples of that. We all have, I think. But the reality is that no matter how ugly that death is, whether it's a d like a dream or like a nightmare, when we close our eyes and they flutter back over We will behold a vision of glory, the likes of which we couldn't even possibly imagine now. The did the dream, the nightmare all come to an end and we'll realize that the reality Is so much greater than this passing mist-like life. And we'll know the whole time that Christ carried us by his word and by his spirit to the very end. Now that still brings us to this difficult part in our passage, chapter 8, verses 1 through 3. And it looks like this was all for naught, doesn't it? Acts chapter 8, verses 1 through 3, or where I go when I'm feeling really bad about the church, or really bad about myself and my presence. state. You see in three these three verses, if we approached God's word as we in our cynicism, our ugly cynicism often approach the world around us in the state of the church, then this would look dismal. And look at the church. They are being persecuted. As far as we know, they could be on the verge of a genocide here. Saul had just murdered. Do you think the taste of blood was out of his mouth? People are running for their lives, men, women and children, congregations like this very own We're fleeing by foot, trying to get away from potentially being slaughtered. Their champion Stephen had just been murdered The church in its very infancy is being threatened with extinction. Christ, or I'm sorry, Satan is trying to crush the church under his feet He's doing it through really the irrational antichrist opponents of the church, Saul of Tarsus We think our day is bad. They're being threatened with extinction here. And how about a you know well at least Stephen faithfully proclaimed the gospel? Yay, moral victory. Well, except he's not even there to enjoy it because he's dead. And that's not a very good end for Stephen as well. He's not even there to enjoy, at least in from from through worldly eyes, the fruits of being faithful He doesn't get to see anybody say, you know what, you're right. That's I I I do believe this. I was a blasphemer against the living God. Talk about a dark day, both as a church and as an individual. On the one hand, the church is being routed, on the other hand, the individual is already dead. That's a pretty bad day, it would seem. But that's why we look beyond the worldly story, the superficial story, to the greater story. Brothers and sisters, where are the people scattered to? They're scattered to Judea and Samaria. Do you remember that promise given by Christ at the very beginning of the book of Acts? You see, the darkest day in the it was seemingly perhaps the darkest day in the history of the church here was actually one of the greatest, most pivotal mo pivotal moments in the history of the church. Church. You know, sometimes it might take a sword in our backs before we go out and fulfill what Christ has called us to do. To share his word with the nations, to continue to be faithful to the gospel. Even in our present ordinary circumstances, sometimes it might take a sword. So be it. I love our country. I love our country. I think it's the most genius experiment in human governance in history. least modern man. That said, if it takes a sword to make the church more faithful, then bring the sword. Brothers and sisters, the very persecution that would probably, I'm sure, would have the people wondering about God's providence right here, was the very thing that was moving them towards Fulfill Christ's promise to bring his church, his word, his precious gospel of life to the nations. Everything they would have read in the Kiwi so their circumstances and their experiences were dead wrong. Just as they are for us today when we grow cynical. Likewise for Stephen. You might think, well, that's well and great, but Stephen's not there to enjoy it. Well, one, of course, he's now in glory with God, he's enjoying that But let me give you an what I think is another worthwhile consideration regarding Stephen's death. The great St. Augustine, one of our early church fathers. believes that we can owe the con that we owe the conversion of Sol of Tarsus to the prayers of Stephen. We owe the conversion of Sol of Tarsus to the prayers of Stephen. Stephen. But didn't that conversion start on the road to Damascus? Think about it this way. Stephen at the very end said, Lord, do not hold this sin against me We know that prayer is effective. That God delights us as our Father to hear the prayers of his children to act. What greater way to act for Stephen's cries, prayer for mercy for his persecution? than to go after one who is really playing a part of the Antichrist, trying to wipe out his church. But think of it visually as well. On the one hand, you see, in a sense, the gates of heaven close upon this vision that Steve had. When did they next open? On the road to Damascus. When they open again anew, Saw, why are you persecuting me? And so you see that visual connection. as well. But brothers and sisters, I would argue that you even see it in the very life of Paul the Apostle. When he says If you have been raised with Christ, set your mind on things above. Seek the things that are above, not on earth below. For your life is hidden with Christ and God For you have died. Or I'm sorry, for you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ and God. And when Christ, who is your life, appears, so you will also appear with him in glory. When he says set your minds on things above, where did he see that in flesh and blood form? We saw Stephen claiming at least that he could see into the very gates of heaven. And Paul can now, of course, certify the experience, because he's had something similar. But look at it in his very life's purpose too. Being carried by Christ's word and Christ's spirit even unto death. In Acts 20, when Paul is saying farewell to the Ephesian elders for the last time, amidst incredible sorrow and tears, he tells them, with the sober voice of a pastor who knows he's about to lose his life. Life. He says, however, I consider my life worth nothing to me. If only I may finish the race, complete the task the Lord Jesus has given me, the task of testifying to the gospel of God's grace. He recognizes that Christ through his Spirit has given the task and Christ carries through that task to the very end. The task of testifying to that gospel. And that task is then fulfilled in some of the last words that Paul ever writes in 2 Timothy, as he's giving the final instructions to Christ Church throughout all ages, as he prepares for his own martyrdom. He says in essence, I have finished the race. I'm being prepared as a drink offering to be poured out. Now I await the crown. And he saw that Christ, indeed, as he was in the life of Stephen, was faithful even for him, to him. So I believe we can, we do, owe the conversion of Saul of Tarsus to the prayers. of Stephen the Martyr. That that's where the conversion started. And if so, then that should hopefully give hope to you dear saints who are a few a bit uh who are a few years older. Who worry over your children, over your grandchildren, over the future of the church. Don't stop praying God gives us prayer, both for our own comfort, but also as a powerful weapon, as a means of grace. And God hears our prayers, not according to our table table, but according to His. And because God is faithful, He will often respond in ways we will never see on this earth. Stephen wasn't there to see the conversion of Saul of Tarsus. I'm sure Stephen rejoiced over it in heaven. Keep praying for your children, for your grandchildren, for the future of Christ Church. Those prayers will not fall upon deaf ears, for you go not before your judge, but before a justifier Who stands at the right hand of God, interceding for you. Brothers and sisters, that is the story of the church, and that is the story of your life. Do not look at the television of your circumstances or your experiences. Do not let your hearts be troubled. Christ not only will defend his church against the gates of the of hell. He surely already is prevailing against them. He has already declared a victory, and one day that victory will be made complete. And we will all be there to bear witness to that beautiful and glorious fact. Until that time, know that the same word and same spirit through which Christ led and shepherded his church of each of his people individually is the same word and spirit that you have. Today. All the resources of God's grace through Christ by Word and Spirit that were available to Stephen are available to you. And Christ will sustain you to the very end of the age. Until we like Stephen and Paul see him face to face in glory and rejoice that indeed all the things that we've hoped for in these in this present evil age Will be beyond our imagining. Let us look forward to that day and know we have no reason, no reason at all, to be cynical, despairing, even disappointed. For God will prevail and He is prevailing already. Let's pray. Lord God, we do rejoice over your holy and precious word We do rejoice that the storyline of your church is not written upon the telius of our circumstances, but written within your very word, so that we know that King Jesus Is building, ruling over, defending, and preserving his church by his word and by his spirit. And Lord God, even as it pertains to each of us in the Individually. We who often feel more like John Doe than Jonathan Edwards. Help us to recognize that as we as broken as we are, we are beloved by you To Jesus Christ our Lord. And you do not waste your word and your spirit upon anybody. Help us in our ordinary everyday tasks and the jobs we do and the children we raise. And the ways in which we grow, the ways we interact with the culture around us, help us, Lord, to entrust ourselves to that precious gospel. Knowing that our work is always the outflow of Christ's work on our behalf, that you indeed work in us to will and to work according to your good pleasure So Lord, do so. Do so for the glory of your name, and do so, while giving us the hope and confidence that indeed you will not be thwarted. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.