Psalm seventy three, a psalm of Asaph Truly, God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled. My steps had nearly slipped For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For they have no pangs until death. Their bodies are fat and sleek. They are not in trouble as others are. They are not stricken like the rest of mankind. Therefore, pride is their necklace. Violence covers them as a garment. Their eyes swell out through fatness. Their hearts overflow with follies. They scoff and speak with malice. Loftily they threaten oppression. They set their mouths against the heavens and their tongue struts through the earth. Therefore, his people turn back to them and find no fault in them. And they say, How can God know? Is there any knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the wicked, always at ease, they increase in riches All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning. If I had said, I will speak thus, I would have betrayed the generation of your children. But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task. Until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then I discerned their end. Truly, you set them in slippery places. You make them fall to ruin. How they are destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by terrors. Like a dream when one awakes, O Lord, you rouse yourself, you despise them as phantoms. When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart, I was brutish and ignorant. I was like a beast toward you. Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You hold my right hand. You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will receive received me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my Heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are far from you shall perish. You put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you But for me it is good to be near God. I have made the Lord God my refuge, that I may tell of all your work. This is the word of the Lord. The New Testament reading is from 1 Corinthians. Corinthians 1, 18-31. Consider how this relates to the preaching of God's Word today as well. 1 Corinthians 1, 18 through 31. For the word of the cross is folly to those who are being who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning, I will thwart. Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom It pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. For Jews demand signs, and Greeks seek wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews, and folly to Gentiles But to those who are called, both Jews and Gentiles, Christ the power and wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser. than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Well consider your calling, brothers. Not many of you were wise according to worldly standards. Not many were powerful. Not many were of noble birth. But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are So that no human being might boast in the presence of God. And because of him, you are in Christ Jesus Who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness, and sanctification and redemption, so that, as it is written, let the one who boasts This is the word of the Lord. Each psalm to the rest of the soldier shows both individuality and unity. In other words, each psalm is complete in and of itself. But at the same time, the Psalms are related to one another. In our insert, which has our text this morning, you'll even see at the top for Psalm 73 That this is part of book three of the Psalms. In fact, it's the first book of Book Three in the Psalms. The Psalter, the 150 Psalms are divided up into five major sections. And in the first section, you move from Psalm 1 uh to Psalm uh 42. And then you move uh from Psalm 42 to Psalm 72, and then you come to Psalm 73 And that starts book three. And the way you can tell where each section uh begins and ends is that there's a benediction that ends the prior section. So Psalm 72, for instance, right before with the text we have read this uh this morning we read, Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel, who does marvelous things, blessed be his glorious name forever. May the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen. So that benediction then ends the second major section of the Psalter, and then you come to Psalm 73. 3, which starts book 3. And Psalm 73 holds a special place then. It's sort of like the hinge. to all 150 Psalms. Because in Psalm 73, you have a rehearsal of what's preceded From the opening Psalm. But in Psalm 73, you also go forward. You also are looking forward to the end of the Psalms You're looking forward to that great praise that ends in Psalm, Psalm 150, verse 6, where everything that has breath shall praise the Lord. So our goal this morning in looking at Psalm 73 is not only to understand it better, but also to understand the movement. Of the soldier as a whole, and in doing so, to behold Jesus Christ. For it's Jesus Christ who stands at the center of the Psalms. Particularly Psalm seventy three. Now, as we look at our text this morning The Psalm 73 opens with the great classic statement, Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. And this is in the Hebrew is a declaration. It's it's He's saying no one can truly dispute this, that God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart, to those who put their trust solely in him. Now in starting that way, the psalmist is echoing Psalm One. You might remember how Psalm one starts Blessed is the man who walks not in the council of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners, nor sits in the sea of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates. Day and night. You see, those opening verses in Psalm one as a whole sets the stage. Some ones really like the parable of the sower. You know what Jesus says about the parable of the sower? If you don't understand the parable of the sower, you're not going to understand the rest of the parables? Well that's the way with the Psalter. If you don't understand Psalm 1, you're really not going to understand what follows. For in Psalm 1, life and covenant before the Lord is laid out. It's a life to be lived unto God and to his glory. A life that is based on the Word of God. A life that is based upon On the word of God and covenant with the Lord, a life that is stable and is blessed. For the man of God is like a tree planted by streams of water, it yields its fruit in its season. And his leaf does not wither, and all he does, he prospers. And then we're told, the wicked are not so, they are like chaff which the wind drives away. Therefore The wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous, for the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked Will perish. So that's what the opening Psalm declares, and is foundational for everything that follows. But we come now to Psalm 73. And this psalmist, he's putting out before you, this is what the word teaches. This is what I have been taught in the congregation. But I'm struggling. I'm struggling with this because it's not matching up with my day-to-day Life. It's not matching up with my experience. The wicked, they don't seem to be suffering As far as I can tell, they seem to be doing uh pretty well. And so in verses two and three, he confesses But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped. For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. And in the verses that follow, then, he describes what he is encountering in his everyday life around those who by those who do not believe in the Lord. And to him to the I uh they eat well, they live well, they play well They even seemingly die well. They are not in troubles as others are, they are not stricken like the rest of mankind. And further, not only does it appear to the eye that they have a good life But they seem to suffer no consequences. You know, pride covers them like a necklace. Violence covers them as a garment. In other words, they don't hide their traits. They they flaunt them. Verse 7, their hearts are wicked, verse 8, their speech is wicked. Wicked, they scoff and speak with malice, they set their mouths against the heavens, and their tongue struts through the earth. In other words, uh, they blame God. For everything that they believe is wrong about the world, and what they don't blame him for They mock him. How can God know? Is there knowledge with the Most High? So, in summary, the experience of the psalmist The wicked, who are the enemies of God and his people, are powerful and rich, successful, never lacking, and worst of all, seemingly beyond the judgment of God. And in dwelling upon these things, the psalmist had almost slipped. Literally in Hebrew, the sense is his legs had gone weak. They had gone weak and he had almost collapsed. And he his mind is just racing. You know, all in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. For all day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning. And so you can just see the wheels of his mind turning. He can't understand what's going on by his own wisdom. And when he sought to understand this, why the wicked prosper and the righteous suffer, it was wearisome. All these questions: is God really good to his people? Have I wasted my time following after him in faith? Have I wasted my time in the congregation of the righteous? Have I been fed a line? Is God really in control of all things? And does he care for me? Could it be that they're right I mean they seem to have a lot in this life. Their life seems pretty good. My life is often a mess. And so this man is struggling. He is doubting. But the Lord, the Lord is gracious. The Lord is gracious to his own. The Lord is compassionate and gracious, and he reveals to the psalmist the truth of the matter. Verse 18: Truly you set them in slippery places. You make them to fall to ruin. How they are destroyed in the moment, swept away utterly by terrors. And so it's a complete reversal. It's a complete reversal from the opening verses. At the start, his feet uh legs had gone We we his feet had almost slipped. What he was thinking about, what he thought was the security of the wicked. But now he realizes they're on slippery ground. They are here today and gone to mark. Other words, he knows that Psalm one was right. That the righteous are like the the trees planted by streams of living water. They are fixed. They are fruitful. They are stable, and the wicked are like the chaff that the wind drives away. For verse 20, the Lord, we're told, will despise the wicked as they wish Phantoms, he will despise them, he will treat them lightly. Do you know where else in the the Old Testament, in the Hebrew, where we find that same word being used? It's Genesis chapter 25. In Genesis chapter 25, you have the account of Esau. Going out to hunt, and he's out the whole day, and he comes back, and he's starved, and Jacob, his brother, is there And Esau is willing to sell his birth to give his birthright in exchange for a bull's soup. That's where it's them The way that Esau despised his birthright, all that was connected with the covenantal blessings The way that Esau treated that birthright lightly, we're told here in Psalm 73, is how the Lord Will treat the wicked on the last day. He will exchange them. He will treat them lightly. He will despise them And so the psalmist realized that he realizes there's nothing to be envied About that. There's nothing to be jealous about that. Now, where does this change occur for him? It's in verse 17. It's when the Lord takes him up to his heavenly sanctuary. The Lord takes him up, and the psalmist viewpoint changes. He stops judging by appearance. He stops judging by experience. He stops judging by what his eye sees. And he starts judging the righteous judgment. He starts judging by God's perspective. He looks now and he sees the end of the matter. He looks now and sees the conclusion. The wicked will not stand in the judgment. You see, when he was judging by experience, when he was judging by uh appearance, He was like a beast in the field. That's what we're told here. He was living by the level of senses. When my heart was embittered and I was pierced within. Then I was senseless and ignorant. I was like a beast before thee. The psalmist now knows that In envying the wicked, he was not living by faith. He was living by sight. But God was good to him. God preserved him. For it was God who reached out and he clutched hold of the psalmist's right hand. And he was with this man even when he was doubting. Even before he took him up. He was good to the psalmist. For the psalmist knew that if he would speak against the Lord's goodness, he would betray everything that he had been taught As a child growing up in the congregation of the righteous. But the Lord was faithful to him. He held him by his right hand. I guess we all have different associations with different portions of scripture. And I have admittedly a weird one when I come to this psalm, particularly uh where it talks about uh the Lord holding his Around fifty years ago, uh John Lennon wrote a Song called Beautiful Boy for his infant son. And in it he recognized the fleeting nature of life and he sang, Before you cross the street, take my hand Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans. Now, in isolation that sounds like something we Presbyterians would do. It's responsible, it's not reckless. It's looking out for our child. It's an astute observation how busy our lives are, and I think it captures something. But the song as a whole, there's something terribly off. Because it's also in that song, Beautiful Boy, where Lennon's solution to the uh the uh absolute uh recklessness of life or the chaotic nature, you don't know what's going to happen next and you're not in control. His solution is, before you go to sleep, say a little prayer. Every day and every way it's getting better and better. Now, what he's doing there, what Lenin's doing, is he's borrowing a phrase from a French psychologist in the early 20th century. It was the precursor to what we understand Today is the power of positive thinking. So what you were to do every morning, you were to say, every day and every way, it's getting better and better. And then every night before you went to bed, you were to do this 20 times in the morning. You were to do it 20 times at night. Every day and every way it's getting better and better. In other words, you can overcome all your problems in this life with the right attitude. You can cure yourself. It's always a matter of mind over body. You see, in other words, this life is fleeting before you cross the street. Take my hand. But you can cope with it if you just tell yourself every day in every way it's getting better and better. Well, that was at the start of the twentieth century in France and it was It was in the middle of the last century as Lenin wrote that song, and that philosophy is still with us today. But there's a problem. That philosophy is defeating and it's false because it never Takes into account the reality of sin. It never takes into account the reality that we live in a fallen world. And that we are sinners and we are surrounded by sinners. So what is the hope for us who believe Well the hope is, and the good news is, that the Lord God in his goodness does for us what we cannot do for us. For ourselves. And so we are those who know our sin, and we are those who know that we do not Please the Lord in thought, word, and deed. That is, we break his law continually, but that he has reached out, and he He has redeemed us from the pit, and he has worked in our hearts by his word and spirit that we might be made alive in him And that we might behold what this life is about. And that we might know that this life is about glorifying and enjoying the Lord. And that we might then be able and equipped to survey all that is and to know oh uh that we that we are not here In a meaningless way. And even that we might know that when things go wrong, when we're suffering, when we don't understand why something is happening to us, that we can rest assured that the Lord has been good. to us. About five years ago I was doing this at a at a church I was visiting an Orthodox Presbyterian congregation. in the morning to this church and I had gotten there and I just found out that the uh young son of the pastor had been hospitalized. He was in very serious condition. He had been hospitalized overnight, and uh we were all praying for him that the Lord would be merciful to them. this young boy. And then also I found out even more as I as I met with the pastor in the session before I was to come out. I had found out that the pastor uh the had suffered uh spinal damage uh uh earlier in the month and it had been so uh bad that the previous week he couldn't even stand to preach. And he uh sat in a chair because that's all he could do when he preached. And so uh Azura really taken 'cause I I had gotten there and they had told me all this and and and much like this morning as as I shared with the your pastors led the order the the His pastor led the order of worship and it came to the pastoral prayer. All he could do was thank the Lord for his goodness to him. And to his family. And it struck me, it struck me, you cannot pray that, you cannot believe that unless your heart has been changed. And you have been made new creation, and you see things from the end of the matter You know, we don't like to go through hard times. We don't like to go through suffering. And in the case of uh this pastor, his family family. I'm sure he never saw that month of his life coming. His young son is just fine now, uh the pastor. Uh H his back, you know, he's he's stable. But you know when we go through hard times, we become focused. And we have to really think about what is of the most importance of this in this life. And so suddenly whether your favorite team wins a game or doesn't win a game doesn't seem to be the You see, the Lord, the Lord works in our life, and He draws us to Himself He does that providentially in the things that we go through day by day, but he also does it through his church. As we come together, uh we are reminded every Lord's Day as we gather what is truly most important in in this life. And every Lord's Day we are taken up into the heavenly places, for we, uh, as we have the Word of God read and And preached to us, proclaimed to us. It's being revealed to us what the will of the Lord is. And the Lord is caring for us. He's caring for us through the means of grace. As we not only hear his word read and proclaimed, but also as we come to the sacrament. And as we do that Then we're truly reminded that it's the Lord who guides us with his counsel. and afterwards will receive us into glory. And we are reminded that He is the true treasure, He is the true inheritance. There are no riches on this earth that compared to the Lord in that sense. We're reminded, who have I in heaven but you? And there's nothing on earth that I desire besides you. And then we are reminded that our heart and our flesh might may fail, but the Lord is the strength of our heart and our portion forever. And we're reminded that the goodness of God is our good in this life. Now, if I had stopped there in this sermon I really wouldn't have said anything wrong, but it also wouldn't have been enough. For I would have left you short of Jesus Christ For Jesus Christ is the one who fulfills this psalm. You see, the psalms are a part of covenant history, redemptive history that has Jesus Christ as its goal. There is no hope, friends, apart from Jesus Christ in this life. For it's in Jesus Christ That we all come near to God. It's in Jesus Christ that our sins are forgiven and his righteousness imputed, that we might be in fellowship with God. For it is Jesus Christ who does everything that we do not. For it's Jesus Christ who desires the Father at all times. This Jesus Christ who is guided by the Word of God. It is Jesus Christ who does not envy the wicked You see, we do not do these things. We're disqualified from the very beginning of Psalm 73. We are not pure in heart. We have not sought after the Lord. As a matter of fact, we're much like the wicked that's talked about in verses 4 through 12. But the Lord has been kind to us. He has been kind to us, we who are sinners. And it's because Jesus Christ has died for our sins and has been raised for our justification. That we are those who have been brought into fellowship with the living God, that he might become our good, that he might become our hope and our treasure. As we have read this morning from 1 Corinthians Jesus Christ has become for us the wisdom of God, that is our righteousness, holiness, and redemption. Because Jesus Christ He is the prophet. He is our prophet. He is the one who instructs us in the Word of God. How do you live this life? And how do you teach your children to live this life You must teach them to live this life by the standard of the Word of God. Any other standard, you're going to be thrown into chaos. It's going to become wearisome. He is our heavenly high priest He is the one who has not only paid the price for our sins, but he is the one who intercedes for us now. He's the one who prays for us now as we're on this journey. He is the one who is with us. But he is also our king. He is the one who reigns. He is the one who is control of all things. He is our heavenly high prophet, priest, and king, and he is with us because he has sent his spirit the comforter. And by his spirit, we are alive in Christ, and we are joined to him in the heavenly places, and he enables us to see life properly. You know, at the start of this psalm, he wonders what is going on, why the wicked prosper, but by the end he's taken up into the heavenly places. And he knows this is what awaits him in glory. Again, this blessed end is only possible because of Jesus Christ. For if you go back to Psalm 1, And that's where you must start in understanding the Psalms. If you go back to Psalm 1, the truth is apart from Jesus Christ, we're counted among The wicked. But what has happened? What has happened? In Isaiah chapters 52 and 53 tells us this. Jesus Christ has been counted among the wicked for our behalf. For although he has done no violence, and although there was no dis See in his mouth. He was stricken and afflicted. He was sinless. And yet he took upon himself our impurities and nailed them to the tree That we might be counted among the righteous. We are stable, we are fixed, and we are blessed because we have been included in the Only pure one, the only righteous one. Pretty much once said that what the psalmists do, what the psalmists are doing. They are thinking of themselves as those who are in Christ. And that's what we're to do as we read the Psalms and see the totality of our life revealed the ups and downs, the good and the bad, that we might make our thoughts subservient to Christ's thoughts, that we would rest in Him and his righteousness. Because contrary to what John Lennon also sang, and perhaps the anthem of our entire culture, imagine the That is the song of good news that so many sing in this world. Contrary to what Lenin believed, there is a heaven and there is a hell. And on the last day we will stand before the judge of all creation. And those who are not found in Jesus Christ, not covered by his righteousness They will slip away. But those who are found in Christ will be blessed forever. You see, rest assured, friends, there is knowledge with the Most High. Rest assured, surely God knows. And then rejoice that He has been good to you in Jesus Christ, even when You might be tempted to throw it all away. That He has been good to you and He has preserved you and He has held you by the hand And he will bring you to where he is in the heavenly places. Amen. Let's pray. Our Lord, our God We do come before you so very thankful for your mercy and grace to us in Jesus Christ. Oh Lord, we would be lost apart from you. We would be those living uh in arrogance and pride and selfishness. We would be those living as if uh uh we were the only ones that mattered We would be living in a way in which we would want others to serve us. Oh Lord, we're so thankful that you have saved us from such tyranny and such selfishness and such sin. And we're so thankful that you have brought us into a living relationship with Jesus Christ. We do pray, oh Lord, that we might make it our chief end to glorify you and enjoy you in all that we do. Help us, O Lord, in this. Help us, O Lord, to live the life of faith. Help us to be guided by the straight teachings Of your word. Help us, O Lord, to come to you with our praises and petitions. Help us, O Lord, to sing out in this world which has fallen. Help us to be light and salt. And help us always to adore our Savior, that one who did go to the cross, that we might be forgiven. Given all these things we do pray in his precious name.