Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ, as I just mentioned, our passage for this morning will be 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 7. Where we read, love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things Now these are the final four dues of love Along with the other eleven, they make up the character of love which the apostle is showing us here in these verses. And I want to emphasize that point because Paul says back in verse 31 of chapter 12, but earnestly desire the higher gifts, so seek spiritual gifting. As they were, and I will show you a still more excellent way. So Paul promised he's going to show them something greater than spiritual gifting, the way of love. We've talked about why he's showing them this, because they've made a mess out of Christian worship and service by leading love out of everything they do, and this is what's going to bring them back together and heal those problems and make them effective again as a congregation. But I want to emphasize that we're being shown love in these verses. Love is not something that you and I discover on our own. As human beings made in God's image. But rather, love is something that God, who is love, reveals to us. Jesus Christ, God's Son, he came and he revealed to us this very love. This is the love that you and I heard about in Isaiah 53, where he foretold the Savior who would come and love his people in this way. Be ready, he bore. We read that he endured. We read that he hoped in the fruit of that love and seeing his seed. We are the seed of his suffering love as we are gathered here this morning. That he would come and by this love he would take away his people's sin and also their sinning. And to replace their condemnation and hatred with love like this, because love begets love in the beloved. We all know at 1 John 4:19, right? We loved. Why? Because God has first loved us. We're his beloved. And this love begets love in us. When we speak about the height, yea, when we're challenged to look into the heights and the depth, And the breath of Christ's love, this is what we're talking about. All fifteen of these, and I think consumatively and climactically, challengingly, in these last four here that we're going to consider this morning. Jesus, right, bore all things and believed all things, hoped all and endured all And when we get a sight, Congregation, of that love. This is the so I'm emphasizing seeing it, because I got the joy of spending right this week seeing it, thinking upon it, hearing it, as I read what others have said about it, listen others said about it. So I could get it in me and hope by God's grace, hope you're praying right now to get it in you, because when we see this love, We see what it means to be human. Because there is no other humane way to live but to love one another like this. God is love, and we are made in his image. Anything short of this love must be repented of. This love is the fruit of the Spirit working in us. And that's something that I was I'm blessed with and am blessed with and hope you'll go away blessed with just seeing that. No This is what it means to be human. This is what it means to treat people in a humane way, is to treat them like this. Don't do these eight things. Do these seven things. So let's look here together at love. We're going to see, as I said, these final four dues of love. The first one is that love bears all things. Love bears all things. This is a really interesting Greek word. The basic meaning of this word is to cover closely, to cover something closely, so as to keep liquid either out or in right so so think of roofs over our heads think of umbrellas think of rubber boots Think of rain jackets, think of lids you put on drinks, think of deck sealant that you seal your decks with, right? All these things cover closely to keep the rain or the liquid either out or in. And you know, we being a little silly here, but we we never think how loving right our umbrellas are and boots are and jackets are, right? I I've not read of an ode to an umbrella praising it for how loving it is, but I made this one up real quick, because it it does have a point. Oh, umbrella, umbrella, how you always protect this poor fella, weathering all for me As the rain from above, so is this love, keeping all wet off me. Thank you Now notice, right? In their love for us, umbrellas do two things. They keep the rain out, so they protect us by covering us And they bear it themselves. They put up with the beating of the rain to keep it off from us. Now, commentators and Bible translators are torn over which sense Paul means here. Because the English Standard Version, which we read here, says love bears all things But if you read the New International Version, NIV, it translates it as love always protects. So I've shown you how the word can have both those. And and honestly, maybe it's both. I've listened to great expositors on this and read and they uh Spurgeon emphasized both. Others emphasize both, so I don't think we have to pick one here Because love always wants to protect the beloved by wanting to cover that person, and we'll talk about what that means But in that protection of them, in their love for the beloved, it also is going to have to bear and weather the difficulties of sin. Uh uh I was talking to a pastor this week about this and I asked this question. And he he says he tells this congression, he's a very senior one, about how Sin is always, beloved, going to be a sort of um, it's always going to be there in the body wanting to trouble it. And did we come when we gathered this morning to cover more love from one each other, right? To become wanting to bear more love, or excuse me, more sin from one another in our love. To become wanting to cover more sin And our love, because sin is always going to be there, wanting to aggravate and annoy the flock as we live and dwell together in this age. I read the account of the adulterous woman, because when I think of this love that both covers and protects but bears, I think of this account Here's a woman that needed protection. She was caught up in the desire of these men to get at Jesus, right? They wanted to get at him. They wanted to bring a charge against them. They wanted to be to be able to go back and say to the rulers, this rabbi doesn't follow Moses who says to stone her, right? We want to find this case And get him as a softie. In our lingo, we might say, this pastor, he doesn't follow the book of church order, which says, you know, you've got to censure that offender. So in love, Jesus protects her, right, from these 99 self-righteous. Yeah, she's a sinner, who are really just after him. So he protects her. He was this roof over her, right, to keep that storm of their envy out. But in loving her, he was also exposed to the weather himself. You know, one by one these men left and and hopefully right as he showed this love to them and really kind of rebuked them, they would have gone away and repented of it and changed and become merciful like he wants them to be. But I wonder right what the bloggers that night were saying about it. Because you know how people get a hold of things, they hear a little snippet. It's Jesus, he doesn't take sin seriously at all Do not care about the holiness of God's people. No, very often, our Lord, in loving us, bore the malicious slander of his enemies, right? He was a friend of tax collectors and sinners. That's all he is. He's just a drunkard and a glutton. That's what he is when he goes to these parties and eats what's there and drinks the wine. And none of these things were true. He was none of these things, as you know. But those were all things said about him, as he loved sinners. Not leaving them to be exposed to the malicious harm of those around them, but covering them in his love, protecting them, and burying it. Here's another example. Paul uses this word in earlier in this letter, but he talks about the protection of the gospel, how he protects the gospel ministry, where in this congregation that he was serving, he didn't make use of his right to the material goods as a minister. He forego them, though he lawfully could have had them, because his enemies would have misrepresented his actions as self-seeking. They would have said, Ah, he's a mere peddler, like all these other philosophers running around. He's just telling you about this Jesus and this resurrection because he wants what's in your purse. He's just trying to tell you something hopeful so you believe it and give him money. Paul says, but we endure, same verb here, bear anything, rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ. That is love. Bearing all things to protect those we love, while at all times being exposed at times to the fury of others when we love them. You know, there's also another aspect here to this kind of protecting and bearing love. It's a very rich word. The word also means to cover something over in silence. Love covers in silence the faults and sins of others. I remember one, and I don't remember where I read it, it was years ago. I remember one parenting thing, it was saying, parents How often do we fail at this when we tell everybody how bad our children are, right? You ever do that? You ever go complaining or gossiping or talking about your children to others? Maybe not so they wanting to air out and expose, oh, look what Tommy did again or something, right? It's not love. Well doesn't want to expose others' wrongs doing that they love, wants to cover them up. Unsilence, we'll talk about that, but wants to cover them Paul was not making a big stink, I'm certain. He wasn't going around Corinth, trying to expose his lost everybody and saying, look what I have to put up in the gospel ministry. Though these men were his enemies, though they're acting sinfully to him, Paul covered their sin in silence and just bore it. Because love does not like to air out the beloved's dirty laundry. If you want to tell everybody how sinful they are, you don't love them. I'll n I I will know that you don't love me and you'll know that I don't love you if you tell everybody how sinful I am. If I go around telling everybody how sinful you are. That's not love. That doesn't mean that we sweep sin and wrongdoing under the rug and never talk about it. You know, think about it. We don't even do that in corporate worship. Have you thought about that? We every week as a body together confess to God our sins and to one another. We just did it. We don't cover sin up here. Sin happens right here in this church. Sin will happen right here in this church. And what we do every week is how we deal with it. We confess it to God. We confess it to one another, we repent of it, and we come to the table together in love. After the Lord covered this woman, right, and loved her. He told her, right, go, and from now on, sin no more. So this isn't a soft approach to sin that we're talking about. This isn't let's not take sin seriously. Let's protect everybody always from every consequence that might come. No, because sometimes the best thing And the most needed thing for that person will be to experience and suffer some real consequences for their sin. But you love them And because you love them, you will talk to them about sin. And you will challenge them not to sin any. And as they bear it and suffer those consequences, you'll love them in it and pray for it. Protecting love, covering love, bearing love doesn't mean we don't rebuke, we don't admonish, and we don't discipline. David, right? And you read the story of David, King David. He did not love his son Absalom when he never rebuked him, never disciplined. And that led later in life to serious problems with this son, if you know the story. And it almost lost to him losing the love of his whole army and people because his heart was wrongly affected towards his own child. So this is not a love that doesn't rebuke, doesn't speak about sin. The Church of our Lord Jesus Christ is not a cancel culture. You sin, you're done. That's it. But it's not, it's also, it's not a cover-up culture You sinned, don't worry about it. You're too important to lose or to offend. It's a loving culture where we take no delight in airing out people's sins, nor spare any pains to see them free of their sins. Because that's love. That's the love we're talking about here. Here's a really great illustration, I think, that can cap this off. I don't know where it comes from. I just heard two other ministers use it. I thought if they're using it, I'll use it too. And it's a story about a woman in Cromwell's day, so four or five hundred years ago, the English Revolution. A woman pleaded with Cromwell for the life of either a husband or fiance. I can't remember This man had offended Cromwell in some slight trivial matter and had been sentenced to death for it, and Cromwell is too proud to commute that sentence of death So at curfew that night, when the bell struck, he was going to be killed, executed. However, when curfew came and the bellman went to his post to strike the bell and he pulled on the rope, all he got was silence. And he kept pulling, and he kept pulling, and he kept yanking on it. Finally, someone went up to inspect, you know what they found there? They found there that man's wife. Covering the hammer of the bell with her body. And they brought her down to Cromwell, all battered and bruised and covered in blood. And he commuted that man's sentence, right? There's love. There's covering, protecting, bearing love. And that's how the Lord Jesus loves each one of us. So love bears all things. Secondly, love believes all things. Now, to believe is to trust. It is to credit something as true and therefore worthy right of your trust. And that's generally based on the trustworthiness of the person who's telling you this. Here, to believe all things, it means to give everyone the benefit of the doubt. It means to see the best in all men. It doesn't mean be naive, clueless to just how the world really is. It doesn't mean to be gullible, just believing any old wives tell. It doesn't even mean to believe what's not true. It just means to be trusting, to have a disposition of trust towards other people. To give them the benefit of the doubt. Because this is how we want people to treat us. We have all told lies. We have all done sneaky, underhanded things. Yet we don't want to be treated with suspicion. For the rest of our lives and given up of hope as hopeless, especially right if we've repented of those. And we've said we're sorry and we've confessed them. And we have shown we are determined to live otherwise. You know, think of Job here. Job's friends did not love him. They never quit their case that he must have done something wrong. They refused. to see the best in him. They refuse to give him the benefits of the doubt. They refuse that maybe he hadn't done something so terrible as to bring this disaster on himself that maybe he really was telling the truth when he said he was innocent. When you suspect the motives of every person you meet, beloved, or if you regard their actions with cynicism, yeah. I was waiting for that to happen. Yeah, right. They're just in it for themselves. That's cynicism. You're not loving that person. That person says when they mess up again, you go, I knew it was going to happen. You're not loving them Because love believes all things. It's ready to keep trusting. It's not afraid to acknowledge a trust issue if there is one. But it gives the beloved, and remember, what does the law teach us? Love your neighbor as yourself, and who is your neighbor? Everybody. I had to think on this week. I don't think I've ever thought that. Everybody is supposed to be my beloved. Well, if they're to be my beloved, I need to believe the best about them. It gives people the benefit of the doubt, right, until proven otherwise. If proven otherwise, that's the case. Like I said, it doesn't mean call a spade a heart if it's really a heart or whatever, I think I probably just botched that, but you get what I'm trying to say. Call something what it is. If you're proven that they prove they're lying here, say you lied to me, here's the proof. But be ready to believe again. It's dangerous if we become cynical. It'll be a very toxic culture and error if everybody the church was Culture of cynicism and suspicion. It is quite humane to live inhumane to live that way. To suspect that everyone is just going to let us down again. Everybody here has deceitful motives. Nobody's up to any good. It's really righteous to leave God out of the picture. Where is God in his redemptive grace? Can we not believe again? Is there no hope for this person? And I'm afraid that I've done some harm in my relations with my own children by this. You know, they tell one lie. I'm just like not ready to believe them again. But then they tell the truth, and I push them. I suspect, and I find out they were telling the truth, and then there's already been a lot of damage done. One pastor says, When this love is lacking, right, when we when we don't believe the best for others and give them the benefit of the doubt, it looks like this. I wonder if you've ever if this has ever looked like you. Stewing inwardly, dissecting the actions and remarks of others, interpreting their every act He says we anticipate being offended and we prepare our rebuttals. We anticipate being let down and prepare our scathing critique. We accuse the motive as others, assuming that their ultimate purposes are selfish. If you find yourself going down that road, beloved, stop Get off. Take the next X and ramp and leave it. Go to the Lord in prayer. Talk to him about the situation. Go and talk to that person instead because it is a dangerous road to just keep going that way. Charles Spurgeon In one of his lectures to his students, you can buy the volume of it called Lectures to My Students, and one entitled The Blind Eye and the Deaf Ear. Kind of the way one of the principles he lived in his ministry. He knew he was going to hear things he didn't want to hear and see things he didn't have to deal with that. He says, he writes, and I quote, it would be better to be deceived a hundred times than to live a life of suspicion. It is intolerable. Suspicion makes a man a torment to himself and a spy towards others. Once begin to suspect and causes for distrust will multiply around you And your very suspiciousness will create the major part of them. End quote. I agree. I don't want to be duped, but I'd rather be deceived a hundred times than to live that way. We are commanded by our Lord to be shrewd and cunning as serpents. People are going to want to dupe you, are going to want to deceive you. There are scammers out there. They exist. But at the same time, we're commanded to be innocent as doves as well. And part of that innocence is to give the benefit of the doubt, to believe the best in others. You know, one of the amazing things about this love is there would be no Apostle Paul nor this letter on love without it. Listen to what he says about himself in 1 Timothy 1, verses 12 to 14, where we read, I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful. Trustworthy, appointing me to his service, though formerly I was a blasphemer. Persecute an insolent person or opponent. But I received mercy because I'd acted ignorantly in unbelief, and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me But the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. How did Paul ever become a gracious loving person? Because Jesus loved him in this way He believed all things. He said, that blasphemer, that persecution, that insolent person, I got a job for him. I'm going to give him another chance. That's called redemption. You know, I think for most of us, right, on the top of our chart of people we think that are most trustworthy and faithful, we probably don't have blasphemers, persecutors, infinite persons, right? Rightly so. And yet Jesus loved this blasphemer and persecutor, an insolent person. He made him apostle. He entrusted him with the gospel, his own saving message to take to the world to save his beloved people with. And he gave it to that person? Because that's love. The Lord did not give up on Paul. If we're going to love like Jesus, we're going to have to also believe in the power of God's redeeming grace. We're going to have to choose to love them as well, believing all things. At one time in our Lord's life That's in John two, which we were gonna read. He he didn't entrust himself to those who entrust him. We read Because he knew all people and indeed needed no one to bear witness about man, because he himself knew what was in them, right? He knew what was in those people. He knew that they only were trusting Jesus because they were only seeing what they wanted to see and not what Jesus was showing them about himself. And Jesus knows that we are a world of faithlessness and covenant breaking and true spaking and force swearing. He knows all that. Perjury. Right, but he loved me enough to make me even a pastor. He loves you enough to make you a partner in his own gospel. Maybe your person here didn't make a very wise decision about whom you married. But maybe he gave you, he loved you enough to give you children still. He trusted you. This is the way Jesus loves you. It's a reality. It's not unrealistic to love this way. You are love this way. Because the fact is, you and I need somebody else to testify about them. We don't know what's in people's hearts. And that's been given a term, maybe you've heard it, it's called the judgment of charity. Out of love, you're going to give them the benefit of the doubt. You're going to believe what they say and defense about themselves. So we need to be especially careful, I think, right, how we read each other's text messages and emails. How we look at other people's actions and looks in the assembly, what we see on their social media posts, because they may not be telling the truth. And we need to read all these in love, and we need to respond to all these things in love. We need to say, I'm going to read this in the best light. If something seems off, I'm going to give them the benefit of the doubt because I love them. And I'll wait till I'm overwhelmingly proven true, and I'll still say, let it not be true. Because that's love. Love hopes all things sturbly. Hope is waiting. That's what hope is. Hope is waiting with confidence for what's hoped for. Hope is looking forward, it's forward-looking to something that's been promised to us by God. We confidently wait it for it to come to pass. And so Alone hopes all things for beloved. It is forward-looking. It's looking to the future. And it what it means here is something like this. It doesn't take failure as final. It believes and trusts and know in God's redeeming grace. 1 Samuel chapter 12 has been very instructive for me in the ministry. I come back to it often and it goads me to do the right thing. It is also applicable to how we love each other, how you will love your children and spouses and members here. In 1 Samuel 12, I'll just give you the gist of it. He is giving a farewell dress to the people of God. And he reminds them of their great sin in asking for a king over them, right? Because they wanted a king like the nations rather than to have the king, Yahweh, as their king. And he showed them how great their wickedness was in this matter because it was harvest time, and he says, I'm going to ask God to send you thunder and rain. Now you might know how wicked you are. And he does. See? Love still exposes wickedness. And yet, here's the conclusion of it. And all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, that we may not die. For we have added to all our sins this evil to ask for ourselves the king. And Samuel said to the people, Do not be afraid. You have done all this evil. You do not, or yet do not turn aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. And do not turn aside after empty things that cannot profit or deliver, for they are empty. Hear these words. For the Lord will not forsake his people. He doesn't give up on us. For his great name's sake, because it has pleased the Lord to make your people for himself. And then he says, moreover, as for me Far be it from me that I should sin against the Lord by ceasing to pray for you. And I will instruct you in the good and right way. You know, Samuel didn't conclude these people are hopeless. He knew their sin was great, and yet he knew God's grace was greater. Because of God's covenant love for them, Samuel wasn't going to sin by ceasing to pray for them. Have you ever thought of that? That it is sinful to stop praying for a member of God's covenant, a covenant child who departs from the faith. They may not come back, and that is in God's sovereign hand. But what's in your hands is to love them unceasingly and to pray for them. Because if you love them, right, you won't stop praying. You won't give up hope. is also right, as we see here, it is sinful to cease instructing them, no matter how hard-headed that child may be of yours If you write them off as hopeless, you are in just as much sin, because Samuel says, and I will instruct you in the good and right way. You did a horribly wicked thing If there's redemption, then there's God's grace. Failure is not final. God does not forsake his people. The father never stopped looking for the prodigal, did he? We are told, right, when the son was still far off, the father saw him. You know, what is he doing up every morning and out every night looking far off into the distance? But loving his son, waiting for him to come back. So if you are here this morning, no, it is not foolish. For you to wait for that spouse, that child, that family member, that friend to repent and come home to the Lord. You are just acting like God acts. You're just loving them how God loves them. Because hoping all things is godly love. Finally, love endures all things. This word means to remain under, to stay in place. It's a military term. It refers to holding off the onslaught of an enemy. And I like how J. B. Phillips translates it. Here it means love can outlast anything. In the gospel, we read that our Lord's arrest was described in these words, but this is your hour, and the power of darkness when they came to him. And we know that at the conclusion of an hour would see him still loving us as he endured the cross. He endured all things. You know, love may have its night, congregation. You may come into an extremely difficult situation, the person you love. Whether it be the world, because you want to share the gospel with them, whether it be a spouse or a child, a sibling, a friend, a fellow congregate member, I don't know It may have its night, but it endures. Think of marriage as an example. We vow in sickness and in health, so long as ye both shall live. Because love endures. Now I know that God permits divorce for fornication and abandonment by an unbelieving spouse. But if that option is not taken, because it doesn't have to be taken, then the broken marriage vow is only going to be healed by this kind of love. I will bear all, believe all, hope all, and endure all. Because it is really the devil congregation. Who wants us to love without bearing? Just something. It's really the devil's love who wants us to love with suspicion, cynicism Without hope, without endurance, because in the end that's just not love at all. And we will be at each other's throats, which is what he wants. So let us not love that way. But let us love this way. Because we all want others to protect us. To cover us, to cover our sins, to not air them out, to bear our sins. We all want others to give us the benefit of the doubt. We want others to see the best in what we do. We all want others to not give up on us. And we all want others to be there no matter what. Because that's love. And that's what it means to be a human being made in God's image. So let's love each other that way and let's keep looking to our high priest Jesus, who is seated at God's right hand, who loved us this way. Who gets what it is to love this way, and who can help us to love this way. Amen.