First reading is Luke 19, 11 through 27. Turn in your Bibles, please, to Luke 19, 11 through 27. And I'll hope you'll see why I chose this reading when we get to the second Psalm. As they heard these things, he proceeded to tell a parable because he was near to Jerusalem and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately. He said, therefore, a nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and then return. Calling ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas and said to them, Engage in business until I come. But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him saying, we do not want this man to reign over us. When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered the servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him that he might know what they had gained by doing business. The first came before him, saying, Lord, your minor has made ten minas more. And he said to him, Well done, good servant, because you have been faithful in a very little, you shall have authority over ten cities. And the second came saying, Lord, your mina has made five minas. He said to him, You are to be over five cities. Then another came, saying, Lord, here is your mina, which I kept, laid away in a handkerchief. For I was afraid of you, because you are a severe man. You take what you did not deposit, and you reap what you did not sow. He said to him, I will condemn you with your own words, you wicked servant. You knew that I was a severe man, taking what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow. Why then did you not put my money in the bank, and at the coming I might have collected it with interest And he said to those who stood by, take the minor from him and give it to the one who has ten minas. And they said to him, Lord, he has ten minas. I tell you that to everyone who has, more will be given. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. And then this is the part that I think relates directly to the second Psalm. But as for these enemies of mine who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slaughter them before me. And the next portion is the triumphal entry on Palm Sunday. Now turn to Psalm 2 Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord holds them in derision. Then he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury, saying, As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, Gotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heir. You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's Vessel. Now, therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. For his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. Now I provided a a bit of an outline, but as my studies progressed, I decided to change So instead of the three points there, there will be four stanzas of the psalm in preaching the four stanzas. But first, Psalms 1 and 2. We studied one last week. Psalms 1 and 2 are the gateway To the book of Psalms. And by that I don't just mean that they happen to be the first two, but they are placed there as a gateway to the book of Psalms. The book of Psalms is a collection of psalms that was compiled over a period of 1,000 years or so. So they weren't all written at the same time. They weren't all written by David and so forth and so on. They were they were compiled over a very long period. And in fact, the oldest psalm In the book of Psalms is, well, we sang, O God, our help in ages past. That's Psalm 90. Who's the writer of Psalm 90? Moses. So that would definitely be the oldest one. Because Moses, you know, is very, very early in the whole period of redemptive history, isn't he? And the newest or the youngest Psalm would be Psalm 126, which would have been written around or after 586. B. C. , it's a post-exilic psalm. It's after the exile, after the Jews were taken away to Babylon and lived there for 70 years. And it tells about that. It says, when the Lord restored the fortunes of Zion, we were like those who dream. When the Lord restored the fortunes, brought them back to Zion. We were like those who dream. Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy. Then they said among the nations, The Lord has done great things for them. So that's post-exilic Psalm. So just because these two psalms are at the beginning does not mean at all that they're the oldest. 90 is the oldest, and 126 is probably the newest. But these two psalms are encapsulated with an inclusio, as it's called in Latin. And it is the inclusio is that Psalm 1 begins with blessed, and Psalm 2 ends with blessed. Psalm 1 begins with blessed are those who walk not in the council of God. And then we get to the end of Psalm 2. Blessed are all who trust in him. So that's an inclusio. It's really intentionally made there to say this is the introduction. These two psalms are the introduction to the book everything in the book of Psalms. They are uh like a paradigm of what we need to do. Well, the sketch of the Psalm itself, in Adam Clark's commentary, he He pointed out that verses one through three are viewed as opposition raised against the kingdom of Christ. Verses four through six as a description of Christ's victory And the confusion of his enemies, verses 7 through 9 as the promulgation of the gospel after his resurrection, and verses 10 through 12 as a call to accept it, because those who reject it Will perish. So we're going to take it that way. Stanza 1 is verses 1 through 3. The world in rebellion. Here it is. Why do the nations rage? The nations. Now, Israel could say, we're not the nations, we're the Jews, we're the Israelites, we're the believers. But God says, why do the nations, the fallen world, why does it rage? And the peoples plot in vain. Like a bunch of ants plotting against you. You're standing there with your hoe and you're about to knock down their anthill and they're all in arms against you. They're shaking their little ant fists against you, right? The people's plot in vain. It's in vain that they plot, right? That little ants there with their ant swords and stuff. Then he says, the kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together. Against Yahweh and against his anointed, his Messiah. That's what anointing means. Saying, and what do they say? They say, off with a off with all the restraints, off with all the rules. Off with all the laws, God. We don't want them. Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. We want to do our own thing our own way. And we don't want God telling us anything. I think we got a bit of that in Luke 19, because he heard these things as part of redemptive history. He proceeded to tell them a parable because he was near to Jerusalem. What was going to happen in Jerusalem? Rebellion against God. Destroying the Lord's anointed. See? And because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately. And then in verse 12 he said, Therefore a nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return? And calling the ten servants, he gave them ten minas and so forth. And we read about that. But then we get down to verse 27. But as for those enemies of mine who did not want me to reign over them. I think that really comes from Psalm 2. Let us burst their bonds and cast away their yokes from us. Cast away their cords. We don't want God to reign over us. us. As for those enemies of mine who did not want me to reign over them, bring them here and slaughter them before me. Well, the current situation in our Western society is that in large part We do not want God and His Word reigning over us. We have these days, make it up as you go, morality and ethics. We have, as someone has described, we have our feet firmly planted in midair, which means they're not firmly planted at all. Moral relativism. And uh the Center for Apologetics and Research Ministry says this about it. Moral relativism is a philosophy that asserts that there is no global, absolute moral law that applies to all people. For all the time and in all places. Instead, an objective moral law it espouses, instead of an objective moral law It espouses a qualified view where morals are concerned, especially in the area of individual moral practice, where personal and situational encounters supposedly dictate the correct moral position. Summing up the relative moral philosophy, Frederick Nietzsche wrote, You have your way, and I have my way. And as for the right way, it does not exist. Feet firmly planted in mid-air. In modern times, the espousal of moral relativism has been closely linked to the theory of evolution. The argument is, in the same way, that humanity has evolved from lesser to greater biological processes in play in the area of morals and ethics. Ethics. Therefore, all that can be ascertained at the present and forever is that there is no absolute Or fixed certainty in the area of morality. And following this argument to its logical conclusion causes consternation among many And even among humanists like Paul Kurtz, who said this, this is the way it ends up, he says, if a man is a product of evolution, one species among others, in a universe without purpose, then man's option is to live for himself. And we could add, make it up as you go, morality. Moral relativism can and often does lead to a complete reversal of values. What used to be isn't anymore. And what was considered good comes to be considered bad, and vice versa. And we get some of that even in the Old Testament, where the prophet Isaiah says to his own people, woe to those who call evil good. See, complete reversal. And good evil. This is Isaiah 5, 20 through 23. Who put darkness for light and light Light for darkness, complete reversal. Do we not have that today? We do. And Jesus said this about moral darkness. In Matthew 6, 22, he said, the eye is the lamp of the body. So if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. This is about morals, you see. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness! That's what we have. Great darkness. Isaiah said, Woe to those who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter, changing things completely around. who put male for female and female for male, reversing the created order And verse 21 of Isaiah 5, woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and shrewd in their own sight. Isn't this clever? just told people that they can change their gender and be whatever they want to be. Woe to those, and again this is simple Symptom is too. Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine and valiant men in mixing strong drink, who acquit the guilty for a bribe. How can they do that? How can they how can Mike makes right. There is no right and wrong. You see. So that's the first stanza one through three, where we have these things happening. Then we get to stanza two, the Father enthroned. Verse 4. He who sits in the heavens laughs. Now this is not humorous laughter. He's not He's not having fun. God isn't he's not, you know, entertained by the humans down there It's the same kind of laugh that we get when the people tried to build the Tower of Babel in Genesis 11. And it's described there in somewhat humorous terms, because they built this big tower that's supposed to reach up to heaven. They're supposed to to make a name for themselves, a monument to themselves in disobedience to God, who said, spread out and fill the earth. They say, we're going to stay together and build a monument. And verse 5, the Lord came down. The Lord actually has to come down to see these silly little people. The Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the children of man had built. So stanza two, he who sits in heaven laughs. The Lord holds them in derision. It's a laughter of mockery, not a laughter of humor. Then in verse 5, he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury. Saying, what is he going to say? To terrify them in his fury. You think you've got it all figured out. You think you can make it up as you go. You think you can rule yourselves and make the rules up any way you want. And God terrifies them in his fury, saying, As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. Now, let me just go back a bit to Genesis. When God created Adam, he was to be the king of the world. He was to be God's man on the scene, God's image bearer. And with Eve, he was to replenish the earth and fill it with godly people who would bear the image of God. everywhere and glorify God everywhere. They were all to be kings and rulers and have dominion over everything. But as you know, that didn't work out too well. But God says now to you silly humans who think you can make it up as you go, who can shake your fist and rebel at me and say to me, I cast off all your yokes and fetters. I'm going to terrify you by saying, As for me, I have set my king, my One and only man, my new Adam, on Zion, my holy hill. And Zion is the center of God's kingdom in the world. It's Jerusalem. Who is this king? We get to stanza three and find out who it is. The Son, God's Son, reigning. And he says, verse 7, I will tell of the decree. The decree. What is that? It's the oracle of God. It's his statement of fact. I will tell of what God has done and what God has said. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Now, what does that mean? Today I have begotten you. Well, in church history, the heretic Arius took it to be a statement that Jesus, there was a time when he didn't exist. That Christ didn't always exist, that the Son was created and didn't have eternal existence. He was just begotten by God, as if he didn't exist and then God caught him. them to exist. That's not what is meant here. Psalm 27 refers to the day. Today The day that Messiah was begotten. I will declare the decree. The Lord has said to me, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten. This is quoted twice in the New Testament. And we can learn about what it means by looking at those passages. In Acts 13, 33, it says, There God has fulfilled the same unto their children, in that he raised Jesus up again, as it is also written in the second Psalm, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee. So what was the what were they preaching? In Acts 13. They were preaching the resurrection of Christ, and they said, this is the fulfillment of Psalm 2. 7, when God said, Today I have begotten you. He was begotten from the dead. He was raised up from death. That is his day of begetting. That is at least a great candidate for it. And Hebrews 1:5. For unto which of the angels said he at any time You are my son, this day have I begotten you. And again I will be a father to him, and he shall be to me a son. So was it just some kind of past day in history or past day in eternity? We don't know, but we go on. Is this the beginning which was referred to in the fourth gospel in John 1? 1. 14, and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. No man has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, which is from the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the Of the only begotten Son of God. So it's not as clear there. John is summarizing and saying that Jesus is the begotten of God. But I think again we can guess the clear meaning of it from Revelation 1:5, where it says there, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness and the first begotten of the dead. And the prince of the kings of the earth, unto him who loved us and washed us from our sins by his own blood. It is pretty clear that the resurrection is the begotting, the begetting of the Son of God. And that's what is meant here in the Psalm Creed of Athanasius, the Son is of the Father alone, not in the phrase, this day, the day of the Lord here. As it is used in the New Testament, it refers to the time of the Roman Empire, so that's the period, the era, the day, and specifically to Christ's resurrection. It is connected to Jesus being called God's Son because Jesus is established as heir to the throne of David and begets the birthright of the eternal reign promised to David when he was raised from the dead. Solomon and his heirs and the prophet Nathan in the Davidic covenant in 2 Samuel 7. 14 and other later prophets all say that. the same. So the begetting is the resurrection of Christ from the dead. That's not what I was taught when I was in Bible school, but I think the biblical evidence affirms I was taught that this was an eternal begetting from all eternity. I think certainly that is true. Christ was always existent from all eternity. But the beginning here is that I have sent my son, he has come in the flesh, and I have put him on Zion, my holy hill, to reign after I have raised him from the dead. And put him in charge of everything. That is his begetting here in history. Now let's go on to um Verse 8, we're still in the same stanza. Ask of me, Jesus is quoting, or the son is quoting, and I will make the nations your heritage, or the father is saying this. and the ends of the earth your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Now, this is a bit more difficult to uh understand. Um does this happen? I think it begins to happen. We read in Matthew when Jesus comes on the scene in Matthew 4, he is out in the wilderness for 40 days, preparing for his ministry. And there the devil tempts him. And it says in Matthew 4, verse 8, and so forth. And again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to him, All these I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. The devil said that. So, in some sense. Because of the fall, and because all humankind, all the nations, are now laboring under the delusion, the false ideas, the whole world has come under the dominion of the of Satan. And in a certain sense, he has the authority to give the whole world to Jesus at that moment, if Jesus will bow down and worship him. Of course he didn't. And even today, or even in the time of the New Testament, 1 John 5, 19 There, John says, We know that we are from God, and that the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. So there is a sense in which, in the coming of Christ, even after the coming of Christ, when John writes that the whole world is still corrupted and lies in the power of the evil one. But that is not the end result, not at all. We see in many passages, one of my favorite passages is Isaiah 2, 2 through 4, which tells about the way God is going to unfold history. When God has set his Son, who he's begotten from the dead, set him on Zion his holy hill, how is he going to And Isaiah says it this way It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains. mountains and it shall be lifted up above the hills. Now please don't take this as some sort of geological upheaval. It is is not. Mountains in the Old Testament in prophecy like this stand for governments, rule and reign. So it shall come in the latter days that the rule of God, his government, his kingdom, his house Shall be established as the highest of all the governments of the world. Lifted up above the hills, the the little governments down there. And all the nations shall flow to it. Because we don't think of things flowing uphill, do we? But the nations are going to flow up to the government of God, to his kingdom, to his mountain. And verse 3, many people shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways, and that we may walk in his path. For out of Zion shall go forth the law and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And then here's the outcome. This is the outcome of Messiah's reason. reign. He shall judge between the nations. He shall decide disputes for many peoples. And they shall beat their swords into plowshare. Your swords which are used for war and destruction and killing are flattened out and made into instruments of agriculture. And their spears into pruning hooks. They're going to prune the apple trees and the fig trees and the olive trees with these former spears. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. We see also the end of Messiah's kingdom in Revelation 7. Verses 9 through 14. After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number of every tribe, from all tribes and peoples and languages. standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands, and crying with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God, saying, Amen. This is a great multitude that no one could number from where? Every nation, every tribe, every language. And they're standing before the throne of God. And they go on to say blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and so forth. And these are they, it says in verse 13. Clothed in white robes, and where have they come from? He says, these are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. Out of the struggle for Messiah's reign, coming through it, coming out of it, the struggle against the world, the flesh, and the devil in this age. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. That is the destiny of Messiah's reign. God says, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will declare the decree of the Lord. This day have I raised you up from the dead. I've begotten you. And you will reign and rule in history. And then we finally get to the last stanza, verses ten through twelve, and so forth. A warning and a promise. Sometimes people will say, if they hear a threatening word from somebody, is that a warning? And the other person will answer back, no, that's a promise. Right? Well, this is a warning and a promise. Now, therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. I have set my king. So you other kings that are in history right now, that have your governments in this big city or that capital You better be warned and be wise, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. And then verse twelve, kiss the sun. Kiss the sun. In Psalm 2 verse 12, kiss the sun. The psalmist primarily has in mind a kiss of submission. A dignitary receiving a humble kiss of an inferior. The inferiors here are told to kiss the son. These inferiors are the kings and rulers of the earth. And no matter how powerful or important a ruler of this world may be, wisdom dictates that he pay reverence to the King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ. Some years ago we used to have family devotions, and the kids would all gather in the basement. We had a basement bedroom and we had a big brass bed down there and the kids would all gather on the brass bed and uh we would have our family devotions. And I remember one particular time we were studying Psalm too. And uh so I was trying to apply it. And at the time President Clinton was in the office of president And I said, What do you say, kids, that President Clinton should do? And they said, President Clinton needs to kiss Jesus. And we can say the same thing of President Obama and President Trump. You better kiss the sun. You better submit to the sun. You better rule according to the rule of the sun. Because you're just a little nothing. And he is set on Zion, his holy hill. He has been begotten from the dead. He rules and he reigns in history, and you better fear, you better watch out, because it goes on to say, lest he be angry. And you perish in the way. For his wrath is quickly kindled. We've seen dictators and rulers come and go in history. and go in the most ignominious ways. The Herod who sought out the baby Jesus, for instance, and the one after him who died full of worms. Right? His wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all, this is the good news, who take refuge in him He is the true king. God has set him up. He rules and reigns. History may not look like it. You know, even in the time of the writing of 1 John, it's the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. And we can see that even in our own culture right now, the world is lying in the power of the evil one. Relativity, moral relativism. But God is ruling and He will rule, and everyone must take refuge. There's no other refuge, no other rock, no other shelter but Christ. I'm going to close with this comment from Jameson Fawcett Brown's Bible commentary. It says in summary, In a most animated and highly poetical style, the writer, in these four stanzas of three verses each, sets forth the inveterate and furious, though futile, As stated more fully by his son, the establishment of the mediatorial kingdom And the imminent danger of all who resist, as well as the blessing of all who welcome this mighty and triumphant King Let us be found to be those who welcome God's King and His reign in our own lives as well as all the world. Amen. Let's let's pray. Lord thank you for your psalm That tells us that you're in charge, absolutely. That you have set your king on Zion, your holy hill, that the world is not subject to futility. You're building your kingdom, and it will result in all the nations coming and multitudes that can't be numbered from every nation and tribe and kindred of people. Bowing before the Lamb and extolling him and worshiping him and saying, blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him who sits on the throne and unto the Lamb. And we pray, Lord, that those who have the authority to govern our land and other nations around the world will kiss the sun. Lest they be destroyed. And they will kiss the Son so that we might be governed well and with justice and with truth and mercy. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.