Romans 9, 16 through 29. Last time I preached in this chapter, we got all the way to verse. 18, but we're going to back up and cover again because we're on the same topic as the last sermon. If you were here for that one, well, you get a a recap. Romans 9, 16 through 29. So then it depends not on human will or exertion But on God who has mercy. For the scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I have raised you up. That I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. So then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. You will say to me then, why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will? But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Will what is molded say to its molder, Why have you made me like this? Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use? What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction? In order to make known the riches of his glory, for vessels of mercy which he has prepared beforehand for glory. Even us whom He has called not from Jews only, but also from Gentiles As indeed he says in Hosea, those who were not my people, I will call my people. And her who was not beloved, I will call beloved. And in the very place where it was said to them, You are not my people, there they will be called sons of the living God. And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel, though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will be saved. For the Lord will carry out his sentence upon the earth fully and without delay. And as Isaiah predicted, If the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring, we would have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray now, Lord, as we Come to this mysterious portion of your word. We pray that you'll help us to understand what the apostle was saying, what the Holy Spirit was saying through him. and be able to apply it in our own situation these 2,000 years later. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, up to this point in Romans, the Apostle Paul has explained the good news of salvation in Christ, which is by faith alone. Without any works. He has drilled down deep in the Hebrew scriptures to prove that Jesus is the Messiah, the Christ. He has begun to deal with objections which he anticipates, or some of which he may have actually heard from listeners when he went out and preached in synagogues in various places. The first objection in the form of a question is this one. If Jesus Really is the Messiah, the long-expected Savior promised in the Scriptures. Why have the Jews not accepted him? Well, he's given an answer so far in Romans chapter 9. The answer is unconditional election. This has been Paul's basic answer to the question. Unconditional means that God's choice is not based on any condition in the object of election. We elect to buy this car and not that car based on conditions. How many miles does it have? Or is it brand new? Or how much does it cost? Or what color is it? We elect to buy this car or that based on various conditions. But this is an unconditional election, he's telling us. Not the response of the individual makes the difference, but upon God's will alone. In fact, he tells us that the response and character of the human person Far from being in condition for choosing them, actually is something that follows after they are chosen. It does not bring forth God's choice of them, but because God chose them, they Behave and change and become certain things. This is an awesome and very mysterious doctrine. It humbles humans That's why many, many people do not like it. We have wanted to be in charge, like God. Ever since Satan offered that opportunity, that lie in the Garden of Eden, you can be like God. And Adam and Eve took the bait. So, this mysterious and awesome doctrine exalts God. It humbles humans. But back to the specific question at hand. If Jesus is the Messiah, why have the Jews not accepted him? And Paul says in his answers, although Israel is the chosen, so there's that word elect again, they are the chosen nation, he says Not all who call themselves chosen Israel are really chosen by God to be given the gift of faith that brings salvation. He gave us examples in the previous preaching, in the previous verses. He gave us the case of Ishmael and Isaac. Where Ishmael was not the spiritual heir, but Isaac was chosen. Then he gave The example of Jacob and Esau, twin brothers from the same father and mother. One, Esau, was not chosen. In God's purposes. But Jacob was chosen. And Jacob wasn't a really great guy. The truth is, they were both sinners. Esau was sensual and worldly minded, but Jacob was a schemer and a deceiver. I don't know which is worse. But one was chosen and the other was not chosen. What made the difference? Not their character, not their deeds. God's choice alone. In fact, Paul makes the point that before they had done anything, good or bad, God had already made his choice. And so now we come back to verse 16. So then it depends, he says, not on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy. There it is. Plain as day. Who could dispute it? Mercy is the difference. God has mercy on some undeserving sinners. Everyone who has been born since Adam needs mercy, except one person, Jesus. He did not need mercy because he never sinned. Today, as we move forward, there is more argumentation, very typical of the way rabbis did things. They discussed things by arguing, sometimes with a imaginary opponent, sometimes in real time with an opponent. And he's saying here today, beginning in verse 17, that God has the right to do whatever he wills to do with equally undeserving sinners, whether they are Jew or Gentile. Verse 17. For the scripture says to Pharaoh, he's a Gentile. The Scripture says to Pharaoh, for this very purpose I have raised you up. that I might show my power in you and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth And then he says in conclusion in verse 18, so then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. Now let's look back at this situation. The Pharaoh of Egypt, during Moses' time, was born and raised an idolater. He was exposed to Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews, since the Hebrews lived in the land and retained some of the features of their religion even after 400 years. I'm sure that he was aware of such things as the Sabbath and certain principles of the worship of Yahweh. Because it was his job to know these things about the people were under his control. He knew something of their history. But now, more lately, because Moses had come and spoken to him, he had the benefit of hearing directly from Moses and Aaron about Yahweh, the God of the Hebrews. But he was not impressed. Even when great miracles were performed. Overthrowing and disgracing all the gods of the Egyptians. Pharaoh was unmoved. No repentance, no turning to Yahweh. He was destined, you see, to stay a pagan. And he stayed a pagan. And God was duly glorified in his eventual ruin. That's what Paul is telling us Listen to the victory song that was sung after he was ruined. Glorifying God. Listen to it from Exodus 15, 1 through 10. Listen, then Moses and the people of Israel sang this song to the Lord, saying, I will sing to the Lord, for he is triumphant gloriously, the horse and his rider he is thrown into the sea. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him. My Father's God and I will exalt him. The Lord is a man of war. The Lord is his name. Pharaoh's chariots and his hosts he cast into the sea. And his chosen officers were sunk in the Red Sea. The floods covered them. They went down into the depths like a stone Your right hand, O Yahweh, glorious in power. Your right hand, O Yahweh, shatters the enemy. In the greatness of your majesty, you overthrow your adversaries You send out your fury, it consumes them like stubble, the blast of your nostrils, the waters piled up, the flood stood up in a heap, the deep congealed in the heart of the sea The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil. My desire shall have its fill of them. I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them. You blew with your wind. The sea covered them. They sank like lead in the mighty waters. That's a glorifying of God, Yahweh, the Creator, the King, over Pharaoh Who was destined for this, to glorify God, you see. That's what Paul's saying. I wouldn't make it up But God has the right to do what he wants with sinners. He owes them nothing but justice. And this was justice. And then we get to verse 19, where we see the apostle teaching us that sinners do not have the right to challenge God. Verse 19. You will say to me then, why does he still find fault for who can resist his will? He's so sovereign that you have to do what he has decreed for you to do. So why does he find any fault with those who do what he decreed them to do? That's a very logical question. It certainly proves that he was really teaching the absolute sovereignty of God, doesn't it? What is Paul's answer? It's kind of like the answer that my mother and father gave me when I was a little boy, and I would say, why, why, why, why? And finally they would say, because I said so. Well, Paul gives an answer, and it's not really an answer, because in verse 20 he says, But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Will what is molded say to its molder, why have you made me like this? Paul doesn't actually answer. Instead, he says, Remember your place. God's ways are, as stated in Romans 11, which we haven't gotten to yet, unsearchable. There he says, Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable. Are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways? For who has known the mind of our Lord, or who has been his counselor? You're not going to be God's counselor. And then he doubles down on this idea in verse 21. He says, Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel for honorable use? And another for dishonorable use. One vessel to be glazed beautifully and placed in the middle of a table with maybe flowers. Another vessel for storing grease or something The implied answer is God does have the right to do what he does with sinners. Not everyone agrees, however. William Barclay. Who should have known better? William Barclay, you may have his commentary set. A lot of people do. William Barclay, famous Church of Scotland minister and scholar, he's now gone on, he says about this analogy of the Apostle Paul, he says it is a bad analogy. And then he quotes with approval another New Testament scholar saying, quote, This is one of the very few passages which we wish Paul had not written. Hmm. Then he goes on and he says this, objecting to the analogy of the potter and the clay. There is a difference between a human being and a lump of clay. A human being is a person, and a lump of clay is a thing. Maybe you can do what you like with a thing, but you cannot do what you like with a person. Clay does not desire to answer back, does not desire to question, cannot think and feel, cannot be bewildered and tortured If someone has inexplicably suffered some tremendous sorrow, it will not help much to tell him that he has no right to complain because God can do what he likes. That is a mark of a tyrant, not a loving father. What Barclay has done is change the subject. He was busy exploring the text, but he didn't like that, so he changed the subject. He pushes aside the fact that the analogy is about equally deserving sinners And God's right to have mercy on one from the same sinful lump and to leave the other unchanged on his or her way to destruction. He has the right to do what he wants. And sadly, Barclay would answer back to God and accuse God of being unfair to innocent persons. But these aren't innocent persons. You know, the Apostle Paul didn't make up this analogy, by the way. Barclay seems to miss that fact. The Apostle Paul did not come up with this out of his rabbinical skull. He got it from places like this, Isaiah 29, 15 and 16, where it says, Ah, you who hide deep from the Lord your counsel, whose deeds are in the dark, who say, Who sees us, who knows us? You turn things upside down. And then he says, Shall the potter be regarded as the clay? That the thing made should say of its maker, He did not make me? Or the thing formed say of him who formed it, He has no understanding? Isaiah was saying that people were living and operating as if they could hide their deeds from God, and they had become so foolish as to think they were ultimately in charge of their destiny. And he uses the analogy of the potter and the clay. Another one, Isaiah 45, 9. Listen to this one. Woe to him who strives with him who formed him, a pot among earthen pots. Does the clay say to him who forms it, What are you making? Or Your work has no handles? You see, Paul didn't come up with this. It was already in the text. And Barclay forgets that these are not innocent human beings. That's his basic mistake here. These are lumps of God-hating, rebellious humanity who shake their fists at God. And say, as we sung in Psalm 2, we will not have this God rule over us. Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. These beings, the vessels of mercy and the vessels of wrath, are both from the same human lump of clay. And members of that lump, we all are. Members of that lump, during Jesus' earthly sojourn When they were given the choice of having a murderer released to them as a free man to live among them, or having Jesus released to them, did what? What did they do? They chose Barabbas to be released. And when Pilate asked them what he should do with Jesus, they cried out, Crucify him! You see, that's the lump of clay that we all are part of. See. That is why Paul says in Romans 3, verses 10 through 18, He piles words and phrases and scriptures together. He says, as it is written, none is righteous, not even one. No one understands, no one seeks for God. All have turned aside together, they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open gray, they use their tongues to deceive. The venom of asps is under their lips Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, in their paths are ruin and misery, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes Wow. So then Paul goes on in verse 22, and he's going to add to this discussion about Pharaoh. What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction? In order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory. Notice what he says about patience here God was being patient with vessels of wrath. He was being patient with Pharaoh, even though he's going to ruin him. People mistake God's patience. They mistake God's patience as approval. They do things they know are evil. things forbidden in the Bible. And when nothing bad happens, they conclude that God must be okay with it. Others fail to do what God requires, and when the roof doesn't leak or the car doesn't break down, they assume it must be a mark of God's favor that they have omitted to do what God says. Actually, it's not. It's God's patience. That's all it is. Patience. Patience. Patience that will come to an end. As it did with Pharaoh. Jesus told a parable in Matthew 13, the parable of the weeds in God's wheat field. He says, so the servant said to him, then do you want us to go and gather them up? There were weeds and wheat growing together in the field. But he said, no, lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat along with them. Let them both grow together until the harvest. That's patience. And at the harvest time, I will tell the reapers, gather the weeds first and bind them in bundles to be burned. But gather the wheat into my barn. That's painful. He lets them grow together until the harvest. And then he says, Paul says in verse 24. He's he says that in verse twenty-two and twenty-three, he's prepared with much patience vessels for wrath, and he's also prepared vessels for mercy. And then he says about those who are listening to him, who are reading this epistle. He says, even us, mercy vessels, even us, whom he has called, not from Jews only, but also from Gentiles. Paul was wondrously aware of the fact that God had been merciful to Jews, but also merciful to Gentiles. And he was very happy to proclaim that. This was, by the way, something once very unthinkable: that Gentiles could become God's people. It came as a surprise to Paul. But he was convinced of it. Peter had to be given a special vision to be convinced of it, but he became convinced of it. So with that Jewish question, why did the Jews not believe? What with that still in mind we come finally to another answer? It was God's purpose. That at that time only a remnant of Israel was to be saved. It was God's purpose. And he says it in verses 25 and 26. As he indeed says in Hosea, those who were not my people, I will call my people, and her who was not beloved, I will call beloved. And in the very place where it was said to them, you are not my people, there they will be called the sons of a living God. And what he's saying here in this illustration. God is able to choose and make those who were not his people, the Gentiles in particular. He's able to make those who were not his people by sinful nature into his beloved people by sovereign choice. Now the illustration that he's given here is a citation from the prophet Hosea, and it's a story from the time when the northern tribes of Israel had rejected Yahweh, their God. And he had rejected them for their spiritual adultery. It was a time in Israel's history when God disowned his people and divorced them for adultery. But not all and not forever. Here he declares that he is able to remake them into his faithful wife by his sovereign grace. In the story that he's citing, the story of Hosea and Gomer, that's an interesting name for a lady, but in the story of Hosea and Gomer, it does not happen that Gomer commends herself to Hosea by repenting and asking to be restored to the marriage. Not at all. Here's what happened. Hosea, after Gomer was ruined and polluted beyond repair, bought her at a slave auction and took her back as his wife. She was chosen despite her behavior, which goes to the main point that Paul's been making here. And then he caps it off in verse 27, as Isaiah cries out concerning Israel, though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sand of the sea, only a remnant, a chosen remnant. Will be saved. For the Lord will carry out his sentence upon the earth fully and without delay, as Isaiah predicted If the Lord of hosts had not left us offspring, we would have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah. This is another quote from Isaiah. And he's saying. That God will preserve and elect offspring of his chosen people by sovereign mercy. But notice this. If God had not chosen to save some from among the Israelites, what would have been their fate? The fate of Sodom and Gomorrah. Which is told to us in Genesis 19, where it says, The sun had risen on the earth and Lot came to Zoar, then the Lord rained on Sodom and Gomorrah, sulphur and fire from the Lord out of heaven. And he overthrew those cities, and all the valley, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and what grew on the ground And Abram went in the early morning to the place where he had stood before the Lord, and he looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the valley, and he looked, and behold, the smoke of that land went up like the smoke of a furnace. That's what we're all destined to without mercy. Folks, you and I are sinners. He's bringing these illustrations to bear. You and I are sinners. We are from the same lump of clay that our father Adam was from when he became a sinner in the Garden of Eden. But then we see a great thing. Romans 5. Going backward now, Romans 5, 8 through 11. Even though we are from that same sinful lump of clay. Verse 5, chapter 5, verse 8. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by his life. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. That good news of God's sovereign mercy to some of his undeserving lump of clay people should always be remembered, even in this context. The question at hand was, if Jesus is the Messiah, the long-expected Savior, why have the Jews not accepted him? And the answer, as I said earlier, is That God's election of certain persons is not always tied to God's national choice of Israel. Some Israelites are to be saved by God's choice while others are not. And the same is It's true of Gentiles. God has the absolute right to save some, making them vessels of honor for the display of his mercy. and to leave others in their present condition as being vessels for wrath to display his glorious justice. So Paul's illustrations from the Old Testament prophets make it clear that God has absolute sovereignty over all people, like it or not. And that he is perfectly just and right to save none. Did you hear that? He is perfectly just and right to save None, not even one. But Paul also sees in the history of Israel, in the message of the prophets, great hope. Hope that God will yet save many, Jews as well as Gentiles. And when he does save, as Paul will yet explain in the next chapter, it is through the proclamation, here's how he does it, through the proclamation of a sincere offer to all. An offer is being made to all people who hear the good news of Jesus Christ. The offer comes again to you today. The good news offer is that God became a human through the Virgin Mary. He was God the Son, who lived a perfect life among sinners and for the sake of sinners. And God the Son, Jesus, died as a sacrifice in the place of sinners. And God even now offers to forgive those who come to Him through Jesus. You don't have to figure out this mystery of election and predestination and solve it and get it all resolved in your mind. This is what you're responsible for. Come to Jesus. God offers to forgive those who come to Him through Jesus. Some will say nonsense. Ridiculous. I don't need it. I don't want it. I don't believe it. I insist on being in charge. Others by God's grace operating in them will say, Lord, have mercy upon me, a sinner. I repent and turn to Christ for deliverance from God's wrath Which are you? Amen. Lord, we thank you that you are Sovereign because if we were left to ourselves, we would become like Sodom and Gomorrah. We would come become like Pharaoh and his armies sinking in the sea like lead But you are gracious and kind to save a great multitude. As the book of Revelation says, a vast multitude that cannot be numbered from every tribe and nation and kindred of people. And we believe that we have been given that gift of grace and faith and are saved by Christ. Anyone here, Lord, who does not know you, please we ask you to open their heart to believe and to say, Lord, have mercy upon me, a sinner Amen