We have two Old Testament readings this morning. The first one is from the book of Genesis, where we will read chapter 15. Genesis chapter 15. Hear now God's word. After these things, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision. Fear not, Abram, I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. But Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me? For I continue childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will be my heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him. This man shall not be your heir. Your very own son shall be your heir. And he brought him outside and said, Look toward heaven and number the stars if you are able to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. And he said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess. But he said, O Lord God, how am I to know that I shall possess it? He said to him, Bring me a heifer, three years old, a female goat, three years old, a ram, three years old, and a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. And he brought him all these, cut them in half, and laid each half over against the other. But he did not cut the birds in half. And when birds of prey came down on the carcasses, Abram drove them away. As the sun was going down A deep sleep fell on Abram, and behold, dreadful and great darkness fell upon him Then the Lord said to Abram, Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs, and will be servants there, and they will be afflicted for four hundred years. But I will bring judgment on the nation that they serve, and afterward they shall come out with great possessions. As for yourself, you shall go to your fathers in peace. You shall be buried in a good old age. And they shall come back here in the fourth generation, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. When the sun had gone down and it was dark, behold, a smoking firepot and a flaming torch passed between these pieces. On that day, the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your offspring I give this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates, the land of the Kenites. The Kenesites, the Kadmonites, the Hittites, the Perizites, the Rephaim, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Gergeshites, and the Jebusites Now we will turn to the book of Isaiah. We will read Isaiah chapter 53. Isaiah chapter 53. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned, every one, to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that is before its shearers silent So he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living Stricken for the transgression of my people, and they made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring, he shall prolong his days. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous and he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death, and was numbered with the transgressors. Yet he bore the sin of many and makes intercession for the transgressors. This is the word of the Lord. Just a note on worship. We sing a psalm or a canticle in between the Old and New Testament readings. This is the scripture focus portion. of our worship. And then we preach God's word thereafter. So now we go to hear the New Testament. And the reading is Mark 15, 33-39 And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, Eloy, Eloi, Lemma Sabaktenai. Which means, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And some of the bystanders, hearing it, said, Behold, he is calling Elijah. And someone ran and filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink, saying, Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to take him down. And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And when the centurion, who stood facing him Saw that in this way he breathed his last, he said, Truly, this man was the Son of God. The word of the Lord, let us pray. Lord, now as we approach this narrative of Genesis 15, Send your Holy Spirit to illumine the word which you have caused to be written down and preserved so that we could read it and hear it read today. May we hear your voice, O Christ, from the preaching of your word. Amen. So we're going to jump right in. And we're going to hear verse 1 of chapter 15. After these things, what things? That was the rescue of Lot from the kings that had taken him captive. And then the rising up of Abram to take control of the situation and to recover the lost ones. After all those difficult things happened, the word of Yahweh came to Abram in a vision. And what did he say? Fear not, Abram. I am your shield. Your reward shall be very great. The implication of saying, fear not, was that Abram might have been afraid at this point. Remember the four kings that he and his small force of only 318 men uh had had routed, had chased out of the country, they might go home and gather a much larger army So this word of God coming at this moment helps Abram, and God says, I am your shield. You need a shield. When you're afraid, you need some sense that God is with you and that He's going to take care of you. That's what God said to Him. I am your shield, your He says this secondary thing, your reward. Shall be great. And so I think what happens here is he hears that as Abram hears this This comforting word, fear not, I'm going to take care of you. Then he brings up this thing that he has said before. God has said, you got the whole land, and I'm going to give you a sheed and all that. And your reward shall be very great. And I think what Abram does here is he says, oh, by the way, Lord, about rewards. Um what about that sun that you promised me? Huh? I I appreciate the word of the shield but and the reward but What about the son that you promised me? I still don't have that one. And so what Abram really says in verse 2 is, O Lord God, what will you give me? For I continue childless. And the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, take a look, Lord, you have given me no seed, no offspring, and a member of my household will be my heir. What's he doing here? He's complaining. It's reverent, no doubt, but it is complaint. And I think it's perfectly okay sometimes in reverence to hold God to his word. And when you don't have it yet. Without being irreverent and accusing God, it's okay to say, please give me what you promised. I have this complaint. I still don't have what you promised me. And what he says here is, it looks like to me that I'm going to have to give my inheritance to my servant according to the customs of the day. Your servant, if you had no other children, was your household. That was your heir. And that was normal if you had no others. Your servant would be your adopted, and that adopted son would be your son and your heir And what does God say in response to this question, this complaint of sorts? Verse 4: And behold, the word of Yahweh came to him. This man shall not be your heir. Your very own son shall be your heir. God now reiterates the promise that he had made earlier. We're going to have a son, an innumerable seed through that sun. And what God then says is really wonderful. He he doubles down, triples down, quadruples down on the promise. He says, let's go outside. Let me show you something. Verse 5. He brought him outside and said, Look toward heaven and number the stars if you're able to number them. Now that's that's really hyperbole, isn't it? Now, you and I here in a metropolitan kind of area with lots of lights on and and street lights and all these things, business lights, we don't see very many stars at night. Do we? Maybe if you live up in the north end of the county where there's not so much commerce, so many lights, you might see a lot more lights, but At this time, everybody would have their lights out already, and there's no light, and you see every star in the sky, and there are millions of them Let's take a walk outside. And he says, look up and count if you can. And of course you can't, because there are millions of them. And he said to him, So shall your offspring be. It's going to come from your own son, your own body, your own wife. Well, he's going to wonder about that too later, but so shall your offspring be. And then we have this next phrase. Verse 6 that the that Moses is telling us. It's parenthetical, I believe. And he says, and he believed Yahweh, and he counted it to him as righteousness. This is a phrase characterizing the whole faith of Abram at this point and at other points. This is a parenthetical statement of Yahweh's basic faith stance. He believed Yahweh. He believed Yahweh. And then we have this phrase repeatedly quoted in the New Testament to prove the doctrine of justification by faith Abram was justified. He was counted righteous before God on the basis of faith. Faith was not a merit. He didn't merit God's righteousness by faith But God used faith as an instrument to give to him the righteousness that God would provide through Christ. And so it's put here as a as a non-sequential, but capsulizing his whole life of faith. And I want to say this to you. Faith is always possible when God speaks. Faith is always an option. It's always possible when God speaks. Not because we are such easy believers. That's the opposite, actually. But because God is sovereign. And when God speaks Faith is a real possibility because God is able to overcome our opposing doubts and fears and rejection and unbelief, and He's able to give us the gift of faith. As Paul says in Ephesians, by grace you were saved through faith, and that not of yourself. You didn't come up with it. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast, patting themselves on the back for having faith. No, it's a gift of God. And so faith is always possible when God speaks. Because God is sovereign. He's able to bring faith into our into ourselves so that we, so that you believe his word. But still, because we are finite and fallen, doubts can remain even when faith is present. Someone has said, and I quote here, the church is not a society where everyone lives in perpetual certainty of the faith. But where we have been convinced that our doubting nature cannot be trusted in the light of what God has faithfully done in history. Faith trumps doubt. Evidence wins out over skepticism Again, let me just say it. Faith is a gift of God, and the church is not a society where everyone lives in perpetual certainty, but where we have been convinced that our doubting cannot be trusted. In the light of what God has done in history. It's an apologetic When we look around and count everything that God has done, it's an apologetic. I must believe what God says. Because look what he's done. Look at his faithfulness to what he says Therefore, why should I doubt? I cannot hold on to my doubts and reject his word in unbelief. And then in verse 7, let's go on to verse 7, he said to him, I am Yahweh who brought you out from the from Ur of the Chaldeans. That's the beginning of Abram's history. Back in chapter 12. To give you this land to possess. But Abram, being who he is, says, I need help, Lord, I need some help here. I've been following you, I've been listening to you, I've been going through the land, I've been believing your words, but I need some help here. He says in verse 8, O Lord God, how am I to know that I shall possess it? You see here, doubt is always possible, too. Doubters are welcome in the church. Two aspects of doubt about what God says here. The first aspect, how do I know that you will do what you say I haven't seen it yet? And then secondly, how do I know that I will be good enough and obedient enough? I'm very likely to fail on my part. How do I know this will actually happen? Because because I haven't seen it and because I might mess it up and then it won't happen. And so Abram asks for some evidence so that he can grab on to this promise. And what does God do in response? Something absolutely amazing. He performs a ritual drama. That we call the covenant, the cutting of the covenant. Now Kings in the Middle East and the Near East made covenants like this with vassals, that is, underlings. A vassal is one who enters into mutual obligations with a king. Usually, what is being promised from the king is military support and mutual protection. in exchange for certain guarantees which came to include terrain held. I'll let you live here and operate here and do these things. if you will keep my covenant with you here. And we see an example of this, by the way, in mention in Jeremiah 34, verse 18 Where it says there, and the men who transgressed my covenant and did not keep the terms of the covenant that they made before me I will make them like the calf that they cut in two and pass between its parts. You see, there's a a reference to a covenant that had been made, and what had happened there was a calf had been cut in two. One part laid over against the other, and then both parties walked between the parts. It's being described there in Jeremiah 34. And so to make a covenant in Hebrew is literally to cut a covenant, because something gets cut in half. And what is happening in that cutting of the covenant and that walking between the parts is what we call malediction. Malediction. And malediction is saying, in effect, as we walk between these parts, may this happen to me. This thing that happened to this calf or these animals, may this happen to me if I do not keep the covenant So God does this here. He does this drama. Verse 9. He said to him, bring me a heifer, three years old. A female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. Now, I don't know exactly why all these particular animals, I don't know if they all have a theological significance. I haven't dug that deep on it. Verse 10, and he brought him all these and cut them in half, and laid each half over against the other, but he did not cut the birds in half. And when the birds of prey came down upon the carcasses, Abram got up and drove them away. And then verse 12: As the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram. And behold, dreadful and great darkness fell upon him. I think there is theological significance there. Great darkness. Everywhere in the Bible that you have great darkness, it's a depiction of judgment. It's a revelation of the future that's going to be given here, and that can be dreadful, but it can also be reassuring. This particular revelation was given to confirm God's faithfulness for future generations as this great Darkness descended. God now says in verse 13 Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs. and will be servants there, and they will be afflicted for four hundred years. But I will bring judgment on the nation that they serve, and afterward they shall go out with great possessions And as for yourself, you shall go to your fathers in peace. You shall be buried in a good old age, and they shall come back here in the fourth generation, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. God is revealing the future to Abram as he's had this darkness descend upon him. In Genesis 15, 17, when the sun had gone down and it was dark, smoking firepot and flaming torch passed between these pieces. Now, where else do you see such things? The smoke and the fire would be seen again when Moses encountered the Lord later on in the burning bush. Smoke and fire. And he's been given a commission to deliver the Israelites. That was promised here, by the way. And then the smoke and fire would be seen again when God's people were led out of Egypt. A cloud and fiery pillar would be seen. And then smoke and fire would be seen again on the top of Mount Sinai, where Moses would receive the ten words of the covenant. But here's the great surprise. Here's the great surprise. It was it was the Lord who passed between the pieces of the animals that were cut in half. By the way In these kind of covenants in the ancient Near East, most kings would not go through the pieces with the vassals Because the kings held all the cards. They would say, here's the dead animals. Now you walk between, and you promise to keep the words of the covenant. In an ordinary covenant, a king says to the vassal, May you be cut off and destroyed like these animals if you do not keep your promise. And now think about maybe a better covenant, an extraordinary covenant, where each King, maybe two kings are having this covenant ceremony, and each king walks together mutually and says to one another, may I be cut off and destroyed if I do not keep my part of the covenant promise. But here's God doing it all by himself. He's the one walking between the halves. Abram's been put over here in darkness and he's been put under asleep. And he just has this vision of God walking through this smoking pot and flaming torch. How could God make such a covenant? How could God ever become mortal? How could the infinite become finite? How could the immutable become mutable and walk between the passage? Animals have. How could God ever be torn and cut off and have his blood spilled on the ground? How could that be? Abram was not required to walk between the animal carcasses. So have what we have here is an unheard of. Extraordinary thing going on. Where God says, listen, God says I alone will assume the terms of the covenant if you fail. Remember what Abram had said? How do I know that's going to happen? I might mess it up. And God says, okay, I'm going to walk between the halves of the animals. And I promise that if you fail, I will die. I will be torn apart. You get that? That's extraordinary. May I be cut off and destroyed if you do not keep the covenant promise. Very unusual. And that's exactly, by the way, what God did. I don't know that Abram could have possibly figured it out to know anything about that. How could that ever happen? That God, the infinite, could could actually die for man's failure But we read it in Isaiah. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. We esteemed him God stricken, smitten, and afflicted. He was wounded for our transgressions. He, God the Son, was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. and with his stripes we are healed. And then at the end of that passage, he poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the transgressors. Who would transgress the covenant? Abram would. But who would be numbered with the transgressors? God the Son would. And that's what's being promised here in this amazing covenant drama. To assure Abram of what God says. And we see it in the reading of the gospel that was heard earlier. Especially in Mark chapter 15, verse 33. And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness. We've heard about darkness already in this passage. There was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice. Eloy Eloy Lamasabactanai, which means, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Christ was destroyed. Because of our failure to keep the covenant. He was cut off, as Isaiah says He was torn, as we have recorded in John 19, 34. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. He was torn. For us. Some of you may think that you're on good terms with God, but you are not by yourself. You may think that God has done his part by making you an offer and a reward if you do good things. That is not the gospel. You will never succeed in doing the good things. And that's what made Abram afraid. He wouldn't do the good things. The message of the Bible is That God has done it for you. God has done it for you. That's this wonderful passage, this amazing covenant-cutting ceremony. And we see it reflected in passages like Romans 3, where Paul says, there is none righteous, not even one. No one understands, not even Abram. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good. Not even one. God rejects the offer of sinners who think they're good enough. God rejects that offer because instead of telling us to be good, he sent his one and only son who is good. And who was willing to go to the cross, who was willing to die to keep the terms of the covenant instead of us. That is the good news. When we come to this table as we do each Lord's Day, brothers and sisters, when you see the bread broken. When I break that loaf in half, think of the body of Jesus being torn because you didn't keep the covenant. When you receive a piece of that torn bread, think of the fact that he had to be torn in order to give you life, in order to sustain you against the judgment of God. And remember that he loved you so much that he was willing to come down and do that for you. And when the cup is poured and received, remember that his blood was poured out to ratify the covenant. This covenant that is enacted in Genesis 15. And remember what Jesus said at the table with his disciples. This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Now let's go on. Verse 18. On that day In that moment the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your offspring I give this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates. The land of the Kenites, the Kenizites, the Kadmonites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaeim, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Gergeshites, and Najebusites You can know it now. Because I promise that if you fail, I will assume the curses of the covenant myself You can know it for sure. The promises of the land would promote faith for future Israelites who would face the unsurmountable odds of winning over against powerful foes when Israel returned to Canaan after being in Egypt for 400 years, which was predicted here. But how much more you and I, we have seen the Lord's Christ already. We have seen his incarnation. The immortal became mortal. The immutable took on human flesh. The infinite became finite. You have seen his life, the light shining in the darkness of judgment. You have seen his death on the cross. the darkness of being cut off, torn, forsaken, so that we never need face that penalty. You have seen his resurrection in the witness of Skeptical, doubting disciples. You have seen his ascension and heard his words, where he said, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore go and make disciples. And you can know that he's going to fulfill that promise, that all authority has been given to him, just as he fulfilled the promise to Abram. And gave him these things to assure him of it. And therefore you can make disciples. The church can make disciples. We can make disciples of all nations. And we can know that the kingdoms of this world have become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. Because he has done these things for us. Doubts are always possible, aren't they? Especially doubts about yourself. But believe God. Believe God's word. Believe God's Christ. And God credits it to you as perfect righteousness. And one final bit of application. This is a bit of psychology, a little bit of counseling here. When you really understand what God has done for you, it will begin to transform your perspective on everything. You have to be reminded of this because you forget. But when you deeply understand these things that God has done for you, you won't worry so much about what others think. Because you will have God's promise of unilateral acceptance. You may be criticized, and it may even fit sometimes. And it may sting, but it will not destroy you. Because you know who God is and what God has said to you. It'll be a blow to the branches, but it will not be cutting the root. And you will also be able to forgive others, since you will no longer build your self-esteem on being better than others. And holding grudges, but on God's verdict that you were righteous by faith in Christ. And you will conclude that if God forgave others, if God forgave you, I should say, you ought to forgive others. So this reality that we're talking about today makes you at once humble because you are a sinner for whom Christ had to die And it also makes you boldly confident at the same time because you are an accepted saint for whom Christ was willing to die. And that new covenant issues in the new commandment that God gave, that Christ gave, when he said, a new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you are also to love one another. By this all people will know that you're my disciples if you have love for one another. So I hope you see how marvelous is this promise of God, this work of God in securing for us doubting, weak, failing sinners. For securing for us acceptance, justification, peace with God that flows out into forgiveness for others around us Believe this good news of the unilateral covenant of God, of God saying As we now will sing soon, he by himself hath sworn. I on his oath depend. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Let us pray. Father, give us faith to say. He by himself has sworn. I on his oath depend I shall on eagle's wings upborne to heaven ascend. I shall behold his face. I shall his power adore, and sing the wonders of his grace forevermore. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.