Please open your Bibles to Genesis 28, 10 through 17. Jacob left Bathsheba and went toward Haran. And he came to a certain place and stayed there that night, because the sun had set. Taking one of the stones of the place he put it under his head and lay down in a place that and that place to sleep And he dreamed, and behold, there was a ladder set up on the earth, and on top of it reached, and the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord, the God of Abraham your father, and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie I will give to you and to your offspring. Your offspring shall be like the dust of the earth, and you shall spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south And in you and your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go. and will bring you back to this land, for I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you. Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it. And he was afraid and said, How awesome is this place. This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of hell. Heaven The Word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Genesis twenty seven, eighteen through twenty-nine So he went into his father and said, My father, and he said, Here I am. Who are you, my son? Jacob said to his father, I am Esau, your firstborn. I have done as you told me. Now sit up and eat my game, that your soul may bless me. But Isaac said to his son, How is it that you have found it so quickly, my son? He answered, Because the Lord God granted me a success. Then Isaac said to Jacob, Please come near that I may feel you, my son, to know whether you really are my son, Esau, or not. So Jacob went near to Isaac, his father, who felt him and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau. And he did not recognize him because his hands were hairy, like his brother Esau's hands. So he blessed him. And he said, Are you really my son Esau? He answered, I am. Then he said, Bring it near to me, so that I may eat of my son's game and bless you. So he brought it near to him, and he ate, and he brought him wine, and he drank. Then his father Isaac said to him, Come near and kiss me, my son. So he came near and kissed him, and Isaac smelled the smell of his garments and blessed him and said, See the smell of my son as is the smell of the field, the Lord has blessed. May God give of give you of the dew of heaven and of the fatness of the earth, and plenty of grain and wine. Let people serve you, and nations bow down to you. Be Lord over your brothers, and may your mother's sons bow down to you. Cursed be every one who curses you. And blessed be everyone who blesses you. And then the Reading in the next chapter was the story of Jacob uh at Bethel, where he saw the ladder from heaven and uh Saw the vision of the angels coming and going on this ladder. Now let us turn to John chapter 1. This will be the text for preaching. John chapter 1, 35 through 51. The next day, John was standing with two of his disciples, and he looked at Jesus as he walked by and said, Behold, the Lamb of God. The two disciples heard him say this, and they followed Jesus. Jesus turned and saw them following and said to them, What are you seeking? And they said to him, Rabbi, which means teacher, where are you staying? And he said to them, Come and you will see So they came and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour. One of the two who heard John speak and follow Jesus was Andrew Simon Peter's brother. He first found his own brother, Simon, and said to him, We have found the Messiah, which means Christ. He also brought him to Jesus. And Jesus looked at him and said, So you are Simon, the son of John. You shall be called Cephas, which means Peter. The next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. He found Philip and said to him, Follow me. Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter. Philip found Nathanael and said to him, We have found him of whom Moses in the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. Nathanael said to him, Can anything good come out of Nazareth? Philip said to him, Come and see. Jesus saw Nathaniel coming toward him and said of him, Behold, an Israelite in whom there is no deceit. Nathanael said to him, How do you know me? Jesus answered him, Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. Nathaniel answered him, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. Jesus answered him, Because I said to you, I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You will see greater things than these. And he said to him, Truly, truly I say to you You will see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be Let's pray together. Oh Lord, illumine our hearts and minds by your Spirit that we may understand this your word. Help us to be free of other thoughts, distracting things, so that we might focus on this your word and lay it up in our hearts. Put it to use and practice in our lives. And so be your disciples. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So we're going to take these passages where Jesus is calling his disciples, the first disciples. First, we have these three disciples. Two are named and one is unnamed. In verse 35, the next day John was standing with two of his disciples, that is, John the Baptist. has disciples, he has followers, he has those who are staying with him. And uh two of them are with him and Jesus walks by in verse 36 And John says in a prophetic manner, he says, behold, he says it before, didn't he? He says it, behold the Lamb of God. Before he had said, who takes away the sins of the world? Now, he didn't say that here, but it's the same thing. The two disciples in verse 37 heard him say this, and they followed Jesus. So they changed their discipleship relationship from that of following John the Baptist to immediately changing course and following Jesus. And that's because they got it. They understood that John's work was to point to Jesus. John had said that. Someone's coming after me, and I'm not worthy to untie his shoes. And you're going to be going to him. And so these guys get it, and they leave John and they begin to follow Jesus, the long-anticipated Messiah. Again, let me remind you from last week, in case someone missed it, this idea of Lamb of God has deep roots in the Old Testament. In the Passover, in the lamb that was slain on Mount Moriah, where Isaac was taken up to be offered by Abraham, and then there was a ram caught in the thicket, and it was substituted for Isaac instead. to Passover and the lamb that was slain annually, all the lambs slain on a daily basis and on an annual basis in Israel were slain to make a covering. I pointed that out last week. To make a covering For sin. It's kind of like throwing a blanket over it so that it's not seen anymore. It doesn't take it away, it just covers it up. So that God can look the other way and not see it for a while, so to speak. But Jesus is the one who comes, who's the Lamb of God, who takes away, carries away. And we get that best in the passage that I mentioned before in Leviticus, where you have these two animals. One is a One is a goat that is brought and is chosen by Lot to be the sin sacrifice. It's going to be, its throat's going to be cut, its blood's going to be shed, it's going to be burned as a sacrifice for sin. And there's the other one who is chosen, and the priest lays his hands on the head of that one, and it is sent out into the wilderness to die. It is sent out into the wilderness to bear away, to carry away the sins of Israel. So Jesus fulfills both of these. And that's why John again says in very prophetic fashion, Behold the Lamb of God. This is the one who takes away, carries away sacrifice and removal, not cover-up anymore. So that's really important, and I wanted to emphasize it again as it's been mentioned again here in this chapter. But now we see what's happening here with discipleship. These disciples are being called in verse 37. And we need to know what the disciple is. A disciple is a learner in the New Testament sense Someone who's following a teacher, someone who's there learning constantly. And Jesus was in the fashion of some of the Greek teachers, like Aristotle and Socrates and so forth, he was a peripatetic teacher. What does that mean? Peripatetic means that He's a teacher who walks around. And as he's walking around, he teaches. So you see that in the in the life of Jesus. He's Going from place to place, and he stops and he looks at a tree and he makes a point about that tree. He uses that tree as an illustration. He stops and he sees this other thing over here and he makes an illustration of it He uses nature and he uses all kinds of earthly situations as illustrations to teach those who are following him around. But they have to be willing to leave where they were. They have to be willing to give up their comforts. Their place and follow Jesus to go where he goes in order to learn what he has to teach them. So that's what a disciple is. It's more than, by the way, literal walking around It's spiritual being with Jesus. It's being near Jesus. It's learning from Jesus. And I think that even the walking around can be uh can be applied to you and me, because our life is a journey, isn't it? We go from here to there to the next place, stages of our life as we go from childhood to teenage to young adult to So forth and so on. In each place with Jesus, we learn new things. If Jesus is with us, we will learn new things. We will learn how to cope and we will learn how to live and we will learn how to inter Sprit and understands things because we're walking with Jesus as disciples. We're going around with Jesus and Jesus is with us as well. So that's what a disciple is. And these disciples, in verse 38, Jesus turns to them and says, what are you seeking What are you seeking? Why are you coming after me? Now he knows, but he's asking them so that they have to think about it. Why are you coming after me? And he said to them, They say to him, Where are you staying? Now that's going to be an important thing in the Gospel of John. You think, well, what's that about? Staying, the word there is abiding. And uh John gets certain words stuck in his mind, and he uses them over and over and over. So staying here, abiding, isn't just a phrase describing uh where you're sleeping. It's where are you abiding? And then it says, he said to them, come and you will see. So they came and saw where he was abiding. And they abided with him for that day, for it was about the tenth hour. I know that's probably just that day, but that phrase gets used over and over and over. And it's important to discipleship. Because we are to be those who abide with Jesus. We stay where Jesus stays. We're with Jesus. We abide. And that will be culminated, by the way, in John's Gospel. When we get to chapter 15 in that wonderful passage where he says, Abide in me and I in you. As a branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides or stays in the vine, neither can you unless you stay or abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides, there it is again, in me and I in him. He it is that bears much fruit. Apart from me you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide, there it is, he is thrown away. And the branches are gathered and thrown into the fire. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you can ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. This is a very important thing. This is part of being a disciple. It's abiding with Jesus, abiding in Jesus, and Jesus abiding in us, staying with us. So I want you to see those things. That's what disciples Is here. And so these words are not insignificant. We walk with Jesus, we abide in Jesus, and Jesus goes with us in life's journey, and we learn from him. Now we get to verse 40. One of the two who heard John speak and followed Jesus was Andrew. And then he tells us Simon Peter's brother. At this point, the New Testament church knows who Simon Peter is, but we're going to get in a phrase in just a second where we get that etymology figured out. Verse 41. He first found his own brother Simon. That's what he was known as before he was known as Simon Peter, and said to him, We have found the Messiah, which means Christ. Verse 42, he brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, You are Simon, the son of John. You shall be called Kephas or Cephas, which means Peter. Now what's this about? He's calling him to be a disciple. He's come along. And he sees them and he says these things to him. He's taking a name thing here and making a very important point which will be indelible for Simon Peter. Names could be very significant, and this name was very significant. Now, what was his name before Jesus spoke to him? What was his name It was Simon, right? You think, well, so what? That's a version of the Old Testament tribe named Simeon. One of Jacob's 12 sons, Simeon. And what kind of person was Simeon? You know? We need to think about that. And what kind of person was Peter before he was changed? Well, we look at that and we see that in the Old Testament In Genesis, there was the account of the rape of a young lady named Dinah, the Shechemites, one of the Shechemites Took advantage of this young woman, a Canaanite, a Shechemite, and raped her. And Simeon and his brother Levi. Took vengeance on these people against their sister for what had happened to her. And uh what they did was they tricked the the uh Shechemites. the the Canaanites. They tricked them and said, You know, you can have our sister uh if you will just agree to um get the mark of the covenant And then we'll we'll smooth this thing over. It'll be okay. So you guys need to get the mark of the covenant. And they say, okay, what's that? It's called circumcision. Ooh. So these folks, these men, agree to uh do this in order to Forge a nice relationship with the uh with the the sons of Jacob. And they uh undergo this operation and about day three when they're really sore from it Uh Simeon and Levi take swords and kill them all. Vengeance. Okay? And Jacob, their father, sees this as a very bad thing, a very rash and crazy thing, because they took vengeance in this fashion. They trick these guys and and they kind of they're kind of blaspheming and they're kind of taking the sign of the covenant and making it into a An opportunity for revenge, and Jacob knows this is bad. So in Genesis 49, when he finally comes to the end of his life and he's pronouncing blessings and cursings on his sons, prophetically. Here's what he says in Genesis 49 about Simeon and Levi. He says, Simeon and Levi are brothers. Weapons of violence are their swords. Let my soul come not into their counsel. Oh my glory, be not joined to their company. For in their anger they killed men, and in their willfulness they hamstruck oxen. We don't know where that happened, but it did Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce, and their wrath, for it is cruel. And then he says finally, I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them in Israel. So, Simeon, Simon here, is someone who's impetuous, who's kind of violent and crazy and does rash things. And by the way, if you read the Gospels, you find out that that's what Peter is like too. That's the way he is. He's always ready to get a sword or do some crazy thing or call down fire from heaven on people, stuff like that. And Jesus looks at Simon, Simeon here, and he says, I'm going to change you. You're going to follow me? You're going to abide with me? I'm going to change you. You're not going to be the same anymore. You're going to become what? The rock. The foundation. You're going to become stable. You're going to become consistent. Dependable. Someone who doesn't waver under pressure, who doesn't go nuts. And so that's what Jesus is doing here. When he changes his name. He says, Your name is Simon, but I'm going to change you to Peter, the stone. And then we have Philip, he's also mentioned, but we don't have any big etymology or anything going with him. And then we have, in verse 43 and following, another change here, not a name change this time. But a play on his good character and what God does with those who are faithful in Israel. Okay? And we have Philip and we have Nathaniel. So verse 43, the next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee, so that's a distance north. And he found Philip and said to him, Follow me. And Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter, and Philip found Nathaniel and said to him, We have found him of whom Moses in the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. And Nathaniel said to him, Can anything good come out of Nazareth? Now, why did he say that? Because Nazareth was a backwater, North Galilee little town of no account. And he just didn't think that the Messiah could come from such a podant place. And Philip said to him, Come and see. So Philip is saying, don't judge too quickly. You need to meet this guy. Okay? And then we find this interesting thing here that Jesus knows all about Nathaniel. Jesus is using his his deep understanding, his omniscience to show that he is the Messiah. Verse 47. Jesus saw Nathaniel coming toward him, so here comes Nathaniel up the up the path, you know, toward Jesus. And he said of him, Behold, an Israelite in whom there is no deceit. Now, we needed to back up. What had happened, evidently, filling in the gaps here, is that sometime before this Nathanael, being this faithful Israelite who loves the Word of God, who studies it regularly, was studying the Word of God. And he was contemplating something. And he was probably doing this under a fig tree, because fig trees have really good leaves, and when you sit in the shade of a fig tree and a little bit of breeze blows, even when it's really hot, it's not too bad. Kind of like South Texas or something like that. But um so here he is under this fig tree. He had been studying the Word of God, and he'd been studying, evidently, he'd been thinking about Jacob. And Jacob, the schemer, about which we read. The schemer, the liar, who deceived his father, who got the blessing by guile Who schemed with his mother to do it as well, and who later appears on the run Hiding and scared from his brother, and he's out there and he's in the wilderness and he sleeps on a in a in a desert place and he puts a rock for his pillow. And there God comes down and meets him in a vision, and there's this ladder. He sees this ladder that stretches up to heaven. And there at the top of the ladder is heaven and God is dwelling there. And then there are these angels who are, these messengers of God, who are coming up and down on the ladder. And he sees this vision. And so this schemer running for his life sees this vision and he gets awed about it. And he says, This is an awesome place. This is the house of God. He calls it Bethel. And so this is what this is what Nathaniel's thinking about. He's been pondering this story. How can God be so gracious and kind to such a rotten guy as Jacob, the schemer? His name actually means schemer. How can he be so nice to him? How can he bless him and give him such an inheritance that he's the prince of Israel, that he's called Israel by name later? How can this guy be our leader, our national emblem? How can he be that? So he's been thinking about that. And then he goes to meet Jesus. And Jesus sees him coming. And Jesus says, behold, an Israelite in whom there is no deceit. And Nathaniel says in verse 48, how do you know me? And Jesus answered, Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. He said, Whoa, wait a minute. You you you weren't anywhere near. What, you know, I wasn't, you how did this happen? You must be the Messiah How can anyone know where I was and what I was thinking? How can anyone know except the Messiah? So he says, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the king of Israel. You're the one we've been waiting for. I believe it now. And he says, Wow. Jesus answered in verse 50, Because I said to you, I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You will see greater things than these. And he said to him, Truly, truly, I love it when it's Amen, amen, because that's really what's being said here. Amen, amen. I say to you, you will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on what? A ladder? No, on the Son of Man. Jesus is the ladder between heaven and earth. Jesus who became flesh, who came down for us, is the only mediator between heaven and earth. And so Jesus was here foretelling Israel's character And he was foretelling how it would be changed, how Israel, who had been unfaithful to God's covenant, would be changed. The true Israel would come forth and see what God is doing. How God is coming down. in Jesus and how God is the mediator between heaven and earth in Jesus. And then we see that the signs that follow in the next chapters in John. The signs that Jesus does continually prove that Jesus is the Messiah. He is the Son of God. He is the King of Israel So Jesus is using these encounters with these disciples to say that he changes disciples who walk with him and who abide with him. And he will reveal to them what? That he is the ladder between heaven and earth. He is the mediator. He is the way, the truth, the life. No one comes to the Father except through Him. So these are the takeaways. It's kind of a short sermon. And you might like that, I don't know, but here are the takeaways. Those who follow leave all behind And they leave all their old loyalties behind. These guys had to do that. They leave old habits behind. They leave old patterns behind. And they walk with Jesus. And Jesus walks with them. And they abide with Jesus. And Jesus abides with them. And they abide in Jesus. And Jesus teaches them. And Jesus transforms them. That's what it means to be a disciple. We see it here. And they do this, by the way, even when Jesus does not meet their immediate expectations. When he does things they didn't expect or he fails to do things they did expect, they still abide with him. They still stay with him, they still walk with him. So if you're in doubt, if you're in trouble, if you're in such a situation that you just don't know whether God is with it or not, and has any idea what's going on in your life, you can be sure that he does Keep walking with him. Keep abiding in him and he in you. And let his word dwell in you. And by his spirit, he will make it clear to you someday He will show you how to follow him, and you will be happy that you did. We also see one more little thing here about disciples. They are those who bring others. This you see in particular with Andrew. Andrew says, he goes goes and gets his brother, and he brings his brother. And uh I've heard this that The St. Andrews Chapel in Sanford, Florida is the church that R. C. Sproull and others formed as a congregation. They named it St. Andrew's Chapel because they like this guy, St. Andrew, because he was always bringing others to Jesus. And that's a characteristic of disciples. Those who follow Jesus are always wanting others to come too. They're always bringing others with them to see Jesus and to know Jesus And then finally, those who are changed by the gracious God who knows all. Those who are changed. By the gracious God who knows all about us and loves us anyway, are changed for life. God knows all about us. He knew about Nathaniel. He knew where he'd been sitting, what he'd been thinking about. He knows all about us, doesn't he? And so he's the gracious God who knows every thought. Knows every feeling, knows every experience, and loves us anyway, as we follow him So my final question is this. Considering these callings of discipleship and considering what it means to follow Jesus, I ask you to consider, are you a true disciple of Jesus? Are you willing to leave some things off to follow Jesus? Are you willing to trust Jesus and abide in Jesus even when things are in doubt and when you don't know what's going on? Are you willing to follow Jesus? Jesus, are you willing like these guys to leave one place and go