I am not going to begin by reading the psalm. Uh is Psalm fifty-five. You should turn to it. Psalm fifty-five. And you might think, well, wait wait a minute. Wasn't Psalm 56 last week and 57 before that? Yes. No, 57 not before that, but 56 was last week. We got out of sync in terms of sequence, but we'll get back. And so this is uh a going back and filling in. Uh the snow did it to us, you know, that one night. So So let us look at Psalm 55 and we'll read it through, or I'll read it, and you follow along during the course of the preaching tonight. I want to begin with this. Victor Hugo, author of Les Miseras, once said, Music expresses that which cannot be put into words. And that which cannot remain silent. The Psalms are much more than a collection of pithy phrases for coffee mugs or funeral bulletins. The Psalms are a collection of enduring songs that express the diverse emotions of those that trust in the Lord. They express what words alone cannot express And music, which has been put to the Psalms in our Psalter, has a way of capturing emotions that we cannot express in any other form. Think about some of your favorite songs. Why do you like them? How do the musical notes and sentiments carry the words? What emotions do songs elicit? There is a reason why strings and flutes accompany romantic scenes in a movie. And likewise, you will seldom see a group of guys lifting weights to the melodic sounds of strings and flutes. But the loud music accompanied by a strong beat in the gyms that I've attended. Music is powerful. That is why God has captured the full range of human emotions into a songbook that we call the Psalm. The first part of Psalm 55, verses 1 through 15, teaches us to be real with God. Lots of them do, but this particular portion does Here we can see as we read it that the psalmist, David, probably, was betrayed by an intimate friend. Does that ever happen to you? He was betrayed by an intimate friend who was also a counselor. It's perhaps Ahithophel, as described in 2 Samuel 15 through 17. Now he prays that God would punish such oathbreakers And thus be acknowledged as the protector of the wronged. His sufferings include both ostracism and mental turmoil, as you see it in verses five through six. Culminating in his wish to flee from society, and we have a hard time with this, a sudden death wish for his enemies. This next bit is from David Gutzig. In his book, The God I Don't Understand. Christopher Wright bemoans the lack of lament in our churches, saying, there is an implicit pressure to stifle our real feelings. Because we are urged by pious merchants of emotional denial that we ought to have faith. As if moaning, the psalmist moaning didn't have faith. So we end up giving external voice to pretended, glib emotions we do not really feel, while hiding the real emotions that we are struggling with Struggling with deep inside. We cannot rightly study and sing the Psalms and continue to hide real emotions. The Psalms force us to address the full range of human feeling. So, we consider Psalm 55. Notice the strongly emotive language that David uses. He says that he is restless, tossing and turning, that he moans. He refers to his heart being in anguish. And he is overwhelmed by horror, he says. He is so overcome with despair that he longs to have wings and fly away. Scripture calls us to weep with those who weep. The Psalms give us an outline of doing just that. They give words to our emotions in ways that bare phrases cannot. They force us to cast off our masks and be real with God. Psalms call us to be honest with life in a fallen world. Let's look at those verses. Give ear, verse 1, to my prayer, O God, and hide not yourself from my plea for mercy. Attend to me and answer me. I am restless. There it is. In my complaint, and I moan because of the noise of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked. For they drop trouble on me, and in anger they bear a grudge against me. My heart is in anguish within me. The terrors of death have fallen upon me. Fear and trembling come upon me, and horror overwhelms me. And I say, Oh, that I had wings like a dove, I would fly away and be at rest. Yes, I would wander far away. I would lodge in the wilderness. Say I would hurry to find a shelter from the raging wind and tempest. Do you hear it there? That's not easy. Easy, is it? That's not happy. Then he says in verse 9, destroy, O Lord, divide their tongues, for I see violence and strife in the city. Day and night they go around it on its walls, and iniquity and trouble are within it. Ruin is in its midst. Oppression and fraud do not depart from its marketplace It's not a very friendly world he lives in. Verse 12, For it is not an enemy who taunts me, then I could bear it. See, the wounds of someone really close are the worst. It is not an adversary who deals insolently with me, then I could hide from him. But it is you, a man, my equal, my companion, my familiar friend. Verse 14, we used to take sweet counsel together. Within God's house we walked in the throng. Verse 15, let death steal over them. Let them go down to Sheol alive, for evil is in their dwelling place and in their heart. I'm going to pause and make this application, if I haven't already made it well enough. Are you being real with what's going on in your life? Perhaps you've heard it said that we are to drop all our burdens at the church door so that we can come in and worship unhindered. The Psalms seem to encourage you to take a different route. Perhaps the better act of worship is to come heavy, but leave lighter. Psalms encourage you to be real with God no matter where you find yourself. Being depressed or troubled or In anxiety is not a good reason to stay away from church. It's a good reason to come to church, my friends, and be real The Psalms encourage you to be real with God no matter where you find yourself. You cannot cast all your anxiety upon Him unless you first acknowledge His presence. Now part two. The Psalms force us to rest in God. Psalms not only force us to be real with God, they also force us to rest in God. The Psalms are to be read in light of redemption. That's where our rest is, in redemption. Verse 16. Let's read through that. That. But I call to God, and the Lord will save me. Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan, and he hears my voice. He redeems my soul in safety from the battle that I wage, for many are arrayed against me. God will give ear and humble them, he who is enthroned from of old. Because they do not change and do not fear God. My companion, he goes back to that problem. My companion stretched out his hand against his friends. He violated his covenant His speech was as smooth as butter, yet war was in his heart. His words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords. Cast your burden on the Lord, and he will sustain you. He will never permit the righteous to be moved. But you, O God, will cast them down into the pit of destruction. Men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days, but I will trust in you. That's the second half of the psalm. But now, carefully, I want to draw your attention to something in verse 22. Verse 22 is so beautiful and quotable: Cast your burden on the Lord, and he will sustain you. He will never permit the righteous to be moved. Hiffie mugs, bookmarks, and probably t-shirts with the words of verse twenty-two on them. And they are true. They are true. Yet in their place in the Psalm, listen carefully, it is possible that they are the cynical advisor. Something like the scriptural words quoted by the devil when Jesus was being tempted during the 40 days in the wilderness. It's recorded in Matthew 4, verses 5 through 7. Then the devil took him up to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, Quoting Scripture. If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, He will command His angels concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against the stone. Jesus replied to him, again it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Now listen to verse 21. His speech was smooth as butter, yet war was in his heart. His words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords Cast your burden on the Lord, and He will sustain you. He will never permit the righteous to be moved. If those words were offered cynically, you would expect a rejoinder like that of Jesus to the devil. He did not deny the truth, Jesus did not deny the truth of the words the devil quoted, but turned them back on the quoter. And I think that's what the Psalmist does here. He says in verse 23, you will cast them down. 22 The person may have said to him, Cast your burden on the Lord, and he will sustain you. David says, But you, O God, will cast them down. into the pit of destruction. Men of blood and treachery shall not live out half their days, but I will trust in you Whether it is a psalm of confession, lament, or praise, the worshiper is always encouraged to lay his hope in the Lord. That's the last line there. Psalm 55 echoes many other psalms that begin with the brokenness of humanity but end with a steadfast trust in the Lord. Ultimately, the hope enjoined in the Psalms is realized in the finished work of Christ. As the Psalm calls us to hope in God, they exhort us to rest in what Christ has accomplished. There is no other place in which we can find ultimate rest. So the application of that second half is this. Are you resting in God or in something else? Life in a broken and rebellious world is difficult. The Psalms call you not to be real, not only to be real with your suffering, but also To cast your burdens upon the Lord, even if this was quoted by an enemy. Are you doing both? Do you have a tendency to minimize suffering under the guise of trusting in God? Or do you have a tendency to focus on suffering at the expense of trust in God? The Psalms are a songbook of the redeemed. Anyone can sing songs. Anyone can lament. But only those that trust in Christ experience the full force of the beauty of the Psalms. This is because only believers in Christ Jesus know the one who is the hope to which the Psalms point. Every one of them. The Psalms cry out to unbelievers to find hope in God. More specifically, they call unbelievers to trust in David's Lord, as we find him in Psalm 110. For believers, the Psalms give a voice to our story of redemption. They call us to be real in everyday life and to hope in the Lord. Amen. Lord, we thank you for the intensity and the realism of the psalmist. In Psalm 55, who felt betrayed by his close companion, his dear friend, his counselor. And yet, who trusted in you? Who was honest with you, but kept trusting in you We thank you that we know the greater son of David, the Lord you we understand better now. Even than the psalmist did, what you were doing, help us to trust in you. In Jesus' name, Amen