Now for the Old Testament reading, Exodus four, one through twenty. Then Moses answered But behold, they will not believe me, or listen to my voice, for they will say, The Lord did not appear to you. The Lord said to him, What is that in your hand? He said, A staff. And he said, throw it on the ground. So he threw it on the ground, and it became a serpent. And Moses ran from it. But the Lord said to Moses, Put out your hand and catch it by the tail. So he put out his hand and caught it, and it became a staff in his hand. That they may believe that the Lord, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you. Again, the Lord said to him, Put your hand inside your cloak. And he put his hand inside his cloak, and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous, like snow. Then God said, put your cloak. So he put his hand back inside his cloak, and when he took it out, behold, it was restored like the rest of his flesh. If they will not believe you, God said, or listen to the first sign, they may believe the latter sign. If they will not believe even these two signs, or listen to your voice You shall take some water from the Nile and pour it on the dry ground, and the water that you shall take from the Nile will become blood on the dry ground. But Moses said to the Lord, O my Lord, I am not eloquent, either in the past or since you have spoken to your servant, but I am slow of speech and of tongue. Then the Lord said to him, Who has made man's mouth? Who makes him mute, or deaf, or seeing, or blind? Is it not I, the Lord? Now therefore go, and I will be with your mouth and teach you what you shall speak. But he said, Oh my lord, please send someone else Then the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses, and he said, Is there not Aaron your brother, the Levite? I know that he can speak well Behold, he is coming out to meet you, and when he sees you, he will be glad in his heart. You shall speak to him and put the words in his mouth And I will be with your mouth, and with his mouth, and I and will teach you both what to do. He shall speak for you to the people, and he shall be your mouth, and you shall be as God to him. And take in your hand this staff, with which you shall do the signs. Moses went back to Jethro his father-in-law and said to him, Please let me go back to my brothers in Egypt to see whether they are still alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace. And the Lord said to Moses in Midian, Go back to Egypt, for all the people who were seeking your life are dead. So Moses took his wife and his sons and had them ride on a donkey and went back to the land of Egypt, and Moses took the staff of God in his hand. Now listen to the reading of Second Corinthians four, seven through eighteen. As you will hear in the sermon, Moses was feeling very inadequate And this passage in Second Corinthians has something to say about that. But we have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted, but not forsaken. struck down, but not destroyed, always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you. Since we have the same spirit of faith, according to what has been written, I believed, and so I spoke. We also believe, and so we speak, knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence. For it is all for your sake, so as grace extends to more and more people, it may increase thanksgiving to the glory of God. We do not lose heart. Though our outer nature is wasting away, our inner nature is being renewed day by day. For this slight momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. As we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. And then please turn to Luke chapter twelve. Luke chapter twelve, four through twelve. I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body. And after that, have nothing more that they can do. But I tell you or warn you whom to fear. Fear him who, after he is killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? And not one of them is forgotten before God. Why, even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not. You are of more value than many sparrows. And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before men, the Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God. But the one who denies me before men will be denied before the angels of God. And every one who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven But the one who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and the authorities Do not be anxious about what you should say, or defend yourself what you should say, for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say. So far, the reading of God's Word. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. O Lord, you inspired these words. In the book of Exodus, in the book of the letter of Paul to the Corinthians, and in the gospel, in all the words of your book, the Bible, they are flawless. And yet we are flawed. So illumine our hearts and minds by your spirit That we may understand your word in all its depth, and apprehending your glory, lay our lives at your feet. Amen. When we don't want to do something, there's no limit to the excuses Whether it's doing chores or doing homework or even going to work, I looked at a lot of different excuses and different categories on the internet. And there are excuses that relate to bosses and pastors and parents, but teachers get the most excuses, and most of their excuses are related to homework. I found a site that had 50 stupid homework excuses. And I picked out some of the best ones. So here's some of the best ones. Number two. I did it, but my house is being fumigated, and I don't want to go in there and suffocate just to get it. Number five, I did it, but my skimpy printer ran out of ink. Number six, I did it, but I let somebody copy it and they never gave it back. Number ten, I left it in my locker with last week's assignment. Number 15, I was hacking into the school's computer network to get the assignment, but my computer crashed and I stayed up till 3. 30, reformatting my hard drive, which I fixed But I fell asleep with the keyboard before I could try again. Wow. Number sixteen. One of the textbooks word problems offended me, and I am protesting by not doing any more of their problems. Did you like that one? Number 18. I did it, but my cat thought it was a newspaper that we put out for her potty needs. Number 19, I'm an environmentalist and I don't want to waste trees. Number 25, this is a really crazy one. A madman stole it at my bus stop and tried luring me into his house with it. Number 34, I was at an amusement park all day yesterday. Hmm. Number 48, I went to the mall with my friends. Do you know what friends are? Number twenty six. We had homework. Well Here we are, and if you've been following in the series, you'll know that we are still at the amazing burning bush. And Moses is standing there without his shoes on holy ground, and God is speaking to him And he is standing there speaking to the one who has revealed himself as the great I Am. The all-sufficient, self-existent creator of the universe, the covenant-cutting God who has promised to be with Moses. Here we are, and Moses offers his excuses What's the first one? In verses 1 through 9, we have the unacceptability of himself. Paraphrased, they won't believe me. Here it is. Then Moses answered God But behold, they will not believe me or listen to my voice, for they will say, the Lord did not appear to you. That's his excuse. They won't believe me. And then the Lord answers him in verse 2. Yahweh, the self-existent, covenant-cutting Creator God, said to him, What is that in your hand? He said, a staff. Now we have to stop for a second. A shepherd's staff. He's been out tending his sheep in the In the region of Midian, he's got a shepherd staff. And if we do a little research on shepherd staff, we'll know that that is probably at least eight feet long. Which, by the way, corresponds to something else that gets about eight feet long, which we'll see in a moment. He's got the shepherd staff. It's used to pull the sheep in or move the sheep or separate them and and also to defend them sometimes. He's got this shepherd staff. So what is that in your hand? He said a staff And God said, throw it on the ground. So he threw it on the ground, and it became a serpent. Now, probably this serpent was an Egyptian cobra. That was the most fearsome snake in Egypt. And they got at least, well not at least, but they got as big as eight feet long. So now you have to imagine this eight-foot-long stick put on the ground and it becomes an eight-foot-long cobra. And so Moses did the only reasonable thing. He ran from it, verse 3. He ran, I would too. I mean, I'm afraid of any snake. Even my son Isaac years ago caught a little tiny a little tiny garter snake and we named it Jack And we kept it in an aquarium and fed it newts and salamanders. But even little green tiny jack I was not too keen on. Touching. I didn't mind looking at him through the glass. But here's an eight-foot cobra. Run. But the Lord said, verse 4 to Moses, Put out your hand and catch it by the tail. Oh my goodness. Eight-foot cobra on the ground. You catch that thing by the tail. You know, I know there's a way to catch snakes, and I don't want to learn it, but uh it's something like catching them where they're off balance You know, either you clamp down right on their head or right behind their head so you've got them where they can't get you, or you get them in the middle and you pick them up and then they you're kind of off balance, they don't know what to do, they can't But you pick it up by the tail, that thing is going to rear around and strike you. That's what God said to do. Pick it up by the tail. So he put out his hand and caught it. And it became a staff in his hand. Verse five, that they may believe that the Lord, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you. Now, let's think about this for a moment. What's going on here? This isn't just an interesting, scary sign. The staff, a staff, a ruler's staff, the Pharaoh's staff was a powerful symbol of ruling authority. The Pharaoh no doubt had one of these. Moses knew it because he had been in that court. He knew that there was this big old staff, and he also knew that probably carved into the top of that staff was a cobra head. with its fanned out head, scary is all get out And that was meant to be a symbol of Pharaoh's power, his terroristic power. And by the way, if you look at your sermon outline, you'll see some pictures there, a couple of pictures. One is of the Pharaoh's head. and face and then this fanned out thing behind it. Another one is a picture of his headdress. He didn't just a cobra at the top of his staff. He also put a cobra as his crown. He was a wound-up cobra, and then the face of that cobra would be right out in front of you. So you go see Pharaoh, and you look at a snake. You look at a cobra. And it scares you. And what was God saying in all this when He said, throw down this eight-foot staff and it becomes this eight-foot cobra and pick it up by the tail? And it became a staff. What was God saying? He's saying this: Moses, by your hand I will subjugate Pharaoh. By your hand I will subjugate the most powerful man on the face of the earth. I will make your shepherd's stick. into a ruler's scepter, which will convince your Hebrew brethren that you have been sent by me And will strike fear and terror into Pharaoh's heart, so that he will be forced to obey and let my people go. Show this to the Hebrews. It's not just a scary sign, is it? It's theologically and politically significant It's going to convince God's people that Moses is God's mediator, sent by God. But God doesn't stop there. He goes on. In verse 6, we get to the skinned illness judgment sign. Verse 6. Again, the Lord said to him, Put your hand inside your cloak. And he put his hand inside his cloak, and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous like snow. I can only imagine this. I used to occasionally make bread, and I did it the old-fashioned way with a big old lump of dough and you knead it and knead it and knead it and you put some more flour on it. And I remember one time I had my hands covered in in flour and somebody rang the doorbell. Now what do I do? I need to go to the door and I opened the door and they looked, what are you doing? Your hands are all white. This is what it looked like when Moses put his hand in his cloak and he pulled it out and it's all white. It's Corroded, it looks awful. And then he put it back inside his cloak. And we took it out. It was restored like the rest of his flesh. Verse 7. So, what was this sign? This is an obvious and evidently incurable skin disease. And it was considered a judgment to get such a skin disease. You would be separated from society. You would be ostracized. But when he put it back in, suddenly pulled it out, and it's healed. And what was this sign saying? It is saying that God has the power to curse. And God has the power to remove the curse. And this would be a powerful curse upon the Egyptians, which would force them to release God's people and let them go and be holy for Him. So it was an important sign. And then we get to another sign that God offers, the Nile water to blood sign, verse 9. If they will not believe even these two signs or listen to your voice, you shall take some water from the Nile. Now note, this isn't just water from anywhere, water from the Nile. And pour it on the dry ground, and the water that you take from the Nile will become blood on the dry ground. What's this about? The Hebrews are very adverse to blood. They're not to touch blood. That'll be encoded and enshrined in Levitical law to come. Never touch blood, never eat blood. And death is when blood is poured out on the ground. We get that all the way back in Genesis 4, when Cain killed his brother Abel, and the blood of his brother cried out from the ground. Blood and death go together. Blood makes unclean. So the Hebrews would also see something amazing here. And it would be a contradiction to Egyptian theology. What was Egyptian theology? Egyptian theology worshipped the Nile River. Worshipped the Nile River as the mother of Egypt, as the source of life. The Egyptians were utterly dependent upon the Nile for food, for water, for farming. If that Nile didn't flood and water their fields, there would be no food. And the Nile was used for cleansing. And the Nile was used for drinking. The Nile was everything to the Egyptians. It was God. And so God said, take some of the Egyptian God water, pour it on the ground, and it'll become death. This would be a powerful sign that God is above and beyond any God that rules over Egypt. He is the all-powerful one. He brings life and he brings death and he can save his people. And I want to point out one thing in these three signs. The signs were God's working. They weren't Moses doing tricks. They weren't about Moses. They were about God. The one time Moses tried to do things on his own, tried to do powerful signs on his own apart from God, it brought about a great discipline against Moses. when he struck the rock instead of speaking to the rock. We'll get to that eventually. Moses was not able to enter Canaan. So these signs given by God were God's signs, and they weren't about Moses. So these three signs are given, and now we go on to verses 10 through 12, and we see Moses' second excuse. His weakness. I can't do this, Moses says. Verse 10. But Moses said to Yahweh O my Lord, I am not eloquent either in the past or since you have spoken to your servant, but I am slow of speech and of tongue. What does he mean here? It could mean that Moses had a speech impediment. Maybe he stuttered, maybe he just couldn't get his lips to cooperate with his tongue and his teeth. I don't know. Maybe he failed rhetoric and felt like I need to have an absolute ability to go before the most powerful man with the best rhetoric on earth. Maybe that's what it was Or maybe he had forgotten Egyptian, which he knew very well forty years ago, but it's been forty years And he's been speaking some other language in Midian, and maybe he forgot his Egyptian and was afraid to go there and goof up before the Pharaoh But what does God say to Moses? Moses offers this excuse. I can't talk Then the Lord said to him, verse 11, Who has made man's mouth? Who makes him mute or deaf or seeing or blind? Is it not I, the Lord? Now therefore go and I will be with your mouth and teach you what you shall speak. I will be with your mouth. It's not clear in the English here, but it's that same word that we learned before when God said, I am who I am. I will be who I will be. He's using that Hebrew word Hayah, and he's saying, I will be with your mouth. It's that kind of emphatic meaning here. And we see that this is the pattern in the Bible. Throughout the Bible, throughout all of biblical history, here it is: God uses weak things. God uses weak things to get his work done. Remember David, little David, the shepherd boy, the last one picked to go out against the enemy? What did he have with him? He had a sling and picked up five little smooth stones. And then when he was offered the armor to go out against Goliath, He said, no, no, thank you. I won't wear this armor. God uses weak things. God uses fail things to get his work done. Remember Gideon, when he has been sent out to defeat God's enemies, and he has this big army set up, and God says, uh-uh-uh-uh-uh, no, no, no, too many of them, much too many. Shrink them down less. And then he tears off a bunch. We know the story. And then God says, no, there's still too many. I want fewer. Fewer. So he pairs them down again. And so you got this little tiny group going out to this huge enemy army and God wins the battle, so that God gets the glory, so that God shows his power in human frailty and weakness. And think about old Elijah up on Mount Carmel with all the prophets of Baal, and they're screaming and yelling and chanting and going nuts trying to get their God to come down. And burn up the sacrifice. And then what does the Lord say to do? He says, pour water all over it. Get some more water and pour water all over it. And then just ask. And then the fire of God comes down and consumes everything, even the water in the trenches. Because God wants his glory to be known. He wants his power to be seen in weakness. 1 Corinthians 1. 28, the Apostle Paul, who was himself weak, said, God chose what is low. And despise in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human might boast in the presence of God. So think about you right now. What is your weakness? God will give you what you need to do what He calls you to do. Your weakness is not an impediment to God In fact, he glories in your weakness so that he can show his power. Now we come to the third excuse of Moses. This is the best one. It's the honest excuse. Verse 13. But he said, Oh my Lord, please send someone else. Now that's the way the English has put it. But in Hebrew it's actually a little less clear that he says, Lord, send whoever you want to send. Lord, send whoever you want to send, but the implication is, but not me. Send somebody, whoever you want, except me. Moses finally gets real. He gets honest. Not me. Please, not me. And God gets angry. Now, God is angry at Moses because after revealing himself to Moses and after promising to be with Moses and after answering all Moses' excuses, Moses still says, please send somebody else. But I'll I want to encourage you, brothers and sisters. In our weaknesses like that, we are like him, aren't we? In our weaknesses In our weaknesses, God accepts us. Even in our frailty and our complaining And there's some psalms, many, many psalms, that are just full of fear and complaint and worry, and God accepts those. words from his people. Verse Psalm 88 says, O Lord God of my salvation, I cry day and night before you. Let my prayer come before you. Incline your ear to my cry For my soul is full of troubles, and my life draws near to shale. I am counted among those who go down to the pit. I am a man who has no strength You have put me in the depths of the pit, in the regions of dark and deep. Your wrath lies heavy upon me. You overwhelm me with all your ways. You have caused my companions to shun me. Isn't that not a complaint? You have made me a horror to them. I am shut in so that I cannot escape. My eye grows dim through sorrow. Every day I call upon you, O Lord. I spread out my hands to you What do we have here? We have an instance, just one, there are many, many, where God's people are authorized to cry out to him and even say things to him. that that are hard to hear. But God is merciful and kind and allows this lament He allows it, but what he requires is faithful obedience anyway. Parents. Kids will sometimes give obtained reasons why they do not wish to do what you told them to do. Again and again they argue over and over. This is another reason why I should not do what you told me to do, mother or father. But eventually, if you're a good parent, you have to say Do it because I told you so. And that's what God did here. He says, I heard all your complaints. Do it because I told you so. God accommodates, even here, God accommodates old Moses' frailty. God equips us for the things he calls us to do. So what does God do? He says in verse 14, Then the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. It literally says in Hebrew, you have to imagine this, God's nostrils burned. The anger of the Lord was kindled, but God still accommodates. Is there not Aaron your brother, the Levite? Now he hasn't seen his brother for 40 years. Is there not Aaron, your brother, the Levite? I know that he can speak well. Behold, he is coming out to meet you from Egypt. And when he sees you, he will be glad in his heart. You shall speak to him and put the words in his mouth, and I will be with your mouth and with his mouth, and will teach you both what to do He shall speak for you to the people, and he shall be your mouth, and you shall be his God to him. And take in your hand this staff, which with which you shall do the signs God accommodates Moses in his frailty, in his weakness, in his please send someone else. God says, no, you're going, but here's some help. And so, verse 18, Moses went back to Jethro his father-in-law and said to him, Please let me go back to my brothers in Egypt to see whether they're still alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace. And the Lord said to Moses and Midian, Go back to Egypt, for all the men who were seeking your life are dead. That's some comfort, isn't it? So Moses took his wife and his sons and had them ride on a donkey, and went back to the land of Egypt. Well it went in that direction then. We'll see that they don't all go. And Moses took and here is something I want you to see. Moses took the staff of God in his hand. He had said before, take the staff, don't forget the staff, here's your brother. But now, the scripture says, and Moses took the staff of God in his hand. He took the staff of God's rule. He believes, and it's called the staff of God. And this is the staff that God would use to bring the plagues on Egypt. Beginning with all the water of the Nile being turned to blood, and all the stinking dead fish and crocodiles, and so much for Egypt's God. This is the staff that would part the sea and defeat the armies of Pharaoh, that they would all be drowned. And there would be a great hymn sung about Pharaoh's forces being drowned in the sea. This is the staff of God that was water from the rock and it was used properly. This is all a prefigurement, I believe, of the great King David, who also was a shepherd, and his greater son Jesus Who was a shepherd of his people and is the shepherd of his people. Jesus is the good shepherd whose staff is a scepter by which he now rules the world. We sang it in that first hymn, crown him the Lord of peace, whose power a scepter sways. From pole to pole, that wars may cease, absorbed in prayer and praise. His scepter strikes terror in the hearts of God's foes, strikes terror in the heart of the devil. But that same scepter, that scepter of our shepherd, comforts and protects and rules in love those whom God chooses by grace. And that scepter is also the sign of a cross. A sign of a cross. And what was the cross? But the Roman symbol of cruelty and execution by the powers of the strongest nation. Very similar to that cobra staff. But now the cross has become a symbol of God's gracious triumph and rule The Egyptians worshiped the Nile as the creator of Egypt. The Lord was able to overthrow that God, and we know now. That Jesus' blood poured out for us on the ground can remove our incurable disease that makes us outcasts. The blood of Jesus, an unceasing river of life, of cleansing, of health, removes our filth and gives us new life in every season This was the gospel that Moses got at the burning bush, in his weakness and in his doubt. The gospel of God's sovereign power. His redeeming power toward his chosen people The gospel he would go and preach to the Hebrews. And yes, he would even preach that gospel in a negative form to Pharaoh. Moses did not understand all the facets of that gospel, but we now do. And God has a people today, chosen by grace, and God will deliver them. He will deliver you and defeat all your enemies. And God will bless the whole world. Jesus, the Redeemer of God's chosen, has all authority in heaven and on earth. And he has defeated the devil, that old serpent. He is the one who is able. Moses was like you and me, weak and fearful. But God became his sufficiency. So I ask you in closing, are you ready to lay aside your excuses? Whatever they might be, your fears, your doubts, are you ready to lay them aside and serve God? As the hymn that we all know says, just as I am, though tossed about with many a conflict, many a doubt, fightings and fears within without. Let us also say, O Lamb of God, I come, I come. Let us pray together. Lord, we thank you that you are very kind and gracious to frail human beings like us and like Moses We thank you that you have demonstrated your power and authority to overthrow all kinds of evil, all kinds of troubles, all kinds of fears, all kinds of weaknesses in our lives. Help us to take up our cross, the sign of conquering and triumph, as well as the sign of weakness and frailty, and to follow you, Lord Jesus. Amen.