Congregation, I have the joy and the privilege and the duty again now to address you, the people of God, assembled here from the Word of the Lord. And the passage we're going to look at this morning is the verses we read in the first chapter of Acts. So if you wish to follow along in your Bible, we'll be At least beginning in the first chapter of Acts, and then as we make some application, we'll look elsewhere. We are celebrating Ascension Day, the ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ. in the heaven. And you might say the text for this morning's sermon found right there in that first clause in verse two of Acts 1, uh the day when he or phrase, the day when he was taken up. The day When he was taken up. That's what we're going to consider this morning that day. As Luke gives us some things that took place before the day. So that'll be the first part of the sermon. Some of these things that took place before the day when He, Jesus, was taken up. Then he tells us about that day. Then secondly, we're going to look at that day. And then lastly, we're going to consider You might say the things after that day or the significance of that day and what it means for our lives as Christians and what it means uh for this world So the day when he was taken up, the first thing to say about this is uh this teaching is a foundational doctrine in Christianity. It's one of the core Tenets of our faith, which we confess almost every week when they use the Apostles' Creed. It is the sixth article of that creed when we say He ascended into heaven. After he was raised bodily, he ascended into heaven. So we'll be considering the meaning of that. uh the faith of which we profess that Jesus ascended into heaven. And the second thing to say about it is it's a day The day when he was taken up. And as you know, congregation, this year we have been working through, not because it is more pious too, but just because I wanted to, and the accession was gracious and understood my reasons, pedagogically to understand why has a Christian calendar ever come into existence? Because Christianity is made up of days This was a day in which this happened, and three days before, or excuse me, forty days before this, something else happened. The Lord rose from the dead. That was a day that that took place. And three days before that, another great day happened. Sins, the sins of God's people were borne away. The atonement was made. God was reconciled everlastingly to us. That was a day and if you go back and I calculated some numbers uh but I don't remember what they were, however many days it is to go thirty years before Christ was born. That was a significant day when God everlastingly took on flesh to redeem us. That was a day we call that Christmas Day. And so I really think a church calendar is quite useful to Christianity as our religion is made up of a lot of very significant days that have a lot of meaning for us. Christianity is not just a philosophy, it's not an idea. It is a revelation of God to us in Jesus Christ that has taken place on this earth, and there is evidence for your faith Amen. So days are wonderful again. Are we beholden to a Christian calendar? No. But God has ordered us already by his days. You work six, you rest seven. Because I have a great day of rest for my people, and we keep that every week. But there are other days that help us and remind us of the significance of Christ, not in some Private in my heart only belief, so I hope and pray, you sanctify the Lord Jesus Christ in your heart. But He is Lord of this world And the church understood that. That's why a calendar came into existence to control time. The pagans controlled the days. of the year through their pagan festivals. The church understood to get hold of times for Jesus Christ is Lord. It is his kingdom on the earth, and I think it's sad we don't mark it we don't sign our letters and date it off as two the year of our Lord 2024. That's something like 760,000 days. Has anybody else lived 760,000 days? That's a significant claim, and his kingdom is never going to stop. I think it's sad that we don't remember these days and that we don't mark and understand the days of our Lord and the year of our Lord Jesus Christ. So let's start in and and we're gonna look um and we'll go somewhat briefly because I do want to just focus on the significance of it, of the event as sort of the the main portion of the sermon, which should be the final, but let's look at what Luke tells us. about some things that happened before the ascension, and those are found in verses uh one through eight. Uh you read in verses one through two here, Luke gives us a bit of a summation of his first work. The Gospel of Luke was the first book that he wrote. In the first book, O Theophilus, and now he is writing his second book, which is known as Acts. So Luke and Acts Or two books, but one work, meant to be read together. And he says, I've dealt in that first book with all that Jesus began to do and teach, there's a great understanding for us of what the gospel of Jesus Christ is. It is the word and the work of the God man Jesus, the word and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Some of that is finished never to be done, but some of that, as Luke is saying, he began. And the church has been continuing. Or let me put it this way, he has been continuing it in his church and in his followers by the power and presence of his Holy Spirit. He said, I wrote that whole book contained until the day when he was taken up, after he had given commands to the Holy Spirit, to the apostles, whom he had chosen Luke ended his book with the ascension. And Luke or his first book, Luke ends with the accounts of the ascension, and in his second book, he opens it up with the account of the ascension. And so we can ask the question, what is Luke telling us about the ascension? First thing we can say is that the ascension is the climax to the gospel of Jesus Christ. It doesn't end with his seeming defeat, his rejection. It doesn't end with his shame and bearing a sin. It ends with his triumph. His victory over sin and death and Satan. The good news that what he came to accomplish has been done as he goes up into heaven to continue the work he has been sent for in this world. So the climax of the gospel story of Jesus Christ from his birth Through to the end is his ascension. But it's also then the commencement of the Church of Jesus Christ. For it is only in the faith That the Lord has been risen bodily, and he is not hiding out on earth scared of his enemies, but has triumphed into heaven and reigns there over all. Do they go back into the heart of Jerusalem and proclaim, Him you crucified, God has raised, He's Lord, submit to him and repent. Without this faith of the ascension, without the ascension, the church would have nothing to proclaim. And you might say the church would be too scared to proclaim it. So it's the commencement of the work of the church is this ascension. It functions then as really a transition. From what Jesus did on earth to what Jesus is now doing reigning in heaven through his saints on earth by the Holy Spirit. That's the importance, or that's the function that Luke is telling us that the ascension serves in the gospel of Jesus Christ. If you look through the scriptures, he's the only one who talks about it, but it's understood and implied by everybody, because he's preached by Paul and Peter and everybody else, that he has been exalted to God's right hand. He was on earth, he's raised bodily, he's not here. How did he get to heaven? And that is the ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'll just point out we had a whole sermon on it a few weeks back when we looked at John, but notice that he gave commands to the Holy Spirit, to the apostles whom he had chosen. Jesus ministered in the power of the Holy Spirit, risen he speaks to the Holy Spirit, and now glorified in heaven, he speaks by the Holy Spirit to the Word. That Holy Spirit functions as that link between Jesus and his eyewitnesses and the church today. That we are not separated from Christ, we can't be unsure of what he says, because the same spirit in which he lived and ministered in has been given to us and dwells amongst us and assures us of his message for us today. We read on in verse uh three here that uh Jesus over a period of forty days in this interim period um between his resurrection and his ascension, uh, about what he was doing He presented himself alive to them after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God. The first thing Jesus was doing During this 40-day period before he finally and definitively ascended to heaven as the exalted Lord, was he presented himself to his apostles alive They needed to know with absolute certainty that he is not dead, but he is bodily alive. And to read that Jesus gave many proofs to them that they would be absolutely convinced in their hearts convinced by the evidence of his coming to them and eating to them and being with them that he is alive. But secondly, Jesus had something to speak to them about, and that was the kingdom of God. God's reign and rule that has come upon this earth. in and through Jesus Christ. In one sense you might say the kingdom of God as uh as Jesus tells us, that up until the time of John, the law and the prophets were read, right? But since John, what's being proclaimed in the world are the kingdom of God, his everlasting kingdom, there is already through new birth in Christ. Through being brought out of the kingdom of darkness and translated into the kingdom of God's dear Son, through undergoing conversion by faith. Faith and repentance in Jesus Christ, there is already something everlasting about your life. You have seen the full revelation of God in Jesus. You have come not to know another God, but the only God you will ever know and serve. You have been united to Him forever. You live in His Spirit and share in His life now, even though we don't see it fully in His glory. Even though we don't see it fully in his power already in Jesus Christ, the end has come. Not consummately, but already. And God's reign on earth freeing men from the bondage of Satan, freely parting them through Jesus Christ, and at the same time judging and hardening those who reject his message. Already that work of the kingdom of God is being done in this earth And it will be. And that is what Jesus preached. If you read through Matthew, Mark, and Luke, that was his message. And it's still his message today. And he wanted to make sure his apostles got it, it's the message you are to preach. That God reigns. And as we add to the gospel, the Lord Jesus Christ reigns. And we'll say more about that in a moment: of his kingdom of grace. That was his message to them. And then we read in verses four and five the orders that Jesus gives to his apostles for the immediate future. While staying with him, he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem. But to wait for the promise of the Father, which he said, You've heard from me, for John baptized with water, but you'll be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. Why did Jesus say, don't leave Jerusalem? Jerusalem would have been the easiest place to end the Christian movement. You say, why? Why would it be the easiest place if he wanted to end the Christian movement right away? Because that's where he dies. And if his body was still there, it would have been the easiest thing in the world to produce. Or if he was just hiding out in some caves, as some preached the swoon theory, that he actually didn't really die, he just got close to dying. Whatever theory was has been and is still being preached, it would have been the easiest thing in the world to just show us that half-alive Jesus. Just present to us his body, and it all would have ended there. Jesus said, No, you're going to stay right here. You might stay in the epicenter of it all. And you're going to proclaim, I'm alive. I'm the Christ. I'm the Son of God. I'm the Lord. I thought of this analogy. Imagine for a moment a lone G. I. It could be of any nation. I'm thinking the Allied powers, so any Allied GI, dropping in the Nazi Germany, maybe even the headquarters of Hitler, and proclaiming The Allies rule. The rule of the Allies is here That's a summons to Hitler to knock it off, isn't it? That's a summons to him to humble himself and go to General MacArthur or whatever else and lay down his arms and seek peace. That's the message of Jesus Christ in the world today. Right there in Jerusalem. You've been in the kingdom You only fulfilled God's purpose in crucifying me. You only saw how lovely and merciful and great God is. Now lay down your arms. and receive me as Lord, and He's going to do it in the very place he was crucified, that we might all know He is alive, He is reigning. Next, in verses 6 through 8, we see a discussion between Jesus and the 12 about what time it is You see they here stay in Jerusalem. Yeah, we know Jerusalem, that's where the king's reign. That's where David's throne's at. This is looking good The holy spirits are going to come power. Maybe this maybe this is the superpower we need so we can have super mighty javelin tosses and destroy all of our enemies and get rid of the Romans, right? It seems to be how they interpreted Jesus' message about a baptism in the Spirit and staying in Jerusalem because they asked him the question. Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? Let's stop here for a moment, because this is extremely important teaching, the nature of the kingdom of Christ in this world and its reign. And they're asking a question here about what time is it? That's what they want to know. What time is it? Is it now this time? And he answers them and tells them No, it's not this time, and but he does tell them what time it is. It's time for you to receive power from the Holy Spirit. It's time for you to be my witnesses in Jerusalem, it's time for you to be my witnesses in Judea, Samaria, and to the end of the earth. But what's he talking about? Why do they think he's gonna restore the kingdom to Israel? Why do they think that all of a sudden now Israel is gonna be the powerhouse, the political power of the world, and everybody if you if you've read David's histories and if you've read of those times It'd be quite lovely if you were David, but everybody else is subjugated and made, you know, servants to the nation of Israel. And they're asking, is it now this time? The answer is no. We read in Daniel 7 this morning about the Son of Man. And we read those important verses about him received ascending on high and receiving his kingdom. But if you continue on in that vision, you do get to these words There shall be a fourth kingdom on earth which shall be different from all the kingdoms, and it shall devour the whole earth, and trample it down and break it to pieces. As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them. He shall be different from the former ones, and shall put down three kings. He shall speak words against the Most High. and shall wear out the saints of the most high, and shall think to change the times in the law, and they shall be given into his hand for a time, times and half a time, but the court shall sit in judgment, and his dominion shall be taken away, to be consumed and destroyed to the end And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. His kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom, and his di all dominions shall serve and obey him. So when will God give the kingdom to Israel? When Jesus returns. That is when the saints of the Most High shall reign upon the earth, when Jesus returns. He says to them, It's not time for you to know times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. He's saying, uh dear children, learn this lesson about God's kingdom, which you are now in by your spirit of baptism. Trust the Father. He's in charge. And uh but I do I will point out because you do read in First Thessalonians chapter five The same phrase of times and seasons and notice the context, I think again it just helps support the interpretation I'm getting of this Now concerning the times and seasons, Paul writes, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you, for ye yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. And see the game, they they don't understand yet about Jerusalem. They seem to have forgotten that word about Jesus. It's going to be torn down. I will not be setting up an earthly kingdom here in Jerusalem because the temple is going to be destroyed And they can't get from their minds separated that event and the end of the world. And so Jesus, when he's saying it's not for you to know the times and the seasons, but for your Father He spoke very clearly in the gospel about that one day that only the Father knows, and that's the day of his return, and that's what he's pointing them to. That day you can look forward to saints gladly that you will reign on earth. And I'll make a point later, we already reign in life. You will not be persecuted forever by the little horn. You'll not be laughed at, mocked, scorned. You'll not be divided. Christians won't be persecuted forever. They won't be given second-class citizen status As many of our brothers and sisters experience the world, they won't suffer horrors and atrocities forever. But it is part of this life. Our Savior endured it. And then it's called to us as his witnesses, we must be willing as well to pick up the cross. It is time, you might say, to witness, or another way to say, it's time for the cross. Jesus bore witness in this world to the truth. And he calls us as well to bear witness to the truth. Jesus bore the cross, now he bears the crown. There's an old saying in Timothy, if we suffer with him, we shall reign with him as well. If we endure the cross now, we too shall also wear the crown. That's God's appointed order. And uh read Hebrews or come to the preaching on Hebrews as God chose wonderfully That he doesn't just put a cross on us that it's not punishing us. It's not just to torture us, though it was for Jesus an instrument of torture, though he did work our salvation through it. It's to make us like Jesus The cross makes us like him. I preached this to you before, and I can't ever get my mind off of it. Jesus just kept going back into Jerusalem because he loved them and wanted to gather them under his wings, to tell them the truth. And they had to crucify him to get rid of him. That's how Christians are to live in this world. We just keep going back, preaching the truth. What's the what's the alternative? Hiding out? That's not what Jesus did. We love souls. You know, I I know I did not have a love in my heart for sinners until Jesus saved me. I asked, where does this love for other people come from? It ain't my love. It's the love of God. He loves sinners. He loves his creation. He loves people. And his church is here to tell the truth of him, no matter how bad it hurts. He will only make us holy. It will only bring us that fellowship with Christ we all long for anyways, because that's the kind of life he lives. What a glorious calling, what a glorious Christ. But I did, I said I would make this point to you, as we read in Romans 5, verse 17: Though we don't reign on earth as kings yet. In the sense of not having people oppose us. It is we do reign in life with Christ. Romans 5:17, for if because of one man's trespass death reigned through that one man Much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ. So we do reign in life, beloved. Sin does not reign over us anymore. Death does not reign over us. We do enjoy the life of God in Jesus Christ. But we must know the timing. The timing is witness. The timing is sharing the good news of Jesus Christ. and calling people into his kingdom and making known the loveliness of the king. And then finally here, uh what happened on Ascension Day, the second part I said, verses nine through eleven, we read, and when he had said these things, it's fairly close to his final words. As they were looking on, he was lifted up. This word means to pick something up and very often to set something down. He was picked up by his father and he was set down on his throne. He was lifted up And the cloud took him, this word took means to come under something and raise it up. He was brought up the image here is a cloud coming under Jesus, and which he is then ascending on uh with it under him, raising him up. Is it just a physical cloud, like a normal cloud we see, possibly? It also could be uh the glory cloud that you meet in the old covenant when God settled on his temple or tabernacle and then when Solomon's temple God settled there or as we've even seen in the gospel, the Mount of Transfiguration when that cloud surrounded Jesus And even his followers. So I don't know which one it is. Very likely it could just be a normal class. And also very likely could be that cloud of glory, that divine presence And that what the disciples are really seeing is a most wonderful theophany, this image and vision and revelation of God and the Lord Jesus Christ as he is brought to his rightful place. Back to heaven from which he left. And while they were gazing on in the heaven as he went, he was going somewhere. Behold, two men stood by them in white robes. These are angels. There's two of them because that's the minimum number needed for testimony. And said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven. will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. And uh these men stand in God's presence. That means as uh Zacharias was told and he didn't believe the word of the Lord about the birth of John I don't tell lies, Gabriel said. I stand in God's presence. These angels are saying, we're not telling a lie. He's coming back, and he's coming back in the same way. So the ascension is also a pledge of the return of Christ in judgment as he comes in the same way. The ascension uh let's Pause here, then we'll go on this final section and talk a little bit about its significance. The ascension, beloved, is is a necessary thing. It's not a legend the early church came up as if and I say that only because I see many of our college-age students back here and Some might go to college and you you're gonna be exposed and you're gonna read that stuff and you may have already been exposed to it. That um scholars today will teach that the ascension is some legend. We can hardly believe it because you know we've been to space now. And it's just crazy to think that Jesus is just traveling through space and all the infinite light years that that is, because that would really just be a Death sentence, right? Because there's no oxygen out here. How's he going to survive? And you're going, please help me now understand this, Pastor, because I thought the essential was about this spatial movement from earth to heaven. It is He's not here. That's why I said it's essential because he's preached bodily raised, but he isn't on earth. He's proclaimed to be exalted at God's right hand in heaven. And how did he get there? It was through this Ascension, but dissension is not just about a spatial movement. Uh let me quote one commentator here An ascension should not be regarded as a journey from earth to heaven that required a certain number of minutes, days, months, or years to be accomplished It's not the significance of the ascension. But as Luke really gives it to us, it really marks the final departure of the already exalted Lord. He had not lived on earth for these forty days, but he would come from his place in heaven and appear to them. He wasn't in some hangout spot, some holding place, awaiting to ascend. But the ascension really marks the final departure of the already exalted Lord. It's that significant ending after that, except for Paul in his untimely way, he received the vision of Christ and met him That his final departure from this earth until he comes again. And they give it in such a wonderful way to understand that he is in his rightful place reigning in heaven, brought up, I think very likely by that cloud of glory. So don't let your view from the moon as which you look on earth preach to you that this couldn't possibly happen. So believe and trust the report of God. And it might help us understand a little bit, and let me make this point clear. Heaven is not just a condition or a state of mind, it's a place. Jesus is bodily there. Where this place is, I don't know. Apparently it's not a billion trillion light years away. I I don't know how far away it is. Maybe far away is not necessarily the way to think of it. Maybe it's a lot closer than we think But heaven is a place, and the Lord Jesus Christ is there, and from there he reigns over it, and he reigns over this world. Let me read to you real quick our confession of faith, actually our larger catechism, question fifty-three, when it asks the question, how is Christ exalted in his ascension? And we'll use this as launching off now and to talk about its significance and we'll end with that. Christ was exalted in his ascension, and that after having excuse me, that having after his resurrection often appeared unto and conversed with the apostles Speaking to them of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God, and giving them commission to preach the gospel to all nations. I'm King and Lord Forty days after his resurrection, he in our nature and as our head, triumphing over enemies, visibly went up into the highest heavens. There to receive gifts from men, to raise up our affections tither, and to prepare a place for us where himself is and shall continue till his second coming at the end of the world. That is the significance of the ascension given our larger catechism and how in what way Christ was exalted there. So Jesus Christ, beloved, is preached to us as having ascended into heaven And if Jesus Christ has ascended into heaven, it means more than this, but it doesn't mean less than these three things. We have an exalted head, we have an exalted high priest, and we have an exalted heir. We have an exalted head. We have an exalted high priest, and we have an exalted heir. Let me tell you what that means. First, we have an exalted head. We read to you from Hebrews 6, verses 19 through 20. Hebrews 6, 19 through 20. We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain. Where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. The ascension, beloved, accomplished, as we sung in our opening hymn, the entrance of resurrected humanity into heaven. That had never happened before. Human nature Adam did not obey He did not reach the glory he was called to and made for and given a covenant. And Christ, and our humanity joined to Christ, has now been glorified At God's right hand. The ascension accomplished the entrance of resurrected humanity into heaven. Again, heaven is the realm of the blessed, it's the realm of God. Raising our affections heavenward to our eternal home. And heaven is our eternal home Heaven is not an ethereal, unbodily place. Jesus is bodily there. And as we sing in that wonderful hymn, This is my father's world, Heaven and earth become one in the end. As I've heard one of my New Testament professors said, the earth becomes heavenized. As God in his throne come down to earth, we read in Revelation. And God dwells here forever with his people. So to think that we're going to go to heaven for a while then come out of heaven is wrong. Heaven is our home. And its final fullest manifestation will be in the new heavens and the new earth. We should be very thankful to God and very comforted that we have an everlasting home. As much as we make homes here, and we must, because we're here, we know that we can't stay here. But do we have a final place? Do we have a real place we can call home? Yes. Why? Because Jesus has ascended to heaven for us, in his own words, to prepare us a place. Because he wants us to be with him forever. Should remind us, beloved, that for all the work in progress, Hope, as the Bible teaches us, patience, none of us, not only have we not made it to our final place, We also haven't formed the character required to be in that final place in God's place. And so we must fare patiently with each other. and encourage one another on the way. Listen to these bit of a longer quote, I got a few of them, but if someone has said it better than you can, why try to outdo them? The ascension means the exaltation of man into the life of God and onto the throne of God There we reach the goal of the incarnation, and our great forerunner at the right hand of God We are with Jesus beside God, for we are gathered up in him and included in his own self-presentation before the Father. The staggering thing about this is that the exaltation of human nature into the life of God does not mean the disappearance of man. or the swallowing up of human and creaturely being and the infinite ocean of divine being, but rather that human nature Remaining creaturely and human, is yet exalted in Christ to share in God's life and glory That's part of the significance of the ascension of Christ into heaven, is that is where our head is at, and because our head is there, we have great hope. Death isn't the end. In fact, death isn't even we undergo bodily death, but we know that that is a release into the glory. As our confession teaches us, when a believer dies, he goes immediately into the highest heavens, into the presence of God, and beholds his glory there. Secondly, it means that we have an exalted high priest, we have an exalted head. I told you before, as a pastor, and particularly a pastor with young children Hope is something very important. I try to inculcate into my children as young as possible. We need to teach them right in Adam and his headship Destin But not in Christ. Exaltation and glory is the end. Sharing in that heavenly life of God and realm of God. Glorified it with Him. That's the end. That's what we need to lay out before our children. That's what we lay out before ourselves and encourage each other to our home. That's what we're all trying to get to. Not only that, that's the place God wants his children to be at Samuel Rutherford, a Scottish minister in the 1600s, he's got a volume of letters I've mentioned before. I've learned more about pastoral theology than besides stumbling through it In that let in those letters, but man, he sure writes true, but I'm sure not easy to receive words when he's trying to console his congregation about the death of infant children And I'm sure the death of spouses and anything. But let's remember, God wants his children home. That's where we're all called to be at. We can't stay here. It's hard, it's grievous, but heaven is truly the love at our home in Christ. Truly that's the place for quality. It's truly the place where our hearts and affections must be set upon in this world. Without that hope, we really have, I think, an ineffective Christianity. How can you love in the practical ways if you are clinging with your time and resources to this world Because you don't cherish anything better and more lasting. Real gospel love flows from it. Also faith, what's there to believe in? If everything is seen now and there's nothing more Why cherish any faith in things unseen? Hope is so vital to the Christian life. We also have an exalted high priest. Let me read a couple passages from Scripture to you. Hebrews 9. 24. For Christ has entered not into the holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things. But in the heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf. Presence of God on our behalf. And one more passage just to Let's make this point about having an exalted high priest. Romans 5, 20 and 21. Now the law came in to increase the trespass. But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. So that as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign through righteousness, leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. One of the joys of proclaiming Jesus as Lord. This is his reign of grace. God gave his people the law, not to save themselves, but to show them how sinful they are. And even more sin increased to show how much more his grace increased. How much do we need to hear that? Even as regenerate believers who still sin. The only hope we got is God's grace which comes first. Even where sin increased, God's grace superabounded over it through the righteousness of Jesus Christ. We now preach a reign of grace. To rebel sinners. C. S. Lewis got it so right. The gospel call to repentance is a call to lay down your arms But what good news. You can go to the most hardened rebel against God and preach, if you turn, you'll be forgiven. Come to the King, he's merciful He will give you grace. He will give you repentance. He will give you pardon on the foundation of his righteous shed blood. It's a kingdom of grace. Nobody righteously deserves it It's a kingdom of grace. Jesus Christ suffered that he might give it to us as a gift. We have a high priest. I wanted to read to you also from our confession Larger Categoris on his intercession for us. Christ makes intercession by his appearing in our nature continually before the Father in heaven. And the merit of his obedience and sacrifice on earth, declaring his will to have it applied to all believers. Answering all accusations against them, and procuring for them quiet of conscience Notwithstanding daily failings, access with boldness to the throne of grace, and acceptance of their persons and services. I don't know why it is, but it seems to me the easiest thing as a converted Christian, right, is to shift to a basis of works. And just somehow always find our place upon them. And yet the only way we can ever really go in is by looking at Jesus. And that's what his interceding is for, taking our eyes off of our sins. putting them upon him in his righteousness, and equally putting his father upon them too, so that we can offer our imperfect and still sinful works to him and have quiet of conscience as we do it. This is not an indiscriminate Indiscriminate intercession. Jesus is not reigning there in heaven so that we can sin with impunity without any fear of punishment. This is why repentance is demanded in it. This is for those who know their sin, who know their hopeless sinners. who hate their sin, who forsake their sin, and who trust in the mercy of God, they can rest and know that Jesus will always be their high priest. Have you repented? Are you trusting in this high priest? Do you draw near? Because it c sort of strips your naked, doesn't it? Is there anything else you're bringing between you and God but Jesus? The ascension introduced Jesus' present work in heaven. By which he makes Christian living possible, sending his Spirit in intercession. I've already made that point. But Christian living is only possible by his intercession. Third and finally, we have an exalted head, we have an exalted high priest, we have an exalted Lord. I read to you real briefly from Philippians 2. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed upon him the name, that every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of the Father. Listen to this wonderful quote Ascension Day proclaims that there is no spear, however secular, in which Christ has no rights. There is no sphere, however secular, in which Christ has no right. There's not a place on this earth where people can say you have no rights here, Jesus. No, he's the Lord. And no sphere in which his followers are absolved from obedience to him. That's the significance of his lordship for alliance There's no place on this earth, however secular in which Christ has no rights, and there's no sphere in which his followers are absolved from obedience to him. He's the Lord. Instead of it being a fairy tale from the pre-space age, Christ's ascension is the guarantee that he has triumphed over the principalities and powers So that at his name and I already read you the quote from Philippians, every knee should bow, and heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of the Father. Let me give you another quote that I uh I agree with this. Listen to this quote. For us today, the term Lord has become one of the most lifeless words in the Christian vocabulary. I don't know if this is true in your life. When the title Lord lost its reverence, it also lost its relevance and was reduced to something like a spiritually meaningful religious leader. That is such a travesty because adoration of Jesus as Lord is neither an empty confession nor a vague religious platitude. To enter into its meaning and give practical effect would be to recreate in great measure the atmosphere of the apostolic age. So significant is the Lordship of Jesus Christ that it should be the justification for everything you do. Why do you talk like that? Why do you walk like this? Why do you pray like that? Why do you eat like this? Even if you differ from your brothers, why do you keep this name when your brothers don't? Paul tells us, because I keep it to the Lord Jesus. The justification for Christian living on this earth is that Jesus is Lord. So when someone comes and says, why will you not call me by that pronoun, I can't Jesus is Lord. He said in the beginning God made them male and he made them female. Why won't you bless our homosexual union? Because Jesus is Lord. And he says that's no union at all. Marriage is between one man, one woman, four life. You understand the meaning that Jesus is Lord. He's the Lord. But it's also very wonderful because He gives you everything. If you're finding it difficult to make that confession, he's got resources of grace and spiritual help and comfort Call upon the Lord. Believe me, I'm probably the most cowardly one here. Don't think your pastor is a great war hero. He's not. He's a big coward in a spiritual fight But we need to encourage each other that the Christian living is going to inspire other Christian living. I do agree with uh one of our elders who said recently to me, we're not living in a post-Christian world. There's never been such a thing. There's just been sometimes a decline and sometimes an increase, even as our own confession says. Sometimes the church is more or less visible. You go over to Africa or Iran, it might seem like a great Christian world. The church is flourishing there All right, we might be in a decline in the West for our sins and we should tear our clothes and put dust upon our heads and mourn before God and lament at where our forefathers had turned from them and cry out for mercy But we shouldn't say Christianity's done or it's post-Christian. Jesus is Lord. He knows what he's doing. Let's call upon him and trust in him. And then, and let me make this, I got two points after I'm done. Really, beloved, the confession of Jesus is Lord is an it's an act of worship. Did did uh I didn't read it to you, I meant to read it to you, but look at the um end of Luke when he gives the ascension. Of course, Jesus had already been worshipped by the doubting Thomas when he said, You're my Lord and my God and ascribed to him the name of God, and he didn't say no But after Jesus had risen out of the blessed, we're reading in verse 52 of chapter 24 of Luke, and they worshiped him and returned with Jerusalem with great joy. Ascension is what that sealed upon and and where worldwide worship of Jesus Christ has taken place because he's preached as the ascended Lord. That's a divine honor being given to him. So to confess Jesus as Lord is not a platitude, an empty thing. It's to pay homage. It's an act of worship. To say Jesus is Lord. No wonder God says we shall bow down and do it. I had a friend in seminary ask me, said, why do you Presbyterians always call Jesus Lord? And he was a Baptist. He was great. I didn't have a good answer then. Sorry, Joe. I just I really I didn't realize some of our very beloved Baptist brothers are with us. Um I didn't have a good answer other than I just read the Bible and I guess you just led to it because everywhere is there is led but I I'd like to say, well don't you have the spirit too? Because it's the Holy Spirit that leads us to say Jesus is Lord, right? I should have said, Well, it's because I got the Spirit but I wasn't thinking then. But because he's Lord, and if you really spend any serious reading of the scriptures and taking it to heart, I don't know how you're not led to fall on your face and say, Lord And worship him because he's presented to us as nothing less than Lord. As I mentioned, and I'll end here, Ascension is the pledge of Jesus' return. Hear what Paul says in um 1 Corinthians 16, verse 22, if anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be accursed. Our Lord come. Our exalted head you might tie our theological virtue of hope to. We have a head we can hope. His priesthood you might tie our faith to. We can trust in him and his work and draw near to God. Where do we anchor love at? in the risen Lord, who came down from earth and gave his life for us, and said, Now love as I loved you, and we love the risen Lord Jesus. As Paul says, that is the mark of covenant faithfulness. If nobody loves the Lord Jesus, let him be accursed. That means cut off. So important is it to love the Lord Jesus.