We'll read the first ten verses and then verses thirty-four through thirty-eight. You shall make an altar on which to burn incense. You shall make it of acacia wood. A cubit shall be its length, and a cubit its breadth. It shall be square, and two cubits shall be its height. Its horns shall be of one piece with it. You shall overlay it with pure gold, its top and around its sides and its horns. And you shall make a molding of gold around it. And you shall make two golden rings for it. Under its molding on two opposite sides of it, you shall make them, and they shall be holders for poles with which to carry it. You shall make the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, and you shall put it in front of the veil that is above the ark of the testimony In front of the mercy seat that is above the testimony, where I will meet with you And Aaron shall burn fragrant incense on it. Every morning when he dresses the lamps he shall burn it And when Aaron sets up the lamps at twilight, he shall burn it, a regular incense offering before the Lord throughout your generations. You shall not offer unauthorized incense on it, or a burnt offering, or a grain offering, and you shall not pour a drink offering on it. Aaron shall make atonement on its horns once a year. With the blood of the sin offering of atonement he shall make atonement for it once in the year throughout your generations. It is most holy to the Lord. The Lord said to Moses, Take sweet spices. Stacti and Anaka and Galbanum, sweet spices with pure frankincense. Of each shall there be an equal part. And make an incense blended as by the perfumer, seasoned with salt, pure and holy. You shall beat some of it very small, and put part of it before the testimony in the tent of meeting, where I shall meet with you. It shall be most holy for you. And the incense that you shall make according to its composition, you shall not make for yourselves. It shall be for you holy to the Lord Whoever makes any like it to use as perfume shall be cut off from his people. This is the word of the Lord. The reading is Luke 1, 5 through 25, and then 57 through 80. I'm only going to read 5 through 25 at this moment, and we'll cover the other verses. because they're an important part of the narrative as well. Luke one, beginning at verse five, it's page eight fifty-five in the Pew version of the Bible. Luke 1, beginning at verse 5. In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah of the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. But they had no child because Elizabeth was barren, and both were advanced in years. Now, while he was serving as priest before God, when his division was on duty according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by Lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense. And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah. For your prayer has been heard. And your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great before the Lord He must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God And he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just. To make ready for the Lord a people prepared. And Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years. And the angel answered him, I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God. I was sent to speak to you and bring you this good news. And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled at their time. And the people were waiting for Zechariah. They were wondering at his delay in the temple. And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them. And they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he kept making signs to them and remained mute. And when his time of service was ended, he went to his home. And after these days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying, Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked upon me to take away my reproach from among the people. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word for this faithful narrative written down by Luke, who researched these things carefully and interviewed people. We thank you that his work was done well and that We can rely upon it. He was inspired by your spirit to write this narrative. Now we ask that you would open it up to us by the same Spirit. that we might understand it and apply it to our own particular lives. In Jesus' name, Amen. Well, first we see here the unexpected setting. The unexpected setting. And it comes in the verse number five, the first verse that I read. In the days of Herod. King of Judah, of Judea, I should say. That is the unexpected setting. These were very, very dark days in the land of Israel. Herod, who's mentioned here, was a wicked and paranoid king He would kill anybody, even his own children, if he thought they might be thinking about taking his throne. He was a terrible guy. He's also, in some ways, a very, very good guy. He was a builder of monuments and public works. He did a lot of good things. But he did them for his own glory, even though he was the king of the Jews. It had been 400 years. That's part of the setting, too. It had been 400 years, that's a very long time, since the last prophet, Malachi, in the Old Testament had spoken. In other words, they hadn't heard from God for 400 years. And there had been a general religious decline in the nation. During this long period without God's word. During that time, the Pharisees had arisen with all their rules. And the zealots had arisen plotting to overthrow the Romans who ruled through Herod. So there was political division. We have some of that these days, don't we? There was a general lack of interest in God's word and God's promises. And so in verse 5 it says: In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah of the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, so the same family line, the same priestly line. Verse 6, and they were both righteous before God, so they were unusually good people in this dark time of decline They were righteous before God. It says, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. But verse seven reveals another character characteristic of this unexpected setting These were righteous people. And you would think that God would give them everything always. They would do well. But it says they had no child. No child. And that was a very difficult thing to bear in those days. People thought if you didn't have children, you were married, then there must be something wrong between you and God. They had no child, it says, because Elizabeth was barren, and both were advanced in years. So too late, too late Now, verse 8 says, And now, while he was serving as priest before God, when his division was on duty, according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by lot. to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. Let's go back and think about that for a moment. The priestly order of Abijah to which Zecharias belonged originated with King David and his desire to build the temple for the Most High God in Jerusalem a thousand years earlier. David was not permitted to build that temple because he was a man of war and had shed much blood. But he did the next best thing. He prepared for it with all his might. That is described in 1 Chronicles 29. David gathered building materials, precious stones, gold and silver and bronze in abundance. To make his son Solomon's task easier to build this great temple. David gave Solomon all the plans for the temple. The plans that he had been given by the Spirit, including the division of the priests and the Levites for all the work of their service in the house of the Lord. And so that's why we have this situation here with this division of Abaijah, a part of the priesthood, finally coming to serve in this temple this day. It used to be that the temple was a portable temple during the time of the wanderings. It was a tet. They would pick it up and move whenever the Lord said to, but now it was a permanent structure. It had been built by Solomon, later destroyed by the Babylonians, much later, then it had been rebuilt by the decree of the Persian king Cyrus. And more recently, it had been remodeled and made really good again, really nice again by this same Herod who's been mentioned here. Those Levites who were not physical descendants of Moses' brother Aaron had the unique responsibility Responsibility of ministering over the tabernacle of the testimony and its furnishings. That is the altar of incense. So this had all been set up a thousand years earlier. Now it's being done. And the fact that the division of Abijah used lots to choose who would serve in a particular day. And the fact that there were so many of them, between 18,000 and 20,000 of this division, meant that this was probably the first and only time in Zechariah's life That he was chosen to do this task. This is where we find him in the gospel lesson. We find Zechariah at the altar of incense. Right before the heavy curtain of the holy place, and then beyond that is the curtain of the holy of holies. And he was wearing clean linen breeches. and a pure white tunic over his shoulders, hanging down to his ankles, embroidered with a single scarlet thread. His head was bound with a turban as white and pure as his tunic. And the altar of incense where he was serving represented the ascending prayers of God's people. Who were constantly praying, or should have been, for deliverance. When he first entered, there would have been two Levites assisting with him. One of these would arrange new wood on the coals of fire of the altar, and then one would have come with a lamb bound And put it at the base of the altar, and then this Levite would have cut its throat with a single stroke. The other one would catch its blood in a basin. And after raising that basin to heaven, he would carry it up the altar steps and splash it on the altar stones. And then the two assisting priests would take coals of fire from the altar into an incense pan, and they would place that coals of fire on the altar of incense. Then they left Zechariah all alone. They departed. He was probably already trembling with fear and awe to be left alone in this place for the first time ever in his life. He took a spoon and scooped up some of that incense which was described in Exodus 30, and he began to spread it on the coals glowing on the altar of incense. incense. And then he took up another scoop, perhaps, and spread it, while sweet smoke began to billow and spread its fragrance to the rafters and out the door openings of the temple. The crowds of worshipers outside would see and smell the incense and cry out, make haste, make haste, O Lord, to hear us. It says in verse 10, and the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense. Then something, someone appeared. Verse 11: And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense, and Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. A lot of people think angels are really cute. They put pens of angels on their lapels and have angels on their Christmas cards and all that. But angels are not always comforting. They're often scary. There's a reason why nearly every time angels appear to humans in Scripture, the angel begins by saying, Be not afraid. Aside from a thing appearing to you out of nowhere, their appearance is not what you might think. Angels do not look like chubby little babies or cute-winged people. Generally speaking, angels are described in the Bible as having loads of eyes, multiple faces, and at least six wings. Put that on your Hallmark card. In the Bible, angels make appearances only at important moments in God's saving plans. And this is one of those important moments. So now we can move to the shocking message. The shocking message, verse 13. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard. And your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. How old was this prayer that the angel refers to? It may have been a live concern many years earlier in the lives of Elizabeth and Zechariah After they'd gotten married and waited a while and no baby had come, maybe they began to pray and pray and pray, but by now I think they had probably given up. Both were advanced in years, the text says. Here's what the angel goes on to say, verse 14: and you will have joy and gladness. And many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great before the Lord, and he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. Not that there's anything wrong with wine or strong drink when it's used properly, but he is not to use it because he's got a special mission that God has given him. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. He will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah. To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared. Now you see this is important because for centuries the Israelites had prayed for the Elijah to come. The Elijah that was promised by Malachi, that last prophet, in Malachi 4, verses 2 through 5, it says, But for you who fear my name, the Son of righteousness shall rise with healing in his wings you shall go out leaping like calves from the stall. That's joy and happiness, right? And you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on that day when I act, says the Lord of hosts Then he says in verse 4, remember the law, my servant Moses, the statutes and rules that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel. For behold, I will send you Elijah, the prophet, before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. This was the last word that God said 400 years earlier. Now the angel is saying, it's about to happen. But the time for praying for a baby was long past. So, verse 18 of the text, Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years. And the angel gave a really interesting answer, I think. The angel answered him, I am Gabriel. Gabriel's answer reminds me of a story which is told about a man who retired from the Navy and took a job at a home improvement store just to have something to do. He would sometimes come in a half hour or even an hour late. One day he came in a little late, and the frustrated floor manager asked him whether he came to work late when he was in the Navy. He answered, yes, I came in a little late sometimes. The manager asked, what did people you worked with say to you when you came in late? He answered, they'd say, good morning, Admiral. I am Gabriel, that's my answer. I stand in the presence of God. And I was sent to speak to you and to bring to you this good news. He doubted. And now what we see what happens when you doubt, at least in his case. Verse 20, and behold, you will be silent. And unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time. And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple, and when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that He had seen a vision in the temple and he kept making signs. This is a real interesting game of charades, I'm sure. He kept making signs to them and remained mute. When his time of service was ended, he went to his home. You see what's going on here? God had heard the faithful prayers of his remnant people. The big ones, as the prayer for redemption and for deliverance, for the Elijah to come. And they were also hearing God answered prayers for relatively small things, such as a baby for a barren couple. And I think this is the application about prayer. As long as there is life, there is still hope. You worried about somebody, you're thinking about somebody, you're praying for somebody. For some thing that needs to be? What are you praying about? As long as there is life, there is still hope Keep praying. Keep asking, especially for things that God might be pleased to give for his glory. Don't give up praying. And now we move to the third point, the miraculous fulfillment. Verse 24. After these days his wife Elizabeth conceived. And for five months she kept herself hidden, saying, Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me to take away my reproach from among the people. Reproach. Barrenness, you see, was a helpless condition, and it was considered a curse. Fruitfulness was considered a blessing. Psalm 127 describes the blessing of fruitfulness. Listen to these words from Psalm 127, 3 through 5. Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a reward. Like arrows in the hands of a warrior are the children of one's youth. Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them. He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate. That's beautiful, isn't it? A modern version, written by moderns, might read more like this: Behold, children are a curse from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a punishment for not being careful. Like ball and chain around the ankles of a warrior are the children's of one's youth. How unhappy is the man whose neighbor says to him, Are all those kids yours? Barrenness was a helpless condition. It needed divine intervention. It needed God to come down and act. And Elizabeth's barrenness here is really figurative of the barrenness of Judah at this time. And now it says in verse 57, and now the time came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son. And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown great mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her. And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child. And they would have called him Zechariah after his father. But his mother answered, No, he shall be called John. And they said to her, None of your relatives is called by this name. And they made signs to his father, inquiring what he wanted him to be called. And he asked for a writing tablet, and he wrote, his name is John. And the word John here, by the way, is Yah Hanan. It means Yah is gracious. Yah has been gracious. Yahweh, God, has been gracious. Now we move to the fourth point. The prophecy of Johan's, John's destiny. And they all wondered And immediately his mouth was opened, and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, blessing God. And fear came on all their neighbors. And all these things were talked about throughout all the hill country of Judea. And all who heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, What then will this child be? For the hand of the Lord was with him Verse 67, and his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, and here's what he said, and we're going to sing it later. Here's what he said, Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people and has raised up for us a horn of salvation. A horn in this case indicates strength. In the house of David his servant, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. He's prophesying that God is coming to save all who hate his people. And I want to pause here to ask: who hates you? Who hates you? Who seeks to destroy your life? And the real answer isn't somebody out there, your neighbor or or your boss or somebody like that. Who really hates you, who really seeks to destroy your life is always Satan. Satan is always the chief accuser of God's people. In Zechariah, the book Zechariah, the prophet Zechariah in the Old Testament, chapter 3, there's a vision shown to the prophet. And it says there, he showed me Joshua the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. Satan is always. Your enemy. Satan is always accusing God's people. So Zechariah, the man in the gospel lesson, is rejoicing by the power of the Holy Spirit, prophesying that God has come to save his people. Verse 72 He goes on, to show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath he swore to our father Abraham. to grant us that we being delivered from the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all our days. That was the promise of the covenant. He's saying the promise of the covenant made back in Genesis 15 is finally coming to fruition. Now, at this moment in history, the promise that God would give to Abraham an innumerable multitude, and that in the in his seed, his descendants, the whole world would be blessed. That is what's unfolding here. And then he says in verse 76, and you, child, referring to John, will be called the prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare his way, to give knowledge of salvation to his people, in the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God. Whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. In the last verse of our text, verse 80, and the child grew, that's John, and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his public appearance. to Israel. This is John the Baptizer, who will much later point to Jesus and say, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. So here in this narrative, my friends, we have a narrative about God's power, about God's word coming, just when it's needed most. The word of God comes and it first can terrify you. Because it is the word of a holy God who punishes sinners. But it is also a word of comfort that raises you because it is a word promising relief, promising salvation, promising God's mercy. God's word comes here in this context and it corrects and rebukes and trains in righteousness It challenged and corrected the doubts of Zechariah and made him mute for a while. Sometimes God just says to us, shut up and believe. God's word was personal to John. It was about a baby, but it was more than personal. It was about a baby who will announce to us the Savior of the world. The Savior of the world. Gregory of Nazianzan, the great fourth-century pastor of God's church, said this. Christ, the light of lights, follows John, our John of the text here. Follows John, that lamp that goes before him. The Word of God follows the voice in the wilderness. The bridegroom follows the bridegroom's friend, who prepares a worthy people from the Lord by cleansing them by water in preparation for the Spirit. My friends, we need God's word to take our flesh and die. We have died with Him that we may be purified. We have risen again with Him because we have died with Him. We will be glorified with him because we have risen with him. That is ultimately the message of this narrative Yes, it's about an old couple. It's about a priest, it's about an angel, but it's about the one who would announce to us the Savior of the world. World, Jesus the Christ, the one who will deliver us from darkness and sin and death and give us light and life for all eternity. Praise be to Him Praise be to him. Do you trust this one, the Lamb, that John would point to? Christ, whom John was born to proclaim. Do you trust Him? Are you hoping in him? Are you counting on him? Are you resting in him? That is the ultimate question for you today. Or are you doubting like Zechariah? Well, may God open your heart and open your mouth to praise and adore Him by faith. Amen. Lord, we praise you and thank you that you were sending John, the final prophet of the Old Testament period. And that he would proclaim the Savior of the world. We pray that you'll help us to have open hearts and open minds to believe your word. In Jesus' name. Amen.