On second thought, I should have entitled this sermon, Don't Count the Cars. That's going to be your assignment the next time you approach our parking lot and you see so few. Don't count the cars. Count rather your many blessings. Name them one by one. That apparently is the message of Haggai. Did you hear it? Well, what of Grace and Peace's future? Have you a word from the Lord? All of you need strength for your task and encouragement, and you get it both here in our text this evening, my dear congregation. In the time of Haggai and our text, it was the second year of Darius the Persian. who had conquered the Babylonians, in which Haggai prophesied around 520 BC And the people of God had been returned, as you know, to the Promised Land. Political intrigues had stopped the rebuilding of the temple. on Mount Zion and the enthusiasm of the first return had died away in the face of prolonged difficulty. The two brave leaders, Zerubbabel and Joshua, still survived and kept alive their own zeal. But the mass of the people were more concerned about their comforts than about the restoration of the house of the Lord. They had built for themselves large and attractive homes and were engrossed in expanding their own property. Then did Haggai go straight at the selfishness and worldliness of the people as the great hindrance The rebuilding of the temple. And in our text, there has been recorded for us Haggai's vision of the glory of the future, House of Yahweh. It is also a description, thus, of the future of the Church of Jesus Christ, and so of grace and peace, Orthodox Christby. Contrast the old temple, the temple of Solomon. The prophets had promised great glory For the latter house. And now it seemed like the prophecy was being fulfilled in reverse. In the face of temptation to discouragement, the people of Judah needed hope. This was given them by the direct message from God in the mouth of his spokesman. And it is provided for you too, as will become clear as we proceed. So summarizing the proposition of the prophecy of Haggai, we could put it this way. The Lord commands all his people to be strong in his service, knowing that he is present with them. Through Jesus Christ and by his Spirit, promising and acting to fulfill his covenant promise. And there are then two points in the sermon. The first one is verses 1 through 4 of chapter 2. Which describe the presence of the Lord and how effectual that is upon the future of the church. The Lord's presence What is the result of looking at externals only? Of counting the cars? Answer: discouragement In the case of the Jews at the time of Haggai's prophecy, it was regret at the smallness of the new temple building. So to today, some of you might look back to former days when you were part of another larger local congregation than this one, numerically, more cars Although I suspect even that might be a minority. Still, the Jews remembered the glory of Solomon's temple, and they were discouraged by their efforts In comparison. We're going backwards. They concluded, it is right, is it right to build God a hut? Isn't our generation unworthy? Discouragement. Discouragement that in turn led to giving up They quit. And quitting led to further discouragement. The spiral needed reversing. And I ask you today, dear congregation, would you be going forward necessarily if you were part of a local congregation of some Six hundred souls instead of sixty? What do you think? Would this be a better church? More obedient to the Lord? No. Ask rather, are we growing in grace and in knowledge of the Lord God? Possible that some of you had gone to other churches before landing here, because you had been searching for one that would teach you about God faithfully. And I agree that only when that takes prominence is a church worthy of the name church. Instead of increasing in zeal for missions, both at home and abroad, in love for each other, however many each others there are. Unity in the body, does that describe the size of this church? These are the valid questions, but they all boil down to this one Is the glory of the God of grace of prior To ask that question is, of course, to leave the arena of the material, the size of the worship facility and parking lot And even the number of automobiles in the one and person in the fuse It is to enter the realm of the Spirit, yes, the Spirit of God. And looking at externals for hope, glory, and promise will simply never do, my friends. Not for the Jews. And not for you either. The important issue is not whether the temple Or the congregation is big enough. Size is not in itself the indicator of blessing, of hope, and promise. For growth in the Lord and his kingdom, both in ancient Judea. And in Southern Meryl. Yes, there's a danger for you too. If you look at the external, your initial reaction might also be one of discouragement, right? If you center your attention on the size of Grace and Peach OPC as the index of blessing, you will find it an unsatisfying focus of attention. It's the wrong place to look. The numbers could change. People could move away because of ch job changes. That would not necessarily be a bad thing. Yes, sad to some extent, for sure, but not bad. However, in it all, you need to keep your perspective The Jews of Haggai's day didn't appreciate the wonder and blessing of the Lord's temple. They didn't count their blessing one by one. Only when that had been taken away from them did they miss it. And when they got a smaller temple instead, they regretted their loss So I ask you, what are you looking at as the basis of your hope of growth and blessing for Grace and Peace Orthodox Presbyterian Church in the future? Let your answer please follow Agai's prompting. Look at verse 4. I am with you, declares Yahweh Almighty. There it is. That's what really matters, both for them and for you. Big or little congregation. Glorious or humble structure, the thing that counts is the presence of God. With that, all is well. Without that, all is not well. The Jews should have learned that lesson well when time and again throughout their history It had been graphically demonstrated and numerically summarized, especially in these minor prophets One after another. One after another. The same sermon. What matters is the presence of the Lord Almighty Here too in our text the emphasis is upon the personal pronoun I. I am This is not the God of the heathen, who might be thought to come to help the people who venerated him. This is the great I am. The strength of the Lord's people is found in the knowledge that the sovereign of the universe Is with them to bring to pass all the things that He has commanded them to do This then is no mystical feeling that somewhere, somehow, there is somebody who is with us. It's not a matter of encouragement to hope that good will somehow prevail. The people of the Lord may be strong only when they know that God is with them to fulfill his perfect and sure purpose. Without fail. He did it preeminently when he sent Jesus into this world to save all. Is yes, he sent Jesus to his own. To the Jews then, in the days of Haggai, and even when they rejected him, God didn't give up his plan For he was determined to deliver a whole host of sinners from every generation and every tribe and every nation. He worked in the heart of Peter and the other disciples of Christ, new birth, and he gave them a clear revelation of the person of the Messiah, so that they willingly followed him. Not without stumbling, to be sure, but always with a faith that had been born in them. Faith that had as a touchstone this simple yet profound truth. You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. That was a church of eleven. They knew that Jesus was God with us. Immanuel A. And thus they were prepared for his word of commissioning, as he ascended to the right hand of the Messiah, the Majesty on high. He said, Go, Jesus did, go, for I am with He agrees with Aygon. For that too he is with them, for the building of the church, for the filling of the temple of the Lord with its latter glory. Yes, the same God is with you in the building of the holy temple of the Lord today. Jesus says to you too. All power is given unto me. You go therefore. Jesus is with you. For the word of the Lord endures forever. And this is the word that has come to you. I am with you. So look to Jesus. He is here with this sinful, unworthy, imperfect, small congregation. He is your strength and shield and the ground of your hope. Well that's point one, God's presence. Point two, then, is the Lord's promise, verses five to nine. Of chapter 2. See, those people existed in covenantal relationship with Yahweh He was not only the Lord of hosts, the Lord Almighty, but he was also Yahweh, the Lord, the faithful God of the covenant. And in verse 5, God speaks of the covenant that he made with them. He is the one who is true to his purposes His purpose is that he has made known to his people. And there is their real strength. The presence of not just God, even an Almighty God, but the God of the covenant. Oh, the abundant grace of the Lord, that this God, the God who has the armies of heaven at his beck and call. who does all that he pleases among the inhabitants of the earth, has promised wonderful things for helpless sinners, whom he desires to make the people of his presence. And his pleasure. His church. So I asked you tonight, have you grasped this The sender of the Savior says, I will be your God. The creator and ruler of the galaxies, however, so many of them as there may be. of all things that are, yet comes down to ragged refugees, just back from seventy years of debilitating captivity Who are trying to build what seems only a little jack for the worship of God says, I belong to you. I always did. I am yours, and you are mine. You, church, are God's valentine. If I may call it. Then note that the Lord says, this is according to the covenant that I made with you when you came out of Egypt. Interesting, huh? That was centuries before, but God says I I made that covenant with you when I brought you out of Egypt. You see what's going on here? Through all its generations, backwards, and then forwards as well. And that includes you. The Lord's purpose is one. He calls his church one. His church's future, as well as her past, is one. In God's single purpose for her. Such a covenant as God had established with his people, given first utterance in the Garden of Eden. Gives gracious shape to Abraham, the father of the Jews, and their national status through Moses. And it never dies. And what is the future of that knowledge, of knowing that? Well, it's just this. Don't fear. That's obvious. The Israelites knew that there was work to be done, but they were afraid to take it up, afraid of failure or ridicule. Could you two be tempted to leave your work undone here in Southern Maryland because of fear? I say to you, dear congregation, don't succumb to the temptation to count the cars. You are well aware of the task before you, the faithful proclamation of his gospel, unwatered down, uncompromised Unaltered, the full gospel of Christ, whatever the cost might be, in terms of giving of money of time and effort at evangelism, an expenditure of personal gifts for the good of the whole body here. To build the church, in a word, something that apparently wasn't completed, you realized yesterday. Not then and not now. And the church will not be complete until Jesus comes again. You know that. But now look, you may also know this. There is absolutely no ground whatsoever for fear. Fear that you won't see the spiritual growth that you see. Fear that you will not be able to draw together in a harmonious Unified, working relationship of service, trust, and ministry. Your God is Lord of all, and He encourages you. Do not fear. He has made his son both Lord and Christ, and he is with you to fulfill his promise and purpose for and in you. Do you believe that this evening, people of Grace and Peace, Orthodox Presbyterian Church? Do you impress it upon your children? of which more have been added of late. Do you speak optimistically to them about this church? What great things God has already done for you, and what a marvelous Savior He is to do more great things for you. More blessing to count one by one. But I'm not quite done because Agai isn't either. We must add to this that the purpose of the Lord, of which we've been speaking, is this that his people Do work. Not lie around being either encouraged or discouraged for that matter. Not lying around at all, working, not excusing sloth with the weak and unworthy excuse. Because God is with us, we don't need to work. What value exercise might have for the sole purpose of producing bulging muscles Which is questionable. It has no value in the realm of the Spirit. Our text makes that crystal clear The reason why the Lord encourages his people is not only that they might be strong, but be strong and work. Your salvation is not for gazing at, for self-reflection, and certainly not for self-serving. The church's spiritual muscle is for work. The strength which we receive through the knowledge that the Lord is with us to fulfill his covenant promise Is a strength which must be expended. That's easy for me to illustrate. As we think about the fact that the purpose of a generator is to make electricity to be immediately expended in work, right? The church, dear believers, is not a storage battery. It's a generator. Now why? Why work to build the church? For this, so that God's promise might be fulfilled. Whether that means an even larger congregation than this one. Or not, but rather so that his determination might come to pass. It will come to pass, you may be sure of that. The striking thing about this text is the connection drawn between the strength and work of God's people on the one hand. And the fulfillment of God's purpose, on the other hand. They are not set against each other, but are rather joined together. God does not move in history apart from his people because he is God and therefore all powerful That he is God Almighty does not cause him to forget his covenant. He does not act alone. He too is God in covenant relationship, even as we are people in covenant relationship. So Haggai says, get busy. He says, because God is going to do a great thing through you. He says, I'm not going to do it without him. For the Jews, it was this: carry on with my express plan for the people of the coming Messiah. Continue the priestly work and sacrificial system, which pointed forward to the Christ who was coming. And he didn't come for yet another 400 years. After this prophecy was made. I'm under us. Continue as a light to the nations. Be my special people, because through you I'm going to bring in the light of the world And Haggai puts it this way: God tells him to say that he is going to shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land, that he will shake. All nations. Now now what is what is this shaking? Well, whatever it was, it's going to happen soon, says Haggai, in a little while. A little five hundred, half of a thousand. The fall of the Persian Empire was just around the corner, although unknown to all but God. Political convulsions were soon to occur through the ordination of the God of all history. By these events, the power of men would successively be broken. One nation after another would quickly rise and fall. A worm Was secretly gnawing at the root of the kingdom of man. And God will act Daniel had seen his vision of the great stone smashing the image of all of man's self-glory and power. Into his hands would the Almighty place the reigns of the entirety of human history. All would serve his purpose, all the purpose of the kingdom of his dear Son. Jesus Christ would tabernacle among us God with man. Imano. A you see, nothing happened during the history of that little temple. which the post-exilic Jews erected in Palestine even began to answer the full meaning of the prophecy. The temple was the center point of the kingdom of God on earth, the place of meeting between God and men. But the fulfillment of the prophecy about the shaking and the filling of the house of the Lord with glory is not found in any house made with hands. But in the true temple, which Jesus Christ Himself is, and which He thus builds as His own body. He himself is all that the temple shadowed and foretold. It is in him and in the spiritual temple which he has reared, the church that Haggai's vision finds its full realization. That is something which is now taking place, friends. But which will not be concluded until Jesus returns. Yes, the powers that issue from Jesus Christ Shattered the Roman Empire, and have ever done so been casting down Earth's kingdom into new molds. And apparently, probably there is still work to do. What's going to happen in the next fifty years? Where will the center of Christendom be? Africa? Be careful not to say, of course not. Not even the Kingdom of the United States of America is immune. To God's shape. What stands when God shakes? When he shakes the nations and causes his church to stand while all else crumbles away. All earthly glory is passing. Only what Jesus builds will last. Wood, hay, and stubble will burn up. Only gold and silver and precious stones. Symbols of God's growing living church will last. God will glorify his true house. The church, my friends, has a wonderful future. Part of that future lies in the present age. Right now, God, the Holy Spirit, is at work Yes, he is at work here, even at Grace and Peace Orthodox Presbyterian Church, all as it is. Try to imagine what kind of foolishness you would be about. Were that not true? Can you justify this expenditure in time, effort, and money otherwise? Jesus is busy shaking our world, and he wants you to stand for him right here. While he brings people to repentance and faith. He uses you as his ministers of hope. Yes, the latter glory of God's house. Will be greater than the former. Paul would write of the ingathering of the Gentiles. The Lord today fills his house with glory. Jesus has come. Peace is secured. Now by his Spirit He gathers his elect. This is the glory and the future of the church. Hallelujah.