Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the first chapter of Genesis. We're going to start at Genesis 1, verse 1. Hear now the word of God. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light. And there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. And there was evening, and there was morning, the first day. And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters. And God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so. And God called the expanse heaven. And there was evening and there was morning the second day. And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place. And let the dry land appear. And it was so. God called the dry land earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called seas. And God saw that it was good. And God said, Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit, in which is their seed. Each according to its kind on the earth. And it was so. The earth brought forth vegetation, Plants yielding seed according to their own kinds, and trees bearing fruit, in which is their seed, each according to its kind. And God saw that it was good, and there was evening And there was morning the third day. And God said, Let there be light in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night. And let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years. And let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth. And it was so. And God made the two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night and the stars. And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth, to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning the fourth day. And God said, Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens. So God created the great sea creatures, and every living creature that moves with which the waters swarm according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters and the seas, and let the birds multiply on the earth. And there was evening And there was morning the fifth day. And God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds, livestock and creeping things and beasts of the earth according to their kinds. And it was so. And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and the livestock according to their kinds, and everything that creeps on the ground according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea. And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit. You shall have them for food. And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food And it was so. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning, the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them And on the seventh day, God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. This is the word of the Lord. Please open your Bibles to 2 Peter 1 for our New Testament reading 2 Peter 1, we'll read verses 19 through 21. And we have something more sure. the prophetic word, to which you will do well to pay attention, as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. Knowing this, first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for allowing us to see you by faith in this life. And we thank you that we will see your face one day, something that no sinful man can do and still live. We thank you for revealing yourself to us. In your word and in our hearts. We ask now that you would continue to grow our knowledge of you this morning as we come to you for understanding of your will for us. For Christ's sake, Amen. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Last week we saw that only God existed before he created everything outside himself God's own description of that process is given to you in the first verse of the prologue to the book of Genesis. That prologue runs from chapter 1, verse 1, through chapter 2, verse 3. Which we read today. Recall that Genesis's prologue is also the entire Bible's prologue. The contents of that prologue is the foundation for everything else in the entire Bible. Now the prologue to the book of Genesis tells you that God created everything in just six days. On each of those days, he formed unique and amazing things that bring him glory. On day six, God's final day of creation, he created man. The only part of creation that he made in his own image. God breathed into man the breath of life, and man became a living being, it says. E. J. Young said, quote, Man is the crown of creation. He is supreme over all that has gone before. All that has gone before has prepared the way for man to rule the earth. The blessing is pronounced upon man, and God says, fill the earth. In this way, the blessing is pronounced upon man and the earth is set before man. So you see, the entire universe was created for man. What exactly did that created order reveal about God to Adam? Although it is addressing issues associated with fallen man, Romans 1, 19 through 32, and you may want to turn there, Romans 1. Tells you about what the created order, also called general revelation, reveals about God to mankind in general. Romans 1, we'll start at verse 19. For what can be known about God is plain to even the ungodly, thus all mankind. Because God has shown it to them in human consciousness, beginning in the womb, Calvin says even. Verse 20, for his invisible attributes, those are things of God that are not sensually perceptible, but mentally understood. namely his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world. So that includes unfallen Adam. In the things that have been made. They're built into them. God's fingerprints, so to speak, are on everything He created in the universe. So all men are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him. But they became futile in their thinking, and foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Therefore God gave them up in their lust of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie. And worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. And now if you skip down to verse 32, Though they know God's righteous decree, that's the universal communication of God's law. That those who practice such things, the things he just listed in the verses right before that, that those who practice such things deserve to die. They not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. So verse 19 says that God has revealed to all mankind Himself, which is why verse 21 says that all mankind knows God. The created order reveals to man what God purposed it to reveal, and it does its job well. Now, in light of this passage of Scripture, here's a question for you. Does God condemn those who deny the fact that there is some kind of God out there? Now what does the passage say? It says, God condemns those who don't worship, praise, and serve the one and only true God, as verse 23 says, the immortal God. And there's only one of these in the whole universe. You might be aware that the Westminster Larger Catechism question number two asks, it addresses this issue, and it it asks this, how doth it appear that there is a God? And it answers the very light of nature in man and the works of God, which refers to his works of creation and providence over that creation, declare plainly that there is a God. But his word and spirit only do sufficiently and effectually reveal him unto men for their salvation. Now what do you think about that answer? Well, the Westminster larger catechism is considered by many esteemed theologians to be the most mature of the Westminster Assembly's products. But this catechism question could have been even more biblical if it said the very light of nature in man and the works of God declare plainly that the one and only true God is. The one and only true God has his specific fingerprints on everything he made, even on man himself. There is no other God. No one else's fingerprints are built into anything in creation. So everybody knows the true God. Even though they may not know all the details about him, they know the true God. So you should realize that because God's fingerprints are built into everything, so to speak, God's existence is continuously proven to man by God Himself All men know the living God exists by virtue of God's divine image within them, and in the revelation of himself in both the created order surrounding man and in providence. This means that many of the traditional proofs or arguments for God's existence are unnecessary Theologian Robert Raymond said, quote, I believe God is really there because without him, as the universe's final reality, there would be no intelligibility anywhere But I do not confess this existence on the basis of the traditional theistic arguments, whether ontological or empirical. R. C. Sprohl echoed these thoughts when he said, quote, I do not have to prove to you that God exists, because you already know it. If you don't believe in God's existence, your problem is that you despise the God whom you know exists. And if you deny God's existence, your problem is not intellectual. It is moral. You hate God. Now back to Romans 1. These verses in Romans 1 that we read also show that the created order revealed to Adam that this one true living God was Adam's lawgiver and judge. Verses twenty-four through thirty-two show that man knows God's moral standards through the created order. Within himself. All mankind knows the principles of God's moral law. Now, where in the Bible are those moral laws summed up? Ten Commandments. Exodus 20 and Deuteronomy 5. People today might understand it this way. Each person comes with a complementary Ten Commandments feature built into them. But mankind evidently knows much more than just the Ten Commandments, because if you notice, even homosexual practice is known by all mankind to be hated by God. Look at verse 32. It says that those who practice homosexuality, referred to in verses 26 and 27, know they are condemned. Homosexual practice has rightly been called, quote, the culminating sexual practice of a culminating apostasy and hostility toward God. In terms of what verse 27 says, it is the burning out of man. So all mankind knows God's righteous decree that those who practice homosexuality Deserve to die. That's what God's Word says. Now, on your own, too, I want you to think about verse 32 and what it says about those who give approval to those who practice homosexuality. How does verse 32 say God will judge them? Therefore, Romans 1 shows you that the created order revealed to Adam That the one true living God was his creator, his ruler, his lawgiver, and his judge. But did unfallen Adam need more information than this to live in the Garden of Eden? Adam was a creature on a completely different level from his creator. In Isaiah 55, verses 8 through 9, God says to man, For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways. declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. So as a creature made by God, man has limitations built into him. Like all men, Unfallen Adam could not find detailed truths about God by looking in either himself, as some religions try to do, or in the created order around him. Not only that, but unfallen Adam's imagination, memory, and rationality were too limited to absorb the vast and intricate truth of God. Adam also could not find the detailed truths of the created order either through created order. This is because Adam did not have a God's eye view of all that goes on at every moment in time throughout the created order, which is required for a comprehensive understanding of the created order. And it's also required to be able to make absolute statements of fact about that created order. You need a God's eye view to do that. Adam's knowledge of anything and everything had to be based on God's knowledge. And God's revelation of that knowledge to Adam. Furthermore, it has been pointed out that, quote, when Adam was created and placed in the Garden of Eden, he did not know what to do. Nor would a study of the garden have led to any necessary conclusion. His duty was imposed upon him by a special divine revelation. God told him to be fruitful of multiply, to subdue nature, to make use of the animals, to eat of the fruit of the trees, with one faithful exception. Now what do we call these words that came from the mouth of the Lord to unfallen Adam? When God makes Himself more clearly and fully known to particular persons by miraculous acts or words or a combination of the two, we call it special revelation. In contrast to that general revelation we talked about earlier in Romans 1. Man cannot create truth Man must receive the truth of special revelation if he's to know the truth about anything at all. As Psalm 36, 9 says, God, in your light we see light. And Deuteronomy 8:3 says that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from From the mouth of the Lord. That's what it's referring to there. The special revelation. I want you to know that even unfallen Adam needed more than general revelation. Which is God's revelation of Himself through the created order. Special revelation was needed from the start. Created in the image of God, unfallen Adam was enabled to receive special revelation. Bob Letham points out this When he says, since the image of God looks forward to Christ as the second Adam, there is much justice in the teaching of the fathers that the human race was created in Christ, the true image of God. So think about unfallen Adam created in Christ. And furthermore, Calvin says that unfallen Adam was already filled with the Holy Spirit, yet apparently subject to further growth. Even before the fall, at his very creation. Calvin's specific words are these: quote, Before the fall, the incorrupt and holy Adam was generated and losibly indwelt by the Holy Spirit. He could lose the Holy Spirit within him, but he had it when he was created So God communed with his newly created, mature, and unfallen image-bearer Adam. Genesis 3. 8 says that Adam and Eve, quote, heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. You remember that probably. Apparently, God took on a manlike form to interact with Adam. God walked and talked with unfallen Adam throughout Adam's days. Using words and sentences that both God and Adam could understand. What did God talk about with Adam? He gave him special revelation. At a minimum, as I've already mentioned, God told him to be fruitful and multiply, to subdue his environment, to make use of the animals, to eat of the fruit of the trees, with one exception. That's recorded for us. And Adam's life in the garden has been summarized this way. Quote, in Eden, God and man were close friends. I want you to keep this in your mind because this is This is going to be the whole point here. They were close friends. God took delight in revealing himself in all his glory to man, not merely intellectually, but in such a way as to bring intense delight to Adam. In this communion, Adam had free and constant access to God, without fear of rejection, and with great pleasure in God's presence. Because man had no sin or guilt, he was not afraid or hesitant to draw near to God. He sensed no shame when standing before this holy, sin-hating God. This communion also consisted of Adam's being made partaker of those divine influences, whereby he was excited to put forth acts of holy obedience to and love and delight in God. So I want you to see that even before Adam sinned, he not only needed, but was able to walk in the light of the special revelation that God gave him. As a result of the fall, man no longer was in union with Christ. The image of God in man was marred. Man no longer had the ability to reflect God's holy character. Because the Holy Spirit no longer dwelled in him. Man's knowledge of anything and everything still had to be based on God's knowledge and God's revelation of that knowledge to him. But man could not believe God's special revelation and didn't want it The created order still reveals God in a general way, but fallen man's darkened, deceived, and debased mind misinterprets the data he finds out about the universe causing unredeemed man to reach ungodly conclusions about that created order. Unredeemed man believes he can truly understand the world around him. without the use of God's special revelation. But Romans 5, verses 12 through 21 says that everything which had fallen in Adam Is renewed in Christ. Everything that Adam destroyed is restored in Christ, yet to a much more abundant extent. So now you, today here, Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, are unlosably indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Who has made you willing and able to believe Christ, and willing and able to obey Christ, albeit to a greater and greater extent as your life goes on. The whole goal of God's gift of salvation for each of you is union with Christ, who is the image of God. So you see how Christ is restoring what Adam already had. This means that Christ has enabled each of you who are redeemed in Christ to have that communion with God that unfallen Adam had in the Garden of Eden. God is not only your Lord and Savior, but your close friend, as Adam had in the Garden of Eden. In Christ, you have free and constant access to God without fear of rejection. God's delight in revealing himself to you in all his glory now brings you intense delight in your whole being. Not only can you worship God and talk to God in prayer as you carry on with your daily affairs, but with the help of the Holy Spirit, you can listen to God, as it were, as He reveals His mind to you in His Word. Which is now permanently established in the form of the scriptures of the Old and New Testament. The Word of God is special revelation of that knowledge of God and His will for you. which is necessary unto salvation. The general revelation of God found in all God's created order is not sufficient to do this. Not until you die in Christ will you experience the beatific vision of God, which is the very presence of God, face to face, so to speak, in the highest heaven Until then, one of the ways you've been enabled to see God by faith is by reading his word through your union with your Lord Jesus Christ. So when you read the book of Genesis, you must always remember that. First you're communing with God when you do that. And remember this, as R. S. Candlish put it, this is not the creation speaking of the Creator. Genesis, but the creator speaking of the creation. I'll say that again. This is not the creation speaking of the creator in Genesis. Genesis, but the Creator speaking of the creation. This is a direct communication from a real person, even from the living and present God, from the Creator Himself to you. As you read, regard him, God, as standing near you, and himself telling you personally and face to face all that he did on that wondrous creation week and afterward. in the rest of the events of the book of Genesis. Next, I want you to see some of the details of this specially revealed book written to and for you. Let's first look at the point of view you're put in when you read the book. The book of Genesis gives you, the reader, a view of the created universe. It's as if God begins with an ultra-wide-angle lens And then steadily narrows the field of view for the reader as the book progresses through history. Now here's what I mean by that. In verse 1 of chapter 1, God provides his readers with the widest viewpoint possible. It's from his perspective. It's the entire universe. Then at verse 2, he narrows his focus to the planet Earth on which we live. You're put there. Then in verse 26 of chapter 1, he narrows his focus again now to mankind, which he created to live on planet Earth. And then beginning in chapter 4, verse 25, he narrows his focus down to a single genealogical line within all mankind. specifically the line from which the Savior of mankind would one day come. So God takes his focus off that genealogical line very little after chapter four, verse twenty-five, through the rest of the Of the book. So you see that perspective you're put in as the reader. The entire book of Genesis is a historical narrative laid out chronologically from the creation of the world. To the death of Joseph in Egypt, when God's people are ready to be formed into a separate and distinct nation under God's special rule. That's where Exodus picks up. Jesus and all New Testament authors considered the book to be literal history. But the book of Genesis is not just historical in a general sense. like a book of history of Egypt or the history of the United States would be. It is, as E. J. Young said, quote, a severely historical book, a book so strongly historical that it may be labeled genealogical. The book of Genesis you have in your English Bibles is a collection of genealogical records bound up into a single volume. So when you think of the book of Genesis, think of a genealogical document, like genealogical records and or military service records that are held in our National Archives. But with important facts added about individuals as appropriate for God's purpose for the book. That's the structure, the genealogical structure that book has It is important to note that because the genealogies of the book of Genesis and chapters 5 and 11 specifically can easily be linked up with Luke's chapter 3 genealogy of Jesus. It's possible for people today to trace their own lineage all the way back to Adam. After all, the full genealogy from Adam to Jesus, the Bible shows, is 76 generations. I've seen one person's genealogy, and this person's living. That went back 87 generations to Adam. His line flowed through Noah's son Japheth. Now there are a few assumptions in that. The first ten generations, we only have the first sons. But you have the link all the way through. Of course, everyone's genealogy runs through Noah back to Adam. There's only one race. Of people on the entire earth. And by the way, race is not based on how much of the amino acid melanin is in your skin. Race is based on whether you descended from Adam. But it's good for Christians to learn their ancestry and possibly find interesting details about their heritage out from that effort. For example, consider the question of whether one of your ancestors never died. So who wrote the book of Genesis? The New Testament tells you. Moses was the human author, God the divine author. The Jews divided up the Old Testament in three parts. They had what they called the Law of Moses, which referred to the first five books of the Bible, Genesis through Deuteronomy. Then they had what they called the prophets, and then there was the Psalms. When they spoke of, quote, the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. They were referring to the same thing we do when we say the Old Testament. So in Luke 24, verses 27 and 44, if you keep Keep this in mind. And that's Jesus on the road to Emmaus after he's been resurrected from the dead, and he's telling his disciples And he says there, and beginning with Moses and all the prophets He interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. So Jesus is saying there, beginning with what Moses wrote. And they knew the first five books of Scripture. That's what Moses wrote. I'm going to interpret those writings so you can see they were about me. And then in verse 44, then he said to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses. And the prophets and the psalms must be fulfilled. The law of Moses is the Pentateuch. Genesis through Deuteronomy. It's what Moses wrote. And then John 5 46 summarizes the same concept. Jesus is speaking there, referring to the books of Genesis through Deuteronomy. For if you believe Moses what Moses wrote, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? So for the Jews, what Moses wrote was Genesis through Deuteronomy. So you see the New Testament says Moses wrote the book of Genesis. But then God was the ultimate author, the one who used Moses as an instrument to write Genesis. 2 Timothy 3. 16 tells you that Genesis being a book of Scripture. is God breathes. Script is writing. So the written 66 books of the Bible contain the written thoughts of God. Breathed out by God into that script. God Himself is the origin of that breath or script. That is why Scripture is incapable of error. The authorship of the book of Genesis has been summarized this way, reflecting our New Testament reading from 2 Peter 1 today Quote, Moses wrote down in the book of Genesis what God told him to write down, nothing more and nothing less. There is nothing at all, not one word in the entire book of Genesis that Moses put in there on his own authority or on impulse, on his own decision, or by his own choice. Every word in the book of Genesis God revealed to him to put down in that book. And Moses did not forget one word God told him to write for us. Nothing was neglected either, from the first word to the last word of the book. But Did God provide Moses additional sources of information that he could use in writing the book of Genesis? With the Holy Spirit helping him. I think this is likely. Now consider that. Much of the Bible was written from either the eyewitness experience of the authors, such as the epistles of Peter. It says that in 2 Peter 1:16. Or as a result of research by the author, such as Luke's writings. Luke 1, 1 through 4 speaks of that In each of these cases, the Holy Spirit made sure the author, such as Luke in the books of Luke and Acts, did not write anything on his own authority. God guided the author. And there's no good reason not to think that Moses did the same thing as Luke did, working from well-preserved documents written by the patriarchs, the very men we read about in Genesis. Noah would have stored these written documents on the Ark in order to preserve them through the worldwide flood. This theory of source documents for Moses is referred to as the tablet model. The case of the source documents used for the prologue of Genesis would be unique, however. The creation account gives us information that only God could provide. From man's perspective, it's a behind-the-scenes view that God gives you there. As far as source materials go, God could have directly provided Moses all the information he needed to write the creation account. But it's also possible that Adam wrote the source document from which Moses worked. If this were the case, then God gave Adam an eyewitness narrative account of what God did. And then Adam recorded that account under the Holy Spirit's guidance. Then Moses would have used Adam's written document as a source document to write Genesis 1, 1 through 2, 3. Again, guided by the Holy Spirit. But either way, whether God gave Moses all the information directly, Or God preserved it in the writings of the patriarchs, which then Moses used as source materials when he was under the guise of the Holy Spirit writing then the book of Genesis. Either way, it's God's infallible word that's there in your Bible today. Now as you know, the prologue to the book of Genesis runs from 1-1 to 2-3 and contains the creation account. And then from 2. 4 Chapter 2 verse 4. So the end of the book, there are what you might call ten chapters. Not the chapters you see in your Bible, but ten sections. Genesis is a highly structured book, as you would expect from any genealogical book to be. Each of these chapters Ten chapters, ten sections, is a particular stage in God's redemptive work. And every one of these ten chapters has a title at its beginning. Each title is a phrase that uses the same Hebrew word, pronounced Toledol. T-O-L-E-D-O-T-H, Tolodal, which is translated, this is the account of, or as the ESV usually puts it, these are the generations of. For example, the second Toledoth chapter of the book of Genesis begins with its title in chapter 5, verse 1. You may want to look at that. I'll ask you a question about this in a second. So this is the second Toladoth. Toladol. In Genesis. And it begins with its title in chapter 5, verse 1. And it says there, this is the book of the generations of Adam. So that's the title of that section. And what does Atoleda's title indicate about its contents? Well, you're going to then read in that section, that chapter of Genesis. Well, each Toledah chapter contains what happened as a result of the person listed in that chapter of title. The result of. Now, what would you expect Adam's Toledol, which runs from chapter 5, verse 1 through 6, verse 8, to contain? Look at what's in there. What did Adam do that was so momentous? He committed treason against God and caused all mankind to fall in him. So, as you would expect, the main point of Adam's Toledah is the generational transmission of sin from Adam down to Noah and his sons. That's what you read about there in that account. Adam's Toledol contains the result of Adam's life. And as you may already know, the division of the books of the Bible into chapters and verses Which you have in your English Bibles is not inspired and was added much later in history, after a thousand AD. So the Toledaws of the book of Genesis The sort of chapters of Genesis, the sections of Genesis, which I'm calling the real chapters, don't always line up with the beginning and endings of the chapters you find in your Bible. So now let's do a quick walkthrough of the sections of the book so you kind of understand the contents in terms of these Toledols. After the prologue, the first Toleda begins with its title in chapter 2, verse 4. You may want to follow this in your Bibles so you see it. You have a chapter title in chapter 2, verse 4, and this records what came from the heavens and earth. What came from the heavens and earth? Man. God formed man out of the dust. And you're taken back there to day six of creation week, the day on which God created man, and then you're given additional details about what occurred on that day with regard to man. For the Toledo of the heavens and earth, the probable writer of the source document from which Moses worked is Adam. The second Toledol section runs from 5-1 through 6. 8, which we've already seen. It's the result of Adam's life down through Noah's sons, with sin spreading through the unredeemed uh through unredeemed humanity. Setting up God's justification for the flood. For the Toleda of Adam, the probable writer of the source document from which Moses worked is Noah. Then in the third Toledah, it runs from 69 through 929. It covers Noah's life and its results. By way of God's redemptive purposes, Noah and his family are saved by God from the destruction of the entire earth by the flood. And for the Toledo of Noah, the probable writers of the source document. From which Moses worked are Shem, Ham, and Japheth his sons. Then in the fourth Toledo, the titles in chapter 10, verse 1. You're told of the lives of Noah's sons. And the results of their lives, the major result being the construction of the Tower of Babel. And for the Toledo of the sons of Noah, the probable writer of the source document from which Moses worked as Shem. Then in the fifth total, the title of that section is 1110. It runs from 1110 to 1126. Very short. It follows the covenant line through Noah's son Shem. And here you're given a genealogical table of Shem's descendants without commentary. Just pure genealogy. And for the Toledol of Shem, the probable writer of the source document from which Moses worked is Terah. In the sixth Toledal, the title is in 1127. This is a longer one, 1127 through chapter 25, verse 11. It's Tarah's life and its results. Notice that there's no break between the end of the pre-Abrahamic material, chapter 11. And the Abrahamic material beginning in chapter 12. Everything just continues the same as it's been going in the book of Genesis. In the Toledol of Terah, you're given a genealogy of Terah to Abram, the Abrahamic covenant, the near sacrifice of Isaac. Sarah's death, Isaac's marriage to Rebekah. Then the section ends with Abraham's death. For the Toledah of Terah, the probable writer of the source document from which Moses worked is Abraham. Then look at chapter 25, verse 12. This is where the next Toledah begins. This is a contrasting Toledah. Okay, this is where God takes his eye off of this line, genealogical line to Christ. This is the genealogical record of those unbelievers who came from Abraham. You read of Ishmael's life and its results. It's a short section of seven verses from chapter 25. Verse 12 through verse 18. Ishmael, remember, was Abraham's son, whom his Egyptian servant Hagar bore him. Ishmael's descendants lived outside the covenant of grace. And you know the miserable results that come from that. For the Toleda of Ishmael, the probable writer of the source document from which Moses worked is Ishmael himself. The eighth Toledol section is a historical record of Isaac, Abraham's son, and what came about as a result of Isaac's life. It runs from the title in chapter 25, verse 19. Through ten more chapters, through 35-29. The section ends by recording that Jacob moved to Bethel, where God renamed him Israel. And then before recording Jacob's death, the text provides a list of the 12 sons of Israel who became the 12 tribes of Israel. For the Toledol of Isaac, the probable writer of the source document from which Moses worked is Jacob. In the second from last Toledo, the ninth, which runs from the title in chapter 36, verse 1, through 37, verse 1, is one chapter plus 1 verse. You have another contrasting genealogical record, just like the seventh was. This Toledo section records Esau's life and its results. Another life lived outside the covenant of grace. And for the Toleda of Esau, the probable writer of the source document from which Moses worked, is possibly Jacob. We don't know. The result of Esau's life is the nation of Edom. A nation which God eventually removes from the face of the earth entirely, which is a warning to all nations that will not submit to God's rule in this world. The main point of this Toledol section is that Jacob's line, not Esau's, is the messianic line that God carried on from the first Adam and will eventually lead to the second Adam, Jesus Christ. And then the final Toledah in the book of Genesis runs from chapter 37, verse 2. You see the title there through the end of the book, 14 chapters. 37-2 is where it starts. It records the providential role of Jacob's son Joseph, who was sold into slavery, then taken to Egypt, and he becomes Pharaoh's second in command. Through Joseph, the covenantal blessings are then transmitted to all of Israel's twelve sons. The next book of the Bible records the establishment of God's people as an independent nation For the Toledo of Joseph, the probable writer of the source document from which Moses worked, except for the last verses of chapter 50, which recorded So now I have a question for you, if you're kind of paying attention there. First, please go back to the prologue to the book of Genesis, chapter 1, verse 1. There is no Tolodal statement at the beginning of this section of Genesis. There's no title to this section. Why is 1-1, chapter 1, verse 1, not a title to the prologue? Because remember, The Toledol is designed to explain what became of the results of the previous section, and there's nothing preceding Genesis 1. 1. The prologue begins right away with God acting. God created the heavens and the earth. There was nothing in creation that existed before God created the heavens and the earth. There's no history before 1-1. So there's no toladal statement. There's no title there. And then one more question for you. If God wrote a Toladol about the results of your life, What you did and what are the results of your life? What do you think it might record And if you've ever read the entire book of Genesis, you'll certainly know that it is very honest about the lives of God's people. Don't think of yourselves as somehow being above God's people in Genesis. Notice the generational effects of what they did and take that to heart. You are creating a heritage, whether you ever thought of it or not. Regardless of any past failures, though, God wants you to work on making your heritage more and more godly in whatever ways you can. And pray that God would help you do it. Let's pray. Almighty God, we thank you for revealing yourself to us through Jesus Christ and His Word. Lord, enable us to read the book of Genesis with a high and reverent esteem, with a firm persuasion that it is the very Word of God. Cause our diligent reading of the book of Genesis to be effective as an outward and ordinary means of grace to us. Cause it to enlighten, convince, and humble us Drive us out of ourselves and draw us to Christ. Conform us to Christ's image. Subdue us to His will, strengthen us against temptations and corruptions, and build us up in grace. Calls the reading of the book of Genesis to establish our hearts in holiness and comfort through faith unto salvation And finally, Lord, give us a desire to know, believe, and obey your will, as revealed in this glorious book of the Bible, as we study it in meditation Application, self-denial, and prayer. For Christ's sake. Amen.