Old Testament reading is from the book of Exodus, where we're going to read chapter 3, verses 13 through 22. Exodus 3, verses 13 through 22. Then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, Say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent me to you. God also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel: the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say to them, The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, I have observed you and what has been done to you in Egypt. Egypt, and I promise that I will bring you up out of the afflictions of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, a land flowing with milk and honey. And they will listen to your voice, and to you and the elders of Israel shall go to the king of Egypt and say to him, The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. And now, please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go unless compelled by a mighty hand. So I will stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all the wonders that I will do in it. After that he will let you go. And I will give this people gold jewelry and for clothing. You shall put them on your sons and on your daughters. So shall you plunder the Egyptians. The word of the Lord. The New Testament reading is from the Gospel of John, chapter 8, 31 through 59. John 8, beginning at verse 31. So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free They answered him, we are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say, you will become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The son remains forever. So if the son sets you free, you will be free indeed. I know that you are offspring of Abraham, yet you seek to kill me because my words find no place in you. I speak of what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you have heard from your Father. They answered him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works Abraham did. But now you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. You were doing the works your father did They said to him, We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, even God. Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me. Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. You are of your father, the devil. And your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and has nothing to do with the truth, because there is no truth in him When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I tell you the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. The Jews answered him, We are not, are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon? Jesus answered, I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me, yet I do not seek my own glory. There is one who seeks it, and he is the judge. Amen, amen, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. The Jews said to him, Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died. As did the prophets. Yet you say, if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died? And the prophets died. Who do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say he is our God. But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I did not know him, I would be a liar like you. But I do know him, and I keep his word Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad. So the Jews said to him, You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham? Jesus said to them. Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am So they picked up stones to throw at him. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us take a moment to pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the gift of your word. You would have been just to leave us in darkness, to persist in silence. But in your love and in your mercy you have condescended to reveal yourself unto us. We pray today that as we consider your word, your revelation of yourself. That our hearts would be moved in joy, in adoration, in obedience, in thanksgiving, so that our lives may reflect a fruitfulness from the seed of the This word. We ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Today I want us to consider the book of Exodus and our readings there. Our section today deals exclusively with names from the book of Exodus. If you were to simply scan through your own Bible or your pew Bible, you would see all sorts of names. apparent in the text. You would see the names of the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. You would see the mention of Moses himself. You hear about Pharaoh, the elders, you hear about Egypt and the like. There's no end to it If you were to circle every name. But of all the names considered in our text today, and indeed there are provided some of the most important names in all of sacred scripture. There is one name that stands above them all, the sacred name of God Himself. Have you ever considered your own name? Most basically, do you like your name? Is it a name that you wish you could bury? Would you change it if you had the possibility to do that? Names are very insignificant often in the Western means somebody because of your favorite TV show or favorite book, maybe an old friend, maybe an obscure character in some thing. But this was not the case in the ancient world. Notice that our whole section is driven by names. Now Moses will have much to say about who this God is throughout the rest of the book of Exodus. But in our passage today, God discloses something very unique about Himself. It's his name. God reveals himself in this very special way. And if we remember the context of Exodus 3 as a whole, we see that there was a revelation of God's character with the burning bush. We saw that God from this moment called Moses to be holy. He called Moses to be a prophet. He declared his own covenant fidelity. And he gave him this wonderful promise in Exodus 3. 12. He says, I will be with you. But if you and I were in that situation, we'd still have one very basic concern. Moses says in chapter 3, verse 13. If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you. And they ask me, What is his name? What should I do? What do I say? All of us can sympathize with this line of questioning. We might want to ask, though, what is Moses' driving force? Why this question? He could have asked any question at this point. Why this one? Is it simply that he wants information for the sake of information? He's building a uh a nice ancient encyclopedia. He has a great moment. It was pre-internet, so things are tough to come by. So he had to take advantage of this. I think if we know something about the man, Moses, we might learn something about the situation. Moses' memory probably struck true of his failed attempt at deliver his people forty years ago. He had forty years in the wilderness with these sheep to think about his failure. His great act of failure probably followed him. Have you yourself ever royally failed at something? It was a quick oh yeah. All of us said amen. All of us can can bring to mind. I know in our moments of confession of sin. Sin so often, I don't just think about the past week, maybe the past month, past year, past decade, past lifetime. We all know these sorts of things that linger. When we go on a walk with our dog, they come to mind. When we take out the trash. Perhaps when we're laying in bed and we can't sleep, these moments of failure come forward and perhaps even begin to stifle us, conquer us even. Many of us know that we are not perfect. Life is full of all sorts of failures. Moses had tried, he had failed. Miserably. And you know what it cost him everything? He had committed his life to trying to help, and it did not work. And now, in the most unexpected way imaginable, the God of all the universe comes forward and calls him to deliver his people. The light of the burning bush resonating before him, even on his face, the sound of God's voice echoing throughout the mountainside, reverberating. But his heart merely went back to that moment of failure. We always need to remember this. Moses' questions don't come out of a vacuum. There are remnants of these failed attempts. What if they don't believe me? What if I put my whole life on the line again and it just blows up in my face? But again, what does he ask for? He asks for the name. He asks for the name of the one who is calling him. Old Testament scholar E. J. Young once wrote to the Semite, the ancient Near Eastern person The name signified the character of a person, or brought to mind something distinctive about him. E. J. Young continues and says, to ask for the name of God was to desire to know the nature of God. In other words, when Moses is seeking the name of God, he's asking, in fact, what sort of God are you? What is so unique about you? Perhaps even most basically, are you able to actually follow through with what you're promising to do? Is it within your ability? And so now we can understand the nature of this question. I had the pleasure yesterday, Elizabeth was so kind to give me a uh a copy of the the bulletin and and and And she said, if you find any errors, please let me know within the next half hour. I was very grateful for that. She has a gift that my wife shares. She has this administrative giftedness. I know I do not have on Excel, that horrible program, my wife can do in 15 minutes, and I imagine you as well. We recognize what we can and can't do. We have that. For those children who are very calm and very patient and quiet, you all know that you're not Superman. You can't fly over this building today if you wanted to and grab a goose and say, look, we have Christmas dinner. I was reading Christmas Carol with my daughters last night and thought about that. We we know that we can't simply fly or jump or leap or pick up all the lumber in one attempt. For some of us, we know what's within our abilities. We know that we don't. We recognize these limitations. We recognize that biblically the most simple limitation that we have is that we are mortal. That we are finite, that we're limited, that we're often mistaken, that we are weak, that more often than not, it takes great effort to pick something up off the floor. But is it proper for us, as men and women? Is it proper for us to see God through the lens of our own limitations, our own frailties, our own indecisions, our own fleeting hearts? The great mistake that so happens with people today is that they view God as if he is just a bigger version of themselves. As if he's just a creature. We can pick up ten things, he can pick up a hundred things. Whoa, look at how big our God is. This is not the case. God is simply powerless for some people in that worldview. You have a greater chance of a cherry stopping an army tank than of God making a difference in in the world for some of these people. But what is God saying to us by virtue of his name in our text? What is it that Moses is learning by God's own self? Declaration. God says in verse 14, I am who I am Say this to the people of Israel. I am has sent me to you. Say this to the people of Israel: the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. Now, our passage is one of great discussion because it is the declaration of God's name. And we have to remember, as I said, the name is revelatory of the character. So what are we learning about this God? The first thing we may notice in our Bibles is that the name is in all uppercase letters. You'll find this regularly in your English Bibles. It's a visible marker to remind the reader that the name being read is God's covenantal name. We're reminded of this special covenantal aspect when we see when Moses is to speak before the elders of Israel, the leading body of men called to care for the people, he used to say, the Lord. The God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and Jacob has appeared to me. The name of God is tied here to his promise to Abraham. But there's even something more basic to it. There's a peculiarity about that. And I don't mean that in a negative or blasphemous sense. The word peculiar means simply distinctive or unique. There are many names for God in the Bible that are descriptive of who He is. We may think of God as our Father, as we shall speak in the Lord's Prayer soon. Now I'm a Father. And there are similarities at points, namely that I'm called to care for my children. There is a proper sense of similarity between man and God in that way. But this sort of similarity is absent when we look at the name of God. There's something wholly dissimilar about God's name here. The translations have different renderings. In your ESV Bibles, it says, I am who I am. In the ancient Greek version of the Old Testament, it says, I am the one who exists. Maybe in a footnote on your Bible, another version is, I will be what I will be. The modern Jewish Bible, the Tanach, doesn't even try to change the names. It leaves the Hebrew there and says, And God says to Moses, Eheh, Asher, Echieh. And he continued, thus shall you say to the Israelites, Eyeh. sent me to you. That sounds weird, doesn't it? All these different renderings are meant to cause us to pause. In order to grasp this idea of what God is trying to teach us today, I want to ask you a very basic question. Are you independent? How would you answer that? What sort of proof would you demonstrate for that? You would say, I have a job, I have money, I have a home, I have my health, I can care for myself, I can drink on my own, I can climb steps. We think of all these simplistic categories. Well what happens if we push back far enough? We find that none of us are really independent, are we? For example, did you decide uh on that Tuesday that you were going to be born? Mom, I'm feeling to be uh Tuesday baby, eight o'clock. I'll be on time. No, we can didn't do that. Did you choose your parents? Did you choose genetic defects? We're far more dependent than we realize. Is God dependent? Even more broadly, we have this beautiful time of worship. I'm genuinely reveling in this opportunity to worship with you. I love the way that you worship. But if we chose not to worship, would God still be worthy of our adoration? And praise. Would God still be holy and good? If this church, God forbid, come under attack through some sort of wickedness and we all were to perish, would God still be holy, good, and present? Yes. We learn that God is not dependent upon us, which is actually rather freeing in terms of his love towards us When we look at Psalm 50, God opposes Israel because they've forgotten who He is. They are viewing God through the lens of the ancient Near Eastern mythologies, assuming that the gods were dependent upon blood sacrifices to be fed. It says there in Psalm fifty verse twelve, If I were hungry, God says, I would not tell you, for the world and its fullness are mine. Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? Again, that may seem bizarre to us, but that's what the ancient Erian Eastern myths or false religions assumed about their gods. Scott Oliphant, uh a helpful apologist, says here on uh on this passage that the children of Israel have fundamentally misunderstood who God is They've let the culture surrounding them dictate what kind of God is to be worshipped. Do you hear that? They let the culture around them dictate what sort of God he is. And so, how does God respond to that in verse 21? These things you've done, and I have been silent. You thought that I was one like yourself. There's a footnote in the ESV on that, which I think is very helpful. It's a subtle cue that you would see in Hebrew. And it says this. Another way of wording that is: you thought that the I am was one like yourself. What is God revealing to Moses, to Israel, and to us even this morning in the declaration of his name? God is who He is. God is not dependent on anyone or anything. God does not depend upon us for the glory of his holy name. God is eternal, truly independent. He does not need you or me in order to exist. God is not subject to time, but time is subject to him. He does not change. God is the personal cause of this glorious existence, from the greatest supernova to the smallest proton. And the declaration of God is that he does not change. To quote E. J. Young again, who is merely echoing the words of Gerhardis Voss, who is merely echoing the words of Jean Calvin, God is pure. Why should that matter to us today? All of you came in wondering metaphysically, how do I deal with this? No, no, no. Why is this useful and practical to us today? Remember, I told you that in the ancient world the name was important. It was a reflection of the character. Why was it good news for Moses and the Israelites, and even for us today, to know that the name of God is I am or Yahweh or the Lord? It means that the God that we serve is not subject to anyone or anything It means that the God whom we give our very lives for is the very source of our lives and our living. It means that the God whom we call out to day and night is not only able to hear us. But that he never changes. That he gives us great hope. Because no matter what obstacle may come in his path, the Lord our God, the great I am, is greater There will never be an individual too great for our God to conquer or redeem. There will never be a situation too difficult or complex for our God to overcome his power. And even most basically, this means that the promises and the power of God do not come with an expiration date. Have any of you ever had the misfortune of drinking milk well past the expiration date? For one said, Amen. We know that there are things in this world that expire. Food expires. Buildings expire. People expire. The goodness, love, care, power, majesty, righteousness of our God. God will never expire. And you, the beloved of the most ho most holy God, must know this. This is what God reveals to you in His Word. As we saw in our gospel reading, Jesus built on this, saying that before Abraham was, I am. Jesus says that all over John, and revealing that character tie, he says, I am the door of the sheep. I am the Good shepherd. I am the resurrection and the life. I am the way, the truth, and the life. I am the vine. You are the branches, and that same God who revealed himself to Moses Reveals himself to you today in the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus said, Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was, I I am. Jesus said in John 14, 7, If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. But from now on you do know him and have seen him. In our story in Exodus, God is preparing to do a great work in Israel, and his name was a promise that he would be with them, that he was able to accomplish this great work of redemption. Do you believe that this God is at work in your world today? All of you have different obstacles, all of you have different concerns, different things that keep you up at night. Do you believe that this same God is capable? Of meeting you right where you are. Do you believe that he can overcome the pain and wickedness and the remnants of sin in your own heart and the hearts of those around you? Beloved, most basically in this text today, what we're seeing is God inviting us to believe in Him. Not because we are strong. But because he is strong. Not because our problems are little or do not count, but because he is greater than them. To believe in him, because of who he is, the unchanging, eternal Lord of heaven and earth. May we trust in him this morning And the next morning, and the next morning, and every morning, until we behold him face to face in glory, no longer distracted by sin And the limitations of this world. With that, friends, let us respond in joy