Our first reading comes from Psalm 116, and we'll read together verses 1 to 19. We'll read the whole Psalm. So Psalm 116, beginning at verse 1, the word of the Lord. I love the Lord. Because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy. Because he inclined his ear to me Therefore I will call on him as long as I live. The snares of death encom encompassed me, the pangs of shool laid hold on me I suffered distress and anguish. Then I called on the name of the Lord. O Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. Gracious is the Lord and righteous. Our God is merciful. The Lord preserves the simple. When I was brought low, he saved me. Return, O my soul, to your rest. For the Lord has dealt bountifully with you For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. I believed even when I spoke, I am greatly afflicted. I said in my alarm, all mankind are liars. What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me? I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the Lord I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. O Lord, I am your servant. I am your servant, the son of your maidservant. You have loosed my bonds. I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. In the courts of the house of the Lord, in your midst, O Jerusalem, praise the Lord. And our second reading comes from 1 John in chapter 3, verses 1 through 5. 1 John chapter 3, beginning at verse 1, near the word of the Lord. See what kind of love the Father has given to us. That we should be called children of God. And so we are. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know Him. Beloved, we are God's children now. And what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears we shall be like him because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. This is the word of the Lord. Our confessional reading, Articles 12, 13, and 14. I remind you that we are still considering the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints The saints will persevere in faith as God preserves them. We'll read Articles 12, 13, and 14. Article 12. This assurance of perseverance, however, so far from making true believers proud and carnally self-assured, is rather the true root of humility Childlike respect, genuine godliness of endurance in every conflict Of fervent prayers, of steadfastness and cross bearing, and in confessing the truth, and of a well-founded joy in God. Reflecting on this benefit provides an incentive to a serious and continual practice of thanksgiving and good works, as is evident from the testimonies of Scripture and the examples of the saints. Article 13 And neither does the renewed confidence of perseverance produce immorality or lack of concern for godliness in those put back on their feet after a fall But it produces a much greater concern to observe carefully the ways of the Lord, which he prepared in advance. They observe these ways in order that by walking in them they might maintain the assurance of their perseverance Thus, by their abuse of his fatherly goodness, the face of the gracious God, for the godly looking upon his face is sweeter than life, but its withdrawal is more bitter than death Turn away from them again, with the result that they fall into greater anguish of spirit And just as it has pleased God to begin his work of grace in us by the proclamation of the gospel So he preserves, continues, and completes his work by the hearing and reading of the gospel, by meditation on it, by its exhortations, threats, and promises. and also by the use of the sacraments. And we'll look at uh all that tonight. Let me remind you uh what we looked at last week, because this read picks up on it, talking about assurance of salvation. God's plan makes it clear that there will be a saved people. He has a chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world that he's going to bring to glory. So we're uh assured of that in an objective way as we look at the gospel, as it is made known to us, particularly by the Apostle Paul, is entrusted with that to make known the mystery of it. So we can be objectively assured of a salvation of a people by God's redemption in Christ. But can any of those people Come to be personally assured that I'm one of them, right? That I belong to the Lord, and I have assurance. But I will persevere to that end. I have assurance of my election and calling, and I have assurance of my salvation. And last week we answered that in the positive yes. You can. And the first thing I remind you is that we looked at it from Scripture. Abraham, David The apostle Paul in Scriptures give you their own testimony of being personally assured of salvation. Mind you right, Paul says in Romans 839, but in other places I know nothing can separate me from the love of God and Jesus Christ. He knows that nothing can do it. And therefore he is assured of his salvation. David, Psalm twenty-three, writes, Only or surely my goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Assured of his salvation. It's not wishful thinking. David is writing from his heart. He's not lying in the Holy Spirit when he says Only goodness and mercy, tell follow me. David knew of God's sure grace to him David was a believer in justification by faith. He pinned Psalm 32, which Paul uses in Romans 4. Blessed is the one whom God does not impute his sin to. Whose sins are forgiven and covered. That's the other side of God imputing righteousness without works. Well he's not going to impute your sins to you, but forgive you David knew and was assured of his salvation. Abraham as well, right? Abraham did not doubt at all God's promise to him. And he wasn't thinking just in terms of this world because Paul says in Hebrews, Abraham said he was a pilgrim, and Abraham had never said he was a pilgrim if he had everything God had given him already. But he believed in an eternal city, an eternal kingdom. And so Abraham was certain, never doubting God's promise. And gives you, uh was assured of his salvation because God had promised it to him. And he believed it and didn't doubt it. So By Scripture's own testimony to us, by Abraham, David, and Paul's testimony, we've seen saints testify their own personal assurance of salvation. And we saw that this assurance of salvation was in accordance with their faith. There's no assurance apart from faith. These weren't Unbelievers. These were believers. They believed in the living God. They believed in the promises of God in the old covenant looked forward to Christ. Paul had met Christ and believes in Christ. These are believers, and as believers, they have assurance. So that anybody who has faith can come to this position of being assured. It's not something for super Christians. Roman Catholic Church will allow it For A Paul. If you're an apostle of Paul, they'll allow you to be assured because it was a special revelation to you. And the Reformed Church said, none of that. That's garbage. That's nonsense. Anybody who has faith. By the ordinary use of the means of grace, by the preaching of the gospel, can come and know and have the assurance, not speculation. Not hypothesizing, not guessing at it, conjecturing, but certain can say from their heart, I know nothing will separate. can say only goodness and mercy will follow me. The reformed position is any believer making an ordinary use of the means of grace By no act of special revelation, but what God has revealed freely to us in Christ can come and know and have this assurance, personal assurance of their salvation. And finally, we saw what that's grounded in, God's promises. That should be an easy one, right? God has promised that everybody who believes in his Son Jesus Christ they will not perish with everlasting life. That's a promise of God. God promises everybody who believes in Jesus Christ is in Acts 10, all who believes on Peter's telling Cornelius, all who believes in Jesus Christ will receive the forgiveness of sins. And Peter says to Cornelius, God made that clear through every prophet of his It's God's promise. This is what he just heard again his promise. That is not the word of man, that's the word of God. Anybody who believes in Jesus Christ. Will not perish and have eternal life. Anybody who believes in Jesus Christ, their sins will be forgiven. That's God's promise. So obviously God doesn't lie, right? If we have faith And aren't doubty or are being hypocrites and pretending we believe something in the dough, but have true faith. And we you can know that you have true faith. That was another Roman Catholic thing. Nobody who who could ever know they have faith? And the Reforms said that's nonsense too, because God requires us to confess our faith, and God would not require us to confess our faith if we never knew we had faith in the first place When we come to the Lord's Supper and we say, I believe, do you know that you believe these things? Are you certain of these things? Do you really believe these things? When you say, I believe in Christ? Do you know that you have faith? Or do you just say, I kind of think I have faith? I don't know, I'm just kind of going with it. No. If you know, you can know you have faith. You're we have that ability as human beings to Reflect back and know I'm believing. I'm really taking God at His Word. I'm really trusting in Jesus Christ. I'm really accepting this word and it has impacted my life because I took Him God at His Word This is all under the influence of the Spirit, but again, the Spirit never believes for you. You don't need to believe. It's God. You need to believe. You can know that you believe. And if God said it and you believe it, why doubt you'll have eternal life? He's promised it. Do you believe in his son and know you believe in his son? Why doubt it? There you go. Yay! Yay, I will live forever. I can know it right now. There's a whole difference between legalism and trying to it's like finding the verdict at the end of your life. The gospel says you can know right now the verdict of judgment day. In fact, the gospel goes on to say if you believe in Christ, judgment day has happened. But it didn't come on you, the Christ, you're living on the other side of Judgment Day in fellowship with God forever. That's the gospel being preached. Judgment days happen. Get into Christ and live post-Judgment Day. With God. Being forgiven of your sin. These are the grounds of it. The Spirit's witness to us. Spirit cannot and cannot lie. He's gone. The Spirit's witnessing to you, your God's children is not for today, because you're a seal that Spirit is a seal of deposit of what's to come But if he's witnessing you're God's Spirit, he's not saying that lying to you, but he's telling you the truth of who you are forever. God's child. You can be assured in the Spirit's testimony. For your salvation. And of course, you'll understand and know that when it's leading you in the the instincts of your heart to cry on to God. You want to go to God in prayer. You just know that you have to spend time with him because he's your heavenly father. You're like Jesus and you make time in your life There could be end burials. I'm not trying to set up a legal list of what it looks like. It's just God's children go to be alone with God on the mountain and pray. It's just they have to. Just have to pray to God. He is the one who knows you, the one who gets you, and you'll pray. Spirit's witnessing And finally, the last ground was, and the Apostle John in his letter, first letter, really drives on this. We know that we've come to know God if we keep his commands. We know we pass from death into life that we love the brethren by that serious pursuit of godliness and the turning away of sin. By obeying Christ and leading a godly life and putting into practice God's will, another ground of our assurance that we truly have come to know God His spirit's truly in us, and we belong to him, and we can be assured of our salvation. So we looked at that last week. Now the reason I rehashed all that with you, one, it's such a glorious doctrine But two, many people then turn, or there are not many, but well, I don't know if it's many, but at this time, I'll just deal with them historically, so I don't cast the spurs on other people. Historically, there are many in church Heard that doctrine preached and said if you preach that, everybody in the pew is just gonna live an immoral life. So you better not preach that, you better keep them in doubt, so they'll try to pray to get them to heaven, they'll lead godly life, you know, blah blah blah, whatever they may say. This truth, this ideal of being assured of yourself, of knowing that you will Make it. You can be assured of your salvation. Your calling intellectuals on certainty. They thought this doctrine is only going to lead to uh immoral church A church not taking serious the call of the gospel to live as God's children, if you put it that way, to not take it serious to walk as children in light. And the reform says that's not true. That may be your erroneous human uh fallible deduction from this How you might seek to reason and think, but that is not the testimony of scripture. So before we go any further tonight, first thing I want to do is just briefly look at one Psalm 116 with you Briefly look at first John one three or two real quick and show how what Dort is saying here is absolutely true that the doctrine of assurance does not lead to immortal living, but it is that root of God. And its reflection upon us is what leads us to that life of thankfulness to God and good works. So go to Psalm 116. I love how Psalm 116 begins. I love the Lord. You all know Romans 8:28, right? For those who love the Lord, all things work together for good for that person. Sure, it's right there. I love the Lord. He's not doubting anything. I love the Lord. Why does he love the Lord? Because the Lord heard his voice. He heard his pleas for mercy. He's going to unpack that a little bit more here in a moment, so I won't jump ahead. He loves the Lord because God has heard his voice. It goes on in verse 2. Notice this. Because he inclined his ear to me. God didn't turn his ear to be inclined to have that ear bending already, like ready to respond. Because God has inclined his ear to me, I will call him as long as I live. I have God's ear. It is turned towards me, and that's given me the confidence to call on God all my life. If I have a need, I go to God, right? If I am anxious and worried and troubled, I go to God and I call on Him And then in verses three through four he he he's dealing with one and two he's kinda dealing with the present. I love the Lord and I continue to call upon the Lord. In verses three and four he He deals with the past that led to this present place of loving the Lord and calling out the Lord. He says, I was in a state of death I was nearing the grave. He could have been talking physical death here. He could be talking a spiritual death. But either way, in this in this state of anguish and distress, He knew the name of the Lord, and you hear his prayer in verse 4. Oh Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. That was his prayer to God. God heard it and delivered it. And then in verses 5, he goes on and gives the name of the Lord. Grace is the Lord, right? He had heard that preached. You remember what Paul says in Romans 10:13, right? Why do we ultimately preach the gospel? It doesn't stop at believing, it stops at calling. They'll never call, they'll never do this. People will never come to call on Jesus if Jesus has never preached to them. And they'll never call if they never believe, right? But you get the idea that I understand believing is often the place where the gospel ends in Scripture, right? Believe, but it needs to be a faith that leads to this calling on Jesus. This is the importance of your our continual, the Christian church is continual holding out the name of God to the world. so that those in the snares of death can turn to the gracious and merciful and forgiving God who is full of the riches of forbearance, the riches of patience and kindness, to lead them into repentance. Anybody who calls on it. Here's a man Who heard the name of God, probably a covenant member of the church, maybe got himself in trouble, got himself ill, don't know, he doesn't tell us. But he's somebody who grew up in the church where God was worshipped and knew the name And called upon him. And God heard, and he loves God. You can see how he sort of applies this to his life now in the present. Because God is this for me, my soul go to rest. I tried to God. He heard me. That wasn't for a moment. His ears inclined to me. And I call upon him all my life now. Soul, be at rest. Verses 8 through 11, he can continue to show uh the present condition upon this salvation of God and in the past. God deliver my soul from death, my eyes from tears, feet from stumbling. I will walk before the Lord in the land of living. That's what we say in Jesus Christ. Every time we see the gospel preach, every time we celebrate it And then we hear God say, our sins are forgiven, you believe in Christ, that means we will not die but live. We will walk before the Lord in the land of the living, because Christ is risen. We unite with Him, we'll rise with Him You can see that in 12 through 14 he again starts to apply this to himself and it's really God he's just he's exhorting himself to continue in God's grace and to serve him. What shall I do for the Lord is when these benefits I'm going to take up that cup of salvation. I'm going to call on the Lord's name. I'm going to pay my vows. Lord, if you hear me right, I'll leave all that sin behind and I'll serve you, right? How many people pray like that? It's good. That's a good thing. And here he's saying, I'm going to pay my vows to the Lord. I'm going to continue in disgrace. And really, verses 15 and 19 are all about assurance. That God cares for him even in his death. He comes to realize he maybe he thought hard thoughts of God for a while as he was nearing death and his ill. And he's come to see no In God's eyes, the death of his saints is so precious. And then he assures him right, I am your servant. You've freed me. I belong to you. That's what the gospel message is, is we believe in Christ. We've been redeemed in Christ. We belong to Christ. He set us free. We are his servant, and I will serve you. So verses 15 and 19 are really out of that position of assurance I am your servant. You have loosed my bonds. What will I do? I will serve you. So why did I bring this text up? Here's a man who called on God, who's experienced the salvation of God. Not for a moment, for all his life, and he takes up and he lives in that grace of God And the assurance that he has, he doesn't use it to lead an immoral life, but he reflects upon it and thinks upon it, reminds himself upon it, like we do every week of the Lord's Supper. That he might say, I am your servant, and I will pay my vows to you, and I will live for you, my God. because of what you've done to me. I love you. I just wanted you to show you this example from Scripture of a person assured of their salvation. assured personally, experientially knowing the work of God's grace and his life and his heart, who was delivered from death. who knew who he was in Christ as redeemed. He did not take that knowledge of his assurance to live an immoral life But to work him up to serve God more and more faithfully. So there's scripture's testimony. Go to 1 John. It's the same message there in 1 John. Uh what's kind of neat and it struck me only as I was studying them this afternoon uh to prepare for final preparations, that Psalm 116 begins with I love God. Look how 1 John 3 begins. God loves us. God loves me. I love God. Here, God loves us. But again, notice what what John goes on to say here. First of all, he's utterly amazed by God's love for them. Such a love that God would call even us, you know, I'm sure. It's amazing to all of us, right, as we grow in Christ and we come to see in Christ the depth of our sin, right? That's kind of the thing about Christian life. You do become better, but you also see more and more how sinful you are too. 'Cause you really see the shallowness of sin and the sinfulness of sin. And the little terrible reasons we we sin, right? And of course then I'm sure these disciples who walk with the living God in the flesh are amazed going And yet God calls us his children. And look at the kind of idiotic way we walked with Jesus. So slow to listen to him. And he was so patient with us. And so good, and John's marveling at God's love for them in Christ He says, the reason why the world doesn't know us is it didn't know him. John's saying this this God calling us isn't an any sexual call. God's calling you children has utterly brought about a moral revolution in your life. It's utterly changed who you are that now that no longer does the world even recognize you. Because you're now in Christ and walking like Christ and it didn't recognize Christ when he was here God when he is there. That's the impact of being called God's children. It's not just the nice name put upon us in baptism. It is that But it's come with the power of the Holy Spirit when we were baptized in the Spirit by Christ. And it's brought about a hotter moral revolution in us that were different than the world. He goes on in verse 2. Now here's that note of assurance. Beloved, we are God's children now. We are this. That we might be. We will be, but we are God's children. Notice what he says. That means something now, but he also says it means something in the future. What we will be hasn't appeared. We know that when Jesus appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. Already, 1 Corinthians 3 tells us we already behold Jesus in that mirror, right? We behold already his glory. You and I are being changed because we already see Jesus. We are changed because we go get ourselves better and pull ourselves up by our bootstraps and then God will love us. We're changed because we've been washed by Jesus' blood, accepted by God and His grace, and live even as sinners In fellowship with God, covered by Christ's blood, walking with God, beholding already the glory of God, and being changed. And John's saying That seeing God is going to change in a drastic way when with our eyes will behold Him. And then when we see Him as He is, we'll fully bear that image. Fully reflect. The image of God in Jesus Christ. And the key point here then is look at verse 3. So John is very certain, dear saints in the Lord, you are this. You are God's children. But then notice what he says in verse 3. He doesn't say, Therefore, everybody who has this hope lives in moral lines. Everybody who has this hope lives carelessly about how they live, not concerned with holiness Not concerned to what pleasing to God. That's not what the Bible says, does it? The Bible says, and everybody who thus hopes in Christ, right? Everybody who has their hope fixed in Christ, who looks at the cross and sees there themselves in Christ taking that place and bearing that all the way. And looks at the resurrection and the risen Christ in glory and says, That's me. I will have that Because he came and took what was owed to me on the cross. He's saying everybody who hopes that way in Christ doesn't then go on uncareful about how they live But purifies himself as he is pure. Now notice something about the purity of Christ, right? What kind of purity is this? Where is Jesus? The very presence of God He's talking about you and I being made not just being clothed with imputed righteousness, but having righteousness imparted to us. So we can think in such a pure way that we can stand before God Himself. And He can look through your thoughts into the bottom of your heart and not find any sin. Because that's the purity Jesus has. He stands personally pure before God. And he's saying, those who hope like this, those who've been taught to hope by this gospel of Christ crucified and risen. A great exchange. He made heaven to be sinned, that you can become the righteousness of God. Those who hope in that already begin now this process of your fying themselves to be as pure so they can stand before God. So why is this text picked? One, because the canons of Dorothan the rejection of Air 6 go to this text to say, sorry, Arminians The Apostle John says it isn't true because we know we're God's children now, and yet we don't want to live sinful lives. We know we're God's children, and we want to be pure. And so this teaching of assurance of salvation does not leave to immorality. It is not leading to carelessness in our Christian world. But it is as John said. It's that root of all virtue. It's the reflecting upon it is what leads us to give thankfulness and good works. We saw that in both of these. John's reflecting here. Guys, see this. Let me remind you what you are now. And let me remind you what you go on and do in Christ. Now he's saying it in this way, in this kind of everybody who does this, because remember what he's dealing with. He's dealing with people who hope this way but are living godless lives So he states it as this kind of axiomatic truth that they might be able to distinguish between true Christians and false professors But Psalm 116 is very wonderful because there's a man right stirring himself up, reflecting upon that time when God heard his prayer. Every time we come to the Lord's Supper, right, and we celebrate it, the time for us to reflect upon, right? God's grace to us. and who we are, that we might be stirred up to thankfulness and good works So I'm not gonna I I open it up. I basically said everything I want to say. I'm gonna go to just Article 13. Article twelve I've already stressed it, it's making two points. The assurance of perseverance, the root of virtue. I showed you that in Psalm 116. I showed you that in in 1 John 3. That assurance is It's a root of virtue for us. It's out of that assurance of our salvation that we pray and live godly lives. I already showed you how reflection on it, as we saw in Psalm 116, brings into thankfulness. What shall I do because of God's grace to me, his benefits towards me? I'm going to take up the cup of salvation and I'm going to give thanks to God. And I'm going to serve God. So I already showed you in Psalm 116, that's the second point, Article 12 is making that as we reflect on our assurance It incites us to be thankful and to live and do good works. Dr. Robert Godfrey and his comments on the canons of Dorp talks about uh what Article twelve says here that scripture and the example of Saints evident this. And he reminds us that at the time of the Synod, the year 1617 The most committed Calvinists, and he's using Calvinists there because Calvinists are the ones who preach the assurance of salvation and preach this doctrine. He says, the most committed Calvinists at this time of the Synod were called in the Netherlands uh precisionists and in England Puritans. Dear friends. Do you do you understand what he's saying there? You don't get the name, and it was a name of slander by the way, Puritan, if you're known to be ungodly, and you don't get the name of precisionist if you're not the person parsing God's law in your life trying to walk in it He's saying it's the Calvinists that are called Puritans. It's the Calvinists who are called precisionists. He's just pointing out a wonderful historical example The Calvinists who preach this truth have been labeled for all time as Puritans and precisionists because so careful are they to walk in God's way, so untrue it is That God's grace leads us to be uncareless in our profession. So I just thought that was an interesting. Article 13 is also making uh two points. Here it's dealing particularly with those as we've been looking for a number of weeks who've fallen into sin and God's recovered them out of it that their renewal to this assurance, rather than producing immorality, uh produces a greater uh concern to walk in God's ways. Let me see if I could Put it to you this way. The person owing to the Father's election of him to salvation uh owing to Christ merit and intercession for him, and owing to the Spirit seal upon him, who by way of repentance has been restored to the Father's Favor and his assurance of his salvation does not then say, you know, this perseverance thing is really true. I could just get away with whatever I want, right? That's not what this person says. In fact, they're really speaking very this is really a very experiential statement of this doctrine, isn't it? Because If God has done a work of grace in your heart, and let's say you've fallen in sin, and you've repented, and God's brought you back, You know how you tremble at the thought of sinning, right? Because it's as it says here, for the godly looking upon his face is sweeter than light. And the thought of them doing anything that will disrupt the sense of God's favor, anything that cast us into that gra anguish of spirit Is it's a the bit it's more bitter than death. It's a really experiential statement of this doctrine that when God does restore someone back and even brings them to this They don't then go, I can get away with anything. But they go, I hope I never sin again because I don't want to go through that. That was horrible I don't ever want to lose the sense of God's face shining upon. That was worse than death. To not know God's favor. And the second point it makes is that God's ways are walked in to maintain assurance and a sense of favor. This is really important. This is teaching a very important biblical truth of of the two ways, right? Proverbs teach the two ways. Jesus taught the two ways. You're either walking on the broad road to destruction, or they're walking on the narrow road to life, right? But helpful parents as you're talking to your children, my children will know. You're on that way. You need to be corrected, course corrected, and come back on this way. But you get what the point is saying, right? It would be absolutely absurd. If a person assured themselves that they are going to arrive at the Atlantic Ocean if they get on 40 West. That's what it's saying. It would be absurd if you're an ungodless person walking on the broad road to destruction to say, oh, I'm one of God. But it's not absurd then to say, I'm walking on this narrow path, Jesus, you've called me to, by your grace, to assure yourself you'll end up where it leads to. Eternal life. That's why we walk on this narrow road. Because as we walk on the path to life, I think we should be saying, because I don't think God mislabels the path name I'm on the way of life. Guess where I'm heading up to? Eternal life. And we can be assured. We're going to eternal life. And that's what it the point it's making here. Finally, Article 14, I won't spend really any time on it, but it's just making the point. It's made several times and the canons adored. that the gospel has begun this work of grace in us and the gospel will by it God continues to do this in preserving us in continuing his growth and work in us and bringing it to completion, both through the word and sacrament. It needs to be heard, that's dealing with preaching of it, reading it, that's um public reading of it, private reading of it, meditation, that's thoughtful reflection upon it, being preoccupied with the word, caring it about and thinking it over and Chewing on it. And as we God the the gospel has exhortations, right? We heard one this morning, let every soul be subject under the higher powers Or put off the old man, put on Christ, as we take these gospel exhortations serious, knowing who we are in Christ, redeemed, sins covered, made new. Take God's exhortations to lead the Christian life serious? Do we take the threats even serious, knowing that right, God threatens us with judgment? God threatens those who are disobedient to the gospel. that uh their way will end in destruction as we we take those threats serious. I know I'm talking to a person Now and I've been talking him for weeks. Very occupied with the threats. I don't want to go to the lake of fire. Well, I don't either. Believe in Jesus. Take God's threats very serious? Take God's promises very serious, right? As we act upon God's promises. We heard one last week, that promise from Isaiah 61. God promises Does rejoice in hope because of what he'll do to his church, has promise of forgiveness, has promise of life. All through this, right, through this gospel, what what Article fourteen is saying is that The way to come to an assurance of salvation is through the gospel. As it is read, as you hear it, as you meditate upon it, but it's also the way that your assurance of salvation is maintained. As you continue to take seriously the exhortations to live out what God has done for you in Christ, as you continue to take seriously God's gospel. So God's word to us tonight, beloved. Is simply this that assured people love God and seek to lead holy lives. So may God bring you to an assurance of your salvation By faith in his gospel, and may God continue to produce a work of grace, and may you all be receive as comfort in that assurance and serve him with greater gratitude and good works. Amen.