And now we're going to read Psalm 72 first. Psalm 72. I want to draw attention to in the preaching a comparison between this beautiful Psalm 72 and then Psalm 126. which is the topic of our preaching. This Psalm is uh about the glorious time of the United Kingdom under Solomon. It says, of Solomon So listen to this. And I believe it also looks forward to the glorious time of the kingdom of Christ when it is fully manifested and ripe and fills the world. So listen. Please. Give the king your justice, O God, and your righteousness to the royal son. May he judge your people with righteousness. Righteousness and your poor with justice. Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people, and the hills in righteousness. May he defend the cause of the poor of the people Give deliverance to the children of the needy and crush the oppressor. May they fear you while the sun endures as long as the moon throughout all generations. May he be like rain that falls on the mown grass, like showers that water the earth. In his days may the righteous flourish and peace abound till the moon be no more. May he have dominion from sea to sea, from the river to the ends of the earth. May desert tribes bow down before him and his enemies live the dust. May the kings of Tarshish and of the coastlands render him tribute. May the kings of Sheba and Seba bring gifts May all kings fall down before him, all nations serve him. For he delivers the needy when he calls, and poor, and the poor when and the poor and him who has no helper. He has pity on the weak and the needy and saves the lives of the needy. From oppression and violence, he redeems their life, and precious is their blood in his sight Long may he live. May gold of Sheba be given to him. May prayer be made for him continually, and blessings invoked for him all the day. May there be abundance of grain in the land. On the tops of the mountains may it wave. May its fruit be like Lebanon, and may people blossom in the cities like the grass. Of the field. May his name endure forever, his fame continue as long as the sun. May people be blessed in him. All nations call him blessed. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, who alone does wondrous things. Blessed be his glorious name forever. May the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen. Prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are ended. And then Psalm 126, the subject of our preaching. Six verses. A song of ascents. When the Lord restored the fortunes of Zion, we were like those who dreamed. Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy. Then they said among the nations, The Lord has done great things for them The Lord has done great things for us, and we are glad. Restore our fortunes, O Lord, like streams in the Negeb. Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy. He who goes out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come home with shouts of joy, bringing his sheaves with him. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this portion of your word, and now we pray that you'll help us to understand it as you have inspired it, make Good application of what you have taught us here through Christ our Lord. Amen. The psalm is entitled A Song of Ascents. It is the seventh in the series of 15 of these songs of pilgrims coming to Jerusalem. This song was likely composed, many think, after the exile, in wondrous gratitude for God's restoration. And in prayer for a furtherance of that work. So two points, verses one through three, a joy beyond expression at the return. From exile and verses four through six, a prayer with wise understanding. First, a joy beyond expression at the return from exile. We see here the fulfillment of the joyful dream. When the Lord brought back the captivity of Zion, we were like those who dream. Psalmists saying of a time when God set his people free from their captivity, and they were restored to Jerusalem. The psalm is most associated with the return from exile under Ezra and Nehemiah. But it is also possible that it or some earlier version describes David's return from his brief exile from Jerusalem during Absalom's coup in 2 Samuel. fifteen through nineteen. But we will take it mostly in the sense of being a psalm of exile return. As one of the Psalms of Ascens, you should imagine these words in the mouths of pilgrims on their way up to having, on their way up to Jerusalem or having arrived in Jerusalem. They would sing these songs. Perhaps they considered these seasons away from Jerusalem as a symbolic exile. And so they celebrated the larger return from exile and their current personal experience of returning to Jerusalem at the same time. It says, we were like those who dream, vividly describing a sense of happy and grateful astonishment at the power and goodness of God in bringing back his people from the captivity of Zion. It seemed too good, too great to be true, but it was. The people of Judah knew about the promises of restoration, but when the actual moment of restoration came, It was still an overwhelming experience. They were like those who dreamed. It all happened so quickly, like a mirage. Have you ever had a dream so wonderful that you did not want to wake up? In the context was a nightmare, wasn't it? A tragic nightmare. Events foretold by Jeremiah and other prophets that had taken place. And Jeremiah had Told it in Jeremiah 25, verse 11, the whole land shall become a ruin and a waste, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon 70 years. Seventy years. Limited time, but terrible things. And Jeremiah 25, verse 12. Then after 70 years are completed, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation the land of the Chaldeans for their iniquity, declares the Lord, making the land an everlasting waste. And then in Jeremiah 29, For thus says the Lord, when seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will visit you. We talked about that word visit this morning, didn't we? I will visit you and I will fulfill to you my promise and bring you back to this place. So they did know. Didn't they? They did know that it was only 70 years. It was terrible. It was a nightmare. But it should only be 70 years, and they can count. And yet They're surprised and overjoyed when suddenly it happens. We read about what happened. That surprised them and overjoyed them in 2 Chronicles 36, verse 20 and following. He, Nebuchadnezzar, that is Took into exile in Babylon those who had escaped from the sword, and they became servants to him and to his sons until the establishment of the kingdom of Persia to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah until the land had enjoyed its Sabbaths. All the days that it lay desolate, it kept Sabbath to fulfill 70 years. And then the proclamation of Cyrus. Now in the first year of King Cyrus of Persia, the word of the Lord Came by the mouth of Jeremiah that it might be fulfilled. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and also put it into writing. It helps with things or put into writing. Don't trust politicians unless they put it into writing. You put it into writing. Thus says Cyrus King of Persia The Lord, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever is among you, all of his people, may the Lord his God be with him. Let him go up. Amazing turn of events. Wow, a dream So, Ezra chapter 1 tells it, I'm reading more, in the first year of King Cyrus of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the Lord stirred up the spirit of King of Cyrus King Cyrus of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and also put it into writing. Thus says Cyrus, King of Persia, The Lord the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem which is in Judah whoever is among you of all his people may his God be with him let him go up to Jerusalem which is in in Judah and rebuild the house of the Lord the God of Israel. He is the God who is in Jerusalem And let each survivor in whatever place he sojourns be assisted by the men of his place with silver and gold, with goods and beasts, besides free will offerings for the house of God that is in Jerusalem. Then rose up the heads of the fathers' houses of Judah and Benjamin and the priests and the Levites, everyone whose Spirit God had stirred up to go rebuild the house of the Lord that is in Jerusalem. And all who were about them aided them with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, with beasts, and with costly wares, besides all that was freely offered Cyrus the king also brought out the vessels of the house of the Lord that Nebuchadnezzar had carried away from Jerusalem and placed in the house of his gods. Cyrus, king of Persia, brought these out in the charge of Mithridath, the treasurer, who counted them out to Shehbazar, the prince of Judah, and this was the number of them. You see, not only do you get to go, you're going to go with great treasures. 30 basins of gold, 1,000 basins of silver, 29 censors, 30 bowls of gold. 410 bowls of silver and a thousand other vessels. All the vessels, the gold and silver, were 5,400. All these did Sheshbazar bring up When the exiles were brought up from Babylon to Jerusalem. A dream. In a flash. Another kingdom arises, and this king, inspired by God, lets them go and sends them off with treasures to rebuild the house of God. Amazing. Amazing dream. Poole says, we could not believe our own eyes and ears, but thought it to be but a dream or delusion of our fancies. As is usual in matters of great joy. Van Gimron says the people knew about the promises of restoration, but when the actual moment of restoration came, it was an overwhelming experience. They were like those who dreamed it all happened too quickly and seemed like a mirage. All too quickly from defeat and slavery and destruction and ruin and curses. The terrible curses to glory and majesty and hope and happiness It made you laugh. It reminds me very much, by the way, of the joy of the resurrection. Which is recorded in Luke 24. I want to read that portion to you for a moment to just listen to these words and see if they don't sound similar Now it was Mary Magdalene, this is Luke 24, 10. It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary, the mother of James. And the other women with them who told these things to the apostles about the resurrection. But these words seemed to them an idle tale. They just couldn't believe it. And they did not believe them. But Peter rose and ran to the tomb, stooping and looking in, he saw the linen cloths by themselves. And he went home marveling at what had happened. Joy beyond compare. And then in the evening, uh Verse 30. When he was at table with them, Jesus that is, he took bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them. And their eyes were opened and they recognized him, and he vanished from Their sight. And they said to each other, did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures And they rose that same hour. They didn't stay all night. They didn't say, well, we'll try this in the morning. They rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven, and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord has risen indeed and has appeared to Simon. Then they told what had happened on the road and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. Isn't that so Similar? Amazing turn of events. Joy beyond comparison. They couldn't even stay seven miles away. They had to go in the middle of the night, the dangerous night. And tell the others. This is great news. So our Psalm says in verse 2 through 3. Then our mouth was filled with laughter. Then our tongue was singing. And they said among the nations: The Lord has done great things for them. The Lord has done great things for us, and we are glad. They celebrated God's amazing work with laughter and singing. This was also so much laughter, I guess you would call it like belly laughter, you know. Well, hilarious happiness. One commentator, Spurgeon, actually, says, this mercy was so unexpected, so amazing, so singular that they could do no less than laugh. And they laughed much. so that their mouths were full of it, because their hearts were full too. And then they go on to even say that this testimony goes beyond just a local area. nations get to see what happens. The Lord has done great things for them is what the nations say. The sense of joyful amazement was not confined to the people of Judah The nations had also to proclaim the work that belonged to the Lord and that it was truly great. Clark says, the liberty now granted was brought about in so extraordinary a way that the very heathen saw that the hand of great Jehovah must have been in it And James Boyce suggests four occasions where many experience great joy and the sense that God has done great things in their lives. The first, he says, is the joy of salvation. It should make you laugh that God has forgiven all your sins. and clothe you in the righteousness of Christ and has put you in union with Christ and made you an heir of all things in Christ That you will be raised up from the dust and made new and made perfect and live and dwell in the very presence of God forever. That is something to be extremely happy about. to say the least. And then the joy of spiritual victory. Have you ever had a spiritual victory? When you were tempted or tried, and by the Holy Spirit's power, by the word of God indwelling you, you said no to the bad and said yes to the good. When you did what was prompting, what the Holy Spirit was prompting you to do, and it turned out great. God used you to bring his word to someone. And it changed their life. The joy of spiritual victory, the joy of Christian fellowship. How sweet it is when brothers and sisters dwell together in unity as Psalm 133. says, and the joy of a new work for God. I spect that that is something that our brothers Damon will be experiencing, is experiencing, and particularly on Saturday we hope he experiences the joy of a new work for God. And we are glad, the psalmist says. There's a sense of peace in his declaration. This is not a worked-up, hyped-up enthusiasm. This is not something that we have to conjure up, but it is what we have understood to be God's will. And we simply declare that we are glad. So that ends that section. And we move to the second half: a prayer with wise understanding. Having said all that, the psalmist now says, Restore our fortunes, O Lord. Like streams in the Negev. Restore our fortunes. The second half of the Psalm does not deny the amazing joy of the first half, but recognizes that there is still work yet to be done. The returning exiles under Ezra realized that there was much work yet to do, and the restoration had only yet begun. So the song is a cry for more complete restoration. Compare this, my friends, to the experience of one whose life is profoundly changed by Jesus Christ. They are grateful and amazed at what he has done, yet can in the next moment consider how much more needs to be done. And that's the whole writing of Nehemiah and building the walls, rebuilding all these things. And when we have turned to Christ in repentance and known the forgiveness of all our sins, we then have to start dealing with all our sins. And it could be imagined as like a pile of dirty laundry in your living room. As soon as you remove one piece, behold, there is another revealed. One after the other, we have to deal with these things. Boyce says, for the psalmist, as for us, memory of the past could have been mere nostalgia. Those were the days, we say, wonderful but gone forever. But in Psalm 126, the memory of those singing, laughter-filled days of the past becomes not nostalgia. But the ground of a strong hope for even better days to come. And then the phrase, like streams in the Negev. The streams in the South. Were dry most of the time. But the streams in the south flowed when the rain fell in the faraway mountains Those streams could fill up and appear quite suddenly with rush and a mighty flow, sometimes known as a flash flood. The psalmist prayed for a mighty, sudden work of God to further the work of restoration among his people. Kidner says, there are few transformations more dramatic than that of a fully dry gully into a torrent. Such can be the effect of a downpour, which can also turn the surrounding desert into a place of grass and fragrant flowers overnight. They desired that their return might be as rapid and abundant as the waters of those flash floods. And we, my friends, who have been redeemed by Christ, who have been filled with the joy of salvation, should pray for many things But one of the things that we should pray for is a great world revival. A great world revival. Did you know that one is predicted? One is predicted. In Romans chapter 11, let me show you that one is predicted. Romans 11, 13 through 15. And then further into the chapter, Paul says about the future. Now I am speaking to you, Gentiles, in as much as Then as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry in order somehow to make my fellow Jews jealous and thus save some of them. Then he says this in verse 15, for if their rejection, that's the momentary present situation, means the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean? But life from the dead. He's looking for a time when the Jews will trust in Christ. It will be life from the dead. He believes in the life Will happen. And he says in uh verses 23 through 26, and even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again. For if you were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree and grafted contrary to nature into the cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, the natural branches Be grafted back into their own olive tree. Then he says, lest you be wise in your own sight, I do not want you to be unaware of this mystery, brothers A partial hardening has come upon Israel, the present state, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in, and then what's going to happen? And in this way all Israel will be saved, as it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion. He will banish ungodliness from Jacob. A time is coming when God will bring his Jewish people back in and graft them back into the original covenantal olive tree. And it will be Life for the world. If their hardening means blessings to the Gentiles, what will their restoration be? But he says, but life for the world. He is imagining a great worldwide revival, I believe. And this was isn't just my uh My isolated interpretation or exegesis, but this was and is the Puritan hope. This view fostered the great era of the modern missions movement. That movement that began both in Europe and in North America. But let me just read for you the story of how it began here in this country. It began when five students of Williams College in Massachusetts Met in the summer of 1806 in a grove of trees near the Housack River, then known as Sloane's Meadow, and debated the theology of missionaries. service. Let me just say before this, before this time, there wasn't much missionary service A lot of us Calvinists just said, you know, if God wants to save the elect, the pagans, the nations, then he'll do it because he can. But There was this expectation by some of these scholars and students that no, we need to go. God is going to do it, yes, but we need to go. So let me go back to the story. Their meeting was suddenly interrupted by a thunderstorm, and the students, Samuel Mills, James Richards, Francis Robbins, Harvey Loomis, and Byram Green. took shelter under a haystack until the sky cleared. The brevity of the shower, the strangeness of the place of refuge And the peculiarity of their topic of prayer and conference all took hold of their imaginations and their memories In 1808, the Haystack Prayer Group and other Williams students began a group called the Brethren. This group was organized to effect in the persons of its members a mission to those who were not Christians. In 1812, the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions sent its first missionaries to the Indian Sea. Subcontinent. Samuel Mills became the haystack person with the greatest influence on the modern missions movement. He played a role in the founding of the American Bible Society and the United Foreign Missionary Society. Society. Through the work of Byron Green, a monument was erected in Mission Park in Williamstown, Massachusetts in 1867 to honor the five men involved in the haystack prayer meeting As well as being the first documented resolution ever made by Americans to begin foreign missionary work, the 1806 Haystat meeting has been credited with leading to the formation of Of the aforementioned American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. The ABCFM gave students an opportunity to go abroad and spread the teachings of Christianity. Listen, in its first 50 years, the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions sent out over 1,250 missionaries. Most were from small towns and farm villages of New England. Few were affluent, but many were trained in colleges where they received a classical education. Which included Hebrew, Latin, and Greek. When they reached the mission field, they were able to translate the Bible from the original Greek and Hebrew into difficult and often previously unwritten languages. They built educational systems in their lands of ministry and were often called upon to advise foreign governments. Now consider verses five and six. Those who sow in tears Shall weep with shouts of joy. He who goes out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come home with shouts of joy, bringing his sheaves with him. The gladness of the first half of the psalm was real, but it was only part of the picture. With wisdom, the psalmist reminded himself and all of us that great joy is often preceded by seasons of tears, as if they are seeds sown that will bring a crop of joy later to be reaped. Boyce says, in the first image, the sudden filling of the desert streams, the results are sudden and unearned. The second image, the harvest after difficult work of plowing and sowing seeds The results come only after a long period of hard work and waiting. This illustration puts a connection between the tears and the joy. Too often we want to reap the joy without ever having sown the tears. So the idea is repeated and enlarged. Those who have endured much weeping, if they truly carry it as seed for seed, sowing, holding and casting it with faith in God and his promise, may be assured of reaping a good harvest. I think we Could apply this to our own individual walk with Christ situations. We are justified in a moment, made righteous, put right with God, set for heaven. And yet sanctification is a process of sowing in tears. And it will be a harvest of joy. Truly, tears sown in faith will bring a time of harvest of rejoicing. Heavy sheaves of grain. This is a powerful and great promise that our tears and sorrows will not be wasted, but can be sown for a joyful harvest and received. In a better season. The way of Jesus is the way of his disciples. Horn says, For thus thy blessed master went forth weeping, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, bearing precious seed. and sowing it around him till at length his body was buried like a grain of wheat in the furrow of the grave But he arose and is now in heaven, from whence he shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God bringing his sheaves. with him. So as we conclude, let this psalm cheer you as you enter into the vast joy of your gracious salvation. Let this psalm inspire you with the hope of final glory when you will hear Christ say to you, Well done, faithful servant, enter into the Let this psalm remind you that the words of Psalm seventy-two about the king who will reign forever and in whose time everything will be made right will come to pass. And let this song lead you to hope for the surprising joy of a worldwide flash flood of revival. Before Christ comes Amen Lord, we pray that you'll help us to keep in mind these great words. to rejoice in them and through them, to use them in our rejoicing. And also the words about sowing in tears. Sanctify us, and then put us on the same path as others who have gone before us, looking for what you have promised. Even rejoicing in it when it happens. Like a dream come true. In Jesus' name. Amen.