Please be seated for the reading of God's Word. And listen for the question, children, in this reading. Where is the Lamb? Listen for that question. Please turn in your Bibles to Genesis 22. We'll read verses 1 through 14. Genesis twenty two. After these things God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. He said, Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac. And he cut the wood for the burnt offering, and arose, and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar. Then Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went both of them together. And Isaac said to his father Abraham, My father, and he said, Here am I, my son. He said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son. So they went both of them together. When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son. and laid him on the altar, on top of the wood. Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. He said, Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him. For now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram, caught in a thicket by its horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. So Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide. As it is said to this day, on the mouth of the Lord it shall be provided. This is the word of the Lord. Turn to the reading of John one twenty-nine through thirty-four. as we continue our journey in the Gospel of John, John 1, 29 through 34. The preceding verses, Jesus has appeared with John, who was out baptizing at Bethany in the country at the Jordan River. Verse 29. The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world This is he of whom I said, after me comes a man who ranks before me because he was before me. I myself did not know him, but for this purpose I came baptizing with water, that he might be revealed to Israel. And John bore witness. I saw the spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen and borne witness that this is the Son of God. Word of the Lord, thanks be to God. Blessed Lord, you have caused all holy scriptures to be written for our learning Grant that we may in such a way hear them, read them, mark them, and learn them, and inwardly digest them. That by patience and comfort of your holy word we may embrace and ever hold fast the blessed hope of eternal life, which you have given us in our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen This brief section is packed with revelations about Jesus. The Gospel of John, by the way, was written to tell people about Jesus. That's why these are called the four evangelists, and John is one of them, because they tell people about Jesus. And in fact, the purpose of this gospel is that people will know about Jesus, understand about Jesus, and believe into Jesus. That's how you get into Jesus You believe your way into Jesus. You're united with Jesus by faith, and that is belief in Jesus. It's not just faith in anything, it's faith in God who has revealed himself here. In fact, at the end of John in chapter 20, which we'll preach eventually, this is what the writer John says. He says, now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name So we're going to get information in order to believe here. So what do we see here? We see lots of information. First in 29, we see that he is the Lamb and servant of God. John said the next day, or John records, the next day Jesus he saw, John saw, Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold the Lamb of God. Lamb of God, what does that mean? What did that mean to them as they were hearing that phrase, behold the Lamb of God? Well, the Lamb Throughout Old Testament history, has the connotation of sacrifice. We read it in Genesis 22. Isaac said, Where is the lamb for the sacrifice, my father? So the idea of calling him a lamb clearly brings to mind, for those who know these things, the connotation of sacrifice. And also, it's very, very close in Aramaic, which was the language that they were speaking back then, very close to the word servant. So it could be lamb or servant. And Isaiah actually sees Jesus as both the Lamb and the servant. In Isaiah 52, verse 13, God says, Behold my servant. Shall act wisely. And then in Isaiah 53, 7, it says, He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to the slaughter. And like a sheep that bore before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. So Isaiah sees him both as the suffering servant and the lamb who is led to the slaughter. the Lamb who takes away the sins of the world. Well we get to that phrase next. So we understand about Jesus that he is a sacrificial person. The second thing we learn is that he takes away the sin of the world. The Old Testament lambs that were sacrificed in the temple did not take away the sins. of the worshipers did not. What did the sacrifices do back then? Covered Covered over them like you see some ugly thing, some dirty, filthy mess somewhere, and you you put a rug over it, or you put a blanket over it, or you put a tarp over it, so you don't see it anymore. So you don't smell it anymore. But it doesn't take it away, it just covers it up. And the Old Testament sacrifices covered sins. In the temple, there were daily offerings of lambs. Daily offerings. of lambs that were brought by worshipers to be slaughtered and that would not take away their sins. The blood of a lamb can't take away sins. It only covers. And then there was on the Passover, there was the annual Lamb who was slaughtered on Passover to be the Passover sacrifice, to represent the whole nation as a unity, and die for the nation Again, it would not take away the sins of the nation, it would just cover them up. But what we have here is: behold the Lamb of God who takes away. Isn't that wonderful? He takes away the sins of the world. Doesn't just cover them up. He removes them. And we see that again in Isaiah. Chapter 53. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him. You've got to get that in your image in your mind. Laid on him. Laid on him the iniquity of us all. It's not just covered up, it's laid on him And then a little bit later in Isaiah 53, out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied, by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, Make many to be accounted righteous, not just covered, but accounted righteous, as he shall do what? As he shall bear their iniquities. He takes away sin. And we get that clearly pictured also in the Old Testament in Leviticus. In Leviticus, where God prescribes for Israel this. Aaron shall offer the bull as a sin offering for himself, and shall make atonement for himself and for his house. Then he shall take two goats and set them before the Lord at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and Aaron shall cast lots over the two goats. One lot for the Lord, and the other lot for Azazel. What in the world is that? And Aaron shall present the goat on which the lot fell for the Lord, and use it as a sin offering. This one's going to be slaughtered as a sin offering. But the goat on which the lot fell for as the zeal shall be presented alive before the Lord to make atonement over it. That it may be, listen, it may be sent away into the wilderness of Azazel. And we call that Azazel lamb the scapegoat. We still use that term, don't we? Scapegoat. Someone who takes blame That's not theirs, a scapegoat. So you have these two animals. One is sacrificed, the other one bears sin away, takes it away. In Leviticus chapter 16. In the Hebrew lexicon it means to remove, but here in Leviticus it is intensified. to say removed completely, taken away forever. And Jesus here, as the Lamb of God, fulfills both of these goats, the sacrificed one and the one who carries sin away to a desolate place never to be seen again And we hear that echo again in Genesis 22. Jesus is the Lamb In answer to the question of young Isaac, as he was climbing up the mountain with Abraham, Isaac said to his father, My father, he said, Here am I, my son. He said, Behold the fire and the wood. But where is the lamb for the burnt offering? And Abraham, being a prophet and speaking in faith, said, God will provide himself a lamb for the burnt offering. And we know from later studies that Mount Moriah is where the temple is. It's where Jesus, just outside the city, was hung on a cross. Cross on the mountain of the Lord it was provided. James Montgomery Boyce in his writings about Christmas says this He says, as the shepherds in the field saw and heard the angels, and then followed the star to where the Christ child lay They may not have had any idea that the little baby they saw would be called the Lamb of God. But there is considerable speculation, he says, that these shepherds did not watch ordinary sheep. But lambs, one year old lambs, that were bred specifically to be used as a sacrifice offering in the temple and therefore closely guarded so that they would be spotless without defect. Then he says, if this is the case, how symbolic that these very select shepherds Should be the ones to first worship the baby Jesus, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. And just one more bit of information about that whole thing. When the Passover lamb, the annual one, the one that represented the whole nation. was brought for that Passover sacrifice. It was brought at 9 a. m. in the morning. 9 a. m. And that's when Jesus was nailed to the cross, 9 a. m. And how long did Jesus stay on the cross Three six hours until three p. m. And so that little lamb that would be brought into the temple would be tied up at the altar, brought in by the priest and tied up at the altar at 9 a. m. And then at 6 p. m. , its throat would be cut, it would be slain, the blood would be spilt. What did Jesus do at 3 p. m. He said, it is finished. The Lamb of God who takes away, finishes the sins of the world. How wonderful it is. So we know that about Jesus from here. We need to unpack that and understand it and embrace it very, very deeply. The second thing we know is that he is the receiver of the Holy Spirit. That's really important. John bore witness. He said, I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him. Now John does not record the actual baptism of Jesus, but Matthew, Mark, and Luke do. Then Luke 3, verses 21 and following This is what's recorded. Then all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened, and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove And a voice came from heaven, you are my beloved son, with you I am well pleased. Now this is wonderful fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies. Isaiah 11, which we read uh in the opening, and the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him. See, the spirit will rest on who? On the Messiah, the promised. The spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of the knowledge and the fear of the Lord. And in Isaiah 42, behold my servant, up whom I uphold, my chosen in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him, God says. And Jesus, when he preached at the synagogue in Capernaum, stood up and quoted Isaiah 61 and he said, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor and sent me to bind up the brokenhearted and proclaim liberty to the captives and opening a prison to those who are bound. God's spirit rests upon him from then on to give strength to serve as your Savior He needs the Spirit's anointing, the Spirit's power to fulfill this difficult mission to be the Savior of the world. He needs the Spirit's power to resist the world and the flesh and the devil, which we have not resisted very well, have we? He's the one that needs to stand in our place with the Spirit's power and obey the Father. So he's the one who receives the Spirit, and then we also see here he is the baptizer with the Spirit. in verse 33. John says, I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, he is the one who Baptizes with the Holy Spirit. Now, what's that about? What does it mean he's going to baptize with the Holy Spirit? Again, this has its roots in Old Testament prophecy, and they might well understand what this was going on here in Ezekiel 36. God says to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I'm about to act, but for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations to which you came. I will vindicate the holiness of my great name which has been profaned among the nations. God's indicting them here Which you have profaned among them, and the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes. I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you back into your own land. And then here's the picture of the one who baptizes with the Holy Ghost. Holy Spirit. Verse 25. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleanness. That's a picture of the spirit baptism and incidentally the water baptism. And I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh. and give to you a heart of flesh. It's going to change us internally. That spiritual power changes everything. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. God sent the Spirit on Jesus so that he could obey. And then Jesus is the one who gives the Spirit to his people and baptizes them with the Spirit so that we may obey, although we certainly don't do it perfectly. Isaiah 52 alludes to this baptism of the Holy Spirit as well in verse 15, where it says, so shall he sprinkle many names. nations. I know in that phrase there's the sprinkling of blood, but also the washing, you see, which is depicted by water. Jesus is the one who washes his people from sin by blood and spirit. Jesus baptized, John was baptizing Jesus in preparation. So that Jesus will baptize us with the Spirit and unite us to Himself and give us the cleansing that He has accomplished for us. In union with him by the Spirit, He takes away our sin, our guilt, our condemnation, and we take His righteousness We take his obedience. We take his not guilty verdict. So Jesus is the baptizer and the one who receives the Spirit. He's also the pre-existent one. in the next verses, verse 30 and 31, where John says, This is he of whom I said, after me comes a man who ranks before me, because he was before me. And that's important. In that culture, if you're older, you're better. Now it doesn't work that way in our culture, does it? If you're older, too bad for you. Especially when you get past fifty or so, right? Um Youth is adored in our culture, isn't it? But in in ancient culture, age was honored Age puts you ahead of the others. And John is saying, he comes before me. He's ahead of me. He's outranks me because he was before me. And you wait a minute. You say, wait a minute. Is that true? Luke tells us that it was that it was Elizabeth and Zechariah who conceived John six months earlier Then Jesus was conceived by Mary. Elizabeth and John were childless. They had never had any children. They were pretty old now, way past the age of childbearing. But God gave a miracle, and Elizabeth became pregnant. And then the angel told Mary that she was going to have a baby, but she went to visit Elizabeth and that's six months difference. Who's older? John's older, isn't he? But he doesn't say that here, does he? Why? Because he knows that this one pre-exists him. Not in not in birth years, but in reality. Micah five Very famous prophecy which we'll hear on lessons and carols on Christmas Eve. Micah 5, verse 2, but you, old Bethlehem, Ephratha, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, you don't count for much. From you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, so it's referring to the Messiah, whose coming forth is from old, from ancient days. The Messiah exists from old, from ancient days. The Messiah exists forever. He's the pre-existent one. That's what John is saying here. Contrary to all observations, he's the pre-existent one. John was born first, but Christ always existed with the Father. That's what we say in our opening hymn. Of the Father's love begotten, ere the worlds began to be. He is Alpha and Omega. He the source, the ending he. So John was first in birth, but Jesus was first in existence. And finally, we we learn here that he is the Son of God. Son of God. In verse 34, I have seen and borne witness that this is the Son of God. And that's what was said when Jesus was baptized, recorded by the other evangelists, you are my beloved son. With you I am well pleased. And we see that echoed from the prophecies of the Old Testament in Psalm chapter 2, where God says, I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your inheritance, the ends of the earth your possession. And then in verse 12 of that psalm, kiss the sun, this sun, lest he be angry and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in the sun. Because I was thinking about all these things, putting them together, pulling them together and studying I came across this little poem by William Blake, an English poet of more than 100 years ago. And he asks, he sees a little lamb, I guess. This is the imagery. He sees a little lamb somewhere probably out in a field in England. And he says to the little lamb, Little Lamb, who made thee? Dost thou know who made thee, gave thee life and bid thee feed by the stream and o'er the mead, gave thee clothing of delight, softest clothing, woolly bright Gave thee such a tender voice, making all the veils rejoice. Little Lamb, who made thee? Dost thou know who made thee? And then he says, Little Lamb, I'll tell thee. Little Lamb, I'll tell thee, he is called by thy name, for he calls himself a lamb. He is meek and he is mild. He became a little child, the incarnation. He a child, thou a lamb. We are called by his name Little Lamb, God bless thee. Little Lamb, God bless thee. And so we go back to the beginning The most important thing that we need to know about Jesus, that we learn here in this wonderful gospel, is that he is the Lamb of God. Not a powerful reformer king who's going to come and throw the Romans out. Not an ethical prophet or teacher, but most of all a priest and a sacrifice, the Lamb of God who takes away He's the one who receives the Holy Spirit, has the power to be our Savior. He's the one who gives the Holy Spirit, who creates faith in those who believe. The faith is the channel by which we are united with his sacrifice. By which we receive the atonement, the blood, and the carrying away of our sins, the finished work of Christ. And he is the Son who always existed with the Father. He was coming as a baby in human flesh for you. Have you, have you received It's nice to know all this. It's nice to hear about it. It's nice to ponder these literary facts, these prophetical ideas, but do you know him? Have you received him? Have you by faith beheld him who would be nailed to a cross and pierced, and said to him by faith, please be my lamb Please die for my sins. Please carry them away. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for this wonderful prophetic utterance of John as he saw Jesus. And said these words. We pray that you'll help us to live in these words. And that we will, by faith, embrace the one who takes away our sins and gives us the Spirit. The one who forgives and atones and makes us right. Amen