Congregation, this is the Word of God, Psalm 128. Blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways. You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands. You shall be blessed, and it shall be well with you. Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your home. Your children will be like olive shoots around your table. Behold, thus shall the man be blessed who fears the Lord The Lord bless you from Zion. May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life. May you see your children's children. Peace be upon Israel. And now from John chapter 14, verses 1 through 7. Jesus is speaking here. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes through the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you do know him. and have seen him. This is the Word of God. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. The titles of sermons are disproportionate as far as truly assisting hearers in grasping the point and message of the chosen texts. Sometimes. Sometimes they hit the nail on the head, and sometimes they don't. It is this preacher's hope that tonight's sermon title will drive home the point. of our chosen text as it is printed in your worship folder, The Pursuit of Happiness. Now does that phrase capture the thrust of Psalm 128? You heard it read. At first glance, it seems to be so, doesn't it? After all, the word blessed or blessed, appears four times in the short space of only six verses here. And two Hebrew root words, Asher and Barak, used synonymously throughout the poem, both mean, according to my Hebrew dictionary. To be happy. Or to declare to be happy. Consequently, noting this, I started out In preparing this sermon, to understand the thrust of tonight's text as having something to do at least with the gaining of happiness. Are you surprised? I even jumped the gun by mentally nominating, as the title of this sermon, How to Be Happy. Sounds like a good sermon title, doesn't it? But the more I thought about the content of these six short verses, the more I realized that pursuing happiness. Getting it by either you or me or by anyone for that matter is not the point the psalmist wants to drive home at all It's not the point either that God wants to drive home to you tonight, either. No, not the pursuit of happiness at all Rather, the receipt of it. Not how to get it, but have you been given it? There's a difference between the two, a big difference. And that must be clearly understood. Now understand me well, congregation. What we're saying is that the sermon title The pursuit of happiness is actually the exact wrong title of a sermon that pretends to expose Psalm 128 Rather than telling people how to get to be happy, how to pursue it, the psalmist wants them to have it given to them to receive it. And to that end, actually, he writes two Psalms, 127 and 128. Those two really go powerfully and intricately together. Now, 127 was last Sunday night's text. Sad to say, I didn't hear it. But you can't understand 128 without 127. So what I had to do was grasp the connection between the two Psalms. before expecting correctly and helpfully going on to preach Psalm 128. And there is exactly the rub Psalm 127, as I understand it, is saying that if you pursue happiness on your own, you'll never get it. Only if God, in his gracious providence and especially covenantal love, gives it, bestows it, will it ever be yours. Now Psalm 128 comes along on its heels and says, Rather, God has given it to you. And you have it. But before going on to display the wonder and glory of God's gracious gift of blessing, of supreme happiness. That he has given you his people. You do well to note in order to dismiss them Two other contrary definitions of happiness. First, consider the one that Aristotle proposed. Yeah, old Aristotle He's probably the most well-known of the ancient Greeks. And I quote from one history of ancient philosophy professor these interesting words. Quote. But what is happiness? For Aristotle, it is by understanding the distinctive function of a thing that one can understand its essence. Thus, one cannot understand what it is to be a gardener, for instance, unless one can understand that the distinctive function of a gardener is to tend to a garden with a certain degree of skill. Whereas human beings need nourishment like plants and have sentience, reason, Like animals, their distinctive function, says Aristotle, is their unique capacity to reason. Thus, our supreme good or happiness is to lead a life that enables us to use and develop our reason, and that is in accordance with reason. Unquote. So Aristotle's answer to the question, how to be happy, is be a thinking human being. But the problem is that advice won't work. Because all human beings have fallen into sin. Are depraved, and thus cannot and do not naturally think as they should. They think only as they would do and would want So much for Aristotle. A second definition of happiness is one that is characterized in the 2006 movie entitled You guessed it. The pursuit of happiness. Raise your hand if you saw it. Oh. Well then let me tell you about it. Let me just say that it is a superbly accurate, dramatic portrayal of the folly of exactly Aristotle's suggested route to happiness In that movie, Will Smith's character, a very wise, smart, and capable human being The father of a five-year-old son left into his care by his departed wife and the child's mother. Runs into a sad series of failures to achieve a happy life for himself and for his son, whom he dearly loves. He can solve a Rubik's Cube. Now, some of you do remember those, don't you? He can do it in two minutes. I never got anywhere near solving it. He also can sell brain scan machines door to door to physicians and succeed in being chosen for a good job over a multitude of intern candidates. All he does is run after happiness. He does a lot of running in the movie, but he never catches it. Time and again, it seems that good luck, as the movie implies, eludes him. And he seems destined to spend his days and that of his charming young son homeless and discarded. He pursues happiness And never gets it. I'm not sure what Hollywood wants to say with that film, but I will say that he needs the message of Psalms 127 and 128. Give up pursuing happiness. Receive it. For that you have to hear the gospel and respond in faith, which is also a gift of God. That leads me to the proposition I want to make that I believe is central to Psalm 128. And it would be found in this one sentence. Blessedness or happiness describes the divinely ordered life and destiny given by the Lord God to his people who both fear him and walk in his ways. I think the pastor tonight must have been reading Psalm 128 before he made his prayer, because he anticipated exactly that in the prayer. Did you? No, you didn't. Well, the Holy Spirit did it. Now let's look at this happiness that is given to God's people. It goes from the center outwardly, from inside to outside. It starts with the inside, and what is that inside? Well, it's the individual part, of course. That's where we begin. The God-fearing individual is blessed by God. Listen to verses 1 and 2 again. Blessed is everyone. Who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways, you shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands, you shall be blessed And it shall be well with you. The first recipients of the God given gift of blessedness, of happiness, about which and about whom the psalmist speaks are all his people, his chosen ones. Not every last human being, but everyone who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways. Those ones. They are not blessed and happy because they have feared the Lord and walked in his ways. As we said already, just the opposite is the case. They fear the Lord and walk in his ways because they have been blessed and made happy by him. That's what we read in Psalm 127. That's why, as I indicated at the first, the theme of the psalm is not at all the pursuit of happiness, but the receipt thereof. The blessedness of being one of those people of whom the Psalm speaks is not that you have earned happiness by your godly behavior of fearing God and walking in his ways. But that you have been enabled by God's grace to fear Him and walk in His ways. That's exactly your blessedness. And thus that's your happiness. Psalm 128 is not a prescription for health and well-being. That by filling and following it, you will receive a happy life. Psalm 128 is a description. Of what God has graciously done for and consequently given His people. So to you who hear this psalm tonight comes the clear and powerful message. Don't pursue happiness. Take it from God. You see, the psalm really anticipates the time When God would send His only begotten Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, to this earth to lay the foundation for your eternal blessedness and happiness. I refer to that particular dialogue between Jesus and his disciples recorded in John chapter 14, which we read earlier. On that occasion, Peter gave expression to the disciples' sorrow to hear Jesus predict his impending death. And Jesus replied, Let not your heart be troubled. That's the opposite of happiness, isn't it? To have a troubled heart. Believe in God. Believe also in me. I am the way, the truth, and the life. Don't you see it? That was really Jesus' explanation of Psalm 128 He was telling them, fear God and walk in his ways, and I am that way. The gospel could not be more clearly presented than it is in our Psalm tonight. You'll find it in John 3. 16, yes. But you'll find it in Psalm 128, too, as it is illuminated by Jesus' words. He is the way, the truth, and the life. If you believe in him, if you trust his redeeming work for you on the cross, You fear God and you walk in his ways And that is the blessing. That is the happiness that you have been given by the gracious God. Does not your heart respond with a hallelujah? Somebody's shaking their head, yes. There is a second characteristic descriptive of those blessed individuals. Of both genders, by the way. I know it talks about the man is blessed. That means the person, not the male. Of every race. Certainly not white Westerners, Europeans And every generation, not just old people, but little ones too. It's in verse 2. They shall be blessed, and it will be well with them. That's just another way of saying they will be happy, isn't it? But notice the particular means that God will employ by which that happiness will be given them. As they shall eat of the fruit of the labor of their hands. You won't get it from the government, You won't get it by whatever race you happen to belong to or whatever nation you're in. Your employments, your work, your careers, your occupations. Those things are part of the blessedness. Part of it. Not the cause of it. And you, as a Christian, don't pursue and thus hopefully gain happiness through your work, through your status. Through your success in any enterprise. Don't do it. Your job Whatever it may be, is itself a gift by which you have been blessed by God. He made you who you are, with your own particular abilities and skills by which you are to glorify and enjoy in Isn't it great that that word happiness is found in the first answer of our shorter catechism and enjoy in how to be happy in this life? And forever. But now we go on to the second way in which this happiness is displayed. It's displayed not only in the individual But also in the family. Listen to verses 3 and 4 again. Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house. Your children will be like olive shoots around your table. Behold, thus shall the man be blessed who fears the Lord. Thus Shall the man be blessed. Note that key word thus. The psalmist has already sung of the blessedness, the happiness of the God-fearing individual. But he's not done describing the gift of God through all of his believing and obeying people one by one. There are families of his people as well. And the very fact that his people are grouped in families is a blessing of the Lord. That's why the Psalm says in verse 4: Behold, thus. Shall the man be blessed who fears the Lord by being in a family. Not only as an individual man, but as a man who has a family. He has a wife and children. And the implication is clear, isn't it? His wife and each of his children are also blessed, not only as individuals, but also as members. of a family. Not the family of God here. That's another blessing Here we're speaking of the nuclear family: a daddy, a mommy, and their kids. It's important. You know, I believe that a large number of our fellow citizens in the USA, and probably elsewhere as well, don't appreciate what is being affirmed here Just look at the statistics. As many divorces as marriages, or almost so. The large percentage of children raised by one parent alone. The almost unbelievable Unfathomable number of induced abortions, the number of men and women cohabiting outside of marriage. It's getting almost to be the rule, not the exception. I have to sadly say it also, the number of men cohabiting with another man, and the number of women cohabiting with another woman. These are all exceptions to God's standard way of running his human world in marriages Folks, these sad facts have not always been so apparent and numerous, I think, as today they are. Even I can remember a time when people lived, for the most part, in families. Families that consisted of a man and his wife, or a man and his wife and their children. But it seems as though you can't say that civilly anymore. Now, apparently, family is becoming an outmoded term. But the psalmist doesn't agree with much of 22nd century people. Notice the order in which he considers the blessedness, the happiness that God bestows upon at least the people of his choice. After speaking of them as individuals, which we already noted, he goes immediately to speak of their families. Verses 5 and 6 are going to describe the blessedness and the happiness of the God-fearing city, the church, and the state. Those are important, yes, but not as important as the family. There it is that you have the basic unit of human society There will be no happiness in the city unless there is happiness in the family. Attend to first things first. And what are those first things when it comes to the family? Well, verse 5a says, Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house. If you have a wife, then she has a husband. A family starts with a marriage As God made crystal clear in the Garden of Eden, Genesis 2. 18. Then the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him a helper fit for him. A wife is a fruitful vine in the house, not only when she bears children. Because that may not be in God's providential plan for them. But when she is her husband's wife Her husband's helper just right for him, then they're walking in God's ways. That's fruit, too. Just ask any godly husband what he loves about his wife. And he will tell you what a beautiful, fruitful helper she is to him. Before, during, and after the children are born and leave home. And that he owes her in the entirety of their marriage Active love to see to her well-being always. So, wives, you're in the Psalm 2, by clear implication. Be happy. Then 1 5b. Your children will be like olive shoots around your table. What a blessing that is. I don't know whether you realize how important olives are to Near Eastern peoples. They make oil, they make food, and they grow a long time. They last. They keep. I don't know if you think they need refrigeration. Your children are like olive plants around your table. What a blessing that is. Families eat together, right? Now, don't let your busy schedules rule out this particular blessing, please. Your children are really important. They're olives. In your home and around your table. Now, however, you may be an individual Christian And you don't have at this moment a family. You know, that was true of my seminary professor John Murray at Westminster Seminary. He never got married until after he retired from being a seminary professor, and he married a younger woman than himself. He was in his early 70s, and they bore two children together. But he had a family beforehand. The family was really the church, the seminary. I also think of two children who had no families in Russia. They were alone, being cared for in institutions. And they got adopted by my son, our son and his wife. And they got brought into a Christian family. These these things that are being said about families don't rule everywhere. And if you're looking to be married, hang on. God's in charge, and He's going to take care of that issue his way when He wants to. And if you had a wife and don't have her anymore for whatever reason, You're not family-less, because the psalm has more to say here than the blessing of being an individual Christian and of being in a nuclear family, you are also in God's ordained city. This found in verses 5 and 6. And we can be shorter here. We have to be. Listen to the words again. The Lord bless you from Zion. May you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life. May you see your children's children. Peace be upon Israel. Now here it is that the psalmist expands from the individual and expands beyond the family Important though those two are, he goes to the city. What does he mean by city I believe he has in mind not just the inhabitants of one community, but more. He extends the blessedness, the happiness of the God-fearing man who walks his ways to the whole covenant community, even if he doesn't have a nuclear family at the moment. And indeed, beyond that church to the civil sphere in which he lives. Now that's room for a lot of work. The receipt of happiness through the divinely ordered gift of grace grows, my friends. It grows outwardly. It's not a matter of this or that single person going to heaven. It is rather a matter of merciful blessedness to that man who to his nuclear family if he has one, to his church and to his nation. The Lord God leads a man by his spirit to confess God as God To repent of his sins, receive by faith the gospel, and is enabled to walk in the way of righteousness, and that should show. Privately and publicly and civilly. He then receives the further blessing. Of leading the family that God gathers about him in the same way. But even that does not complete his blessedness. For then God blesses him from Zion. Zion, you see, is the place where the tribes go up to worship Yahweh. It's the church, the sum of the families of God's redeemed people. You're happy, married or not, when you're in the church of God. And still even more, the blessedness spreads over the whole city. The church's impact will be felt by Jerusalem as the generations of God's people make a faithful testimony Even as the scripture makes clear to the surrounding peoples on earth, go into all the world and preach the gospel. The gospel, my friends, is spread abroad, from your heart, through your family, to your church, to your community, to your world You seek ever to present an example of a life walk in God's ways. And that's what it is to receive happiness, my friends. Not getting it through effort, but taking it with open hands. From your God. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you will receive our praise tonight For you getting things in the right order and making it clear in your word, the Holy Scriptures of Psalm 128. Thank you, God, that we don't have to run after happiness. It will be folly, and we'll never get it. But Lord O God, you are gracious and kind, and you have blessed your people, your covenant people With ongoing generation after generation blessings of the gospel. We thank you for infant baptism. We thank you for the Lord's Supper. We thank you for Sundays of worship. We thank you for the church, and we thank you for our nuclear families too, and for our own individual walks with you. All these things are blessings. And we thank you that we as Orthodox Presbyterian churches can spread the gospel to Africa and Haiti, South America, and the Far East. Please use our testimony, O God, to point people to the happiness that you alone can give them. And bring them to know the way, the truth, and the life, that is Jesus Christ, your Son, our Savior. In whose name we pray. Amen.