Our Old Testament reading this morning comes from the fifth chapter of Nehemiah, Nehemiah chapter five, verses one through thirteen. Nehemiah 5, verses 1 through 13. Now there arose a great outcry of the people and of their wives against their Jewish brothers For there were those who said, With our sons and our daughters we are many, so let us get grain that we may eat and keep alive. There were also those who said, we are mortgaging our fields, our vineyards, and our houses to get grain because of the famine. And were there were those who said, We have borrowed money for the king's tax on our fields and our vineyards. Now our flesh is as the flesh of our brothers, our children are as their children. Yet we are forcing our sons and our daughters to be slaves, and some of our daughters have already been enslaved, but it is not in our power to help it, for other men have our fields and our vineyards I was very angry when I heard their outcry in these words. I took counsel with myself, and I brought charges against the nobles and the officials. I said to them, You are exacting interest, each from his brother And I held a great assembly against them and said to them, We, as far as we are able, have bought back our Jewish brothers who have been sold to the nations. But you even sell your brothers that they may be sold to us. They were silent, and could not find a word to say. So I said, The thing that you are doing is not good. Ought you not to walk in the fear of our God, to prevent the taunts of the nations, our enemies? Moreover, I and my brothers and my servants are lending them money and grain. Let us abandon this exacting of interest. Return to them this very day their fields, their vineyards, their olive orchards, and their houses, and the percentage of money, grain, wine, and oil that you have been exacting from them. Then they said, We will restore these and require nothing from them. We will do as you say. And I called the priests, and made them swear to do as they had promised. I also shook out the fold of my garment and said, So may God shake out every man from his house and from his labor who does not keep this promise. So may he be shaken out and emptied. And all of the assemblies said, Amen. And they praised the Lord. And the people did as they had promised. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Now we will sing Psalm 118, paraphrased in hymn number 389. Please stand as we sing. The New Testament reading and the preaching portion today is Acts 6, 1 through 7. The elders have asked me to preach a short series on deacons and the ministry of the deaconate. So this is the first of those, Acts 6, 1 through 7. Now in these days when the disciples were increasing in number, A complaint by the Hellenists arose against the Hebrews because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution. And the twelve summoned the full number of the disciples and said, It is not right that we should give up preaching the Word of God to serve tables. Therefore, brothers, pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of the spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint to this duty But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. And what they said pleased the whole gathering. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, and Procorus, and Nicanor, and Timon. And Parmenus and Nikolaus, a proselyte of Antioch. These they set before the apostles, and they prayed and laid their hands on them The word of God continued to increase, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let us pray. Well, Lord, we pray that you will instruct us through this narrative portion of your Holy Word. As we consider what was said and done and how problems were solved in this early period of the church. In Jesus' name, amen. We do not have any deacons. We do not have any deacons here at Grace and Peace. But Jesus wants us to have them. How do I know? Because in the early years, Jesus gave his church apostles in those first years. And the apostles were to preach the Word of God and to administer the sacraments. And by the way, the apostles in those early years were also given uh special temporary, we believe, gifts called sign gifts. These gifts were to demonstrate to the leaders of the Jewish people The authority of the risen Lord Jesus Christ, who triumphed over their plots and plans to destroy him, to fulfill God's ancient promises. These signs of the apostles, together with the preaching of the word, would either turn the Jewish leaders to Christ. Or confirm their apostasy from God's covenant. We read in that last verse, verse 7, that many of the Jewish believers, Jewish priests even, believed in Christ. So these works of the apostles were definitely having their good effect. You can see clearly in Acts chapter 2, verse 42. Where it says this, and they, the Church of Jesus, that is, devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to the fellowship, to the breaking of bread, that's communion, and of the prayers, that's worship. And verse 43, and awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. So you see there that early apostle situation where these miraculous signs and wonders were confirming the message. And then in verse 11 through 12 of chapter 4, right after an instantaneous healing of a man born lame, This is what was said in verse 11. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone, and there is salvation in no one else. For there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. So that is the work of the apostles. Jesus gave apostles to his church. And these apostles were those who had seen the risen Lord Jesus and been personally appointed by him. The Greek word is apostelo. which is a Greek verb really, meaning one sent with a message. They were the first ambassadors of the risen king. And you might remember that there were 12 of these apostles representing the 12 tribes of the new Israel. But these guys didn't live forever, did they? They died. After their generation was completed, they died. And their office lived on. It became the office of elder called presbyter, that's where we get our denominational name, presbyter and minister. I'm a minister, I'm an elder, and the elders who rule here are also elders. We're presbyters and And the church here is ruled by elders. It's a Presbyterian church. These guys have special calling to proclaim the Word of God. I'm the one who does it publicly, but The elders here are to oversee it and make sure it happens correctly and guard and govern it. That is their task. And to Govern the sheep and care for the sheep as they hear the word of God and as they apply the word of God to their life situations. That is what they were to do, and that is what they did So, what about this deacon thing? What's that about? Well, we read it in chapter six of Acts, verse one. Now, in these days, when the disciples were increasing in number by the word of God, a complaint by the Hellenists arose against the Hebrews because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution. Let's pause there to say this. We rejoice in the growth of the early church. Many of the Jews were ready to receive the Messiah. The good news of his triumph over death was the final testimony. Of this truth. And many were becoming disciples. A disciple was basically a pupil, a student. And many were willing to stay in Jerusalem. They had come there for Pentecost from all over the place. And now they're willing to stay there for a while. They want to sit at the apostles' feet and learn. They want to get the picture. They want to understand how the Old Testament proves that Jesus is the Christ. So they need to stay for a while. Many were staying in Jerusalem after the Feast of Pentecost, even though they were away from home and away from livelihood. So it created a problem or a situation, a hardship for both guests and residents. Because the guests needed a place to stay and food to eat, and the residents had to provide housing and food for them because they didn't have a way to make a living. And so we get this situation, the Hebrews against the Hellenists. The Hebrew is a term for those who were directly descendants to Abraham, but in this case, it doesn't just mean that, it means those who lived in and around Jerusalem. and who spoke Hebrew or Aramaic as their native tongue and were very entrenched in the customs and ideas. Their lives revolved around the temple and around the city of Jerusalem. They were called the Hebrews. And these other people who lived out in the far-flung regions of the Greek Empire, the Greek-speaking empire, were also Jews. But they were called Hellenists because they had been culturally influenced by Hellenism or the Greek culture all around them. And it's probable also that they didn't observe the Torah quite as strictly as the Hebrew believers did that stayed right there in Jerusalem and hung around all the time. The Hellenists probably could not speak Aramaic, which was the native tongue of the Jews living in Israel. They probably were reared outside the land and were bilingual, speaking both the Greek language and their own native tongues, wherever that was from, wherever they lived. Everybody knew Greek. Some people knew Aramaic or Hebrew. And then other people had other tongues. The only common language was the Greek language, and by the way, that's why God caused the New Testament to be written in So you can imagine the way it might feel if you We're standing around talking to some persons in a circle after Pentecost there in the gathering of the church. And some of them started speaking their own insider language, Aramaic. And you're a Hellenist and you don't speak Aramaic. You speak Greek and your own other language, but you don't know about Aramaic. And these people are talking Aramaic over here, and you're left standing there like Huh, I got left out. Additionally, the Hellenists probably interpreted the Kosher rules less stringently than the Hebrews did, and this made them feel superior and more deserving. Maybe they demanded and received better treatment in what was called the daily distribution. That is the widows. We'll get to that in a moment This would be, by the way, similar to uh something that I've experienced, you probably have too in various times, where you're in a place where there are mixtures of e ethnic cultures and social and educational and economic differences. And you might feel kind of like an outsider. I remember a long time ago in my internship at seminary, I was an intern in a very Dutch church in the south suburbs of Chicago. It was on the cornerstone there in the This church, it was Irsta Hereformier de Kirka van Inglewood, which in English is the first Reformed church of Inglewood. But uh it was very Dutch. Most everybody had a Vander on their name, or a Sma or a Stra or something like that. And here I am a Kathy With a Scotch-Irish background, and uh I'm their intern pastor, and they've rarely ever had anybody who wasn't Dutch preaching or teaching to them And uh I wanted to change my name to Vander Kathy, uh, or Kathy Stra or Kathyvelder, or something like that, so that I could be one of them, you know, these nice Dutch people. In fact, I remember uh taking the new pastor, Howard Hookstra, uh, when after I I was there for a while alone, and he became pastor, and I took him to meet one of the elderly ladies that lived up in the city. City of Chicago, Jenny Clouse, spelled K-L-O-E-S-E, by the way. And I took Howard Hookstra to meet Jenny Clouse. And uh so when uh I introduced she said, Oh Pastor Hookster, I'm so glad you're here and I'm so glad you're Dutch. Again. With the Dutch thing, you know But very culturally Dutch, the women would sell almond paste every spring to make bonket, which was a Dutch pastry. I also experienced this another time, a little more autobiography, when I was a candidate for a pulpit in the Deep South. There were three candidates Two had come and gone before me. They had both been turned down, excluded. I was the last one, one of three. This committee had whittled all kinds of people down to three. Two were eliminated. I was the last one. Surely I'll get the job. I preached a pretty good sermon. I thought I did. People said it was a good sermon, but after I preached my sermon, I was told by the chairman of the committee that the committee had decided to start over again. Just I wouldn't get the job and it would start over again and I was like, what? What happened? He said You're not southern enough. I can put on a southern accent if you want. No But no, it didn't happen. So this is what happens when there are cultural differences or educational differences or various other strata differences that people have. There's discrimination, there's different feelings that happened. And it happened then. That's what was being described here in chapter 6. In the Jewish world, tensions existed between the Grecian Jews, that is the Hellenistic ones. and the Aramaic-speaking Jews, and these tensions were brought to the church. The result, as we read it, some widows were being favored above others. Unchristian discrimination. Unchristian discrimination. It says in verse 2, in the twelve as the apostles Summoned the full number of the disciples and said, It is not right that we should give up preaching the Word of God to serve tables. Now we need to back up a little bit here. What is this table saying? The Greek word can refer to either tables for serving food, that's a possibility, but more likely tables for banking. That is the Christian community recognizing that there were poor widows in the church. Widows couldn't make a living They didn't have the opportunity. They should be taken care of by their children, especially their sons if they had any. But if they were destitute, if they had no one to take care of them, they would be truly destitute And they would either have to make a living in some kind of awful sinful way, like prostitution, or they would be starving to death The church said, no way. Widow Christians must be cared for. Those who need assistance. And so we'll take a collection, we'll have money brought in. And then these people would come and they would receive at a table, a banking table, their daily amount of what was brought in in gifts. And they would be have this distribution. Well, some were being favored above others. Those who were administering this at the tables were giving more, I guess, to the Hebraic widows, and not so much to the Hellenistic widows. But what happened here? The twelve said, This is getting to be a problem. We've got to do something about this, but what we're not going to do is give up the ministry of the Word and the sacraments. We're not going to give that up. So we need to do something else. The twelve recognize their proper priorities in the ministry of the Word. The ministry of preaching and teaching, the Word of God, is the highest priority of the Christian church The risen King Jesus wants his gospel preached, his church to be of sound faith. He wants his preachers, his apostles to pray and study and preach. The ministry of the word is number one. Now I'm thankful for the fact that I have time and resources provided by you all to preach the Word of God here. Thank you, thank you, thank you. I love to preach the Word of God. You're all seeing to this through your elders. The ministry of the Word is not neglected here. I don't have to have another job as some preachers do. But folks, there are other good things that get in the way of the ministry of the Word. You provide it here through your elders and through me. But there are other things that get in in the way of the ministry of the Word. Many good things get in the way of the ministry of the Word, too. And I don't want to scold here, but I want to just enumerate some of the things that can keep the ministry of the word from getting from here to there. House guests, sometimes Family times, retreats, sporting events, leisure, recreation, In addition to ordinary sicknesses and vacation times, which we all have, and let me just tell you this: sometimes I, as your pastor who works hard to preach the word of God, I sometimes Feel tempted to pray for lousy weather. Lousy weather, not terrible weather, because if the weather is terrible, then that's an excuse not to come to church, right? Or not great weather, because then, hey, let's go do something, because the weather's so great out, right? I'm tempted to preach or tempted to pray for lousy weather. Because what good is the ministry of the word if it is not attended? Here in Acts 6, understand the importance. of hearing, not just having it happen, but hearing the preaching and teaching of the Word of God, fresh for you every Lord's day. Make this, please, make this a priority. In our highly mobile society, too many Christians work the weekdays and take off somewhere on the weekends. This is another way of crippling the ministry of the word. And when that happens, we're not on the same page. We don't hear the same thing. We don't grow together in our understanding, in our common understanding. And when I'm trying to preach a series, it's a discouraging thing, folks, frankly, to know that half of you are going to miss half of the series. Let me just say this. The Lord's Day, as we sang in the song between the Old and New Testament, the Lord's Day is the Lord's Day. It's not your day to do as you please. It is the Lord's day. He calls it his own, as we sang. Preaching is a fresh word from God carefully prepared with prayer for this congregation, for your souls, brothers and sisters and children. It is a means of grace by which God blesses us. The early church knew this, and so the apostles said, no way! We're not going to solve this problem by being busy about other things. going to be busy about the ministry of the word and the sacraments. So what'd they do? Let's move on to this now. Verse 3, they said, Therefore, brothers, pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of the Spirit and of wisdom. Whom we will appoint to this duties. The apostles mentioned three qualifications for those that would be enlisted to serve. They must have a good reputation. Nothing greater than a good reputation, men. They must be full of the spirit. How do you know that? Is there a spirit monitor check that you can do on somebody? No, but you can tell when someone's been with Jesus, when someone's in his word, when someone has his attitudes stamped on their attitude. And wisdom, full of wisdom. Wisdom is so absolutely necessary for deacons in order to be able to sort out what's needed and what's not needed. and how to deal carefully with people who are sometimes upset with each other, Hebrewists and hate and Hellenists against each other. And then he says in chapter 6, verse 4, but we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word. So they selected these seven men. And that goes back to the Jewish communities where seven respected men manage the public business of an official council. By choosing these seven, the twelve can give their attention to prayer and the ministry of the Word. Now let's look at some of the details here. As I said earlier, widows were particularly vulnerable and often needed the ministry of deacons, so it was very necessary. As I said before, their children, especially sons, were supposed to take care of them. If they had none, their next of kin were to help. But if there was no relative, These women could easily become destitute or forced to do sinful things in order to keep food and shelter. These were not widows Who sat at home watching soap operas or reruns of old situation comedies, waiting for the church to bring them stuff. These were what are called later true widows. These were servant widows serving the church body as they were able in their own capacity How do I know that? From 1 Timothy chapter 5, where it says there, 1 Timothy 5 verse 9. About widows. Let a widow be enrolled, that is enrolled as a recipient of the gifts. Let a widow be enrolled if she is less than 60 years of age. having been the wife of one husband and having a reputation of good works, if she has brought up children, has shown hospitality, has washed the feet of the saints, that's hospitality. has cared for the afflicted and has devoted herself to every good work. That's a widow. A widow that deserves to be cared for by the church, enrolled in the daily care of the church And then verse 11, but refuse to enroll younger widows, for when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry, and so incur condemnation for having abandoned their former faith, that is, their former station as a church servant. And then verse 13, besides that they learn to be idlers going about from house to house, and not only idlers, but also gossips and busybodies saying what they should not. So I would have younger widows marry, bear children, manage their households, and give the adversary no occasion for slander. For some have already strayed after Satan If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened so that it may care for those who are truly widows. Do you get the picture here? True widows were those who were enrolled to serve the church and receive from the church money to take care of their life situation because they had no other means. Deacons would also help other poor people. This required wisdom, that's what was one of the requirements, to know the persons and the circumstances of their situation. They had to ask questions of people who came and said, I'd like some help from the church. Were these people destitute or were they just wanting a free ride? Were they sick? Did they need medical help? Were they lazy? Or were they productive people? Were they victims of injustice? Could something be done about it? So, wisdom and discernment was required in order to solve this problem. Deacons also had the task of encouraging generosity among those who were wealthy The deacons would say to the other members of the church who had plenty, you need to make contributions to the distribution here, because there are people who need it, and you can't just keep it for yourself. So these seven men were chosen to take over the administrative task of serving the poor widows who were working in the church. Verse 5, and what they said pleased the whole gathering, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip and And Procorus and Nicanor and Timon and Parmeneus and Nicholas, a proselyte of Antioch. Notice something here, folks. All seven men had Greek names, implying that they were Hellenists. Nicholas, the last one named, was not even a Jew, but was a convert to Judaism and then to Christianity. Christianity. So the early church evidently felt that the problem of the neglect of the Hellenistic widows would be best solved with wisdom by Hellenistic Jews being the deacons that were appointed. Hopefully they would not neglect the Arab Aramaic speaking widows as well. So the introduction of these seven men prepares the readers for the ministries of Stephen and Philip and the first two men listed. That will be in the next chapter of Acts. Nothing else is known about the others. And so they set these men, that is, those who had chosen them, the congregation. Set these men before the apostles, and they prayed and laid their hands on them. That's ordination. Through the Christian community, they were selected, and then the apostles ordained them to this office. The laying on of hands was an impartation of authority to do this kind of ministry that was most necessary. They were ordained. And what was the result of this Solving of this problem. What was the result? Verse 7. And the word of God kept on spreading. Because it wasn't neglected. And the number of the disciples continued to increase greatly in Jerusalem. And a great many of the priests were becoming obedient to the faith. Folks, this is what I want you to remember from this today. God wants deacons for grace and peace We need deacons. We have elders. We have a minister of the word. We don't have any deacons. God wants deacons. When the church of God has all that King Jesus wants for it, Then disciples will be made. The church will be healthy and strong. We won't be neglecting the poor when we have opportunity to serve the poor, whether they are members of our own congregation or members of community. Husbands, taught by the ministry of the word, will love their wives, and wives will respect their husbands, and children will obey their parents because they will have been taught these things. True widows and other poor will be cared for, and the world will see the beauty and integrity of the Christian faith lived out. Not just ideas, not just proclamation, but the care of the community, the whole world community. And the whole society can even be blessed by this, folks. The number one need is for making disciples, and that is in the ministry of the word. But the work of deacons frees elders from this important, for this important gospel-driven task, and allows them time and energy to see to making disciples. The number two need of Jesus' church here today is for deacons, men of good repute, full of the Spirit and of wisdom who will take up the administrative tasks of caring for the real temporal and physical needs of those who really are in need. When disciples are made, the world is changed. I know that sounds like, wow, how do you get from this local situation to the whole world being changed? Incrementally, that's how. When disciples are made, the world is changed. The church grows and influences society in a positive way. You want to see a better society around you? Don't look first to the government. The government, the civil magistrate, is not called to do health, education, and welfare. Is the church and the diaconal ministry. The civil magistrate is called by God to provide legal criminal justice. And on the international scale, that includes defense. And that's about it That's what the civil magistrate is called to do. Do you want to see a better society? Look to the mission of the church and to yourself. To be a disciple of Christ means that you study his word, you see what he did, and then you do what he commanded, and you teach others to follow him. This is the work of the church. Each of you has a gift, or two or more gifts. Each of you has a place not only in the church but also in history. We're not here by accident. We're appointed by God to live our lives here and now for the glory of God. You are a piece in the divine puzzle. Are you fitting into the divine puzzle where God wants you? Are you part of God's plan and method? He wants you to be used, to be a part of his ministry to the world. So if you have so many options, so much time on your hands, to do this and that and the other thing. I urge you, brothers and sisters, give up your small ambitions. Serve God first and most in his kingdom. Because the church, nothing else but the church, is the body of Christ. Christ who came to save and to heal the world. And his body needs all of the gifts of all of its members. And to the point today, his body needs officers called deacons. To be given authority by ordination to serve and augment the ministry of the Word. Pray that God may raise up deacons here at Grace and Peace. And if you're visiting here today, ask. Is God calling me or my husband or someone in my circle of friends to this ministry of being a deacon, this most necessary ministry that augments the ministry of the Word? Ask that question, please. Amen. Lord, we thank you for the wisdom that we saw in the apostles focusing on the thing that counts most and that matters most ministry of the Word and the Sacraments. We thank you for giving them the wisdom to ordain these Hellenistic seven. To provide for all of the needs of those who were truly widows in the church and other poor people. We pray that our church and all of your church everywhere may be blessed. by the full orbed ministry of elders and deacons and ministers of the Word, so that your glorious name may be proclaimed, and people may grow and be strengthened and live good lives for your glorious name Glory. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.