For the reading of God's Word, we'll read Zechariah 13:7 through 1411. Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, against the man who stands next to me, declares the Lord of hosts. Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. I will turn my hand against the little ones. In the whole land, declares the Lord, two thirds shall be cut off and perish, and one third shall be left alive. And I will put this third into the fire, and refine them as one refined silver, and test them as gold is tested. They will call upon my name, and I will answer them I will say, they are my people. And they will say, the Lord is my God. Behold, a day is coming for the Lord when the spoil taken from you will be divided in your midst, for I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to battle. and the city shall be taken, and the houses plundered, and the women raped. Half of the city shall go into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city Then the Lord will go out and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle. On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east. and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley, so that one half of the mount shall move northward, and the other half southward And you shall flee to the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains shall reach Azal. And you shall flee as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah. Then the Lord my God will come, and all the holy ones with him. On that day there shall be no light, cold, or frost. And there shall be a unique day, which is known to the Lord. Neither day nor night, but at evening time there shall be light. On that day living water shall flow out from Jerusalem, half of them to the eastern sea, and half of them to the western sea. It shall continue in summer as in winter. And the Lord will be king over all the earth. On that day the Lord will be one and his name one. The whole earth shall be turned into a plain from Gaba to Rimen south of Jerusalem, but Jerusalem shall remain aloft on its site. From the gate of Benjamin to the place of the former gate, to the corner gate, and from the tower of Hananel to the king's wine presses. And it shall be inhabited, for there shall never again be a decree of utter destruction. Jerusalem shall dwell in security. This is the word of the Lord Our epistle reading this morning is from Paul's letter to the Philippians in chapter 2, and we'll read together verses 12 through 18. And in these verses, the Apostle Paul is addressing how those who call upon the name of the Lord Jesus Christ are to live in the world. So Philippians chapter 2, beginning at verse 12, hear the word of the Lord. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now not only as in my presence, much more in my absence Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Do all things without grumbling or questioning, that you may be blameless and innocent Children of God without blemish, in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation. Among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life So that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain Even if I am to be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith I am glad and rejoice with you all. Likewise, you also should be glad and rejoice with me. And our reading from the gospel this morning is in Mark chapter 14, verses 26 through 31. This will also be the passage for our sermon this morning. So Mark Chapter 14, beginning at verse 26, hear the word of the Lord. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. And Jesus said to them, You will all fall away, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter said to him, Even though they all fall away, I will not And Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you, this very night before the rooster crows twice You will deny me three times. But he said emphatically, If I must die with you I will not deny you. And they all said the same. This is the word of the Lord. We are continuing in Mark's gospel and uh the gospel that there's one gospel in four evangelists, uh the one that uh Mark has written down for the church in Rome and for the church today Uh and we're looking at uh we've gone in the section of our sufferings of our Lord Jesus Christ. And where we were at last week was the institution of the Holy Supper, the institution of the Lord's Supper during the Passover meal And we looked at its uh significance. Uh and I'll remind you real quick that when we take the Lord's Supper, which we do every week here as our practice, so we're doing those four wonderful things. We're having communion with Christ, our risen Lord Jesus Christ. He is the host of the table. He is the one who is giving us the true body and true blood himself to us And so we are sharing in him and his salvation. So we have communion with the risen Lord every week. We're renewing our covenant with him. He poured out that blood for us uh securing for us and laying the foundation that God's promise that we would be his people and he would be our God uh would be fulfilled in us every time we come to this mill we are answering back to our God. I will be your people. I will live for you. I will serve for you. I will trust in your grace and live for you. So we're renewing that covenant with the Lord every week. But we are also receiving Christ. To appropriate something is to take it and make it for yourself. So we are, Christ is proclaimed in the word of the gospel. uh preached in that general call and the spirit works in our hearts where we individually appropriate and take Christ and apply him to ourselves. We're receiving the whole Christ here. We are feeding on his crucified body and blood, remembering that it is through his sacrifice alone That we have become this is church, God's holy people, joined to him, redeemed. And so we are receiving and appropriating him and our salvation. Which we can do any day of the week, right? We're not receiving a different Christ than this meal or a different gospel or special grace only reserved here But as a means of grace, in a visible, corporate, tangible way, as really a and I didn't want to go here, but I'll go briefly here on um our doctrine of the sacraments that in the Reformed Church are signs and seals. We preach the gospel, will God, knowing the weakness of human beings, um We we have eyes and we want to see things and we have hands and we want to touch things and it's hard for us to deal with faith which is the things not seen until he gives us something to see. Oh you want to see the gospel You want to see the fruit of the gospel? You want to see what I brought about through putting my son to death for your sins? It's right here. It's this holy congregation of redeemed souls, regenerated Made new, joined to Christ, filled with his graces, filled with his gifts, living in holy fellowship with me. So that's what we're doing in the supper as we appropriate Christ. That's the sermon being preached every week, the death of the Lord Jesus And the fruit that it brought about, his church. And then finally, uh it was an unfinished meal. We we look forward. I think uh a very Psalm twenty-three helps us to understand the Lord's Supper right Before my enemies, you've set a table before me, prepared a table. We are the church militant. Death, our enemy is still there Satan's defeated and yet he's our enemy and still roams around. People still oppose us and press us. So we are people who are opposed by enemies. We're gonna see some of that today, and this is a table of the Lord providing for us, but it gives way to another table, the marriage feast. of the Lamb. The Lord intentionally did not take up that fourth cup and finish the meal, but left us in joyful anticipation that the good gets gooder. Pardon my bad grammar. The good gets gooder for us in Jesus Christ. Okay. That reminds us where we were uh last week. Uh here we go on. And I love these words. I love this text. I love seeing Jesus shepherding his people. And even his cocksure apostles will soon become his little ones, according to Zechariah 13, 7, which God's word I declare because I am constantly reminded as a Christian and as a minister how much I need Jesus as my shepherd And that how weak and utterly, completely, entirely weak uh I am and cannot stand at all apart from Jesus Christ. And so I hope that doesn't frighten everybody, but encourages everybody that there's an answer to our weakness, and it's our shepherd Jesus. So we're going to be looking this morning at what takes place next after uh they finished the meal. The first words there in verse 26. uh tell us that when they had sung a hymn uh that went out to the Mount of Olives that when they had sung a hymn, uh that's how you close the Passover meal with the singing of all those psalms we sang last week, 115 to 118. So When Mark tells us they had sung a hymn that brought to a close the meal, and now Mark transitions us to the Mount of Olives. It's about midnight at this time. You might think, and they went home and went to bed But no, this is not a night to go to bed because Jesus is serious in what he means that he is giving himself to them which he showed in the meal, and now he is going to the Mount of Olives Not to be caught unawares, but to prepare himself for this great sacrifice through prayer, which we'll look at uh next time we come back to the gospel. But this morning We're looking at what words the Lord Jesus had for his disciples. We see there in verse 27, he had something to say to them. He already had something to say to them at the meal, right? One of you is going to betray me, setting up his stern warning as he's revealing himself to the Christ, but warning Judas against what he's doing. Having the disciples search their heart, eleven them that made good, honest professions of faith and declared their allegiance to them But now he has something to say to all of them, which seems to call into question their allegiance to him. He says, You will all fall away So what do those uh words fall away mean? Uh they've been used twice in the gospel. It's that word stumble or offense that other translations will give. Uh when Jesus in in Mark 9 was talking about that famous discourse we all know about cutting off your hand, cutting off your hood, taking out your eye, it gets translated here uh in the ESV, whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin. It's uh a Greek word that is only used metaphorically to mean to bring people into sin. It originally meant to fall into a trap to be ensnared, like you would ensnare an animal, which comes to mean cause somebody to sin. Jesus is saying you all are gonna fall into sin tonight You're going to sinfully scatter from me. It's also used in Mark 6 as the reaction of the people in his hometown to him. They took offense at him. Meaning, rather than believing and receiving him as God's Christ, and delighting in him as the provision of God's grace and their Messiah, in their pride and prejudice, they spurned him and rejected him And so we're going to find out also, Jesus is saying to his disciples, there's something still in your heart too. That's going to lead you to take offense at me. Now the ESV is using a manuscript that doesn't represent those words. Other ones say you're going to fall away because of me And I think that is better represented by the text because then Jesus quotes Zechariah 13, 7 and makes that very point. God's going to strike the shepherd He's saying, What you're about to see happen to me, that is what's going to cause you to fall away. And now Jesus gives an interpretation, if you remember reading there in Zechariah, right, Awake, O sword, awake, and this is the word of the Lord, and Jesus But who's the shepherd? Shepherd's the king. Um Micah 5 in Matthew's Gospel chapter 2, Jesus writes when the wise men came and said, Where is the King of the Jews to be born? Or he said, We're looking for the King of the Jews, and Herod said Called all the doctors and learned men in Israel, where's the Christ to be born? They said he's to be born in Bethlehem. Because O Bethlehem You're not the least among the rulers of Judah, because a leader will come from you who will shepherd my people. Zechariah is a wonderful passage. It talks about the shepherd being God's fellow. And in John chapter 10, Jesus tells us he's the good shepherd who lays down his sheep. He says that the Father, nobody can take them out of the Father's hand, or nobody can take them out of my hand, because nobody can take them out of the Father's hand, and my hand, or I and the Father are one So we get an idea of what Jesus means here, Zechariah being fulfilled. My Father is going to strike me down, right in judgment for our sins, and because what you're about to see happen to me is going to cause you to scatter. So Jesus gives them this word, you will all fall away. He's not speculating, you might think, is he just testing their mettle? Just seeing if, you know, wants to find out if they're really for him, but that's not what the Lord Jesus is doing here. He's not speculating about this. He says, For it's written, meaning turn back to Zechariah I'm not telling you this to test you. I'm telling you this because God's decreed it. I'm telling you you will all fall away into sin because God said so. And we'll talk about that in the application this morning. Can God really decree sin for our good? Praise God, he can. And we'll look at that in our application when we get to that. But Jesus is not speculating here. He's saying the word of God has said as much. And I'm telling you ahead of time. We'll talk about why he's telling you ahead of time. I'm going to leave you in anticipation so you're gripped and I have your mind. So Jesus says you're all going to fall away. Why? Because it's written here, I will strike the shepherd. The sheep will be scattered. Of course, a natural image. I've never been a shepherd, but sheep wonder. Sheep go. Sheep are led away by their desires. There's not a shepherd there to keep them together to defend them from wolves and other things. They are going to go into misery and scatter. But Jesus is saying it's not that you're just going to Scatter from me and it's going to be an innocent scattering because he's saying that's why he says you'll fall away. You're going to fall into sin. So I call this a sinful scattering. Jesus is saying you are going to sinfully scatter from me tonight because of what you see taking place in me. That's what Jesus is communicating to the disciples there. But now this word that begins verse 28, but not all buts are created equal. This is an important word that it's one of those This is one of those things like exegesis is so fun in diving down because you would think hardly could a connective word or a disjunctive word pack so much meaning into it. But this word, uh Allah in the Greek, when it's used at the head of an independent clause, which this is, he starts a new sentence, it means something like this. Consider what I just said as a settled matter, but we're going to go on to something new. So he's saying, consider this thing as settled. You will sinfully scatter tonight because God said so. But, he says, there's something else I want to focus your attention on and for you to consider, and that's this new thing. After I'm raised up, I will go before you Galilee. Now we'll talk about that in the application today, the joyful good news of what Jesus is doing. But again, I'm going to keep you in anticipation. But you understand Jesus is saying, guys, I want this to sink into you. You will sinfully scatter tonight. God has said it. Consider that settled. But I tell you that will not be the final state of things, your sinful scattering. I will be back again at your head, leading you into Galilee. That's the word he has given to these men as they have come to um the Mount of Olives. Well Peter takes exception with Jesus' words. He says, even though they all fall away, I will not. So he doesn't call into doubt that some may fall away, he just calls into doubt that it's going to be me. Peter wants Jesus to change the word all to all but me. It would be a true statement, Jesus, if you had said, All of you but Peter will fall away tonight. That's what Peter is objecting to and saying back to the Lord Jesus. Even if all of them, yeah, they might, but not me. For we go on in verse thirty to Jesus' reply. This is why I said it's so fun to see the Lord Jesus, our God, the infinite, the eternal, holy one. And flashes our loving shepherd. You might think he'd say something like, Peter, you don't even begin to understand your weakness and just jump down his throat and make him feel about that big. But he doesn't. He just makes it explicit to him. He's already revealed from God's word, you're all going to fall away. Peter objects to that, and Jesus patiently reveals to him that uh he knows the full extent of the sin that he's going to fall into. I tell you this very night, before the rooster crows twice, you'll deny me three times. Not once. You'll be given one opportunity to do the right thing and follow me, and you'll deny it, and you won't take it. You'll be given a second opportunity to do the right thing, confess me as Christ before men and follow me to the cross, and you won't do it. You'll be given a third opportunity to do the right thing. To confess me as Christ before men, deny yourself, and follow me to the cross, and you won't do it Peter doesn't cow, he doesn't give up. He uh I like other translations, but he said even more vehemently, emphatically swine, but the idea is Peter just comes back even stronger Uh and and the tense of the verb said there's the idea that he continued to say, and I may maybe you've seen a person who's had a little bit of a drink in him, gets a little intoxicated, and just Repeats over and over, I'll never leave you. I've seen this with Marines, right? Who get all emotional when they get together, how much they love their fellow Marines and will have their back. I'll never leave you, man. I'm wishy to you You get the sense Peter saying over and over to Jesus, if I have to die with you, I'll not deny it. But it's not just Peter who says it, right? We're told that they all of them said the same thing. They all said to Jesus, no way. Interesting passage, right? Jesus says you're all going to fall away, and they all said to him, No, we won't. But the purpose isn't for Jesus to establish who's right So what is the Lord Jesus uh doing here? Well he's really giving them the greatest consolation they can have. Um That he knows their weakness, he's fully aware of their sin, and that in no way stops them from loving them and dying from them and bringing about what he really wants for them the new creation when they'll be walking in tow with him as humbled men. But we'll we'll look at that in more detail. So let me kind of sum it up for you here in this text Jesus reveals to his friends, right, their imminent, he is his friend. They are his friends. He reveals to them their imminent fall into sin because of him. When they see him oppressed, they see him taken in the hands of the authorities, when they see big, strong men in armor and Jesus in them and not reacting, they see him marshaled before the courts They see him looking weak and powerless and leave the shame. It's too much for them. When they see what he will undergo and what is happening to him, he himself as the Christ. The crucified Christ will become a stumbling block to even his own friends. And he knows it. And he doesn't love them the less for it. That's what he is saying to them. He's aware of their fall. He reveals this explicitly to Peter, but he assures them that shall not be the final state of things. your sinful scattering, but you will be re-gathered back by me after I'm raised from the dead, and I'll walk again at your head. Now I want to look at here an application. I've got about five things. First I want to ask the question, right, what should they have done? I already alluded to this, but what What should they have done? We know what they do. They all go on and deny him. But what should they have done? Jesus had months ago preached publicly what they should have done When he says in Mark 834, calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, if anyone would come after me, Let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. So he'd already said, here's what you should do. Don't deny me, deny yourselves. Take up your cross and follow me. Well, Peter denies Jesus, and Peter should have denied himself, and followed the Lord Jesus in the faith that he was the Messiah. Well, his faith was shaken And uh Jesus in Luke's gospel kind of exposes what's going on here when he says, Peter, Peter, Satan wants to sift you like wheat. I mean he wants to beat you around and shake you up. Mike kindly grounds and mills wheat for me and gives it to me so I can have whole wheat bread and he's giving me a little shifter. You gotta bang that thing So you can get the the the wheat and what you actually want. And Peter's saying, that's what Satan wants to do to you. But I've prayed for you. Your faith won't entirely give out. And when you turn, strengthen. But Jesus peeled back what's going on here Satan is going to use this opportunity when you see me and and and God striking me down to tear to shreds your faith that I am truly the Christ. I am truly the one sent by God. This truly is his will. And your hope is sound and good. And that gets shaken away. So what they should have done is denied themselves, taken up the cross, and followed Jesus. But what about what should they have said? I've been kind of musing on that this week. You know, Jesus revealing to them, and I say revealing because he's saying It's written, right? Go to Zechariah 13, 7. Read there that God will strike the shepherd, the sheep will be scattered, so I'm revealing to you that you will sinfully scatter from me. You will fall into sin. And I've been asking myself all week, how should a person respond to this? When someone, you know, Jesus or if Suppose a prophet was raised up amongst us and came and told one of us this week, you're going to deny Jesus, your faith, the profession you make when you take the Lord's Supper is you're going to turn from that this week. What what do you what do you say to that? Because if you sort of say, all right, well, okay, fine, it kind of wonders, are you really earnest in your profession of age? Are you really serious? And really trust, you know, and profess Jesus and are earnest about your following him? You know what's going on here? Well, before we answer what they should have said or what I think likely, I think it's hard to know exactly what to what to say there But let's look at why do they say what they say, though? Why do they all say no way will never leave you? Really, they say it from a position of ignorance. We read later in the account of the garden, verse 47. But one of those who stood by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. They seem to think that what's before them is twelve crosses Of twelve martyrs who's going to go down in a blaze of glory and bringing in the kingdom of God with swords. It has not sunk into them. That God's Christ will be crucified. It's not sunk into me, might say the significance of the Passover meal they just took when Jesus was replacing the Passover lamb with the true one, his body and blood. But that he will be giving himself to them. He will not be dying necessarily a martyr's death with twelve of his friends in a blaze of glory And so when they see this not happening and swords aren't being brought out and they aren't fighting, but Jesus meekly going into their hands, they run. And they give out. And they don't understand. Mark's already told us when Jesus preached the resurrection from the dead, they had no idea what he was talking about. So really they say what they say because they're ignorant and unbelieving still. Now that's not to say they're not sincere in their love for Jesus. Jesus will acknowledge Peter's love and he gives them the chance three times to tell them, I love you. It's not to call into doubt that sincerity that they have in the life of them. It's just to say you're not yet there. And your response really comes out of a couple things, your unbelief, but also You aren't aware of the weakness of your flesh, and you aren't aware of the strength of the tempter. See what's happening is you know kind of um Which is common, you have a very strong leader. And when he's present, he can keep a movement going and he can bring out courage and zeal from people. But when he's gone, it sort of flaggers Here's Jesus going to be receding from them. Now they're a bit standing on their own and you see how wobbly they are. Have you ever uh try to learn a new skill. I can think of you know learning languages and you can lose a lot of helps for languages, reader Bibles and things, and you can think, I know this far better than I do And you take all those helps away and you just look at the text yourself and you're like, yeah, I'm not as far along as I think I am. You know, Jesus is removed here, and they're not as far along as they think they are. Because They're still trusting in their sinful flesh. Well, I think a good place to start for how one may uh respond then to such a statement. is uh in Jeremiah chapter 10, when Jeremiah prays. And he prays on behalf of the people after God has foretold the judgments that are going to come upon the people. And he says these words This is verse 23 in chapter 10 of Jeremiah. I know, O Lord, that the way of man is not in himself, that it is not in man who walks to direct his steps. So I think a position of acknowledging the sovereignty of God and that God ordains our steps. and directs them. And so a position of humility, acknowledging if this be the word of God, then I know it, as much as I may say, never will I do it, acknowledge if this is God's word, then I will do it. You might think that's strange. God is decreeing, God has said that they're going to sinfully scatter tonight. Is he the author of sin? And the answer is emphatically no. Listen to the next words that Jeremiah goes on and says in verse 24. Correct me, O Lord, but injustice. Not in your anger, thus you bring me to nothing. God corrects a person in anger, that's his anger, that's his wrath, which brings to nothing, it's meaning he's intends destruction, Jeremiah is saying. Don't bring that correction. If you say, Oh Lord, I shall sinfully scatter, and it is not in man to direct his steps, then correct me and be merciful in justice, which means According to what is right in which you have declared there shall be a remnant. So the correction is the correction that recovers and reclaims and converts sinners and brings them back. They're going to sinfully scatter from Jesus. But O Lord, let that not be the final thing, but correct me in justice. So God has declared they're going to fall into sin, and the thing to say is not to say, You're wrong, God, I'm right on the strength of my word, because at that point it's Your word against God's word. And I don't want to go there, so what what should you do? Fall on your face and say, Correct me, but injustice. If this must be, then it must be for a good thing, but be merciful to me And bring me back. I also think another way to pray is in the Lord's Prayer. I love the Lord's Prayer because this is a humble prayer. And a humble prayer is a prayer that's true with reality. See, the Pharisees prayed really proudly. And Jesus says, here's how you need to pray. Nothing's going to happen unless God decides to hallow his name. You people are so sinful And and marring his name, that you really deserve his judgment. So the only thing that he can do is hallow it by showing how great and gracious he is and acting on your behalf for good. Then you should pray that his kingdom has come because it's never going to come unless he does it. You can't affect it and bring it. Then you need to pray that his will would be brought to pass. As it is in heaven on earth, because you won't do it. And it can't happen. You see how Jesus is putting it all where? And then he'll go on to say, Give me daily bread, forgive me for those wonderful words Lead me not into temptation. That should be the daily prayer of every saint. Lead me not into temptation. But Deliver me from some translations evil, some the evil one, the tempter, acknowledging, never, ever, ever will I have the strength to stand on my own. That's not the point. We'll talk about that more in a moment and what God's doing here. That's not the point for you to stand on your own. The point's for you to rely on Jesus Christ. Because it's wonderful. Because he's so great. Because that's life. But let us pray always, lead us not into temptation. Alright then well what what does this passage mean? Why why is it recorded for us? What's here, what's it telling us? Obviously it's transitioning us from the events of Passover to the Mount of Olives, it's setting us up, what's going to follow, they are going to fall into these things and the Lord knew it. What did this communicate to these men? And I think the chief point of this word by Jesus to them is consolation. And for their comfort, that they would not fall into despair. Because it is a great sin to deny your master, and to do it as emphatically as Peter did it. cursing and abjuring in the strongest terms that he does not know Jesus at all. That's called um bearing false witness in uh an egregious way because now you're also swearing an oath. That's great sin huge sin that Peter's falling into because what he's seeing happen to his master is too much for him. And as we say every week It is the grace of God that we feel the weight of our sins. And when He comes and puts them on and you feel them, you cry out, they are too burdensome. I can't even bear the lightest one. That's how grievous they are to the soul of God's people. So Jesus is really sustaining them and giving them consolation in these words because it is at him they take offense. It is that him, he submitting to his father's will, it is that he, what he's doing on their behalf, and not understanding it. And not listening to God's word, although he has told them time and time again. Peter was one of the ones who was blessed on the Mount of Transfiguration to hear the very voice of God in the cloud of glory and to see Jesus transfigured before him Listen to my son and still not listening. When all that comes on them and they realize after three years how much they weren't listening, You're gonna feel that, as every saint here knows. You feel your sins. They don't just disappear. God has good purposes in them. sanctifying purposes in them, but they're a reality that has to be dealt with in a real way that acknowledges them there. And Jesus is giving them a word of comfort. Here's what I meant by saying the importance of this word but in this passage. Jesus is also letting them know he's looking ahead. This is a necessary thing. Unless I die and go to the cross, I will not rise. As the life-giving Spirit in whom the fullness of the riches of the treasures of God's grace is, to be your riches, that you might be a humble people in tow with me doing God's will. But that's what he's looking forward to. He's not dwelling on the cross. It's necessary. He will go through it. But what he's looking forward to is there a recovery out of that. They're being humbled out of that. They're being gathered to him and seeing him, knowing him as he truly is, the Son of God. in power with the fullness of salvation for them to make much of in their new life and service in God's kingdom This is still a word to Jesus' church today. He writes it in the book of Revelation in chapter 3. The church in Laodicea is not cold, they're not hot, they're lukewarm. Also, they say that they're rich, they've prospered, they don't need anything. And Jesus says, you don't realize you're wretched, you're pitable, you're poor, you're blind, you're naked. And what does Jesus say? I counsel you to buy from me gold. You're poor, I have true gold. Make you rich. You're naked, I have white garments that you may clothe yourself. You're blind and can't see, I have salved to anoint your eyes that you may see. Right? Jesus is getting across even to his own church. There can be people in the church of Christ Who think that they are spiritually good, upright, strong, and they don't have a thing. They're blind They're naked, they're poor, and they think they're the exact opposite. And how does Jesus say he's going to deal with this? Those whom I love, I reprove in discipline. So be zealous and repent. If that's you, guess what's coming? Reproof? And discipline out of love. Because this is one of the things I marvel with our God. I remember telling at a Bible study to teenagers You come to church, you hear often how sinful man is, you might think that's the only message the Bible has. Obviously it's not the only message. But I was letting him know if God never talks to us about sin and just left us in sin, how miserable would we be? You might get the picture that God's got to debase us all so much to make himself big. That's not the point. God doesn't have to do anything to make himself big, He's the exalted Holy One. You need to be humbled so you can see things as they really are. You really are just blind, poor, and naked outside of Christ. That's just the state of human beings fallen in Adam. But Jesus lovingly counsels you, that doesn't have to be. That doesn't have to be the case. You don't have to remain in that place. I have an abundance of riches that I will gladly give to you. I have the greatest garments you could ever wear, and I will freely clothe you with. I have the sound that will make you see perfectly. Come and take it. That's what Jesus is looking forward to those days. These are blind men, naked men, people men that aren't rich, that they are spiritually impoverished Who think they're quite the opposite. If I must die, I will never deny you. Man, what a proud statement. And Lord saying, no. But I'm looking forward to those days. But what can we learn from this? That God is provident over his children's falls into sin. Did you know as Reformed Presbyterians in this church that holds the Westminster Confession of Faith? We profess that in chapter 5 and Providence, Article 5. I will read it for you because it is so encouraging. Article 5 of Providence, the most wise, righteous, and gracious God Does often times leave for a season his own children to manifold temptations, and the corruption of their own hearts To chastise them for their former sins, or to discover unto them the hidden strength of corruption and deceitfulness of their hearts? That they may be humbled, and to raise them to a more close and constant dependence for their support upon himself, and to make them more watchful against all future occasions of sin And for sundry other just and holy in. Now I know that. That's what this passage is teaching because the Westminster Divines Use this example of Peter's fall and restoration and these words to craft that statement because God's decreed it, it's written, you're going to sinfully scatter So God's decreed their sin, not because he's the author of it making them sin, but for his own just holy ends to humble them, chastise them, bring them to a closer walk and dependence upon him and many other ends are not going to exhaust that. God might do it for other reasons. For the wonderful joy that God is provident over his children's falls into sin Therefore, God has good purposes for letting us fall into sin. Now that sounds crazy, doesn't it? It almost sounds a bit frightful to say that, because I might get the ideal to encourage you in your sin, but don't hear that from me. I encourage nobody in their sin. I'm just stating a biblical truth. It is written. God is provident over his children's falls into sin. He lets them fall into the sin for his good purpose. I think one of the chief ones Is to extol this grace and remind us this is a gospel of grace. God is not dealing with you on the merits of your sins. He's dealing with you because he freely loves you. He's chosen you from the foundation of the world. He set his love on you How more clearly can you show God's grace except when you see the Son of Man crucified and his closest ones deny him sinfully and turn away? Now why should God give his son to anybody then when they don't want him? Because we deceive ourselves if we say in our sinful, fleshly, edamic hearts, we want him. Oh, you do? Then follow him and die on the cross. Deny yourself. But they didn't. They didn't want him. Grace. Grace When Jesus gives a practical exposition when he says, but I will rise again and come ahead, he's telling us that's what God means in Zechariah 13:7, I will turn my hand again upon the little ones. God was bringing about the judgment of refinement upon Israel. Much of Israel scattered. You see a third. I don't necessarily mean that's numerical, but a remnant These little ones he has brought back and refined. It is grace for him again to bring his hand upon them and to lead them and shepherd them. If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, hear and confess him in faith, that's because Zechariah 13:7 has been fulfilled in your life All we, like sheep, have gone astray, Peter says. But by his wounds you've been healed. You've returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. God has brought his hand again over upon you in his grace. To be your shepherd. This also teaches us what's a good reason to rely on Jesus. This is why I've been feeding all week. It is good for us to see our weakness. It is good for us to learn humility. Why? To rely on Jesus. Jesus is saying, right, the shepherd's going to be taken away, and the sheep will scatter, and they're saying, it really doesn't matter if the shepherd goes away, the sheep can stand on their own. Is that true in your life? Can you get on in the Christian life without Jesus? Can you get on without daily prayer and relying and trusting on him or going downstairs and even having breakfast, going into the workplace Going to see a friend, have difficult conversations? Can you do anything in the Christian life without Jesus? And that's the point. The answer is no. But Jesus once said to get through us because he wants to be the fullness of your life. He doesn't hold it over you. He wants you to see everything you dear sheep need. I have an abundance and ready and willing to give to you. I'm the good shepherd. Rely on me. Trust in me. Take out of the fullness of my riches for your life. It's a good thing that God humbles on. It's okay to be weak. This makes us also to be, when we're humbled like this and see our weakness, to be more patient and sympathetic towards the weakness in our brothers and sisters. We're all going to say we'll be there and do something. Come through and we won't. We're going to fail each other. We're going to disappoint one another. And that can lead to bitterness. If you think and aren't aware of the real weakness in all of us, and don't also understand your own weakness. And won't have sympathy and patience towards believers. Dr. Sinkler Ferguson referred to these disciples It's a very humble picture of the church as the fellowship of failures. Now that's hardly acceptable language in any other circle. We definitely don't want the failure of fellowship of failures in our civil government, do we? Writing. Hard they want that in our schools. Frithing. Hard they want it anywhere, right? Well what's the good news here about it? Again, beloved, what humility is, is not falsely denying your gifts. If you're a good businessman and now Proverbs says, let others praise you. If you're a good parent and others praise you for your parenting, acknowledge you're a good parent. You're doing something right by God's grace. Humility isn't saying, oh no, I'm the worst when you're not the worst. A humility is just being in tune with reality That's where the word humility comes from, the Latin word humus, which means ground. Should remember from the dust. Be a little bit lower to the ground is what it's saying. Realize our weakness, because that's truly who we are. God never made us to be independent, ever Ever. Ever was that to be the relationship, even in Adam. We are meant to be needy and dependent upon him. He's our fullness. That's the reality. And Jesus will work to get that into your hearts, and I pray sooner. He's in getting it into my heart. There is immense peace. It seems frightening. You would think it'd be frightening if you if your pastor was believe me, I'm far weaker than I even think I'm weak. Does that scare you? You might think, and it's probably what these men thought, weak apostles is a bad thing for the church. Paul says he's going to boast in it. Because Paul doesn't want people trusting in Paul. Paul doesn't want Christians trusting in themselves. Paul wants Christians trusting in Jesus whom he trusts in. I don't want you trusting in me. I'm going to fail you I wish I would have said that at the beginning of my time here as um Pastor Ed told me the pastor he worked with told them when he checked in on duty. I'm gonna tell you guys. It's gonna happen. I'm gonna disappoint you. I probably have already disappointed some of you. And it's probably because I've been too proud. I've acknowledged my own weakness and need for Jesus Christ every day. This is a very encouraging I this is a wonderful world because there's really no other place. I think this gets at the very heart in life because oftentimes the world can be dog eat dog and that is very hard to live in. That's not the attitude of the church. Fellowship of the failure. That time is going to be very frustrating towards us. But that's just the reality. And we're going to learn all together to trust in Jesus Christ. And that's going to bring wonderful delight to us all. I will close and speak to some of our children here this morning, because I think this is a very important word for children to learn. I think, and I now have young children, I remember being a child. It's hard constantly to make mistakes, and children, you you make a lot of mistakes. You do a lot of things wrong. It just it is. Uh maybe somebody might be familiar with Samuel Rutherford, uh 16th century, 17th century Scottish reformer. He's got a collection of his letters the banner puts out. I highly recommend it to you I don't know anybody who has loved Jesus more and extolled him. He is wonderful. I was reading yesterday in his letters and I thought this is very applicable. He's talking about how difficult it is And much trouble it causes parents to raise kind of a even a foolish child, how often they stumble, fall down, make a mess of things. And he's saying Well that's like it is for the Lord Jesus in raising us. Have you ever spilt your milk, children? Or have you ever tangled up your toy and got in a mess again and you gotta go to mom and dad and have them unravel it for you or clean up your mess after you 'cause you made another mess? Samuel Rutherford talks about having spilled salvations and raveled heavens, right? Salvation being there, working out our salvation like we read. That is, working out our obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ. We're going to make a mess of that in this life. But learn now, children, to come to Christ, and he will write that for you. Learn now at a young age It's okay to be weak and to trust in Jesus Christ. I'm concerned for that world for children. Because the world's going to tell you, be strong and never say anything about your weakness, because you're just exposing yourself and that's that But and and so to help children with that, parents, I highly encourage you to model weakness to your children. When you do discipline them and have to correct them, which you must do, God commands it, it's for their good, it's important. Also say, mommy and daddy needs Jesus too. And everybody's son needs Jesus and it demonstrate that you also still need help because they look at you like you're the world to them. And they want to please you and live up to you. And that I think is the hard part about children is You just don't a lot of times. And it can be very defeating and beating down, and there can be that might, that might Twist and warp in the attitude what it means to be Christians. Are we perfect people that never mess up and can do everything? And the answer is no We're weak people that trust in Jesus, and by his grace, we do get better and do do things, but not this side of heaven will we ever do it perfectly. So let me just leave with this. Know yourself, beloved. If someone were to say to you, you're going to fall into sin later, and you say, Never ever would I be capable of ever doing that sin I challenge you to learn and to know the real weakness of your heart, because if God withdrew himself, Christ stepped back and let the tempter take over, your flesh has not the strength to stand in temptation. But also, if you're a fallen Christian here and you've fallen into sin, don't despair. Christ says if you return to him, he is looking to better days. That sin you've fallen into has divinely ordained purposes. So you don't excuse it, but you acknowledge that God looks to other days when you'll be more humble on the other side of that sin. It will be more trusting and dependent in him. So if you have fallen into sin, know that your Lord looks to better days and seek those days from Him. May God give you his grace, beloved, to work out your salvation in fear and trembling, and in the confidence that God is at work in you to will and to do for his good pleasure. Amen