In the Gospel of John, John continues to select narratives in support of his basic message. Now this is different than you find in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, which are synoptic, that is, uh timeline driven uh accounts, this, then this, then this, then this. That is synoptic. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and our synoptic gospels. This is a a selective gospel to make a point, to to proclaim a message, to prove something. So this is a uh This is the second one that we have here as John selects these narratives in support of his basic message. What is his basic message? His basic message is to the reader, to the hearer, Jesus is the long-promised Messiah, who is the creator of all things, just like we read in Hebrews. He was made, everything was made through him. He is the creator of all things, and he has been made flesh. He has been made one of us. He's come into the human race, taken on our human nature. And he is light in darkness. You remember from John's first chapter, there was darkness and there was light. The light does not this the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome the light. He is truth in falsehood. He is joy and refreshment in a world of pain and sorrow. Pain and sorrow that came from what? From the first sin of our parents in the garden. And they were told that the ground would now bring forth thistles and thorns and you would only be able to survive by the sweat of your brow and there would be pain and suffering. And so This is Jesus now who has come to bring healing and refreshment and life So he shows here in this account that we're going to examine that Jesus is the one who brings health in the face of death. Health in the face of a threatened death, the death of a child, very poignant thing. You know, when people in their eighties or nineties or hundreds uh die it's uh it's it's we're sad, of course, but it's kind of expected. But a child, a child, that's very poignant Now we go back to the scene before this to get a context. The Samaritans had received him and believed in him, even though he did no miracles there. You remember these Samaritans or this area? these Samaritans are not uh not good Jews and not respected by the Jews. They're they have some Jewish religion, but it's mixed in with all false religions, and they have some Jewish blood, but it's mixed in with some other things. And so uh These Samaritans, but but surprisingly enough, after Jesus encountered this woman beside the well Surprisingly enough, the Samaritans believed. They had Jesus there for two days, they listened to him, and they believed Surprising, very surprising, even though no miracles. Or keep that in mind. No miracles were done. It's not recorded. Any miracles in Samaria, in Sikar But it says here in John 4, 39, many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony first. He told them He told me all that I ever did. That was her testimony. So when the Samaritans came to him and asked him to stay with them, he stayed there two days, and many more believed because of his word He said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves. And we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. So let's just pause and think about this for a moment. Jesus is about to do something wonderful. He's about to heal this child from a distance. Now, certainly, you and I, in our prayers, I get the prayer change still from Grace and Peace, and pray for you all, for various things that are that are stated We certainly appreciate the amazing things that Jesus still does. We ask for safety in travel. We ask for healing in sickness. We ask for help in our troubles. And God is kind and gracious to often answer our prayers in ways that we wanted. And even small things that concern us that are of little consequence in the world, sometimes we pray for those, and God also graciously answers I have to tell you, there have been several times when I have lost my keys and I needed to get somewhere and the time was now. I needed to leave now and I can't find my keys. Where did I leave them? And I pray. And, you know, it's kind of a silly thing to pray for such a small, in non-consequential thing, and yet I thank God when He answers, and I find my keys. So we're thankful for answers to prayer about large things and small things. But having said that Having said that, God wants us to love him for himself Not merely for things that he gives us or helps us with, temporal benefits. He wants us to love him for himself. If you remember the story of Job in the Old Testament, Job was a man blessed with many wonderful temporal blessings. Huge blessings. Family, large family, riches. He had so many riches. He had honor amongst all of his friends and neighbors But Job was more devoted to God than to his possessions and his relations in the world. And so when he lost them all, what did he do? What did he do? Verse 20 of Job there that I'm reading this chapter, then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head and fell on the ground and worshipped. He worshiped. And he said, Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And in all this, Job did not sin or charge God with wrong. Job 1, verses 20 through 22. That's this kind of attitude that God wants us to have in thanking Him for Himself, for the relationship that we have by the covenant with Himself. Let me ask you this. How do you like it when you discover that you're only wanted or appreciated for the benefits that you supply to someone else? How do you like that? Not a good feeling, is it? Now, that's fine at work because work product is the bottom line. And so when people appreciate your work, you know, that's what's expected. But how do you like that from your spouse? I like you because you do the dishes, or I like you because you help with this or help with that. Now, we want to be appreciated for what we do, but not only for that, right? How do you like that from your child or your parent? They only like you for what you do for them. What have you done for me lately? You know? Older folks, how do you like to think that your heirs are only attentive to you Because they want to inherit from you. Is that a good feeling? Not so much We want to be loved for ourselves, not for what we have or what we do, although those things are good too. The gospel tells us that God wants us. God wants us. God pursued a relationship with us. Christ came for us. He became human, took on our human nature for us because he wanted us. It is his glory to be in union with us, to marry us and be with us forever. Amazing thing, isn't it? We were made to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever, and God wants us to love Him for Himself, not just for the stuff that He gives us when we pray. So that's important why I told you earlier. Jesus did no miracle for the Samaritans There wasn't any payback. You know, if I do some miracles, then you'll believe, and then okay, we have a nice relationship. No, he did no miracles for the Samaritans, and yet they believed in him. They trusted in him Unlike many of the Jews, it says again, I read it again, and many more believed because of his word, they said, to the woman, it is no longer because of what you said that we believe for. We have heard for ourselves, and we know that this isn't is indeed the Savior of the world. Again, these people, these Samaritans that he just left are not good Jews and yet they believe and trust in him Marcus Dodds, a nineteenth century Scottish theologian, makes this comment. He says Although we must all be ceaselessly and infinitely dependent upon the good offices of Christ Our faith should be something more than counting upon his ability and his willingness to discharge these good offices. A faith which is merely selfish, which recognizes that Christ can save from disaster in this life or in the life to come And which cleaves to him solely on that account is scarcely the faith that Christ approves. There is a faith, he says, which responds to the glory of Christ's personality, which rests on what he is, which builds itself on the truth he utters. And recognizes that all spiritual life centers in him. God says this is the faith that God approves. So again, in contrast to the Samaritans, are these Israelites that we're going to look at now in Judea and in Galilee. Verse 43 of the text. After the two days, the two days in Samaria, he departed for Galilee. For Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown. So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the feast For they too had gone to the feast. Now it's difficult to discern here when he says hometown. It's difficult to discern whether he's referring to his hometown as Judea. where he was born but not well received, or to Galilee, where he grew up and was going to not be well received, is not sure which one of these he's referring to. It's probably that he's referring to wherever the Jews are, that's where he's not going to be well received. In contrast to this, again, the Samaritans heard his word and believed he tells that the Galileans will always be looking for a miracle. Especially miracles that provide material benefits. Make us some bread, Jesus, and we'll believe in you. Do another sign, Jesus, and we'll accept you. But this is a notable exception here. We come to in verse 46. He came to Cana in Galilee, that's Jewish territory, where he had made the water wine And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill. This man is a royal official. That's what the Greek words translates. He's probably attached to the Tetrarch Herod Antipas, who was a little king of the region, one of four, under the Roman Emperor. Now this is probably not the same person that we find in Matthew 8, which was a centurion who had a servant who was ill. It's very similar, but probably not the same. That was probably a Gentile, but this guy here is probably a Jew. who's attached to Herod the Tetrarch. This man was probably a Jew, but was probably not a very well-liked Jew by the Jews because of his G. S. his GS government service. He was probably a nine or a ten, you know, I don't know, but uh When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son. For he was at the point of death. This is a desperate condition. The man must have hurriedly hurriedly traveled these probably twenty miles from Capernaum, up on the Sea of Galilee, he pleaded with Jesus to come down and heal his son. If you've ever had a sick child, you can imagine how fearful and frantic he must have felt. Now we've had uh eight children. None of them was ever seriously ill, but I do remember one incident uh when our daughter Hannah was a little baby, just born a few days, and she got a fever. And uh it was a mysterious thing. She had this fever. So we had her checked out and she was taken, put into Christiana Hospital. in Newark, Delaware, and um this little little tiny girl had a an intravenous in her skull. I I don't know why that, but I guess that was a good place to to get a vein. intravenous in her skull and there she was kept in that hospital getting this intravenous treatment for this fever and my dear wife spent the night there And I remember her weeping over our little girl that was being treated for this. It wasn't terribly serious and it was gone before long. But you can imagine how frantic this man felt when you don't have an intravenous, you don't have antibiotics, you don't have any hope, you don't know what's going to happen next. This child is near death Frantic because of it. What does Jesus say to him when he comes and asks for help? What does he say to him? Doesn't sound very nice. Verse 48, Jesus said to him, Unless you people, probably Jews, right? Unless you people see signs and wonders, you will not believe. Generally speaking, that was the case. Unless these Galileans and other Jews could see these signs, show me another sign, do another miracle for me, make me some bread Unless you get something for it, you will not believe. And Jesus here is challenging this man who comes so desperate. He challenges him to the kind of faith that go goes beyond immediate material benefits. In effect, he's saying Hey, Mr. Royal Official, do you believe that I am the Messiah? Do you believe that? The official said to him, verse 49, Sir, come down before my child dies. And Jesus said to him, Go. Your son will live. And this is the most wonderful statement. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. No signs, no wonders right there. Nothing he could grab onto and say, now I know for sure. Except the word of Jesus. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way. That's the kind of faith that goes where God's word goes, where God's Spirit goes with God's word, as we heard in Isaiah 55. my word goes forth and it creates faith wherever I intend it. It succeeds in the thing for which I sent it. That's that's the kind of word that we have here Would you believe him if it were you? Would you? Now there had been reports From those who had been in Jerusalem and seen some signs. There were reports about the wine at the wedding in Cana, which was a fantastic sign of the Messiah. But it's still possible to doubt anything and everything that you personally have not seen or tested in a scientific laboratory. It's possible to doubt. So what happens? Verse 51. As he was going down, that the the uh nobleman is going back to Curnium, as he's going down, his servant met him. And told him that his son was recovering. Good word. So he asked him the hour when he began to get better. And they said to him, yesterday at the seventh hour, the fever left him. And the Father knew that that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, your son will live. Then this added statement. And he himself believed and all his household. He had believed before, but now he believes more in all his household. This was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee. The man believed somewhat before he left Jesus there. He believed more after his servants reached him on the way home. And I'm sure he believed even more when he got home and found his boy completely well. There should be a Messiah in this broken, fallen world in which we live. There should be some hope. of a Savior, of a King, of a reigning Lord, a Messiah. There must be a Messiah. This can't be all there is, my friends Our hearts cry out to God for a life beyond the grave, for a love that will never fail. We are thinking and reasoning creatures made in God's image. And we believe there must be a Messiah. There has to be. Something more. We are not mere biochemical machines existing accidentally. There really has to be love and hope and joy. And a satisfying relationship that will not end in death. The existence of the Messiah is not just wishful thinking, but it is the missing key To all meaning and hope in life. Revelation chapter three, verse seven God gave this vision to his apostle John, reminding the beleaguered early church The martyred, persecuted early church, the exiled John, here's what he said to them. the words of the Holy One, the true one, who has the key of David, that's Messiah, who opens and no one will shut, and who shuts and no one will open. Those who miss this key will wander on without a map to an unknown destination. You see this slogan around sometimes, all who wonder are not lost. Yeah, they are. Yes, they are. John here is tapping into the readers, you and me and the hearers now, tapping into our hearts and our minds to show this Messiah to you and me. So that we stop trusting in vain things that cannot succeed, that cannot deliver, that will fail us Vain things, described in various places. Here's Psalm 4, verse 2. O men, how long shall you o how my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? Vain things. Our Psalm 60, verse 11, O grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man. Yes, vain is the salvation of man. We've we've all heard the news since last night of our military's prowess and strength in destroying uh those nuclear sites. And I'm glad we succeeded, frankly. But ultimately, even that is vain in dislike. In contrast to the vanity of human pursuits, we see this again the words that were read earlier, come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. He who has no money, come buy and eat without money. How can you buy and eat without money? Come buy wine and milk. Those are pricey things. Without money and without price. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread and your labor for that which is not satisfying? Listen diligent me diligently to me and eat what is good and delight yourselves in rich food. Don't buy vain stuff. Just signs and wonders and miracles. Incline your ear and come to me, hear that your soul may live. And I, this is Messiah again, and I will make with you an everlasting covenant, my steadfast, sure love for David, Messiah. Behold, I have made him a witness to the people, a leader and a commander of the peoples And here's what's going to happen when Messiah comes. Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know, and a nation that did not know you shall run to you. You and I are all Gentiles, aren't we? We have come by God's grace, drawn in by God's grace, by this fulfillment of prophecy. The royal official had come to a point of crisis. His son was near death. Everybody knew that this was true. But he had heard the good news that the God of Israel, the God of David, was working great things through Jesus. So he traveled quickly to Cana. That took some faith. He asked Jesus to come and heal his son. That took some faith. He believed Jesus when Jesus told him that the boy was already recovering. That took some faith. The Holy Spirit, through John's gospel, now is in is calling you and me to that kind of faith, to believe in Him. And to pass it on, to pass it on. To tell the children What shall we tell the children as we teach them? I'm glad this congregation now has a lot of little children. You have to man the nursery every Sunday, right? There's a hymn that was written by Catherine Hankey at the beginning of the 20th century. She wrote this for Sunday school teachers to get their minds thinking about what to teach the children. And here's the hymn. She says, here's what you should tell the children. And she has it cast in the the voice of a child. The child is telling the teacher what they want to hear, what they need to hear. Listen to these words. Tell me the old, old story of unseen things above, of Jesus and his glory, of Jesus and his love. Tell me the story simply as to a little child, for I am weak and weary and helpless and defiled. Tell me the story slowly that I may take it in. That wonderful redemption, God's remedy for sin. Tell me the story often, for I forget so soon. Tell me the story softly, with earnest tones and grave Remember, I'm a sinner that Jesus came to save. Tell me the story always, if you would really be in any time of trouble, a comforter to me. In this final stanza, tell me the same old story when you have cause to fear that this world's empty glory is costing me too dear. And when the Lord's bright glory is dawning on my soul, tell me this old, old story. Christ Jesus makes thee whole. That's the story we need to tell ourselves. The word tells us, and we tell everyone else. We tell our children these things. Today, in this little narrative, God is calling you to believe this old story sight unseen. Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of Mary, is God. Come in our human nature He is alive. He rose from the dead, and he is acting powerfully in all who come to him by faith. He comes to fill your emptiness. He comes to make life abundant and everlasting. He comes to make you whole.