We will read Psalm 80, the entire Psalm. Psalm 80. To the choir master, according to Lilies, a testimony of Asaph, a psalm. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock, you who are enthroned upon the cherubim, shine forth before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, sit up, you might, and come to save us. Restore us, O God. Let your face shine that we may be saved. O Lord God of hosts, how long will you be angry with your people's prayers? You have fed them with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in full measure. You make us an object of contention for our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves. Restore us, O God of hosts. Let your face shine that we may be saved. You brought a vine out of Egypt. You drove out the nations and planted it. You cleared the ground for it. It took deep root and filled the land. The mountains were covered with its shade, the mighty cedars with its branches. It sent out its branches to the sea And it shoots to the river. Why then have you broken down its walls so that all who pass along the way pluck its fruit? The boar from the forest ravages it, and all that move in the field feed on it. Turn again, O God of hosts. Look down from heaven and see, have regard for this vine, the stock that your right hand planted, and for the son whom you made strong for yourself. They have burned it with fire. They have cut it down. May they perish at the rebuke of your face. But let your hand be on man of your right hand, the Son of Man whom you have made strong for yourself. Then we shall not turn back from you. Give us life, and we will call upon your name. Restore us, O Lord God of hosts. Let your face shine that we may be saved. The word of the Lord. Our epistle reading this morning comes from Paul's letter to the Romans in chapter 13. And we'll read verses 8, 9, and 10. So Romans chapter 13, beginning at verse 8, and we'll read to verse 10. Hear the word of the Lord. Owe no one anything except to love each other. For the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet, and any other commandment are summed up in this word You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. Our gospel reading this morning comes from the Gospel as John wrote it in chapter 15, and we'll read beginning at verse 1 through verse 25. So John Chapter 15, beginning at verse 1, hear the word of the Lord. I am the true vine. And my father is the vine dresser. Every branch in me that does not bear fruit he takes away. And every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. Already you are clean, because of the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine Neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine. You are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. For apart from me, you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away like a branch and withers. And the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you abide in my love. Just as I have kept my Father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, as someone laid down his life or his friends You are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends For all that I have heard from my Father, I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you. And appointed you that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. These things I command you, so that you will love one another. If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world. Therefore, the world hates you Remember the word that I said to you. A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But all these things they will do to you on account of my name, because they do not know him who sent me. If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have been guilty of sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin. Whoever hates me hates my father also. If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin. And now they have seen and hated both me and my father. But the word that is written in their law must be fulfilled. They hated me without a cause. This is the word of the Lord. The word of the Lord, which I want to speak to you from this morning, is found in John's Gospel in chapter 15, verse 11. And I'll read it again to you. This will be our text for this morning. These things I have spoken to you. That my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. In the context here, Jesus is speaking to his apostles. He's speaking to them in the upper room. He's speaking to them on the night of his departure, and they're sad. These words were given to encourage them. And so I pray and hope this morning that they would encourage you, his saints, his followers. So these words are meant to encourage the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, particularly the followers of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who like Jason are sad and crying. These are sad men, and so I pray in particular if there are any sorrowing saint here this morning And these words would be used to encourage you. This is a topic particularly dear to me, love, and together with it, joy. My own experience of finding love came through months of prayer. After reading God's Word, through one of those read-through the Bible through a year programs that my twin brother challenged me with And I did, and I began to pray, Lord, teach me to love like you love. Because I know I don't love like you love those who I profess to love. And the Lord Jesus Christ answered that prayer by bringing me to himself and his cross and showing me you can't love Until you're loved by me, till you die and are born again, till you become one of God's beloved. Then you love God. That's what we're talking about this morning, what it is to be a member of Christ's church, the joy of being a Christian, being loved by God. And loving God, the life of lovingly serving the loving Lord Jesus And maybe before we even go further this morning, ask ourselves: what is the significance of love, of joy? Well, there are blessings to us from God of his salvation for us in Christ. Heidelberg Catechism asks, how do you know your misery? Answer: the law of God The law says love, but we hate, and all we can do is hate God and hate one another, and that makes a miserable world. As sinners under God's wrath and just judgment, we are born dead in sin, liable to all the miseries of this world, to death itself and the pains of hell forever. Hell is not a joyful place. There will not be a place. You will not be loved in hell. You will not have joy in hell. So the importance of joy, the importance of love These are salvation gifts freely given to us by our God. Sinners who had forfeited that return from God. It shows sin, self. Yes, men have many joys in this life. Unregenerate, wicked people, as we all were, as we walked in those ways, find many joys for ourselves. But they all pass away. Those lasting delights will not continue. Only those in Christ. Only those this morning as we see that have the joy of Jesus, although lasting joys, that's a bit of the significance. Of what Jesus is speaking to his apostles about. This is part of your salvation, to be given again a life of love. A life of joy. It is Reformation Remembrance Sunday. I don't know if any of you knew that. Uh this is a Sunday nearest uh to All Saints Day when Martin Luther nailed up his 95 theses, the church door in Wittenberg Began the Protestant Reformation which we continue today as a Protestant church that we are celebrating and remembering this morning as a church The Reformation on Tuesday we'll have a special Reformation Night for a Catechism Club. You may be asking yourself, what, if anything, does this passage have to do with the Reformation? What does this passage have to do with what God did in the 16th century? Well, look there at verse 1. Jesus says, I'm the true vine. And Jesus is making a redemptively significant historical statement. We read in Psalm 80, that psalm really crying out to God for a reformation, turn us, O God. Make your light shine upon us and save us because we are that vine which you lovingly, mightily, powerfully went into Egypt and brought out planted in Israel, flourished and growth, so we enjoyed the life of the kingdom of God given in that old covenant, given in those types and shadows, and we sinfully wasted it away. You know one of the curses in Deuteronomy 28 of the covenant, verse 47? You are cursed because you did not joyfully continue in all my commandments and ways, as God said. He found no delight in my ways, did not joyfully come to my house and serve me, but made idols and served them. God cares a lot about our joy. God thinks a lot about himself as a source of joy. And if he takes anybody to himself, expects them to be joyful and loving. And serving him. So we saw Israel's that vine with a really crying out and saying, Oh God, you gave all this effort to plant this church in the earth. Don't let it go to waste. Turn to us and heal us. Wow, what a prayer, right? When we sin, we have no right to cry to God and ask for a reformation. Except his name, his mercy, the labor he extended in planting a church in the first place. And here Jesus comes on the scene. And a really a new Reformation, not only because the church had become corrupt in his day, but as Paul says in Hebrews Until the time of Christ and his saving death, we lived in that old age, but now is the time of reformation, a whole new order of things, of living under the new and eternal So Jesus saying I'm the true vine is saying I'm true Israel, I'm the true church, and being connected in me is what it means to be a part of the true Church. So you see it's the Protestant Reformations about where is the true church and who's the true church. This is a significant text as it's telling us Jesus is the true church. And it's those members in Jesus who partake of the true church. Now it was interesting to me when I was studying this passage this week To find not one, but all five Reformation solas right here in this passage. Did you see them when I read them to you? What's the first one? Sola scriptura, right? We don't need tradition. God's word is sufficient. Look what Jesus says in verse 3. You're already clean because of the word. I have spoken, Jab washed you with my word. You've received me and who I am and my teachings Jesus goes on and says down there in verse 7, if you abide in me and my words abide in you. So sola scriptura is a part of being in the true church of Jesus Christ in the Protestant Reformation. Rediscovered that. Christ alone, right? Jesus is saying, me, Christ, I'm the true vine, being in me, what I do alone. I've loved you. I've laid my life on you. I've justified you. I've redeemed you. Life is only found in me in Christ alone. The very center. That's why he's saying: Abide in me. Christ. Or Christ alone is the only way to salvation, the only way to life. So there's a second sola, Christ alone. By faith alone, it's again there in verse 3. Already you're clean because of the word I've spoken to you. They believed Jesus' word. They received Jesus. By faith, they said, You are the Christ, you are the Son of God, you are sent to us, and we trust alone in what you've done to wash us Cleanse us and bring us to yourself. So faith alone, which the Protestant Reformation discovered, Jesus says it's part of being in the true body. Scripture alone, his words, of course, the Old Testament testifies to Jesus, there are his words. We have them record in the noon, the apostles give them to us. Scripture alone. Christ alone, faith alone, grace alone is here. Jesus says to them down there in verse 16, You did not choose me. I chose you. Grace at the beginning, grace in the middle, grace at the end Sola Grazia, right here in this passage. That's what it means to be a part of the true vine Jesus Christ. He chose you. He set his love on you. Finally, the fifth one, glory to God alone. It's right there in verse 8. By this my father is glorified. The Father gets the glory, He planted the vine, Jesus loved you and put you in Him Jesus still loves you. The Father prunes you. You bear fruit. You're happy. You're loving. You're joyful. And you praise God for this great salvation. All right there. I didn't even know I was I was going on a different path when I picked this text and then in studying this week found wow Hardly more a perfect text to preach on when you're remembering the Reformation, remembering the true church and what it is, founded in Jesus Christ, and all five solas right here. I hope you see that they're not made up. They're not non-essentials. Jesus Himself spoke of them. You better only have His word in your heart. You better only trust in Christ for your salvation. You better only receive all that He is through faith and seek nothing to add it on yourself. And you better only seek to be saved by grace Okay. Well let's get to and look at our text then. Remind your passage this morning. Verse 11, these things I've spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. These verses teach us three things. They show us that Jesus has joy. He says, my joy. And they show us what his joy is. It's there in verse 11. These things. So we'll have to unpack these things. For the first thing this passage is teaching us. Is that Jesus has joy. And it shows us what that joy is. Second thing this passage teaches us. Is that Jesus wants his joy to be in you, in his bride, in his church, in his saints, in his redeemed ones, that my joy may be in you. So Jesus has joy Jesus wants his joy in you, secondly and thirdly. Jesus wants your joy as his people to be full. So we're looking at this morning the joy of Jesus, what it is, how it gets in you. And how to be full of it. You got that? What it is, how it gets in you, and how to be full of it. Joy of Jesus. Now, how many of you think of the joy of Jesus? Because I think we often think, right, man of sorrows. Very true. Man of sorrows In Luke's gospel, we read in verse 21: in that same hour Jesus rejoiced in the Holy Spirit. Jesus was a man when he was on earth in service to his father and bringing the kingdom had just sent out the seventy They came back, saw Satan's kingdom destroyed, is what he was sent for. Seeing this work of God being accomplished, he rejoiced. Hebrews 12. I know you're probably already going right to it. I don't need to tell it to you. Hebrews 12. Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross. despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Not only did he rejoice on earth, But his sorrows of enduring the cross and despising the shame were in service of his joy to go back to the Father with the job completed Done. The salvation of your soul accomplished. So he could enter there and sit on his throne in the next phase of his joy. Of bringing you into that salvation, of applying it. Joy is going to be full when he comes back again and puts all of God's enemies under his feet, the last being death Then you'll have eternal life. Then God will be all in all. And that will be a joyful ceremony as he gives the kingdom to his father. And I can't wait to see your faces there. Because you're going to be so joyful when you see it. Because he's going to do it. So Jesus, beloved, was a man of sorrows. Jesus is a joyful man Full of joy. And this wasn't a new thing to him. Even in Proverbs. How many of you know that Proverbs chapter 8 was written about Jesus when it's talking about eternal wisdom. And we read in chapter 8 And I, Jesus is talking here, was daily his delight, God's delight, rejoicing before him always, rejoicing in his inhabited world, and delighting in the children of Men. Jesus has delight in the children because he made them. God made through his hand Jesus by his word the Spirit. Jesus has not become a man of joy, he's been a man of joy, living before his father, doing his work And that's what he's talking about here. So what is then the joy of Jesus? That's the first thing, right? Jesus is joy. What is it? But Jesus says it's found in these things. I've spoken these things to you, that my joy may be in you. What things has he been talking about? He's been talking about verses nine and ten, when he has been talking to his disciples. about the origin uh and or talking to the disciples about his own relationship with his father as the origin and the pattern of his relationship with you, his disciples. We read there right in verse 9, as the fathers love me. So he talks about The Father loving Jesus. He says, go on, so I've loved you. That's both the origin of his love for them, the Father's love for him. He now loves like the Father because he's been loved in that way, and it sets the pattern of his relationship with his church. And he goes on to say, I want you to abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you'll abide in my love, just as I've kept my father's commandments. And abide in his love. So what is the joy of Jesus? It is simply this, beloved, that he is the Father's beloved The joy of Jesus is that he is the Father's beloved. So if I can illustrate that for you. I don't know if we see it as much today, but maybe some of you have experienced and maybe in different cultures. It used to be more common, right? Fathers would raise their children in their trade. It would lovingly teach them their work. So they might learn their work, see what their father does, learn from him. be honored by him, be taught by him, be raised to this important, valuable work, and then perform it, and see their father take delight in seeing it the work of his hands reproduced in their lives, and see the fruit brought out of it. And that's what Jesus is talking about. We read earlier in the Gospel in chapter 3, verse 35: the Father loves the Son. What does he go on to mean by that? He has given all things into his hand. By the Father has everything into his hand. And he loves his son and he invites his son. Share in everything that I have, because you're my son. Read in chapter 5, verse 20. For the Father loves the Son and shows him all that He Himself is doing. That's Jesus' joy to be loved by the Father, sent into this world, and do the Father's works. Being trusted with this authority, being given this work on earth to do. And you see this in the lives of your children. I still remember, and I don't remember which child now, I was eating a bag of potato chips and I went like this, because you know you all do this after you eat potatoes. And the little child looks up at me and goes, I go, that's it. That's what Jesus is talking about when he says, I only do what my father does So intimate is that union between the Father and the Son, that Jesus does everything the Father does. That's his joy. Father's loved him. He abides in that love. He shows that love by doing everything the Father has given him to do because it's important, valuable work. So Jesus' joy is that he is the Father's beloved. And that's not just a mere emotion, right? I'm going to drive on that point later But it's a real choice of him, a real setting his affections on him, a real choosing of him, a real honoring of him, a real calling him to this task, a real giving him this work to do and sending him to do it All that fills out what it means for Jesus to be the Father's, be loving. And so the joy in particular that we're talking about Is the joy of being freely loved. Unconditionally loved. How many of you have heard that right in your Christian life here? Unconditionally loved We're talking about the joy of being unconditionally loved, the joy of being valued and honored. The joy of being called and given an important work and task to do. The joy of knowing as you do that in Jesus, as you do that work and abide in love You're pleasing the one who loves you so much. That's the joy we're talking about. That's amazing joy. That free, full love that respects you and honors you, calls you. Treats you as a beloved, gives you a task to do, supports you in it, delights over you in it The joy of knowing as you do it, you're being so pleasing to the one who loves you so much. That's the joy of Jesus. The whole point of the sermon is the joy of Jesus is also the Christian's joy. He wants that joy to be in you. So what should we do with this truth that the joy of Jesus is to be the Father's beloved? What should we do with that? We should praise and thank God because it is the origin and source of our salvation. Jesus says as I've been loved and sent by my Father, I love you now in that way, dying for you, redeeming you. Calling you, continuing to love you forever as you serve me. The origin, beloved, of our salvation is this love that the Father has for the Son. We should sing about it. We should sing hymn 268 of the Father's Love Begotten. There's already a hymn written about it. We should write more hymns about of the Father's Love begotten. We should write more hymns about the source of our I know there's many musicians here, so here's a challenge issued. Write another hymn about how the origin of your eternal salvation resides in the Father loving the Son That will be a wonderful hymn. Rejoice to sing it someday. So it is the origin, this love, Jesus' joy of being the Father's beloved. That's the origin of our salvation, it's the origin of our joy. That'll take us to our next point. The next point, right? How does that joy get in us? How does the joy of Jesus, of being the Father's beloved, get into you and me? Again, let's go back to verses 9 and 10. Jesus says, As the Father has loved me, so I have loved you. Jesus' joy gets into you when he freely loves you, so you become his beloved. If Jesus' joy is to be the beloved of the Father, he gets that joy in you by loving you with that same love. When Jesus says, as the Father's loved me, he's not just making a comparison. He is doing that. He's saying, I've loved you, my church, with the same quality of love, that divine love. He's also saying it's causative, it's the origin, it's because I've been so loved. Love begets love. Because I've been loved this way, I go out in love. And I came here and loved you in this way. So you get the joy of Jesus in you, beloved, right? When that gospel's preach Jesus is presented to you, the Father working to the Spirit in that powerful, persuasive, mysterious way. Convicts you of your sin, illumines your mind with the knowledge of Christ, renews your will, enabling you to freely take Jesus as he's offered to you in the gospel, and you become right His Beloved, and learn that his love for you did not start yesterday, the day before, but in everlasting. Love. That's how the joy of Jesus gets in you is loving you. Now Jesus talks in this passage about how He's loved you. He says there in verse 13, greater love has no one than this that someone lay down his life for his friends. There's nothing more you can do for a friend, right? You can loan a car, loan a house, loan a hand, but you go all the way when you lay down your life, right? Jesus is saying, I've loved you deeply. Every Christian has been loved deeply by Jesus. All of himself he's given and he laid his life down. Jesus goes on and talks about his love in the next verse there in verse 14. You are my friends if you do what I command you. Jesus saying, I've loved you familiarly. I don't call you servants. Servants don't know what the master does. I call you friends because I've told you everything my father's told me. By Jesus making known to you the whole counsel of God's will through the Holy Spirit as He's freely given you to know the things of God. He's loved you as a friend, not treating you as a servant, giving you any idea what's going on, but is revealed All that the Father's given to him to make known at this time, you have freely given to you. That's how he's loved you as a friend. He's loved you deeply. He's loved you as his friend. He's also loved you freely. You did not choose me, but I chose you. We can all find many reasons, even continuing as regenerate Christians, reasons why We're unlovely, right? We still bicker, still fight, we'll do petty things, they'll set our hearts and minds on too many worldly stuff, not really fixed for Christ as that and the everlasting. By many reasons. But none of those reasons should discourage you if you don't stay in them. Because our His the love of Jesus for us isn't founded on us. It's not founded on anything in you And because he, the sovereign Lord, He, the eternal second person of the Trinity, He, God, wants to love you, and he'll do it. Freely, unchangeably, I love you. Just rest in that, right? That brings immediate joy. You go out and send tomorrow, as grievous as that will be. Heartbreaking that will be. It won't change that. It loves you. Please do not take that as any encouragement to go sin. The point of this is when God loves you in this way, He changes you forever. Or ever. This love does not leave a sinner unchanged. This is love does not leave a sinner in sin. This love changes them to be like God in his love and obedient. Jesus said, That's how I get my joy in you. I love you deeply, familiarly. And freely. But what should we do then? As Jesus is beloved. He doesn't leave us in doubt. He says, abide in it. How do we abide in this? We've remembered, right? Isn't that one of the ways to abide in your beloved love for you? Is to remember their love. Isn't that what you write Love cards to our beloved and send them flowers and do things for them and give them tokens of love Our communion liturgy used to have that language in there, right? These are tokens and pledges of Christ's love to us. Every week, when we come to the table, you are remembering Christ's love to you. The meal starts with not your love for him, but his love for you, and freely giving all of himself to you, and with all of himself given to you, all the benefits of your salvation in him. Not least this life of love and joy. So that's how you abide in it. You remember it. I pray that you make the most of your Sabbath days. You have six days to work. You have six days to do your recreation. And God asks one day that you would remember Him. And you would remember his love, and maybe we'd be more joyful if we did more of that on the Sabbath day. Go be alone in your closet, come to corporate worship, but don't forget private worship and meditate. On who you are in Christ in this free love. Make the most of the Sabbath day. And why should we all abide in this love? Because is there any other love like it? Have you found anybody else to love you like Jesus? I know we try to get close, we're called to get close, and in many ways we do good at it, but we still fall short, the only one who loves us like this. is Jesus. Don't leave that love. You won't find it anywhere else. You can't find a love like that. If you ask Pastor Young, why is the world so joyless, or seems to be joyful, but why are people so anxious and depressed? Because most of us don't know how to love very well, and most of us don't know what it is to be loved I say again, I think this is the most important topic I can preach on to you. Do you remember the first sermon I preached to you as your pastor after I was ordained and installed here? First Corinthians thirteen Love suffereth long and is kind. And why did Pastor Young preach that to you? Because I have never found how much I need Jesus until I try to love like Jesus. And I wanted us to be a church rooted in Jesus. So let's love like Jesus so we can see how much we need Jesus and be asking for Jesus. No other love like that. This is a gift of God's salvation, beloved. This is better than any psychiatric appointment, any medicine there is. Don't hear me poo-pooing these things. Just here. It is the love of God that heals. And as we show that love to each other, we help in that healing. Which is so utterly, utterly important of a passage. Thirdly, then Jesus wants your joy to be full. How do we get the fullness of this joy in? Jesus is loved, he is the Father's beloved. He gets this love in you by loving you in that same way, delighting over you, calling you, sending you out. And how do we get this joy to the fullness? Abiding in it through obedience. Jesus says there in verse 10, if you keep my commandments, you will abide in me Just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. Verse 12, this is my commandment, that you love one another. Verse 17, these things I commanded you that you will love one another one another. So we need to talk about love for a moment. Before I do, I want to make this point clear. Remember, these men were sad. They're sad because Jesus was leading. And they thought this bad. They thought this detrimental. But you get what Jesus is saying here. I came as the Father's beloved, sent by him, given authority, did what he commanded me to do, accomplished that work. That was my joy. I'm returning in joy, and I'll keep doing it. And what's he saying? I'm now going to replicate that life in you, right? You are the branches of the vine. The vine communicates to the branches his Life, Jesus replicates his life in us. He's saying, Now I'm going to love you, and now I'm going to send you out. That's what he says there in verse 16. I've chosen you, I've appointed you that you should go. They're saying he's saying the only way you're going to experience the joy I have, the that's what I mean. You're experiencing his joy. This is what makes him glad. You are going to know his joy only by going and loving like he loved. Churches were planted by loving like Jesus loved. They shared the truth. They shared the gospel. Paul says we lived amongst you as nursing mothers. We lived amongst you as encouraging fathers. We gave our whole lives to you. And Paul said we found joy in that. And you are our joy because it begot life in you through the power of the Holy Spirit Do you think this will be your joy to go out and love as I've loved you? Don't be mistaken. Don't think that doesn't mean everybody's going to love you because he says the world hated me and it's very well going to hate you too. But don't let that steal your joy. Because your joy is not found in that. Your joy is found in Christ loves them. Christ called me. Christ sent me as a member of grace and peace to love like Christ loves Me. I think one of the one of the things I want to close here to talk about this love is to impress upon You need to see everything you do as an act of love. Because Paul says that it's not, it's sin. Because love fulfills God's law. If you are not acting in love, if you're sinning. Paul even says if the pastor gets up or anybody gets up and speaks in the house of God without love, he's just a Dong, being claimed. It requires love to speak. It requires love to be listened in a way that wants to be heard. The point I first want to make about this love is its work. It's not a mere emotion. Jesus does not let love be resolved in a mere emotion. He says, I've called you my friends only if you do what I say. You'll abide in my love only if you keep my commandments. I don't want to say there's not an emotional aspect of love. I want to say it's not just that. It's work. It is real work. It is choosing to do good to others even when they don't do good to you. It is real work, tiring work. Prayerful work, but work. And you have a promise. If you abide in Jesus, he'll make you fruitful in that work. So the first thing about this love, he says, how do you love As I've loved you, that was an effort of work on Jesus. But also we need to love each other deeply. We need to be ready to make sacrifices. Believe me, I praise God for the love being done here. I thank the Lord for the love of the saints here But the Apostle Paul, when he thanked the Lord for the love of saints in Thessalonia and other places, said, and increase that love. So let us be thankful for the love we have, but let us go on loving, loving each other deeply. Loving each other in familiar ways, opening up, sharing ourselves. I think one of the most loving things you can do is to open up and share yourself with another Christian because most Christians think they're the only ones suffering with this, so they're only ones who have problems in their life, and you'll bring immediate encouragement when you tell them how miserable your life is at the moment. I'm joking, but we all have struggles. We need to be friendly to each other and share those struggles. Share the encouragements and blessings of how the Lord has also enabled you to do without sin. That's encouraging too. We need to love each other freely. And we better do this. Because if it's if election's true and it is true, you didn't pick your eternal family. You didn't pick your original family either. Are you prepared to love those whom God chose for you to live with forever? Not because of anything they are, but because God has chosen them and elected them, and you better deal with them now My twin brother once said, oh I forget the exact context, but uh talking about loving each other well and loving everybody because he didn't want to get to heaven and be like, oh you're here too. And was a bit of a jerk to them. One word you can speak of the whole gospel, right? Love opens up everything. Opens up our misery. It opens up the good news of God's Love for us, it opens up our joy. We need to love each other deeply, familiarly, freely. We need to love each other's work. And finally, we need to love each other in ways that build each other up. Paul says, knowledge puffs up. Love builds up. Get rid of critical words. Get rid of judgmental spirits. Get rid of nicking and picking. Speak only to encourage, build up, strengthen, help. Please don't hear that that doesn't mean don't admonish. Oh no. Very unloving thing to let somebody continue in a life of sin down the wrong path, please. Parents, your children, siblings, one another. Elders, the congregation, let them know. Turn from that wrong path. Don't think that it's unloving to rebuke and admonish that's not what Pastor Young says But that's done in service to build them up and not tear them down. That's done in the spirit of I want to see you flourish and do well. I want to see you grow in Christ. So our love needs to aim at building up. And really I hope one thing is happening right now as I'm speaking all about this. I hope it's going in your hearts. This is too much. How do I do it? Because that's going to drive you to your knees in prayer where we all need to be, because we can't do it. And we need the grace of God. We need the Holy Spirit constantly filling us to love and do it this way. Wouldn't that be a joyful church, right? If we all loved each other in this way and abided in Christ's love Let me close then with this. The joy of Jesus is the joy of the Christian. And that is to be loved by God. And now being loved by God, becoming God loving. And Christ sets his love upon you. You become God loving. That is a true church of Jesus Christ. That is a true branch. Someone loved of God and someone who loves God by keeping his commandments. May God give you grace to do this, and may God keep you in the joy of Jesus Christ. Amen.