Please turn to Daniel twelve. We'll read the first four verses. At that time shall arise Michael, the great prince who has charge of your people. And there shall be a time of trouble, such as never has been since there was a nation till that time. But at that time your people shall be delivered, everyone whose name shall be found written in the book. And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. And those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky above, and those who turn many to righteousness like the stars forever and ever. But you, Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book until the time of the end. Many shall run to and fro and knowledge shall increase. This is the Now the reading of Dan chapter eleven, one through twenty-seven. And the actual sermon text is printed on the front of the cover of the worship folder. So John 11, 1 through 27. And the shorter portion. And the we've been today we started putting the page numbers in the Pew Bible. So if you have a little trouble finding some of these books sometimes in the Bible. Bible page numbers. We're going to try to remember to list the page number in the Pew Bible so you can find it easily. John chapter 11 Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary, and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hands. So the sisters sent to him, saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. But when Jesus heard it He said, This illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister. and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was ill, he stayed two days longer in the place where he was Then after this he said to the disciples, Let us go to Judea again. And the disciples said to him, Rabbi, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again? Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in a day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the light, he stumbles The night, that is, he stumbles because the light is not in him. After saying these things, he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. The disciples said to him, Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep. Then Jesus told them plainly, Lazarus has died, and for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him. So Thomas called the twins, said to his fellow disciples, Let us also go that we may die with him. And this is the text now. Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem. Jerusalem about two miles off. So when Martha heard that Jesus Was coming, she went and met him. But Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been there, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. And the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. This is the word of our Lord. Thanks. Let's pray. Lord, we have read this portion of your holy word. We've read about what Daniel saw coming, the great resurrection at the last judgment, some to Happiness and glory, and others to shame and contempt. We have heard Jesus speaking to his dear friends here About their brother Lazarus who had died. Help us now to make careful consideration of these words And be able to apply them to our own human condition. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So the scene is The arrival of Jesus at Bethany. You might remember that he had been across the river Jordan about two days away. And he had stayed there after he had heard that Lazarus was sick. And it says in verse 17, Now when Jesus came to Bethany, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. So let's count the days. He was told about Lazarus' sickness, and it took the messenger one day, or maybe two, to get there, so we're not sure. But he'd been told about Lazarus' sickness. And then it says in verse 6, which we read, that he waited two more days Inexplicably, at least in the text, he waited two more days. Plus, there was the journey back to Bethany, so that's at least four days since Jesus has heard about his friend Lazarus. So Lazarus evidently died on the day Jesus was told or the next day. Lazarus died The Jews had a practice of waiting with fading hope for about three days after the apparent death of someone. Uh they would wait to see if maybe just somehow they might not really be dead and they might awaken and stir And get better. But uh this is very clearly put here. These four days are described to make absolutely sure in everybody's mind Lazarus was dead. He wasn't just you know, in a very deep coma or something, he was dead. Um again, the the Jews had this practice on it actually is uh happens this a occasionally on rare occasions uh that people who were thought to be dead wake up and they begin uh to move. Um maybe sometimes uh preparing for burial or something done to them wakens them up and it's just an amazing thing. I was reading uh even in modern times about this 95-year-old lady named uh Lee Li Zai Feng, Li Zi-Fing, after a few days, she suffered what was thought to be a fatal head injury, and after a few days, plans were made for her funeral including holding an in-home wake for friends and family. And her coffin was there and she was in it, but it had not been closed. And so Xifeng had the opportunity And she woke up from what the doctors described as an artificial death the day before the funeral. And the family and friends began to arrive at her house, and they found the coffin empty. And the corpse gone After searching a little bit for the missing body, the villagers were stunned to find Mrs. Zai Feng sitting on a stool in her kitchen cooking. She reportedly told the villagers, I slept a long time. After waking up, I felt so hungry, I wanted to cook something to eat So there she was cooking. It happens, right? And that's what they that's what the Jews were doing. They were, you know, but when you get someone who's been in that condition four days, you know So, verse 18, Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, it says, and many of the Jews who had come to Martha and Mary to console them after concerning Jerusalem. Console them concerning their brother. So it was a Jewish custom after someone had died to mourn for seven days. And it's called Shiva. Sitting Shiva. Literally it means seven. Shiva means seven. It's a week-long mourning period. For people who are really close relatives like father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, or spouse, and it's called sitting Shiva. Um the funeral mourners traditionally wear an outer garment or ribbon that was torn at the funeral, and then the garment is worn throughout the seven-day Shiva. This is probably something that developed From Genesis 50, where it's described there that Joseph mourned the death of his father Jacob, Israel, for seven days. And so the Jews carry out that thing So this is the Shiva going on and they're sitting in the home there. And uh Lazarus was an apparently an important and very well loved man because these mourners came from all around, including Jerusalem and other nearby places. So picture this scene. Many mourners sitting Shiva in the home of Mary and Martha crying Talking, crying, reminiscing, crying some more, and it has been four days, and there's no stirring in the tomb By the way, there's no negative connotation in this description of these people sitting Shiva in this house. Nothing wrong at all with doing that. Paul says in Romans 12. 15 that we are to rejoice with those who rejoice, and what? Weep with those who weep. And so it's a good thing, it's a community thing, it's a loving thing to be there when someone's in grief, to be there with them, maybe not for seven whole days. But to really make a point of caring for and being with those who are in grief. That's what they were doing as faithful Israelites. And now we're going to see in the next few verses. the personal faith of Martha as a faithful Israelite. So they've been sitting Shiva, but when Martha, it says in verse 20, when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him outside somewhere. But Mary remained seated, Shiva, in the house. That's verse 20. And Martha left the gathering and met Jesus. Jesus. And verse 21, Martha said to Jesus, Lord. She probably doesn't mean God. She just means It's a very respectful term, Lord, here. Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now, I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you So there's a huge expression of faith. Jesus said to her, your brother will rise again. And Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last days. These are the words of great faith here being expressed. And where does she get this kind of faith in the future resurrection? Well, it's like we read in Daniel. Daniel 1 and 2 Where in Daniel, it's not focused on near-term events, but far distant events. And it says there, at that time shall Michael arise, the great prince who is charge of your people. And there shall be a time of trouble, such as never has been, since there was a nation till that time. But at that time your people shall be delivered. Every one whose name shall be found written in the book And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake. That's the resurrection at the judgment. Some to everlasting life, and some to shame, and everlasting condemned. She believed in the resurrection that Daniel described. And she believed that Jesus was a Great expression of this great hope, this great plan of God. And what does Jesus do in response to her? In verse 25, Jesus makes this amazing claim. He says to her, Not only, Martha, will there be a resurrection in the future, and those who are just will rise to blessedness, and those who are unjust rise to blessedness contempt. Not only will that happen, but he says, I am. And this is the seventh big I am in the Gospel of John. It's the biggest I am, really It's the summa. It's a mountaintop. I am the resurrection and the light. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And whoever lives and believes in me shall never die. Now I'm going to paraphrase those things as a way of explaining them. In verse 25a, where he says, I am the resurrection and the life, what he's saying is all resurrection. Resides in me. Not just there will be a resurrection, but resurrection resides in me. I am the resurrection. And the life. Without my coming and having the power to raise the dead, none would be raised. The death sentence would never be commuted unless I, the Messiah, Come. All, every last son or daughter of Adam would remain in the prison of death and be alienated from God forever. But I have come and I am I am the resurrection and the life. That's what he's saying. And then in verse, the second half of verse 25, he says: every person who believes into me believes. Not just beliefs about me. A lot of people say they believe something about Jesus. They believe he lived. They believe he came. They don't know much. But they they have some belief. No, that's not what he's saying. Whoever believes into me, that's faith. That's personal trust in him. Whoever believes into me, even though they die, because they're sons and daughters of Adam, and this is a sin-cursed world, they shall be raised again. Yet shall they live. That's what Jesus Jesus is saying. And then verse 26, and every individual who is raised to life, believing into me, If you're a believer in Christ, a true personal faith believer in Christ, shall never die. And what does he mean there? You're going to die, but you're not going to die. He's talking about never being alienated from the life of God. Even if you die, you will not be alienated from the life of God. You will stay with God. This is expressed in so many wonderful places in our hymns. But there's one that came to mind while I was preparing this. It's called Lead Kindly Light. And one of the phrases and one of the verses there says He's looking forward to the resurrection. He says, and with the mourn, that is the morning of the future resurrection, those saintly faces smile, which I have loved long since and lost. a while. When someone dies and they're united to Christ, we don't lose them forever. They're not alienated from the life of God. We've lost them personally for a while ourselves. Just lost them And then we see something even deeper. The personal expression of faith of Martha as an in individual believer. Before I was talking about her corporate faith as an Israelite, believing the words of Daniel in the Old Testament, believing in the future resurrection. All the Pharisees believed in a future resurrection. But now we see the personal faith of Martha. When Jesus asked her in the end of verse 26, Do you believe this? Verse 27, she said to him, Yes. Yes, Lord, I believe what? That you are the Christ. That meant just not The name, that's the title. Messiah, promised one, hoped for, longed for, the desire of nations. You are the Christ who is coming into the world. I believe that you were him. How could Martha believe that Jesus could raise Lazarus in the face of four days of death? How did she gain this confession of her faith She put some things together. She's been paying attention, you see, as a disciple of Jesus. She's been there when he spoke and as he taught and as he confronted. She saw how Jesus was being treated by the builders of Israel, the leadership of Israel, and she, knowing all good Jews, knew the whole Um the whole six Psalms, they had these memorized for the great festivals. They could recite all six Psalms from 113 to 118. Every good Jew. Would you like to be able to do that? Learn Psalm 113, 14, 15, 16, 17, and 18, and be able to just recite it? Good Jews. could do that. And she has that in her heart and in her mind. And that's one of the things, by the way, that's always recited at big Big pilgrim festivals such as Passover and Pentecost and Tabernacles, booths, which Jesus was just at recently, all these great big holy days, they would Recite those things. And one of the phrases in Psalm 118 that she probably had come to mind as she was thinking about Jesus: Is he the Christ? And verse 22 it says, the stone. That the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day That's the day of salvation. That's the day longed for, hoped for. This is the day. When the builders reject the stone This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. And then they say, verse 25, Save us, we pray, O Lord. O Lord, we pray, give us success. And then in verse 26, they say something that we say every Sunday here in our communion liturgy. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna and the highest. She had those kind of things in her mind as she was pondering the question, What do you say? Am I the Christ? And she said, Yes. Lord, I believe. Now, she probably also heard reports about what Jesus had said in answer to the Jewish leaders who challenged him in his claim to be the Son of God and his claim to be the Son of Man described in Daniel. You remember back in chapter 5 as we've been going through John, he said to them, Listen, and she probably heard this Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming and is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God And those who hear will live. For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself, and he has given him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs. See, that's Daniel all over again. Will hear his voice and come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. She remembered things like that, and she was saying Jesus, you're the one. You're the stone. The builders rejected. You're the one who of whom it is said, This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. You're the one of whom it has said, Blessed is you who comes in the day Name of the Lord, you're the fulfillment of all these things. And he had also said in verse 10 of chapter 10, thief comes to steal and kill and destroy. But I have come that they may have life and have it abundantly. So when Jesus said, I am the resurrection and the life, do you believe this? And she was saying, yes. I do. I believe you're the Christ who is coming into the world. See, this kind of life in Jesus is more than just breathing. This is this is Abundant life. This is being free from being a slave to the devil and death. This is abundant life. Life full of joy and growth and learning and vast potential forever. And it's also a secure life in him. Because he also said in John chapter 10, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life. There's that life thing again And they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. So what do we say about all these things? If we put this great stuff together, we can say this. You can take this home. Death for a person who has faith in Jesus. That is, someone whose sins have been removed from the record of indictment against them. So that now that indictment is a blank page. Someone like that who has been given the perfect record of Jesus' perfect life. For them, death has lost its sting. Paul says it this way, in First Corinthians 15, this perishable body And this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written Say it with me if you know it. Death is swallowed up in victory. Oh death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your sting? And then he says in verse 56 of that chapter, the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory. Through our Lord Jesus Christ. Kids, have you ever caught a wasp in your hand? Adults, have you ever caught a wasp in your hand? Or a hornet? They fly around and they land on things If you catch one or make it mad, it may land on your skin and stick its stinger into your skin. It will hurt for a long time. It throbs and throbs and throbs. And if the stinger gets stuck, it'll hurt even longer. I am afraid of wasps. I remember once reaching under my grill to turn on the gas valve so that we could barbecue, and there were wasps under there. I didn't see see them because I didn't look. And I got stung twice. Ouch! Ouch! Ouch! Now I may ask you another question: have you ever caught a firefly? A lightning bug? It flies around, lands sometimes It'll land on your hand. It glows in the dark, but it does not sting. If you were to remove the stinger of the wasp, it would fly around just like a firefly And it couldn't hurt you. You may be afraid of it. It may act angry. That's the nature of a wasp, but it can't hurt you any more than a firefly if its stinger has been removed That's what Jesus has done for those who believe into him. The stinger of death has been removed. O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory to our Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. Jesus took the stinger of sin and death when he died on the cross for those who are his loved ones. And the stinger is gone now for those who trust in him. So, what does happen to believers when they die? Our catechism puts it this way: in question and answer 37. What benefits do believers receive from Christ at death? What happens? It says this: the souls of believers are at their death made perfect. in holiness and do immediately pass, no purgatory, no, do immediately pass into glory And their bodies, still being united to Christ, do rest in their grave till the resurrection. And what that's saying is: phase one: believer's souls at the moment of death are with the Lord in glory. And next, their bodies still. Did you get that? Still, their bodies, whatever the condition, their bodies still united to Christ. never left behind, await the future completion. And then phase two is described in question and answer. 38. What benefits do believers receive from Christ at the resurrection? And the answer, at the resurrection, believers, that is, souls with their perfect bodies, Being raised up in glory, that's the future resurrection, shall be openly acknowledged, party time. And acquitted, not guilty, in the day of judgment. Do you want that? Not guilty. God to say about you, not guilty. Everybody does say, wow, here he is, here she is, not guilty. And then it says, and made perfectly blessed in the full enjoying of God to all eternity. That's what we can expect in Christ. Lazarus in the gospel was dead. He was already decomposing according to the normal way of things. Jesus reversed this and restored him to the ordinary condition of declining life. And he later died again. But someday Lazarus' body will be raised incorruptible. What about those who know not the Lord Jesus or who trust him not? Again, Jesus said in John chapter 5, The hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, and those who have done good, that is, those who have the goodness of Jesus Christ attributed to them legally. To the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil, that is, those who have kept their own unrighteousness, to the resurrection of judgment. As Daniel said, some to everlasting life and some to shame and everlasting contempt. John's gospel was written to reveal the person and works of Jesus. the Messiah, God made human flesh. And it was written to challenge readers then in that century and even then today to challenge readers and all who hear to believe in him and have life in him, have hope in him Life here and now, through being reconciled to God, forgiven of sins by faith in Christ, to a life of communion with God in word, prayer, and sacrament. And the sure hope, as we always say in the Apostles' Creed, of the resurrection of the body and the life everlasting. That is what we have. Jesus asked Martha, Do you believe this? And she said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. world. And I ask you today, do you believe this? Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we are mortal And yet you've made us with immortal souls. We pray that you'll help us to believe into Christ and so have this joyful hope that Martha had. Of the resurrection and everlasting life. Amen