Number ninety-three. The Lord reigns. He is robed in majesty. The Lord is robed. It's established. It shall never be moved Your throne is established from of old. You are from everlasting. The floods have lifted up, O Lord. The floods have lifted up their voice. The floods lift up their roaring. Mightier than the thunders of many waters, mightier than the waves of the sea, the Lord on high is mighty Your decrees are very trustworthy. Holiness befits your house, O Lord, forevermore. Then Isaiah 6, 1 through 7. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up. And the train of his robe filled the temple. Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings. With two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet And with two he flew. And one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke And I said, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. For my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal. that he had taken with tongs from the altar. And he touched my mouth and said, Behold, this has touched your lips. Your guilt is taken away. And your sin atoned for. Next, Isaiah eight, five through ten. The Lord spoke to me again, because this people have refused the waters of Shiloh that flow gently and rejoice over resin. and the son of Ramaliah. Therefore, behold, the Lord is bringing up against them the w waters of the river, mighty and many. the king of Assyria and all his glory, and will rise over all its channels and go over all its banks. And it will sweep on into Judah. It will overflow and pass on, reaching even to the neck. And its outspread wings will fill the breadth of your land. O Emmanuel. Be broken, you peoples, and be shattered. Give ear, all you far countries. Strip on your armor and be shattered Strap on your armor and be shattered. Take counsel together, but it will come to nothing. Speak a word, but it will not stand. For God is with us. And finally, Mark four, thirty-five through forty-one. On that day when evening had come, he said to them, Let us go across to the other side. And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in the boat, just as he was. And other boats were with him. And a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was already filling. But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion And they woke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? And he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace. Be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. And he said to them, Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith? And they were filled with great fear, and said to one another, Who then is this that even wind and sea Obey him. The word of the Lord. Beloved congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ I'd like to begin this homily tonight by doing something quite unusual for me. But I think that hearing a somewhat lengthy quote From an article entitled God or King by Jan Meus of the Protestant Theological University in Utrecht will succeed in getting your mental juices flowing. Listen carefully to this Dutch professor's words, because I think that they form Well, I hope it will be a helpful introduction to our sermon tonight as you seek to understand what Psalm 93 is getting at. when it says that the Lord reigns. The quote begins thusly The question is asked whether the image of king can still be used to talk about God. Modern people only know kings from fairy tales or ancient histories. If they happen to live in a kingdom, as the British and Dutch people do, they know their queen as a ceremonial figure who merely symbolizes the unity of the of the people or the nation. She has no or very limited power delegated to her by the people. The activity of the queen does not influence their lives. Calling God a king in this sense would reduce him to a distant, irrelevant ornament in their lives. On the other hand, the traditional understanding of God's kingship implied that God completely dominated people's personal lives and history as a whole. He was the ultimate ruler above all earthly kings, peoples, and nations, who determined and directed all their individual and particular actions. This traditional image of God as king seems even more inappropriate to modern people. It depicts God as a distant being beyond our reach, who denies us our freedom, and with whom we cannot have a personal relationship It is hard to imagine the love of such a God. It is for this reason that some conclude that king can no longer be used as a metaphor to understand our relation to God. Thus far, Professor Mace But the thing is this that's exactly what the Bible says about God the Lord. He reigns. He is king. It says it here in Psalm 93, right in the middle, you might say, of the Bible Just in case you might miss it, it's repeated eight times as the focus, the theme of Psalms 92 through 99 You heard it last week as Professor Cathy, Pastor Cathy, pointed to verse 8 as the absolute center of the whole of Psalm 92. But you, O Lord, are on high forever. It's a king who is on high, right? Absolutely. Then you get the first three words of tonight, Psalm 93. The Lord reigns. If anybody reigns, that is Yahweh, right? Absolutely. Absolutely. Then if you are here in church next Sunday evening, you will get the final verse of Psalm 94. The Lord our God will wipe them out. Who's that? Just the enemies of the king's people, right? Absolutely. Then the following week you will hear verse 3 of Psalm 95. For the Lord is a great God and a great king above all Of all gods, right? Absolutely. Then the week after that Are you getting tired? You will be told in Psalm 96 verse 10 to say among the nations, the Lord reigns, right? Absolutely. Would you say that you are getting something of importance here, Congregation? Otherwise, how can you explain this repetition? But don't despair, there's still more to come. Psalm 97, 1. The Lord reigns. Let the earth rejoice. Psalm 98, 6. Make a joyful noise before the King, the Lord. Psalm 99:1. The Lord reigns. Let the peoples re-tremble. The Lord reigns, He is King. So our proposition tonight is just this. Yahweh, the Lord of hosts of Israel and of the church. Reigns as king, robed in the majesty of his authority and holiness. Robed in strength to conquer all enemies who seek to bring him down, and robed both to save and to rule. His church through the Messiah, Jesus Christ, the Lord and King So those are our three points. And the first one is this: the Lord reigns as king robed in majesty. That's verse one. Kingship is the right of him whose name is Yahweh, the I am. He reigns as king not only of Israel Of Judah, but as king over all, the sovereign of the world. He is robed in majesty. But you ask, what is majesty? Perhaps you should ask, rather, what is the majesty with which the Psalm says the Lord as King is robed? Well, the Hebrew word has this root meaning, Majesty. Lift it up. Lift it up. Or exalted, not to be lifted up Or to be exalted as though God were the favored object of installation by royal heredity Or even happily by the chosen will of certain people. He didn't become king either by royal birth or by fortuitous election. He is exalted. He is lifted up. He is king. He reigns not as a king among others who share the same title, rank, and authority that he enjoys. He is the I am. And he alone reigns. Thus the psalmist, whoever he is, It's telling us by these words, the Lord is robed in majesty, that Yahweh is to be seen standing above. Clothed with authority over everything else that is His kingly garments show him to be exalted over all. He is indeed the king of kings and the lord. Of the Lord's. So let that sink in, Congregation. The Divine One you praise, worship, and fall down before tonight. Is not the deity of the Christian religion alongside the deities of all the other religions conceived of by man throughout human history? The God, the only one who is there, has revealed Himself to you in the Bible. Bible, and by his Spirit has enabled you to see Him as the Lord who reigns Alone. Doesn't that fill you with wonderment and gratitude? Think for a moment of Islam, whose adherents claim that Allah is God alone. soul deity. Perhaps the only other religion willing to make that brash claim. Among all the others. But no, for tonight, you are faced by the God who is. Telling you that he alone reigns as supreme king over all Muslims Of all Christians, of whatever stripe, as King supreme indeed, over all people of this world. Before, now, and forever. Perhaps the clearest passage in Holy Scripture making this claim is the one found in Isaiah 6, verses 1 through 7, which we read earlier tonight. The record of the prophet's vision of the Lord. Then it was in the year that King Uzziah died. A king, mind you, who died, as all earthly kings do. That Isaiah saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up That one didn't die, but was extolled by the seraphim. Seraphim, that unique order of angels whose sole task seems to be engaging always and ever In calling to one another. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. Isaiah's response to this awesome sight and sound was to cry. Woe is me! For I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. For my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts Then one of the seraphim took a burning coal from the altar, and touching the prophet's unclean mouth, said, Behold! This has touched your lips. Your guilt is taken away. And your sin atoned for. Forgiveness for Isaiah was achieved only by propitiation. Someone had to die. Atonement could be made only by sacrifice performed by another Now this leads me to conclude, Congregation That the singular quality of Yahweh's majesty that stands out in the Bible's account of his covenant of grace is his mercy. Yes, he is majestic in his sovereignty and power. He is truly lifted up and exalted He wears a majestic robe of authority and is thus worthy to be bowed down to in grateful subjection by every last man, woman, and child. Of the earth. But according to Isaiah, who had such a vision of the Lord above all the Lord's majesty, That is to be acknowledged must be a recognition that it is his mercy, his loving kindness That is the supreme evidence of His Majesty. The Lord is a forgiving God. He sends one of his seraphim to touch your unclean lips with the burning coal of atonement Yes, he is that majestic. He who is high and lifted up has stooped down to save you by coming down to you. Who by the power of his Spirit have been enabled to repent and believe in Jesus as your Savior That's why in Isaiah 7. 14 we are told that his name is Immanuel. He is himself God with us. That's the first point. He's robed in majesty, in mercy. Now the second point is this: the Lord reigns as king robed in strength. For the psalmist says next in verse 1 that the Lord is robed, he has put on strength as his belt. He is Lord not of authority, of sovereignty only. He is also Lord of power and might. Thus it had to be If he were to prove to be the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, that he claims to be in Holy Scripture, it would be one thing to say that he is clothed with absolute authority and sovereignty if he was in fact unable to perform all his holy will. If he was not a possessor of the power sufficient to do all he wanted to do, In that case, you would be presented by an impotent God who makes a great claim, who has a fine plan, but has not the ability To bring it off. He would be king with a great robe, very majestic, but all proving to be just pomp, show and tell. Lacking the ability to back up with performance what he promises to deliver. But the Lord Almighty is not so unequipped This king is not possessor of majesty alone, demonstrated by his robe of authority. The psalmist says, He has put on strength as his belt. Good thing indeed. Otherwise you have no hope at all that what he has promised to do would actually come to pass. That's why the psalm affirms, yes, I like saying, yes, the world is established. It shall never be moved. God has a plan for this world, and especially for its human inhabitants. I think you can take that word world to mean the world of people. He has established a covenant of grace, making it with Abraham the Jew. For him, his descendants, and indeed for sinners of every race and time. It's what he has decreed because he is a Lord of majestic mercy and grace. We've already seen that. And he can do it. He can do it. Because he has put on strength as his belt. Nothing whatsoever can move his world from what he has planned for it. The psalmist says in verse 3, Your throne is established from of old. You are from everlasting. The Lord of heaven and earth is timeless in his rule. He is not a deity that is plagued by heretofore unknown enemies. That might prove to modify or even bring down his purposes. He is Yahweh, the Lord, and his throne is established unmovably. His plan for the world was always, and he has the power to see it accomplished. In fact. An illustration of this powerful truth, the psalmist points to climactic and environmental events in verses 3 and 4. Something happening in Japan right now. The floods have lifted up O Lord, the floods have lifted up their voice. The floods lift up their roaring, mightier than the thunder of many waters, mightier than the waves of the sea. The Lord on high is mighty. The people of the ancient world thought that these kinds of things were to be seen as opposed to the will of the gods. Maybe so, says the psalmist. They can think what they may about how things fall out. But it is not so with the will and way of the Almighty Lord God of the heavens and the earth He controls the earth's weather and all and every climatic event that may come to pass. pass. Observe. He once brought a great worldwide blood that wiped out the entirety of Earth's population, with the exception of the one man's family. Observe, he dried up the Red Sea, dried it up, and brought his people over it safely, totally exterminating then all the enemy of his covenant nation. The waters returned. Observe. He came down to earth in the person of his only begotten Son, and showed his power one day. As we read it, by rebuking the wind and the sea. Peace be still. And they were Is it not manifestly clear the Lord on high is mighty? The heathen may have their cosmologies as they will. But their theories do not apply to the Lord God of Israel, and indeed to the Church of the Ages. He alone reigns as supreme. And his will is not only eternally fixed, but it is done in time, without interference by anyone or any Anything that oppose or hopes to oppose him. He is mightier than the thunders, the waters, and the waves of the sea When he says, peace be still. They cease. And you tonight, with Jesus' disciples Have to fear and say to one another, who then is this that even wind and sea He is the Lord Almighty, whose robe of strength you see with your mind's eye of faith in this The ninety-third Psalm. What dangers you might suspect will separate you from the love of God In Jesus Christ your Lord, are under control. They jolly well are. Fear not, little ones. Your heavenly Father, your Father Is mightier than all, and says to you, Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith? Now the third and final point is this The Lord reigns as king, robed in salvation. That's verse five. Your decrees are very trustworthy. Holiness befits your house, O Lord, forevermore. Yahweh, you see, is not like the kings of this earth who concern themselves so often with their own possessions, positions, and power. With majesty and strength he is robed, to be sure, but not for the promulgation of his throne. Listen to this last verse of this psalm, which caps off the full extent of his true and remarkable kingship. Again, your decrees are very trustworthy. Holiness befor You can readily understand by these words that two significant things are true. For one thing, what this king decrees will surely come to pass. Yes, they are very trustworthy Unlike the plans, prophecies, and policies of the rulers of this world, which are so often unfulfilled. What the Lord says will happen, what he will do may be trusted to occur indeed. And for another thing, that's the second thing, what this king decrees is perfectly righteous and good. For holiness befits his house. Where he reigns, no evil contaminates either his person. or his doings. He is robed both in power and in goodness But now for you to understand the depth of that statement, it is necessary for you to pay attention to the full extent of the Bible's account of the covenant of grace. That forms the summary of the Lord's reign as king robed in what must be described as salvation. He's robed in salvation Salvation. That covenant truly makes up the bulk of Holy Scripture. From the third chapter of its first book Through to the last chapter of its final book. It's a story of grace, of salvation. God the Lord is King who reigns forever. He does all his holy will, and that will is altogether good. And when that story is heard and believed, it will be seen to center upon the coming, the person, and the action. Of Jesus Christ the Messiah. Follow me here, dear congregation It's truly a story that you've heard before, but which you need to think upon deeply I take you to scenes at the end of Jesus' last week on earth. He appears before Pilate, Roman governor of Judah, and faces this probing question: Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus answered him, You have said so. Then, when crucifying Jesus, Pilate nails this inscription. On the cross, written in three languages. Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews Unedited, you'll notice, by the chief priest's wording, this man said, I am King of the Jews. And finally, for our purpose here tonight, watch the Roman soldiers as they strip Jesus of his tunic. His robe. Casting lots to determine who would get it. There it is, congregation. Jesus Christ the Messiah, truly the King of the Jews, is stripped of his robe. Does that mean he reigns no more? Not at all. For that is exactly what our psalm tonight prophesies by implication. Jesus Christ is the holy one of Israel. And he is bringing to pass the only way by which salvation could characterize the Lord's reign. Holiness befits your house, O Lord Lord forevermore, writes the Psalmist. And true it is A perfect, perfect substitute would need to be found to take the place of guilty sinners that the Lord determines. To save. Remember, that is the kind of king that God is: one who is majestic in his mercy, in his love. and in his grace. One that descends to earth in the person of his son, and atones for the sins of every one of his sons subjects, whom he has from all eternity elected to save. That descent involved far more than mere incarnation, not just Christmas It meant death on a cross and descent into hell to fulfill the verdict pronounced upon that host of graciously loved people. You. Yes, Jesus ruled on that cross. He ruled there, even though stripped of his kingly robe. For there it was that he provided a full and lasting atonement for his beloved church of the ages. But he did not remain in hell. After three agonizing days, he rose again to life And ascending into heaven was seen to be truly the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And his subjects, the church he saved. Of them John writes in the book of Revelation that they who conquer sin and death through Jesus' redeeming work are dressed in white robes For holiness befits the Lord's house forevermore. That's your destiny, believer. To be forever sinless. Oh, to be forever sinless in his presence. All because He is Imanoel. He is God with you, so that you might be with him. I've got homework for you. Memorize Psalm ninety three. This week. Hold each other accountable in your families. Memorize it. I'm going to have Jean check on me. And I'll check on her too. Amen. Heavenly Father, you are marvelous and wonderful beyond our comprehension, but You've explained it to us so clearly in this psalm. This is the God, this is the king that you are. And we bow before you. And we say with the seraphim, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. The whole earth is full of of his glory. Through Jesus we praise you. Amen.