We'll read Genesis 3, the first seven verses. Genesis 3. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden But God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be open. And you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and it was a delight to the eyes, And that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then The eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves lawncloths. This is the word of the Lord. Turn to Romans chapter five. We'll read verses twelve through twenty-one. Romans five. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. For sin indeed was in the world before the law was given, but sin is not counted where there is no law. Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam. Who was a type of the one who was to come. But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man, Jesus Christ, abounded for many. And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation. But the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. If because of one man's trespass death reigned through that one man Much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. So that as sin reigned in death Grace also might reign through righteousness, leading to eternal life, through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Beloved congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, give your attention, your congregation, to the temptation and fall of our first parents, Adam and Eve. As they are recorded in those first six verses of chapter 3 of Genesis that were read earlier. Those things really happened, you know, on this earth quite a while ago, to be sure, but surely There is always the danger of not taking it so seriously. What do we know of perfect gardens, of forbidden trees? And good people. In our daily life, also, what difference does it make? Anyway. I hope to answer these questions as we consider this important text of God's infallible and authoritative word. Just what was the situation in paradise before the fall of our first parents? And just who was this human being called Adam, that is, from the earth? For that is the derivation of his name. Created after God's image, in God's covenant, and as such, God's covenant friend. A king to exercise dominion over the earth as God's office bearer Adam, not simply an individual, but related to the entire human race as its representative head. Father and root, though good, and not yet under sin's dominion, nor in death's power As for paradise, that was man's home, in which the Creator put him. It was also God's house. Adam didn't go to church. It has as its center the garden, and with the rich land of Eden surrounding it. God's dwelling with the man and with his wife, named E. From the Hebrew Hayah, that is living. For she would be the mother of all living human beings. And as for the tree of life, ah, by means of this, apparently man's life would be perpetuated. And by which the truth that in God's communion his life would be symbolized But also another one, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Now that one preached to Adam and Eve plainly, human beings shall not live by bread alone. but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. That tree preached also the demand that Adam and his wife Should reject what God forbids merely because he, the sovereign one, says so. But bringing us up to date, this account in Genesis 3 is discredited by moderns. Who consider themselves not to have sprung from such roots. Our text this morning is considered by many today, I'm sure. As merely a quaint legend of a naive race of carefree people Whose innocence was destroyed when Eve gave Adam the faithful apple. You can see that occasionally in some TV advertising. As for liberal theologians today, they simply deny its historicity. And they see the account in Genesis only as a parable, an interesting parable, but a parable nonetheless of every man. Others would suggest that whatever it was, it wasn't a fall downwards. Everybody has got to express him or herself, and here we have a parable of rugged individualism. We could call it the democratization of Eden. But the really sad fact is that even otherwise orthodox theologians today begin to waver on this account. But my friends, nevertheless, it happened And when it happened, the stage is set, therefore, for the drama of the fall of the human race. But also, and ultimately, for the drama of redemption. You cannot understand the Christian religion without Genesis 3, 1 through 6. Thus, we should have a strong desire to understand these foundational beginnings by following the record which Moses gives us by inspiration of God In our text this morning. The temptation and the fall of our first parents consisted in the questioning And the contradicting of God's word. And the committing of what that word prohibited. And if the fall, capital F, is not known and accepted for what it is, a fall downwards. It will not be possible to respond properly to the grace of God offered in Christ Jesus. Because he is the second Adam. Thus, if Adam didn't fall, then the whole gospel becomes meaningless. And irrelevant. If even then a portion of the human race is ever to rise above sin, And its resulting condemnation, its form must be taken into account, and something has to be done about it. So we consider first in our message today the questioning set forth in Genesis 3, 1 through 3. The tempter, Satan, addresses himself to Eve, the woman, and not to the man initially. Why? We're not told. It was surely not that the woman could be more easily tempted because she was more morally weak. Because she wasn't. Rather, the answer must lie in these considerations It was Adam who received the command directly from God. He therefore was one step removed from the actual verbal command from Adam, God's mouth, as it were. Thus Satan might have imagined, maybe I can persuade her to consider That the prohibition had gotten garbled by Adam somehow, or otherwise confused in transmission. Secondly, Satan could have concluded that Eve was not the head and didn't bear the responsibility, as did Adam Headship of the husband over the wife is not a New Testament version. It goes back to the beginning. It was God's intention all along that Eve be made from the body of Adam. Whereas Adam was made from the earth. Adam was her head, and she was his helper. Then, thirdly, Adam could more easily be tempted, possibly, via his wife. Since she was exactly that, his helper. And he needed help. So let's get help from her, right? Thus, Satan addresses himself initially to Eve. However, Satan did not find that an easy task. Because he faced the fact that Eve was pure of nature, as was Adam. She was without sin and without any inclination to sin. Yet she was fallible. She could all. You see, my dear friends, our first parents had the liberty to obey God At the same time, they had the ability to choose to not obey God. So the devil's problem was to play upon Eve's will in such a way as to make her desire the very object forbidden by God, so that she would choose that course of action rather than in God's way Now, to get that result, the forbidden fruit had to be presented to her mind as above all things desirable. And in order to achieve that purpose, the devil had to create the lie about the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. So how does he do this? He did it by attempting to sow doubt in the soul of Eve. And he did that by means of a very subtle question. Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree of the garden? It was not the devil's purpose to create confusion as to the meaning of God's command. How could he ever do that? Such was so simple and plain. See that tree? That one? Don't eat of it. There could be no confusion. Sin is not a lack of clarity, my friends, it's a lack of obedience. Of God's clear commands. Rather, the devil had a sneaky course of action. His purpose was with his question to create a basis for his argument. He wants to bring home to Eve's mind the idea that The eating of the tree's fruit will not kill you, Eve. And actually, the eating of the tree's fruit will make you like God. And furthermore, could there be a reason why God kept that one tree from her and from her husband? Could it just be, Eve, that God is actually jealous of his position? So to accomplish this purpose, Satan calls attention to the fact, did you notice, Eve, that these trees are not poison trees In fact, by their fruit you have been living thus far. And hasn't God permitted you to eat of all the other trees With just this one accepted. He means to arouse in Eve's mind the question If we may eat of all the trees of the garden, what possible harm can there be in eating of this one tree? And this Satan does. Not by means of a forthright statement, but by a subtle question. A question designed to make Eve ponder the answer and come to the devil's Conclusion. The hidden intent of the question is to make Eve say within herself, I wonder if trees kill Why didn't God forbid us to eat of all of them? And since he didn't, that must mean that trees don't kill. And in actual fact, who we've been eating from the others for some time now. So how can it be, since this one is just like all the others that don't kill, how can it be that eating of this one tree possibly be bad for us. Tricky, don't you think? In her answer, Eve reveals that she has already begun to yield What evidence is there that forces us to make such a conclusion? Well, for one thing, she takes up a discussion with a serpent, an animal. At all that she talks to that snake. Right there is at least an indication of sinful pride, in fact, the fact that she ignores Adam, her living human husband Her head. She should have checked things out with him first. Her only reply to the snake Should she give one at all, ought to have been a sharp and unqualified rebuke. But observe her reply with its misrepresentations. She omits a key word. You may surely eat. She leaves out surely Then she adds something to it. Neither shall you touch it. God didn't say a word about touching it. Yes, that would be understandable. If the tree were indeed death dealing, right. But she's not finished. She says, Lest you die. Here she betrays the fact that she is thinking of the possible consequences of eating or of touching the tree rather than obeying or disobeying God's commands For she seems to present death as a result of eating the fruit of the tree, or even of touching the tree. Rather than as the punishment for disobeying God. Even Satan, for his part, later contradicts at least the truth When he says, You will not surely die, rather than Eve's rather lame, lest we possibly die Then comes even more of Eve's misrepresentation of God's will. She generalizes the situation by using the plural you. Instead of God's singular you. Not only Adam or Eve, but anybody who eats of the tree dies. See? Again for Eve, this is not a test of obedience, but a prohibition against the eating of a poison tree. Now let's apply this thus far. Sin usually begins this way, congregation. People don't just go around thinking What commandment shall I break next? Rather, there is this thought first. We're both in this together, God and me I think I just might have a better suggestion as to how to deal with the current situation than the one God has. With his overly generalized and not clearly applicable commandments, he with his rigid laws They just are not tailor-made to my situation. He doesn't understand what I'm up against. And I will need to make it up as I go along and follow my sense the best. Actually, I, with my first-hand knowledge. Will know better than God does what to do. Yes. Thus, that's why folks today How many illustrations could we give here? I picked just four. Folks today question God's providence and then justify stealing By inventing and even implementing schemes for rebalancing the way they judge to be imbalance between the races, between genders And economic conditions. Two, folks today question the biblical command to love one's wife. And then justify resentment against her, the holding of a domestic Cold War, and of course divorce on demand. Three, folks today question the justice of another person's dealing with me, and they justify the harboring of bitterness for days. and years, and perhaps for a lifetime. Lastly, folks today question, and this has been brought to my mind just in this last week God's design of gender. And particularly rule that all persons, particularly in their earliest childhood Must be permitted to determine whether they are male or female. And then they cruelly authorize or implement surgical corrections. Alleged to be necessary. So now maleness and femaleness are not matters of created fact But of personal inclination and feeling. And I think it was on Wednesday that I first heard that there are woke folks. Are they awake? Who suggests that we should not use the words husband and wife, but rather married persons. They will make it up as they go along, exactly as Eve did on that fateful day long ago. There's no difference. It's still with us, only it's gone amok. That's the questioning. Now, secondly, we observe the contradiction. We need to read again verses four and five. Of Genesis 3. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. Satan contradicts God. Now, that was clearly a flat contradiction of God. You will not surely die. Literally, in the Hebrew, no, you shall not die. Here the devil boldly replaces the truth of God with his own lie. And this lie is based on the argument applied in his earlier question. Eve has been set up for this lie, for she has yielded to the doubt involved in the question. Trees don't kill now, do they? Neither will this one And each shows that she has yielded by continuing to listen to the devil and shows that she is ready to be had. So Satan is not yet finished. Observe his slandering of God, and Eve's mind is ready for this master stroke of the devil. For there must have been a reason why God forbade them to eat of this one tree. Of this situation, the devil takes advantage in order to slander God. He connects his lie with the tree, speaking an apparent truth. Your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. Suggesting a good result of the eating. Far from being a poison tree, it is a blessed tree. Now the truth, however, is involved in eating of this tree will not be a passive opening of her eyes But an act of substituting of her authority for God's authority. Everything that Satan says in verse 5 is absolutely true. With one tiny, though at the same time a huge exception. He says, your eyes will be opened. E. D. at the end of the word. Open. Rather, it will be that they will open their eyes in the very eating. They will do their own seeing of what is good and what is evil for themselves. Apart from God's word, when they eat that fruit. You will be like God, promises the serpent. And he's absolutely right. That's true. Here we see Satan's craftiness at its peak. They will be like God, for they will have become God to themselves. They will have determined for themselves what is good and what is bad. Yes, the tree was well named by God through Moses' account the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. It would be exactly that, whether Adam and Eve ate from it or not. But then Satan goes even one step further. And this is the most heinous slander of all. Satan ascribes evil motives to God. For God knows, he says The devil pictures God is the one who does not seek their highest good, but rather their evil. God wants to keep it all for himself. Satan presents the true good of Adam and Eve as lying in the direction of disobedience. Because only in so doing will they put right. What God Himself has kept upside down through his own selfishness. Back to application again into current days' events. There again, my dear friends, is the modern idea of sin. Whatever is bad for man According to what men judge to be bad, according to what humans judge to be bad. That's sin. Anything is good, furthermore, so long as no one gets hurt by it. Postmodernism says that authority deadens. Love defined as living out your own inner desires, honestly, wherever they lead. That's the law of life. Think of gender again. Express yourself. And if you would be a free person and not bound by restraints of a God about whom it can be questioned whether he really knows what it's all about anyway, eat the forbidden fruit and be his God, knowing good and evil. Here, sin is revealed in its deepest principle. It is to rule out God. It is to be unconcerned at best with God's revealed will. And it is to determine, even worse, that his will revealed is not, in fact, going to promote my good And at its very worst, it is to accuse God of unrighteous greediness in his commands. Yes. Oh, my dear ones, don't try to reason with Satan. There's only one way to handle evil of any kind. It is to appeal to the Bible. And if we do so, that temptation and that tempter will flee from us. That's what Jesus Christ did in the wilderness, remember? Not my will, but yours be done. Say with David, the psalmist, your commandments are not grievous. Open my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things from out of your law. So that's the questioning and the contradiction. Now, thirdly and lastly, verse 6 brings us to the committal. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate And she also gave some to her husband who was with her. And he ate. She didn't force it down his throat. She handed it to him, and he ate it. Eve now sees the tree entirely apart from the Word of God. She sees that it is good for food. This must certainly have been true in itself. She sees the tree's fruit as non-poisonous fruit How could it possibly kill? Then she sees it as pleasant to the eyes. This also was undoubtedly true, again, apart from the Word of God. I don't know what shape it was, or what color it was, or how tasty it was. But it was actually desired. It wasn't ugly, grotesque, or sickening. It could have actually been quite tasty, I suspect. She sees it as desired to make one wise. She sees the violation of the Word of God as the way to true wisdom, and the tree as a means to make herself wise. Basically, she's unthankful. So Paul in Romans 1:21 writes: Even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks. It could but follow then that she committed the actual deed of sin and ate of the tree's fruit And it could also only be but to follow that she tempted her husband Adam. She herself was motivated by enmity against God and by the love of herself, and this becomes immediately evident in her attitude toward her husband. She couldn't tolerate the fellowship of a sinless, holy, righteous husband, and she therefore sought immediately to bring him down with her into death. In this she succeeded, apparently, if we may judge from Scripture's brief statement of it, and I might underline it We must say, without much of a struggle on Adam's part, and he ate The devil had calculated correctly when he plotted to tempt Adam through his wife. Thus the bitter conclusion. And he ate. Now here is the lesson for those who might still think that sin is a matter of this or that isolated misdeed. The sin of our first parents was a matter of their most fundamental spiritual heart viewpoint, proceeding from their inmost nature. Their heart was penetrated by the lie of the devil. How could that happen? I don't know. It remains a mystery other than in God's secret will. It happened. But that heart, that inmost nature, fell down. It, the heart, not just the deed, was sinful. From out of the heart are the issues of life. Here lies the root. And this is why we get that tenth commandment. You know, it's not just number 10 alongside nine others. In a way, it's a summary commandment. Behind every sin lies the root of coveting. And Woody Allen was, oh, so correct, and sadly horrendously right, when justifying gross incest, he famously said The heart wants what it wants. That's our basic trouble, too. It is the trouble with our nature. That with which we were born as sons and daughters of Adam and Eve is corrupt. And that explains why the way of sin is so attractive and desirable By nature, apart from the grace of God and salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, and by virtue of the powerful and sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit We live by feelings also, instead of by commandment. We need to confess our need then for the utter restructuring of the foundation of our actions and words, our heart. For the same reason, dear congregation Salvation is not a matter of education or of moral reformation. It is a matter of a divinely and sovereignly accomplished change of the heart, a change that is powered by the crucified and risen Lord Jesus Christ. And thus a change that produces a repentant and believing person. You don't repent and believe in Jesus Christ in order to get your heart changed It's just the other way around. A change from death unto life is brought about by the sovereign work of God the Holy Spirit to enable us to repent and believe. Therefore, the gospel that we preach to you is indeed this: except the man be born again, he cannot see, not to mention enter the kingdom of God. The Holy Spirit of God regenerates the sinner. He changes the sinner's heart And through the word brought home by the same Spirit, the sinner repents and believes in Jesus Christ as Savior. As you have in this congregation. At least you say you have, and I take it that it's so. Now for you, that's the command. Repent and believe. Believe what? What is it to believe? It's to listen and accept as true and to fully trust. Jesus Christ, the second Adam, so you need to know about the first Adam. That's why the sermon brought you to me this day. Who by his sacrificial death atoned for your sin, and by his glorious resurrection became the life-giving spirit. So that you could rise up rather than just fall down. Adam sinned, fell, and dragged you down Christ your Savior rose and raised you up. Hallelujah. And Amen. Let's pray. Oh God, our Heavenly Father, if there's ever a portion of your word that is critical, it's this one. It's all critical, of course, but this one especially goes to the heart of our need and our problem. And it lies at the beginning of the gospel There's no sense telling people if they want to go to heaven all they have to do is just believe in Jesus. They need to be told in the first place that they're not going to heaven. They're not in heaven and they never will see heaven. Because they have fallen down in Adam and then you show it. And people may not like to hear that from us, O Lord, as they won't will be rejected. But you by your Spirit can use that testimony of truth. To bring people to their knees. And thank you for the Redeemer, the second Adam. We pray that it will be so in our lives, in the lives of our family members, our relatives, our acquaintances, our workmates. Our students, our teachers, our neighbors. May this be indeed grace and peace, Orthodox Presbyterian Church. That receives the grace of God as the foundation of all hope of eternal life. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.