Please turn with me in your Bibles to Exodus thirty. We'll read verses one through ten first. Exodus 30. You shall make an altar on which to burn incense. You shall make it of acacia wood. A cubit shall be its length, and a cubit its breadth. It shall be square, and two cubits shall be its height. Its horn shall be of one piece with it. You shall overlay it with pure gold, its top and around its sides and its horns. You shall make a molding of gold around it. And you shall make two rings, golden rings for it. Under its moulding on two opposite sides of it, you shall make them, and they shall be holders for poles with which to carry it. You shall make the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold. And you shall put it in front of the veil that is above the ark of the testimony in front of the mercy seat that is above the testimony, where I will meet with you. And Aaron shall burn fragrant incense on it. Every morning when he dresses the lamps, he shall burn it. And when Aaron sets up the lamps at twilight, he shall burn it, a regular incense offering before the Lord throughout your generations. You shall not offer unauthorized incense on it, or a burnt offering, or a grain offering, and you shall not pour a drink offering on it. Aaron shall make atonement on its horns once a year. With the blood of the sin offering of atonement he shall make atonement for it once in the year throughout your generations. It is most holy to the Lord. Now we'll read from Exodus forty. Verses 34 through 38, the last verses of this book of the Bible, starting in verse 34. Chapter 40. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the cloud settled on it. And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the people of Israel would set out. But if the cloud was not taken up Then they did not set out till the day that it was taken up. For the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, and fire in it by night. In the sight of all the house of Israel throughout all their journeys. This is the word of the Lord. We're going to read two passages from the New Testament. First is Revelation 21, 1 through 7. And 15, uh that is 21, 15 through 27. So 21, 1 through 7 first. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. And the city was no more, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be any mourning nor crying or pain any more, for the former things have passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. And 15 through 27. And the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city and its gates and walls. The city lies four square, its length the same as its width. And he measured the city with his rod, twelve thousand stadia, its length and width and height are equal. He also measured its wall, 144 cubits by human measurement, which is also an angel's measurement. The wall was built of jasper, while the city was pure gold, clear as glass. The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel The first was Jasper, the second, Sapphire, the third, Agate, the fourth, Emerald, the fifth, Onyx, the sixth Sixth Carnelian, the seventh Chrysalite, and the eighth Burl, the ninth topaz, the tenth Chrysophrase, and the eleventh Jacenth, the twelfth amethyst The twelve gates were twelve pearls. Each of the gates was made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, transparent as glass. And I also, and I saw no temple in the city. For its temple is the Lord, the Almighty, and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the lamb. By its light will all the nations walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it. And its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory of the honor of the nations, but nothing unclean will ever enter it. nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. And then the Gospel of John, just one verse. John 1:14 And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for these pictures, these Descriptions of your dwelling place. We pray that you will help us to understand The scope of redemptive history, the scope of all that you've been planning and doing from the beginning, to save us, poor, lost sinners, to make us yours and to be with us. Forever. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we're going to finish the book of Exodus today, believe it or not. You say, well, weren't we in chapter thirty-three last time? And there are forty chapters, yes. And we jumped over some chapters between chapter 25 and chapter 31. We skipped all of that material. But we're going to cover it today. So I don't know if we'll make it to the beach house or not. We will Have you ever begun a great novel? Someone says, Oh, you've got to read this novel. You know, so you get the novel and you open it and you read the first chapter and this you start to see the characters and the And the the dilemma that's set up in the novel, and then you're tempted. You're tempted. You're just gonna flip to the last chapter and see how it ends. Don't do it. There's so much in between that needs to be covered. But we're going to do that today here, in a sense. I found this to be the case. If you watch a great movie once and then you watch it again, you'll get more the next time. And you watch it a third time, you'll get more that third time. Same with some of these great novels. So what we're going to do is jump to the end a little bit so that we can understand what we see here in Exodus, what we understand about the tabernacle. God gave description of the tabernacle twice, once before the golden calf sin, and again after the golden calf sin. And he did it in great detail. It took up 12 chapters. That's about as much territory as it took to tell the whole story of God's delivering his people out of Egypt. So it must be important. So why would we jump over it? Because we want to understand it. We want to see it. We want to be able to grasp the scope of it. And we need to get to the end so that we can then go back and fill in the gaps and understand the details better in the future. The essence, listen to this, the essence of the tabernacle in all forms is this: God dwelling with man In communion and fellowship. God dwelling with man in communion and fellowship. So with that mind in mind, we're going to skip to the end In Revelation chapter 21, we're going to see the future and final form of the tabernacle. There in 21, Revelation 21 Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. And the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. And the sea was no more, and I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband And I heard a loud voice, and when you hear a loud voice, you need to pay attention, from the throne saying, and what did that voice say? It said an echo of Leviticus 26, 11 and 12. It said, Behold the dwelling place at his tabernacle. The dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God Himself will be with them as their God. That sounds like Leviticus 26, where God says, I will make my dwelling among you. And my soul shall not abhor you, and I will walk among you and be your God, and you shall be my people. And here it is in its final state. The tabernacle of God has come down from heaven and it fills the whole world. And we see here that the final tabernacle is a city with 12 gates. That means there's great access to this city. And we see that this city is a bride. The bride, come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb, it says in Revelation. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain and showed me the holy city Jerusalem of God. Its radiance is like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal. And then it describes the walls and the twelve tribes and the gates all around the city for access into the city. And then verse 14. And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. So what we're getting here, folks, is a city. which is a gold cube. A city which is a gold cube. And we look at the tabernacle in Exodus and we find out that the In the holy of holy places, which we read about, there is this gold box. It's gold on the outside, gold on the inside. It's made of wood, but it's overlaid with gold. And it is called the footstool of God. He has a throne in heaven, and his feet rest on this gold box. And we see in Revelation 21, the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city, and its gates and its walls. The city lies four square, its length the same as its width. So we see this city, which is a cube, which comes down, and it is the tabernacle of God in its final and finished form. And then it says in verse 21, and the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass. In other words, gold to the tenth degree, the tenth tower. And we see in Isaiah 61 that the Lord says, Thus says the Lord, heaven is my throne and earth is my footstool. This holy place is God's footstool, and it's on earth. Let's put those things together as we look at this vision of the final form of the tabernacle. The final Ark of the Covenant in the holy place is going to expand, you see. It's going to expand to encompass what? All of heaven and all of earth. It's going to come down from heaven and fill the whole world, this holy place of God. The final tabernacle is a place for the forgiveness of sins and communion with God. God will be with his people. He meets with them there. He forgives them there. He doesn't abhor them there. He loves them there. And then we see the descriptions go on, the multiplication of beautiful pictures. No need of the sun. Why? Because the Lamb is the light in the city of God, as we often sing around here. From Revelation 21. And reconciled sinners dwell in perfect communion with God in this holy of holy places that will come down Now, as we look at the end and we've seen how it's going to be this magnificent holy place of God which will explain Expand, and we will live in it, and it will be gold inside and out, and glory everywhere, and the forgiveness of sins forever. Let's go back to the past tabernacle for a moment, the Israelite tabernacle described in the Again, twelve chapters of description. It must be important. Well, let's remember this, that in Exodus 33, God had threatened, and I just preached about this recently, God had threatened not to dwell with the Israelites. He was so disgusted with them. They had taken a wedding vow to be his bride, but he was now so disgusted with them that he said, I'm not sure if I can stand to be with them. And he said, I'll go ahead of them. And Moses said, no. If you won't go with us, we're not going. And so Moses interceded as Christ, and God relented. Remember, tabernacle means tent. It means place of dwelling or sanctuary. And we don't want to think of this as just kind of a tent for church gatherings, like some churches have had a tent occasionally. There's a tent up on Route 4 going north toward Prince Frederick It reminds me of that kind of an idea. But instead, the tabernacle in Exodus was a sacred place where God chose to meet his people, the Israelites, during 40 years when they wandered in the desert under Moses' leadership. The tabernacle was first erected in the wilderness exactly one year after the Passover, when the Israelites were freed from Egyptian slavery. It was a mobile tent They would have to pick it up and move it from time to time. The furniture was portable, it was not fixed. And wherever they pitched camp they had to set up this tabernacle in the midst of the camp. Because God had said, yes, I will dwell with you. So they set it up in the center of the camp, and all the tribes were gathered all around this tent. In Exodus 25, verse 8, God finally relents and says, make a sanctuary for me, and I will dwell among them. That's what this This Then he says, Then I will dwell among the Israelites and be their God. They will know that I am the Lord their God who brought them out of Egypt, so that I might dwell among them. In Exodus 29. So God dwelled among his people in their tabernacle in the wilderness. And here's two more things that we need to remember about it. He appeared. in his presence as a pillar of cloud over the tabernacle by day, and a pillar of fire by night in the sight of all Israel. The people would not set out on a new journey unless the cloud lifted and unless the fire lifted. It was an unmistakable visual depiction of God's presence among them. his people. Well what was this tabernacle, this tent like? It's described, first we have an outer court. an outer court, and any Israelite would be allowed to go into this outer court. Has high walls, tent walls. But there's one door into it. It's the east-facing door. So an Israelite would have to come in that east-facing door, could come in, and there would be immediately in his sight an altar of burnt offering. Where all the animals that would be used in sacrifice would have to give their life. And then there would be a bronze basin, a great big kind of birdbath sort of thing, for washing. For those who would go further in would have to wash themselves. And if they went further, they would go into the what's called the holy place. That's the next level in, another east-facing door. And as soon as they came into that place, and it wouldn't be just any Israelite, it would be the priests, there would be a light in that place. There would be a menorah, you know, the seven candle uh labbra thing that you see it in the in the The wintertime among Jewish people, the menorah. It would be on the south side as they came in, and then off to the north would be a big uh big table full of bread. uh showbread depicting the provisions that God would give to his people as he lived in their presence. And then there would be one more thing be before them as as those went in. It would be a an altar of A place representing prayer and acceptance with God. Then there would be another door for one more entrance But this place could only be entered once a year, and only by the high priest, who would have the name of Israel's tribes. On his forehead. And this is the most holy place, or the holy of holies. This would be the place of grace, the place of atonement, the place where you have that box, the Ark of the Covenant, a gold box And the priest would come in and he would sprinkle the blood of that yearly sacrifice on that gold box with angels looking over the top of it. The Ark of the Covenant was where God's justice and judgment towards sin was satisfied. It's referred to almost 200 times in the Old Testament. And again, in Exodus 25, it is described this way. this gold box, and there I will meet with you, and I will speak with you from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim, which are on the Ark of the Covenant. And in 1 Chronicles 28, we find out that this is the footstool of God Because there it's describing King David wanting to build a temple. It says, Then King David rose to his feet and said, Hear me, my brothers and my people. I had it in my heart to build a house of rest for the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord and for the footstool of our God. This ark is the footstool of God. This is where God comes down. This is where heaven and earth are met. where the forgiveness of sins takes place, where God dwells with his people. And David wanted to make a permanent home for it later on in history. The Hebrews tells us that the tabernacle was a model, a miniature. Of the heavenly sanctuary. Why did it look this way? Why did it have to be done just so? Why were the descriptions so precise? Because it had to be just like the one in heaven. And we see that as we look way back, we see another tabernacle, the first tabernacle, the way long past original tabernacle. Tabernacle. Let's take a look at that for a moment. We see that in the creation account, where God, who is the master builder of the universe Is described as building the universe in Genesis chapter 1. God speaks into existence, and this comes into existence, and that comes into existence, and he calls things into being And then in Genesis 2, we see this description. When no bush of the field was yet in the land, and no small plant of the field had yet sprung up. For the Lord God had not caused it to rain on the land, and there was no man to work the ground, and a mist was going up from the land, and was watering the whole face of the ground Then the Lord God formed the man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature, and the Lord God planted a garden. So this is the crown of this whole creation. planted a garden in Eden in the east, and he put the man whom he had formed there And out of the ground the Lord God made to spring up every tree and every everything that is good for food, and then this. And the tree of life was in the midst of the garden. So you have this whole creation, the cosmos, then you have the earth and dry land, and then you have this garden. In east, and then you have within that garden you have this this tree that the tree of life And then you had God dwelling with his people, meeting with them, walking with them in the cool of the day. And giving them the command, giving Adam the command to guard this garden, this holy place. Don't let anything evil come in. Guard it. Keep it. Take care of it. What is all this? What is this? This is the first tabernacle, the original tabernacle that God made. Heaven and earth are very much alike, you see. In the garden, we see the inner court. The inner court. And in the midst of the garden, we see the holy place. And then we see in the middle of the holy place the tree of life, where God communes with his people. And what is that Ark of the Covenant in the garden? It is God Himself. God Himself is the most holy place. That is the place where God meets. And what happened when Adam sinned? What happened? He didn't guard the garden, evil came into the garden, God's words were forsaken, and he was cast out. Which way? East. There's only one gate into this garden, and it's east. So that's what you have in the tabernacle, you see. An east gate. The way back is in that east gate. The tabernacle was the dwelling and meeting place where God, the builder and creator, met with man and dwelt with man in communion until the intruder entered. And Adam was supposed to guard the sanctuary, but he failed. So he was now cast out, and angels are put in his place, guarding the way in at the east gate. So you see, I hope you can put these things together, there is the final form of the tabernacle, which is an amazing picture. Then there's this Israelitish form, which we have in these chapters. And then there's the original, original form, which is the creation and the Garden of Eden and the Tree of Life and God Himself. And now what do we have at the present time? We're not in heaven yet. We're not in the Israelite economy anymore. We're not in the Garden of Eden. Where are we? We're in the presence tabernacle, brothers and sisters. Jesus Christ Jesus Christ is the place where God and humanity are met in one person. In the incarnation, God and humanity are met in one holy person, where there's a sacrifice for sin, where there's fellowship and communion in this one person, He is the dwelling place of God. And when you are come into union with him by faith, of which baptism is a sign and seal, you, you are in the tabernacle of God. God indwells you and you indwell God. The tabernacle of God is in our midst through Jesus Christ. The dwelling place in union with God for forgiveness and communion is in Jesus Christ. Christ. And that's what we see a little bit of in John chapter 1. John chapter 1. What does John do at the very beginning of this wonderful theological gospel? In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. Oh, that's the deity of this one. All things were made through him. Creation. Creation. And without him was not anything made that was made. God is the master builder being recalled here in the minds of the readers. And then in him in Christ was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness hath not overcome it. You think of that menorah. Christ is the light of the world. He is that seven candlestick candelabra. As you come into Christ, he enlightens everything. That's what John is saying. He says in verse 9, the true light which gives life to everyone was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. And then it says finally in verse 14, and the word became flesh and tabernacled. There it is. The word became flesh. The creator of the universe, the holy of holies, came down and joined himself to our human nature. The word became flesh, tabernacled among us, and we have seen his glory, the glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. And we see the same sort of wonderful descriptions which need to have meaning to us as we read them, not just be kind of exalted sounding language. Look at Colossians chapter 1, he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, for by him all things were created In heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, thrones, dominions, rulers, authorities, all things were created through him. He is before all things. And in him all things hold together. He is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. Then listen. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, to tabernacle. All the fullness of God was pleased to tabernacle. And through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross Christ, the infinite God man, is the tabernacle of God. He is our dwelling with God. And because of that Heaven will come down. That box, that gold ark will come down. The city, the bride will come down from heaven, glorious, and no evil will ever enter. And that is depicting Jesus Christ. And I want to point out one more thing as we think of these things. On the day of Pentecost, which we're celebrating today, it says in Acts chapter 2, when the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven the sound of a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting. And then it says, and divided tongues as of fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them. Now in the latter part of the 40th chapter of Exodus, it is described that fire came down upon the tabernacle of God. Fire would come down. And that was the sign of God's presence. What do we have here on this day of Pentecost? With this gathered people and these flames of fire that came down and rested on each one of them. We have this. We have God finally saying to his gathered church in Jesus Christ, in the tabernacle of God, God is with you. God's Spirit rests upon you. You are now the tabernacle. You are the temple of God. And that's what Paul says. In 1 Corinthians, he says, Do you not know that you were God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you? That's why the fires came down on the heads of the people on Pentecost. To say, God's Spirit is with you. God's dwelling is with you in Jesus Christ. And if that is your case personally, You will by faith be found in that final picture in Revelation 21 and 22. Where the angel says, his name is written on their foreheads. You and I are the priests of God. You and I go into the holy place. The holy place is with us in Jesus Christ. And we pray for the world because we are the priests of God's people. So you see, whether I described it all perfectly or not, it's all about Christ. It's all about Christ. He is the tabernacle of God with man for the forgiveness of sin. For communion. He is the goal of all creation. The whole creation will become the holy of holies. And you will not only be allowed to go in, but you will be there forever. You will dwell there forever. He is the key to your life, both now and forever. The blood of the covenant. Is his blood which was shed for you? The priesthood is in him and shared with you. And all the promises of God are yes and amen. in Christ Jesus. Brothers and sisters, do you reverence God? Do you reverence God? That's fairly easy to do once we've understood ourselves as sinners and ourselves as creatures to reverence God, to have a certain kind of holy fear of God. But another question is this. Do you love God? Do you want to be with God? God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit is such a gracious, loving, self-giving Savior. That he moved heaven and earth to be with us, to forgive our sins, and to have communion with us. Seeing what God has done and what God is going to do, how can anything possibly compete? For your love, for your gifts, for your time, for your devotion. It reminds me finally of this Phrase from the hymn when I survey the wondrous cross. Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life. My all. Instead of prayer at the end of the sermon, I'm going to ask that we just take a few moments of silence to consider your personal commitment to love and serve Jesus, who came to make his dwelling with you In the forgiveness of sins, creating the holy of holies for you. Let's just meditate and ask Him to help us understand this. Amen.