The book of Acts is uh an inspired account of the beginning of the church in its New Testament form. And of course, thousands of people have been And you know the story. Uh first three thousand are converted, later five thousand, and it's a honeymoon period for the Christian church. church. The Christians are in Jerusalem and really you see kind of the the the seminal aspect of church life everywhere. means of grace, the apostles' doctrine, the breaking of bread, which was the Lord's Supper and a meal like you had today, uh the fellowship, the gathering together. And interestingly the stated times of prayer, the prayers. You have the people functioning together, not with an enforced communism, but this these were brothers and sisters in Christ, and they they shared with one another, what they had. They they had prayed. You learn about church discipline with Ananias and Sapphira. That aspect of church life gets put in place. Opposition to the Christian church is in there. The formation of the diaconate in Acts chapter six. So all the basic stuff of this thing called the Christian Church is there. And then the biggie. Stephen is martyred. In Acts chapter 7, one of the deacons becomes the first martyr. And now that brings us to chapter 8 and beginning at verse Verse 1. Here is Saul, who would become Paul, who approves of the execution of Stephen. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria. Now, interestingly We'll come back to that. All the Christians are scattered throughout the regions of Judea, which would be the more subject. southern part of what we would know of as Palestine, Samaria, the northern part, except the apostles, devout men, buried Stephen. Note the pattern uh after after the death of a believer is burial, not cremation. Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him. But Saul was ravaging the church and entering house after house. He dragged off men and women And committed them to prison. If you get discouraged about the salvation of anyone, you go back to this church. If the Christians in the early church had their least likely candidate to become a Christian, his name would be Saul. And notice what God did with him. But that's for another day. In verse 8, now those who were scattered, that is all but the apostles, went about evangelizing Evangelizing, not preaching, but evangelizing the word. Let's pray together. And now, our Lord, we ask that you would, on a prolonged Lord's Day, open our minds to understand the scripture. Scriptures and see the wonder and the joy and the delight and the mission of an evangelizing church. In in every age and in every time and in every area, the church goes to heaven on two legs. One is the leg of purity of doctrine. To the extent that doctrine is impure, that church will at best hobble to heaven. That's at best. But the other leg is equally important. None of us wants to run on one leg. And that other leg is a zeal to win others. It's a zeal to win others to a person. It's a zeal to win others to a kingdom. It's a zeal to win others from the way of death unto the way of life. It' most important zeal any of you can have. And that's what I want to deal with this evening. The evangelizing church. And and the way the way I want to deal with it, and this is remarkable because I'll this will be even quicker than the morning, but it's five points. See, you you all, I know as a church, I've spoken with Pastor Kathy and spoken to Pete, and incidentally, I want to thank you for your wonderful hospitality to us while we do been here, it's been great. And your fish in this area is absolutely outstanding. My first pastor was in the seafood capital of the East. coast, McClellanville, South Carolina, and we learn to appreciate really good seafood. This is at least as good as the seafood capital of the Southeast, if Not even better. So thank you for that and your hospitality. But tonight in an area in which you you may see some other churches growing, uh increasing attracted culture. And tonight I just want to encourage encourage you and and hopefully motivate you about the the delight of an evangelizing church. And here's here's here's the five points. Number one, the message. And that's real simple, but it's very profound The message of an evangelizing church. And then in the second place, the motivation for an evangelizing church. And that's also very simple, but it's very profound. found. The third is the one I really want to focus on, and it is the mindset of an evangelizing church. I just want to whet your appetite. We are very, very defensive about our evangelistic outreach. But in Reformed Churches, uh the the great dynamo of reformed churches The fourth point I want to give you the motivation or Rather, in the fourth place, I want to give you the multiple costs of evangelism. And then the last one that a very positive note, the might. The might of an evangelism. evangelizing church. Okay, so let's let's look at it. Let's look back at the text here. Now those who were scattered, that's everyone but the apostles and And of course, uh there were many Christians that remained in Jerusalem, but probably those who finally had to go back to their home countries left. And uh they were scattered and they went about evangelizing the word, not preaching. Now there are there are those in our circles, and they're very well-intentioned, I know, and and and they're very jealous to guard the fact that the only one who preaches is the minister. And in a very technical way, that's true. When Pastor Cathy was installed as your pastor here as a minister, he was given a commission to be the capable Keruks. He was the he was the proclaimer. He is the voice of the one who was the great king, which is what a Krux is. He's one who he's one who who preaches. ambassador, and he is that one. As wonderful as your ruling elders and deacons are, as you are, you're not commissioned to preach. And people say, and there's truth in it, the one that is to preach the gospel is the minister. But there's some who go further with that. And they say the only one who is to tell people about Jesus is the minister. And with all due respect to people, this is the New York and me, that's a lot of baloney. Okay? Here's why. This word is the word that simply means good Good news. These people went telling people good news. The good news is not you're going to go to hell. That's not good news. The good news is here the way to go to hell. And these were people who were so baptized into the good news of Christ they couldn't help but speak. I love marriage. And I love my wife and I don't have any problems telling people how beautiful and wonderful my wife is. And that's what evangelism is. It's good newsing it about the message of evangelism, which is very simple. Christ and his kingdom. That's the message of good using it Christ and His kingdom. The whole Bible tells you about the Lord Jesus. Jesus opened up in all the scriptures. And in all good newsing it, you are telling people about Christ and about his kingdom. You say, What does that mean? We could go on and on and on and on about that. We won't, but what's your appetite? Jesus is the altogether lovely one. He's God and he's man. He's the Savior. He's the great lifeguard. He is the one who rescues us from the wrath to come. For our ignorance, Jesus is the great prophet. For our guilt, he is the great priest. For our weakness and for our waywardness, he is the great king. And his kingdom gives you what are your deepest desires. Isn't it interesting? People talk about having peace. Well, you'll never get peace in this life the way you'll have it in glory. People want happiness, they want joy. You'll never get that happiness in this life. this life. People want a sense that they are reconciled to God and others. They're longing for heaven and glory. They'll never get it in the things of this. life. And if you listen very carefully to the people to whom you are speaking as you are good newsing it about Jesus. And you first Of all, listen to them. You will inevitably get an inroad so that you can tell them about who Jesus is and how wonderful He is. Do you do that, folks? Even to say something like, I want to tell you about the most wonderful person in the universe, and his name is Jesus Christ. You're looking for a lovely, handsome man. I want to tell you about the one who truly is the altogether lovely one. Or people will say to you, my life is so messed up, I can't get And to tell people Jesus has grace poured upon his lips, and there's no one that he can't and won't help when And they come to him in humble faith and repentance. Folks, that's where it begins. The evangelizing church is a people who are captivated with Jesus. And I think I think that's why those who are converted a little bit later in life or after they've gone through some of the real rough uh level four rapids of life. God converts them and they realize what Jesus is to them. They have no problem telling people about But whatever your state and your conversion, how you came to Christ, the message is about Jesus. When it says in here, they went everywhere, good newsing it, it's the good news about Jesus. He's the message. Now, what's the motive? It's love. The motive is love. People outside of Christ are heading for hell. fast. And you don't know, and they don't know, that they won't be in hell the next morning That's the reality. And good newsing it, in the words of Jude, is saving others. And reformed people sometimes are backwards. about that. Jesus says, he does. He uses you to do it. My wife was trained as a lifeguard. And my wife did not, when she was going out to rescue someone, say, Lord, please rescue that person, and not put out the greatest effort to actually save that person from the riptide. The foreign people are very weak in saving people from the riptide. Your responsibility with people is to pray for them, to deal with them, to encourage them, to correct them, to draw them, so that when they come to Christ, yes, it is all of grace. But it's also the fullness of your instrumentality. It is love to save your child, your spouse, your parents, your neighbors, your schoolmates. Not only love for others, it's love for the church. You love to see the gifts and the abilities of these people you're ministering to. to harness so that they are part of a church in which those gifts are the way the ministry of each local church develops. I'm so impressed With your musical gifts. Tom, I listened to some of your sacred music and I was so moved by it. God not only saved you, He harnessed is the word, those gifts. He's got them in his victory train. And those gifts, while they're for the benefit of many believers, are gifts that are exercised. Through this church. That, Pastor Kathy, is part of the outreach God has ordained for this church. And it's a beautiful thing. Now, how you do it are things that you wrestle with. But it is love you want to see You had it. Beautiful hymn. It's kind of the battle hymn for Reformed Churches, 469. We long to see your churches. Full, and all your chosen race may with one heart and voice and soul sing your redeeming grace. Do you love that, folks? See you love to see. Why? Well these are people these are people these are people who live and move and have their very Being in God. You realize no one would have the next heartbeat if it's not for the Lord Jesus Christ Who upholds all things by the word of his power, his powerful word. And it's our love and our concern for others and for the church That we tell people you need to turn to that true and living God. Could you imagine? Could you imagine being at the day of judgment? And you were before the God who caused you to be conceived, which is when life began, superintended every part of your gestation. Gave you every breath, every privilege, every drop of water, every movement of each cell, every beat of each cell. Each heart all the time. For however many years you lived. Could you imagine being someone who dies in a state of unbelief And then stands before God. Brothers and sisters, they'll pronounce their own condemnation. It won't be an unjust God pronouncing it. It'll be a person who's utterly honest. Your role in evangelism is to call people from the denial. Of God and being what Paul calls atheists in the world, to being thoroughgoing followers of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and incidentally your worship not incidentally, but your worship that is so permeated with God is what fuels you each week to go out into the world with the motivation of love. See others, but you not only love for others in the church, it's love for God. What's God's mission? His mission is why you're here tonight. His mission in a fallen world is to see people of every tongue and tribe and nation. turned from self-centeredness to God-centered. What is grace? It takes a self-centered sinner and makes him a her her a God-centered saint. And that that's God's that's God's dynamo. That's God's mission. That's God's work. And you're among the platoons. that he sends out to be linked up with his heart and mind, because of his love for others. He so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him might not And when that message throbs in you out of a love for God, you you you will you will have the motivation as well as the Message of an evangelizing church. Now that brings us in the third place to the mindset I find it very interesting that most of the life of the early Christian church was in harmony. Homes. You read up till this point that the people were daily in one another's homes, and they would have met in one another's homes, and they had their meals in one another's homes. And it was it was a a home driven movement so that even in the early church Most evangelists, remember, Christians didn't have buildings for many, many hundreds of years. They were in homes They were in homes in which by God's grace you had husbands who loved their wives as Christ loved the church, giving himself for them. And you had wives who submitted to their own husbands of the Lord as the church submitted unto them to Christ. And you had children who were brought up in the homes who were meant to be models of the spiritual children which we all are. And you had in those homes the feeding and the discipline and the joy and the communion That was meant to be what a Christian home is. And that, brothers and sisters, is your mindset in evangelism. It is our great, may I put it this way, secret weapon in reform churches. What do we emphasize? Oh you're the ones that baptize the babies. That's right. We house we baptize whole house. I love it with my dear baptism. I'm a New Yorker. We're never on the defensive about anything. And so, you know, our Baptist friends say, you know, why do you baptize babies? We say, no, wait a minute. You want to have a New Testament church, right? Oh, absolutely. We want to have a New Testament church. Well, the New Testament speaks more of household baptisms than it does of individual baptism. When did you last baptize a household? Oh, we baptize households when they all believe. say that. But the very point at which you begin to have household baptisms among Gentiles, Lydia and the Philippian Gentiles, Jailer. It does mention the faith of a Lydia or a jailer. Specifically does not mention the faith of everyone. The text says in in Acts chapter sixteen that that the whole family was baptized and they rejoiced, he, the jailer, having believed in God. The Holy Spirit has so authored the New Testament that you can't be a Baptist and really interpret all the scriptures properly. There you go. That's the best. That's the best best defense is a good offense. Well why do I say that? Not first that we emphasize the baptism of households though we do. The household is the basic unit of the Church. And the household is our secret weapon in a culture in which households are being fragmented. And if you and I will have the mindset that to be, again the words of the text, an evangelizing church Church is a church that shows the hospitality of God, our evangelism will be transformed. Now you're going to have to come to the next part of this message to know how it's going to be transformed. Let's just deal with the mindset. What's the gospel? God the Father invites us into his house. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. The church is the house of God, the church of the living God. We are the household of God's people. And he gives you a great elder brother. Isn't this neat? Your elder brother is the Lord Jesus. Wouldn't everybody love to have our older brother brother being Jesus. You probably get upset with your older brother, not with Jesus. He's perfect. And that that elder brother, the Lord Jesus, when you believe in him, that that's how you can become an adopted child of God. God. You become children, you become sons in the Son of God. And in the house, the Father says, I promise to feed you. And I do promise to discipline you. And I promise to give you everything necessary for your nurture. And you know what you're dealing with in your culture? We deal with it very literally in New York And I'm sure you deal with it here too. Homeless people. You know what a tragedy it is to be homeless? Can you imagine, young people, what it would be like to be homeless? Believe it or not, in New York City Underneath the subways, which are already underneath the ground level, underneath the subways, there is a whole, there are communities of homeless people who never ever come to the surface. And they have very poor diets. In most cases they don't even know who Their parents are, or their parents are so dysfunctional that they're not helpful to them. They live the lives of vagabonds, and they are without any hope. Hope that they may even make it above the ground. That's a metaphor of what you're dealing with in our cultural. People who have no idea what it is that God is the Father of His people, directionless people. Wandering in life. I love the little story that's a metaphor of our culture. A pilot comes on the intercom in the jet. And he says, I have very I I have good and bad news for you. Here's the good news. We are making tremendous time. Here's the bad news. I have no idea where we are That's our culture, folks. And it's a culture, as I mentioned this morning, that eats junk food. It eats garbage. Many ways. And it's a culture of people that doesn't know what loving family discipline is. In fact, that doesn't even know what gracious words are. It exists, but it doesn't live. And apart from Christ, the eternity that person faces is infinite Here's the mindset. I'm going to represent the hospitality of God in the home that God God has given me. Now, parents with young children, first of all, you want to work with your young children. There'll be opportunities later on to do more of this. That's the first group you work with. But for those of us who are a little bit older and we've have grown children or primarily grown children. Do you open up your house and have people come for a meal? And pray and have family worship. Yeah, well they're gonna think it's odd that we have family worship. No, it's odd that they don't have family worship. Because we're meant to give glory to God Do you talk very naturally in the home about what it is to be part of the household of God? Do you tell people this is a little picture, as imperfect as it is, of what the Christian Christian faith is all about. And let me tell you about a father who's infinitely better than I am as a father. And let me tell you about the church that my wife so beautifully represents in her life. As you watch our children, let me tell you what spiritual children. Yeah, really. Really. You talk to people about that because that is reality. And Michael Green's book, Evangelism and the Early Church, he beautifully develops this. That is the way the early church did evangelism. prostitutes into their homes. They had people who were very messed up into their homes. And they showed them the hospitality of God. Now that brings Us after you get the mindset of hospitality to the multiple costs. The multiple costs for being an evangelizing church You can give in one word. It's the cross. Evangelism costs. It's going to cost you personally. It's going to cost above all else personally your time. See, it's very easy to attract people With compelling music and an inspirational message. People love fascinating music and upbeat music and motivational messages. This is why Joel Osteen is so popular. It's a whole different world to form disciples. I've got a dear black brother who works with one of the drug rehabilitation groups. groups up in fr up in New York in Amityville. And I love that dear brother. He's not reformed in his theology. In his guts he is, but outwardly isn't. And we were talking about this might encourage you, Pastor Kathy, the time that it takes to form people into disciples when they come from really messed up lives. And here's Here's his line. He said, you know, there's a lot of people that like to catch fish. There's very few that like to clean them. You'd be a church that cleans the fish. And it does. It takes a lot of time. And if you don't see it now, you will. And I'm going to tell you when you will see it. You have a culture that torpedoes marriage And tinkers with God's design for the way people are to be raised. And you are going to have a torrent of people. Who are really messed up. And I'll tell you right now, the LGBT movement has no way To see those problems corrected. Christ does. Discipleship does. But it's going to cost. It's going to cost you losing friends. Friends, young people in particular, you show that you're committed to Christ, and you'll begin to lose friends. A religious fanatic. Let me tell you something, folks. This world is full of religious fanatics. It's just at the wrong religion. Show yourself as a passionate lover of Christ. And I'm going to tell you the big thing that's going to cost. It's going to cost you the price of losing the fear of man. As I work with young people and I love working with young people, I'm so thankful that to see you here. That's one of my great delight. I raised six, you just extend it and work it out in the church. Wonderful. I've learned so much from you young people. I told young people you're going to have two challenges that are the biggies. in your Christian life. One is just saying no to so many things you need to say no to. I'm going to tell you the big one. The great sports endeavor, the Sabbath Stealers. And in almost all sports today, you're going to have to play on Sunday. There's a simple answer, no. Christ is more important than my team. Doesn't say sports are bad. Sports are wonderful. Christ is greater. Just Saying no, as Paul says in the book of Titus, saying no to all ungodliness and worldly lusts. It's gonna cost that The other thing that's going to cost in removing the fear of man is this, and I want to be very, very careful how I say this, and you need to be very careful how you wouldn't But it's one of your going to be your big challenges, especially for young people. It's going to be telling the world and those you deal with. That the ideas are absolutely ludicrous, without sounding arrogant and haughty. The fool has And you read Romans 1 very carefully, and as it describes the kind of idolatry that marks our culture Paul says that produces a debased mind. A mind whose currency has no worth. And I don't want to overstate the point, but I've talked with enough PhDs in their field that I'm not saying something that is painting with too broad a brush. The idea that the complexity and the wonder of this world came as a result of an explosion of hydrogen that was just given enough time under the right circumstances, eventually producing people. balone. And part of the cost in telling others about Jesus is to be able to say that in Jesus is perfect. Wisdom in the world of debased thought is utter folly. Now be careful how you say it, not with arrogance, not with haughtiness. And if you're going to be a PhD, which would be wonderful, you're going to be even better at your field than others. But if your field is in science, rather than at the end of the day trying to rationalize silly unbelief, you're going to say, When I begin to see the intricacies of a molecule in cells. I don't try to reason how it got here through a big bang. I worship the Lord God who did it. Okay? So that costs. Going to cost in your home. Because hospitality, you're gonna have people in your home, people with tattoos, people with earrings that you never knew would have earrings in those areas. Two men or two women who live together or are married, people with drug problems, people People who've had sexually transmitted diseases, women who've had abortions, men who are completely fouled up because they've had no male images. You're gonna have message And I know what you're going to say, but I've got to protect my children. That's true. Never forget, greater is he was in you than The man of my generation, that I'm so thankful for, though I never met him, he was a missionary to our generation. He was an easy evangelist. He was a man who in St. Louis on Saturday nights would actually go to bars and take people out of bars and bring them into their homes that they had in St. Louis. and let them dry up and then bring them to church the next day so they could hear the gospel. His name was Francis Schaeffer. And God used that love of opening his home to give him a place called Lava Brie, the shelter in Switzerland, and Le Mans, Switzerland. And their evangelism came, yes, through Francis's Bible study. He said actually more converts were won through Edith's Cookies. than through Franz Sermons. But it was really neither of those. They opened up their homes, their chalets, to the really messed up kids of my generation. And they showed them the love of Christ. And they listened to them. They helped answer their questions. And they showed the reality of the message, Christ. They let their light so shine before others that people saw their good works and glorified their Father who is in heaven. What a tremendous Tremendous impact. You can do exactly the same thing. You open up your homes. But I'm going to tell you it's going to cost. There may be some furniture broken. People may throw up on your carpet. And your children may say, Why do they give those kinds of ideas? Great. You're showing that your home is a place in which you show the hospitality of God. And incidentally, it's costs in the church as well. Who are these new people coming to this church They don't look like Orthodox Presbyterians, whatever that means. They're sitting in my seat. Praise the Lord. And don't look down on him. We are so thankful to have you with us. This is Okay, that that's something that's something of the multiple cause. It's called a cross, folks. Cost money, cost time, cost thinking, costs breaking the fear of none. May cost receiving church. But praise the Lord Here's the last. I love it. The might. The might of this church. And you can read about it in the book of Acts. As these people went everywhere, good musing, that's probably the best translation. Or they went everywhere preaching or they went everywhere good using it. God attended that with his might. That's why it wouldn't be too long after this. That God would take hold of this one who was approving of the execution of Stephen and was responsible for the death. Of some Christians as he turned them in. Here's the might of an evangelizing church Saul is converted by Jesus, who is alive and at work. And it's interesting, this again, as I said, would be the last one the Christian church ever would have thought. Would be converted. That's the might of the gospel. God takes those of which you think it is the least likely that they would be converted And God shows his glorious might and he changes them. That transforms a church. Specific thing to pray for. Lord, get a hold of hearts, bring them here so that they're as it were in the spiritual birth canal and give them life. This is how brash. Pastor Kathy, don't be like this. And knowing you, you're not. I come to Franklin Square, and I am a bull in a China. in a shop. Still am, but maybe not quite as bad as a bull. Remember we had a lady in the church, I had mentioned the fact that the greatest miracle in the new Covenant. Greater things you will do than these if I go to my father. The greatest miracle in the new covenant is changing the heart. And it is. It's something we can't do. God takes out a heart of flesh. And he gives a heart of stone and it lives. That's what conversion is. It's a miracle. And one of the very dour Orthodox Presbyterian ladies said to me at the door, she said, We were taught to believe There are no miracles in the gospel age. And so Brash Bill said, maybe that's one of the reasons you haven't seen anybody converted in this church. But I did weather it out, Pastor Cathy. And I remember once in preaching, I love the text, Paul says in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, I was preaching to 1 Corinthians, the unbelieving and the ignorant are in your midst. Yes, unbelievers come to worship. They did come to worship even at the risk. At that time it was persecution and being persecuted. But something drew them there. Probably because they But the unbelieving and the ignorant are in your midst, and the thoughts of their hearts are exposed and falling on their faces. Confess, God is with you of a truth. That folks comes in the context of a worship in which God Is the focus. Why would they say God is with you of a truth if God wasn't the focus? And through the searching power of the Word of God, They are opened up with a spiritual MRI, and they're brought before the great physician as those who have the terminal illness of sin and death, and they know that only Jesus can give them love. Life. And in preaching through that text, I said, you know, if God were to bring into our midst in Franklin Square, and Pastor Cash The group was smaller than this one. Someone really under conviction of sin. Some of you would not know what to do. You'd think The person has a mental illness. Two weeks later, God brought a product of the 80s, a very beautiful Italian girdle. who had hot pants. I won't even tell you what they were, but put it this way, everybody had to force themselves to look at her face and not at other parts. of her anatomy and she sat in this area of the church. And God took a hold of her heart. And she was under powerful conviction of sin because of a powerfully, a very, very wicked life. People thought she was mentally sick. But God converted her, and that began to change the mindset of a congregation as they saw the might of the gospel in giving Life. That's what it does. And when you see it, there's no substitute. And it's not only the might of life, it's joy. It's glorious. You don't read much about the emotions of heaven, but you do read about this. There's more joy in the presence of the angels of God. God over one sinner who repents. Doesn't say the angels, although I'm sure they rejoice, and in other texts is that they do. Who's in the presence of God? Who's in the presence of God? presence of the angels. It's God Himself. God is the one who rejoices. He knows He's chosen them from the foundation of the world. He's decreed that they will be saved in history, that's what God rejoices. This has been another one snatched from the fire in the course of human history. Which is known to God from the beginning to the end, but is nevertheless real to him at every point. Here's another one who has been converted. And God and the angels rejoice in heaven, and that's reflected In the church. Ongoing biblical reformation. Mrs. So-and-so, Mr. So-and-so, Master So-and-so, Miss So-and-so has met with the session and has professed. faith in Christ. Next Sunday, unless there's any objection to that credit to the credibility of that profession of faith as we see it, that person will profess His or her faith. He or she stands, he or she goes through the bows and says, yes. And then we pray. Junk it. They cut an ad in the newspaper. And say, Mrs. So-and-so, Mr. So-and-so, translated from the kingdom of darkness and the kingdom of death and the kingdom of hell to the kingdom of light. I'm being for Facetious in one sense, and another sense I'm not. When a baby's born, you celebrate. When God brings new birth, you do exactly the same thing. And then people begin to say that joy God's doing something in that church and no it ain't the same thing God's doing in Joel Osteen's place. Because what you That's the might of the gospel. It saves people. There's joy. But even more than that, if there can be such a thing. It's the power of God that makes a new community, a colony of heaven in the midst of the earth. And that's the grand testimony. Of an evangelizing church. We call it revival. What is that? It's Ezekiel who sees dry bones representing Israel. And that doesn't represent The United States of America. It's Israel. It's the church of that time that is very much in need of a reliable life. And he preaches to the bones. And the bones move around. You have preaching in a church, and people will come, they'll listen, and they'll say, Good sermon, preacher. But they don't live. And so he is told, Ezekiel is, to prophesy to the Spirit. And the Spirit comes upon dry bones, and they live. And brothers and sisters, that's essential to an evangelizing church. These people in Acts chapter 8 had seen what the Holy Spirit did. As he converted on the day of Pentecost, many of them were converted on the day of Pentecost, and later they saw the work of the Spirit in forming new creation in the world. And at the end of the day, in the might of the evangelizing church, that's what people need to see The Holy Spirit, who gives a down payment of heaven to people, so working in a body of people, that people have to come and say, this is really supernatural. natural. And we go back to point one, you say this is because of Jesus. You know, when this place we really believe Jesus is alive and at work, right? So make a circle. Brothers and sisters, don't let the charismatics steal anything from us. A true charismatic movement is called the Christian Church. Because by the Holy Spirit we are converted, we're given the fruit of the Holy Spirit, we're indwelt by the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of the risen Christ, and you are the charismatic movement. And if you want to show what an evangelizing church is meant to be, you want the dynamo of it. In your prayer meetings, in your homes, in your worship services. In your personal devotions, you always, always, always pray for the work of the Spirit. That's what Jesus Jesus taught. Remember in Luke, when he says, hey, you ask your father for bread, he ain't gonna give you stone. He didn't use ain't, incidentally, but I'll do that so you'll listen to it. You ask your father for fish, you're not going to give you scorpion. How much more will the father give here's the curveball the whole Holy Spirit to those who ask. And my dear brother and your fellow elders, you pray for the Holy Spirit's work. And you wait and you watch. And when God comes upon a church and upon families and upon a community, With that reviving and converting work of the Holy Spirit. You won't have to have an evangelistic program. You've got it. Because you'll have an evangelizing church. One of my great, great burdens in life. Yeah, I'm not I'm not def I should have been in the military I don't I don't I don't even like the term retreat. I can't stand the term retreat. You don't retreat in the Christian life, Jesus was regularly withdrawing himself. So I'll speak of a strategic withdrawal. I'll go that far. No retreats, folks. Jesus is King. Jesus is Lord. He's on the loose, folks. And when it says the gates of hell will not prevail against the church, gates, folks, aren't nuclear weapons. Gates are doors. They're defensive. And the battering ram of the gospel is going at those doors of the citadels that the devil still unjustly holds. And you and I have got to believe over and over again that the battering ram of the gospel is going to break through. Because the gates of hell cannot prevail against it. Never be on the defensive. And here is my view of what an Orthodox Presbyterian Church ought to be. We ought to be out serving the Methodists We ought to be out-singing the charismatics. We ought to be out-preaching the Baptists. And instead of always criticizing the Arminians, we ought to be out-evangelizing them. That's what I want Grace and Peace, OPC to be. That's what I want all Orthodox Presbyterian churches to be. In fact, that's what I want all churches to be, in which case that all would be reformed, and wouldn't that be a glorious thing? But I leave you with that message, folks. Being an evangelizing church, glorious, glorious thing. Don't be discouraged. Don't curse the darkness. Remember, the light that lightens all people that comes in the world shines in the darkness. And the right interpretation: the darkness will Not overcome it. But in the midst of it for right now, you'd be a good lighthouse. There's something known from Acts chapter 8 and verse 4. His disciples that go everywhere giving the good news about the Lord Jesus. Let's pray And now our great God, send the Spirit, work in us, those of us who are older, those of us who are parents. And grandparents, and that even in older age we still bear fruit and flourish fresh and green in the courts of our God. Send the Spirit to parents as they raise younger children in this generation. We pray, our God, that you will give them faith that you will give them. confidence. Lord, remember your covenant with respect to our children and our children's children. And in that covenant, You promise that the Spirit who is on us will be in our children and our children's children. Lord, remember your promise. When Peter said the promise, is to you and to your children and to as many you and your children as the Lord our God will call. He was speaking of the promise of the Spirit. Grant him, grant him to young people in this room. And our God, we don't pray that this upcoming generation will be as zealous for Christ as we are. We are. May they outstrip us in their zeal for Christ the truth, Christ the life, Christ the way, Christ the altogether lovely one Christ the King, Christ the priest, Christ the prophet. Oh God, may they be a God-saturated people, a God-saturated people. Generation that says there's only one mediator between man and God, the man Christ Jesus. And our Lord, as we pray this for grace and peace, Orthodox Presbyterian Church Church. We pray that for the entire Presbytery of the Mid-Atlantic, for our own presbytery, for all the Presbyteries of the Orthodox Presbyterian in church. And in fact, we pray for all churches that truly call upon the name of Christ. We pray that you would so work in all of us that in the communion that we can have and ought to have we might know the length and the breadth and the height and the depth of the love of God that passes all understanding. We pray that, that you would do that by the Spirit. But our Lord, even as we pray for this, we don't pray that you would do what we ask. For fish, O God, who won't give stones when we ask for bread. Please, O God, fulfill your promise to grant the spirits Converting work, reviving work, sanctifying work, and glorifying work in our midst to the glory of your blessed name. Amen