Congregation, hear the reading of God's Word, Psalm eighty-four. To the choir master, according to the Githus. A Psalm of the Sons of Korah. How lovely is your dwelling place, O Lord of hosts! My soul longs, yes, faints for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh sing for joy to the living God. Even the sparrow finds a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young. At your altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God. Blessed are those who dwell in your house, ever singing your praise. Silah. Blessed are those whose strength is in you, and whose heart are the highways of Zion. As they go through the valley of Baca, they make it a place of springs. The early rain also covers it with pools. They go from strength to strength. Each one appears before God in the spring. Zion. O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer. Give ear, O God of Jacob, Sila. Behold our shield, O God. Look on the face of your anointed. For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. For the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord bestows favor and honor No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the one who trusts in you. The Word of God. Beloved Congregation of our Lord Jesus Christ. You don't have to go to church in order to be a Christian. At least you don't have to go to church to become a Christian. Yet, as Christians, you know that going to church is of great importance. Most folks in the United States of America don't go to church Forty percent never attend church at all, I'm told. And more weren't in a worship service last Lord's Day than were. For scores of millions of our countrymen, Sunday is a day to sleep in, have a continental brunch at Panera Bread. And then settle down, at least from September through January, for seven hours of gridiron confrontation. Interspersed, of course, with those endless and maddening commercials. Still, church services are considered boring. Irrelevant and worth neither the effort nor the cost. Now, if Christianity were purely an individual matter, If God hadn't given any instruction regarding church attendance, then the behavior described so far might be okay. But Christians are not isolated individuals who just happen to share a common destiny. They are the body of Christ. And God has given it instruction regarding his day for rest and worship. Truly, one of the chief blessings and duties of Christians as members of God's church is indeed corporate worship. Going to church. If there's anything you ought to do, it's that, isn't it? Well, there is a sense in which merely going to church misses the point of what we're about as Christians. You don't help people to understand their privileges and responsibilities as church members by merely hammering away at their lack of performance as worship service attendees. The Bible insists that you understand church members not so much as people who go to church. As people who are the church. Someone might suggest that Psalm 84, our evening text. Seems to encourage, if not command, church attendance. Yes, it does. But the New Testament counterpart of the Old Testament tabernacle. Is not the church worship service at all. It is Jesus Christ Himself He is the tabernacle of God among us. Thus, our text does underline for us the importance of our union with Jesus Christ. Use of the phrase going to church might betray a view of the church that lacks this biblical perspective. The church is not a building, folks, or even a worship service within that building to which one goes. Now, even here, that it is a duty needs to be stressed. You belong in church on Sundays. It is where God wants you to be. Here, meeting with him in this open and public manner, and together lifting up your hearts in praise and petition to your Heavenly Father. Here, where he will speak to you his word, and where he will bless you in a very special and very gracious manner. Here. in his house. But that n ought not to be all that could be said or thought. Yes, God wants you here. He commands it. But know that the God who commands his children also gives them the desire and will to obey his command. That is what characterizes the children of God. They want to do His will. The children of this world want to do what they want to do, and never mind the commands of God. If the two coincide on the surface, well, that's alright. But if there is a conflict, then the commands of God will be the first to go. But the Lord's people have borne in them a deep fundamental desire to obey him. That's what he gave them in his grace. Therefore, you may expect that when it comes to church attendance This desire will surface in the expression of your mouth, heart, and life. And that's exactly what you have here in this text, the 84th Psalm. In fact, this psalm is exactly a prayer, huh? To be allowed to go to church. Aloud. It is a cry to God from the depths of the believer's soul that God would make it possible for him, God's child, to get to the house of the Lord. Have you ever prayed such a prayer? Have I? Or do we bask so comfortably in an age of cell phones? And the internet that we take going to church for granted. But there were those times when you were kept away from church. And you didn't enjoy it, right? Those times of sickness or whatever that made it impossible for you to go to the place of worship on the Lord's Day. Maybe it lasted for weeks on end. And your prayer was exactly that of the psalmist tonight. My soul longs, yes, faints for the courts of the Lord But you know, beloved congregation, I think that this cry, this prayer, this desire should be welling up within you not only at those special occasions. When it is clear that you can't get to church, but really all the time. Oh, I know, sin dogs your steps. As mine. And the old man is constantly nagging and tugging at your thoughts. You will never attain a perfect longing and desire for the Lord and his glory during this your life But that is no excuse. Down deep the desire is there in every true believer, and it will never be lost. It's planted there by God, deeply rooted there. You are in Christ, and he is in you. That is why you need to hear the gospel message and all that it involves, time and again, week after week, all your life. Because your Christian life is to be one of growth in Christ. And when you think about being in church, then you must think of spiritual growth. Now, you're far from perfect. May the Lord help you to see that. And especially when you grasp a point of this Psalm, Psalm 84. Then you will come to the end with only one prayer on your lips tonight. Lord, give me more of this desire for you. And for your house. Yes, I'm here now. But oh God, I need to want to be here so much more. And God will answer that prayer and give you the desire of your heart. You may be sure of that. So tonight's proposition and theme from Psalm 84 is just this. It's a short one. It speaks of the blessedness. Of God's house for the believer. Note the sea laws in the psalm. They sort of outline this theme for us. So the first is the blessedness of being in God's house, verses one through four. Now there are a number of psalms about church. Twenty-seven, forty-two, forty-five Thirty three, sixty three, eighty four, and one twenty two. Look at verse nine Behold our shield, O God. Look on the face of your anointed. Someone who prays for David writes it and delivers it to the sons of Korah, the doorkeepers of verse 1. 10, in order that they might chant it in the tabernacle court. Now remember David's situation. David the anointed one, spoken of in verse nine. He has fled from his son Absalom, probably. And therefore he's away from Zion and the tabernacle of the Lord. He can't get there. And so he appreciates what's denied him. How lovely is your dwelling place, O Lord of hosts. Lovely. Why? Why lovely? Because it's where God comes down to David, not where David goes up to God. In church, God meets us. Did you realize what happened when Pastor Ed gave a salutation? That was God saying, I'm here. And do you know what he's saying when later I will pronounce the benediction? See you later. And meanwhile, be blessed. I hope that doesn't sound too cute to you. God's house is his dwelling place. They are his courts and they are his altars, says David. through the sons of Korah. Now, what's with this plurality? Corpse. Altars. Were there more than one? No. Only one tabernacle, only one altar of burnt offering. But the psalmist uses plurals for emphasis. These things fill his mind all the time. It's as though there were many of them. He longs for them. He literally in the Hebrew grows pale. The king is heart sick. Heart sick. Not for the palace or for some lost love, but for the house of the Lord. The courts of his Lord. Not his not David's courts. Although he is the nation's king. Priest, he's a common worshiper. The tent of the king is in his land He wants to be there. And so he cries out, My heart and my flesh sing for joy. His whole person is affected, his body as well as his soul. He feels badly because he can't And why does he desire that? Because he wants to be there when God comes to him. Now, there's the sparrow and the swallow, David says, and their nesting peculiarities. What's going on here? Is there An illustration here from actual fact? I don't know for sure. They certainly, those birds certainly could have been there near the tabernacle, why not? But the psalmist is not envious of the birds. He thinks of them and their happy nestling close to the place where he would like to be. And he is thankful that the same was true of him. He was like those birds, however, finding a serene blessedness there. And now, upon reflection, he is choked with emotion and cuts off his words, sighing for a place near your altar, O Lord Almighty. my king and my God. Remembering the blessedness which he had before there, he yearns for it again Over his prayer herd, and he could return to that nest. The blessedness Of God's house is clearly stated again in verse 4. We read it again. Blessed are those who dwell in your house, ever singing your praise. Here, the true worshipper is distinguished. His blessedness is to be found in his privilege. He is allowed. Oh, the wonder of it! He is allowed to keep on praising God. That the Lord God permits the psalmist to continue to call upon his high and holy name in praise and prayer constitutes the very apex of blessing. Notice it is not what the worshiper receives. This is interesting, isn't it? It's not what the worshiper gets It's not what enriches him when he goes to church, though that is abundant indeed in us. No, it is that which he is allowed to give. Worship and praise to God. That's what makes him blessed. Far from attendance at the tabernacle being his duty, the psalmist cannot fathom the gracious privilege it extends to him. But he feels it when it's denied him. Going to church, huh? Does the child need to be commanded to come to the table at meal time? I suppose possibly. If there's something great on TV But not usually or sometimes when distracted or when the appetite has been ruined. But going to the Lord's house ought to be no surprise to you, neither ought it to be a matter of specific command. The thing is, as we have it here in Psalm 84, that you are blessed when you are allowed to come here to worship. The question ought rather to be, what providential thing keeps you away, like what kept David away? Your attitude should be the same as that of the sons of Korah, as they speak for the psalmist. The house of God, the place of blessedness. Because there your Heavenly Father accepts, accepts the praises of you, his redeemed children. Is anything more gracious than that? Nothing. The God who is there invites you here. Where he comes. Church services are not gatherings of religious clubs. Church services are the home of God's family. Well that's the first point, the blessedness of God's health. Now the second point is the next four verses, verses five through eight. This speaks of the blessedness even of going to God's house. For Gene and I, it means coming over the bridge. This is a picture of the Israelite pilgrim making his journey up to Zion there to attend the service of the tabernacle. His path is as a shining light. He gets stronger as he goes rather than weaker. He doesn't tire, even though the trip is long and hard for him. Or in our case, if there's a blockage on the bridge. Because his heart is renewed within him, and he is inwardly strengthened. The Lord's light and truth dwell within him, and they lead him to the holy hill where stands the tabernacle of God. He needs no church bell, no direction whatsoever provided by man, for he is God's child, and he finds blessedness in just going to Zion. Therefore, and this is the poetic part of the psalm, even the physical way before him is agreeable and pleasant, whatever its actual state is. Is it the valley of Baca? You've got to know what that is. That's a very dry valley. Do I have to go through Baca to get to the tabernacle? There's not at all a good place in which to travel. Under the hot Palestinian sun, one would rather walk in a cool, shady, well-watered place, not Baka. But it's not necessary for the Lord's worshiper on his way to Zion, however. To him, Bakah is a veritable well. And the pools left by plenty of rain are all around him. You see again, it's because of where he is going. This person carries the church bell in his heart, and nothing can stand in the way. Soon I will appear before God. That's all the comfort I need. Obstacles melt and truly disappear. So should obstacles melt before you believe Going to church to see all excuses melt away. I'm just so tired this morning I went to church twice last week. Does that count then for one last week and one this week too? Sometimes the sermon is boring or over long. Beloved, you should not even think such thoughts. You appear before the God. Nothing unworthy should keep you. From appearing before him. Selaw. That's a rather short point, the second. Now the third The blessedness of putting God's house first. This would be verses 9 through 12 after that Silaw. Putting God's house first. For David, the sons of Korah, again speak for him. It is not only a matter of blessedness in God's tabernacle and on the way to God's tabernacle. To David, it is an incomparable blessing. He puts it first. He can find no duplicate of it elsewhere. Nothing can relate replace it or substitute for it. In his current situation, exiled as he is from Zion, David might have found many retreats in the world where he might have lived in safety and rest. There were many who undoubtedly would gladly receive David as a guest, a guest king under their roof, wouldn't they? Why then is he so greatly distressed? Because he puts God's house first. And without that, all the rest fail to satisfy. He would rather give up the whole world than continue away from the tabernacle. He felt no place delightful at a distance from God's altar. The Lord is David's God, and he lives but to seek after God. Thus he writes, One day in your courts. Is better than a thousand elsewhere. David would gladly exchange places with any of the humble sons of Korah and relinquish his kingship. Why? Because then he could stay forever by the portals of the holy place, the Lord's Mount Zion. The sons of Korah pray for the king. Do you notice that? Do you pray for your brothers and sisters? Some of them want to come, but can't. Others don't want to come always. Do you pray for them or just critique them? But notice the blessedness of putting God's house first. Verse eleven For the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord bestows favor and honor. No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly. God is a son. He provides us with life. God is a shield. He provides us with protection. God gives us favor. He forgives our sins. God honors us with his salvation. Where else but there with God can blessings like that be found? Do you know the comfort of belonging to God's house? Really, today? Listen to Ephesians. Chapter two, verses nineteen through twenty-two, which is sort of a commentary on our psalm. For through him, that's Christ. Well actually that's verse eighteen. We both have access in one spirit to the Father. Here it comes. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure Being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place. For God by the Spirit That means that you don't really go to church, you you are the church. That's what it says. Nothing can compare with God's house. The lowest place there is better than the highest among the godless. Only to wait at the door and peep in. To taste of those blessings is better than a vacation suite in Acapulco. Just to open the doors for the Lord is a greater honor than to be the king of Israel or the president of the USA. Now we come to verse 12, and that's actually the key to the whole psalm. Listen again. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the one who trusts in you. See, it is not a matter of just attending church meetings. The psalmist knows that even when he is deprived of that privilege, He is far from being altogether miserable because he is supported by the best of all blessings, even at a distance. The ways to Zion were in his heart. And most of all, he trusted in the Lord So for him, it was not mere formalism. He put the Lord's house first because the Lord was first in his heart. And I ask you tonight, my dear friends, where are your priorities? Congregation, this is not a pep talk. This is the Word of God. Do you hear the Spirit's message in this psalm? He would say to you who live in the New Testament age: Do you understand these things? Don't you see that the point of this whole psalm is to point us to Jesus Christ, our mediator? How is it that God chooses to accept your worship at all? How is it that he accepts you at all? For the sons of Korah and for David long ago, and for you, it is one and the same. Because you are united to Jesus Christ, who is himself the tabernacle of God among the people Men. The community of the Messiah, both then, thousands of years ago, and now, meet the living God only at that tabernacle The temple that is the incarnate Son of God. Yes, he is the anointed one, and here is the amazing thing: that he was exiled from the heavenly courts of God, Jesus was. That David could already years before only prefigure in our psalm Jesus was the one who could not know even like the birds so much as nest by the altars of God. He was utterly forsaken in order to open the way of entrance for you into the very presence of God. He was the one to whom the doors were shut. When he stood outside as a rejected one, in order that they might be flung open to the host of redeemed ones forever. And then when the psalmist longs for the tabernacle, and when you and I long to worship the Lord in church. It's because in what we are allowed to do now, we have a foretaste of what it will be like to live with God, our Redeemer, in the eternal day. Yes, we can go to church today because God looked upon the face of His anointed one, our wonderful Redeemer. Who himself opened the doors for us that he might usher us into the church, which is no building, no building. But which is a glorious family. No, you don't have to go to church. To be a Christian. That completely misses everything. You have to go to God to be a Christian. And how can you do that? Only by going to Christ. After that, going to church is actually an added blessing, blessing upon blessing Amen