The catechism does a wonderful thing when it presents question twelve to us when asking both what do we escape from And escaping from it, what do we return to? Salvation or deliverance is always a connected whole of those two things. You're being brought out of something for something. You know, for an example, you go and rescue a car from a salvage yard to restore it to its created glory, if you will, right? If anybody here likes to fix up old cars. God is rescuing us from the guilt of our sin, our fallen destruction, and our doom and hell to restore us and return us to his favor and our created glory, to image him as his sons in righteousness and in life. In Christ, we're rescued from sin, Satan, death, hell, and return to that glory that we're made for. Last time in the catechism, we saw that God has every right to hold us as his creatures to the claims of his law, even if we can't keep them. He has every right to do it, and he will. We also saw last time that God is very angry with sinners. And that God will punish sinners now. And eternity, because God has declared, cursed is everyone who does not observe and obey all the things written in the book of this law. And God keeps his word. He's just We also saw that God is both merciful, He is merciful, but He's just and these aren't in competition. His justice demands that sin committed against His Supreme Majesty Be punished with the supreme penalty, eternal punishment for body and soul. His law demands that. He demands that. His justice demands that And so you can then see, right, the predicament we're in as sinners. The catechism rightly says that we deserve punishment. both now and eternity. And we deserve it because we've earned it as lawbreakers. Sin is a biblical word, it's a wonderful word, but we always must remain what John says it is, lawlessness. When you hear sin, you need to hear criminal, and that gives us a better idea of what we are as sinners. Cosmic criminals committing treason against our God, rebelling against his just rule. We're not just helpless victims of a fall with a sickness and we can't help ourselves That's the world's idea of what of what we are. We're rebels. That's what we are now rebels And unless we want God to be unjust, beloved, then we must want Him to punish all lawbreakers. Then you can see that includes us. Have you ever seen a movie or read a book? Where a criminal has a change of heart and comes to see that he deserves his punishment. That is a wonderful and beautiful thing. We sung about it in Psalm 51. Have you come to see, beloved, that you deserve your punishment? Because if you have not, then you do not yet love justice. And we must love justice because the righteous Lord loves righteousness. You say, well what a what about mercy? Does he love that too? Yes. Very much. He loves mercy. And we must love that too. And then we think to ourselves, look, can we do both? Can we be just and can we be merciful? Do we have to pit one or the other? Do we have to deny justice so we can show mercy? Do we have to deny mercy so we can show justice? And then we get into the dilemma of, well, when do we know which one to pick? Maybe the answer is we should tange our mercy, our justice with mercy. And I think right as parents we all do that. We don't always give our children the extreme punishment of our parental laws, do we? We punish or discipline them in a way that is tempered with mercy. to correct their behavior, bring them back to the right path. But what about judges? That's how we act as private individuals. But but what if you're now called to fulfill the office of a judge in the land? Should they show mercy when they execute justice? If Allah says twenty years, should they give ten instead? And I think some of this depends upon whether they want to reform the criminal criminal or punish him flat out. You know, that gets into their idea of justice Is justice purely punitive or retributive? And that means payback? And in that case, the nature of it's destructive? You're just going to get what you gave. Or is it corrective? Or we want to punish to correct? Should serial killers who inflict untold suffering upon their victims Receive payback justice, just as much suffering as they gave, or corrective justice, to reform them to be good citizens again. These are big questions. And I'm not going to pretend to have the wisdom to answer them. But here's what I know absolutely from God's word. God's justice both punishes to correct, we call that discipline, and he does that to his children. It is done out of love, and it is tinged always with mercy. And God's justice is also payback justice. He rewards sinners in hell to destroy them. To inflict upon them the suffering, pain, and misery they inflicted upon others here. There are degrees of punishment with God and hell. Depending on what a person has done or left undone in this life. There are also degrees of reward with God in heaven, depending on what a saint has done. God is just He gives each his due. What kind of punishment is the catechism talking about here when it says that we deserve this punishment? It's talking about payback punishment. Destructive punishment. And that is what we want to escape from. The other The one he disciplines us with, we never want to escape out of that. He does it in love. He does it to correct us. And to not receive that punishment means you're really no child of his. But the punishment for sinners in hell is without mercy. Talk of justice Does this to us, doesn't it? It makes us squirm. It makes us maybe think bad thoughts of God. Maybe we don't want him to be so just, after all. It all sounds a bit extreme. Maybe he's not really the kind of God that I I want to know. Well, I'd hope to do one thing, beloved, this morning. To get all of you to want to know this very just God. Because he is very good. And to love him for his justice. I also want you to want him to be as just as he is. I want you to rejoice in his justice. I want you to find comfort in his justice. And I want you to want to be as just as he is. Justice should not frighten us. The punishment inflicts should enfrighten us when it's destructive. But not justice. Justice is good. Justice is very good. And God, the very good God, is a very just God. And that is a good thing. In fact, it is because he is so just that we can only be delivered from our sins by satisfying or paying the claims of his justice in fool. That's the only way And that's right, the the message to you this morning is that you and I, the sinners that we are, can only be delivered from our punishment which is not what we were made for, and return to God's favor, which is what we were made for, when God's justice is satisfied. Until then it cannot happen. That is the only way of deliverance. There's no other way but to satisfy the justice of God. In these questions, 12 to 15, the catechism really presents a wonderful sort of what I call God logic. If you know, logic leads you to a necessary kind of conclusion. 2 plus 2 has only one conclusion. 4. No other can't get to another number, can't get to another n God's revealed character, who He unchangeably is, necessarily leads us to one way of escape. And the catechism drives relentlessly at it. And the chief piece of it is this absolute requirement. To satisfy the justice of God. If you take it away, the whole scheme of salvation, redemption, crumbles down because at the end of the day, you don't need it The only reason we need Christ is because God's justice has to be satisfied in order for us to be delivered. Here's the argument, kind of in a nutshell. The argument goes something like this: that we can only escape punishment and return to God's favor when his justice is satisfied because God requires it. And this payment, therefore, it can either be paid uh either by us or by somebody else. We can't pay it because daily we increase our debt, and that is we have a larger payment. Another creature besides a human being can't pay it because God won't allow that. And a mere man, a mere means solely and only, a mere man. Can't pay it because a mere man can't endure the eternal wrath of God to deliver others from it. And therefore We need both a true and righteous man who is also God to be our mediator and deliverer. And that means we need Christ. The importance of the sermon is that we need him absolutely. God could say it in no other way. God did not have to save, but God wanting to save, he could say it in no other way. So we're talking about the how. The why is God's love. The why is God's goodness. The why is God's mercy. But how he does it and shows his love and mercy. Is in the satisfaction of his law by Jesus Christ, the mediator. So this makes the incarnation necessary And this should lead us to appreciate Christ all the more, to glorify God all the more, because they agreed. To take this very costly way to redeem us. And when it sinks into us that there is no other way, I think you really then understand the gospel. Really understand the exclusivity of salvation only by faith in Christ. Because unless you have a righteousness that can satisfy God's law, you are doomed. Forever. Period. So Christ is absolutely necessary for salvation. Alright, let's start looking at these together. We might start wanting to ask: well, why must God's justice be satisfied? Why must that take place before we can escape our punishment and return to his favor? And the answer given is because God requires his justice to be satisfied. And we ask, well how do we know that God requires that? Well he tells us in many places. Here's one in Exodus twenty-three Verse 7, God says, I will not justify the wicked. What does he mean? A wicked person has broken God's law. And therefore, God's law requires that he be punished. And God will not say otherwise, and God will not do otherwise. He simply will not justify the wicked. He will not treat a wicked person like he is good. If you are wicked, God will not treat you any other way. The justice that we are talking about here when it says God's justice requires this is God's law. That is what must be satisfied before we escape our punishment in return to his favor. His law must be satisfied. For God has said in Leviticus 18, 5, You shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments, which if a man does, he shall live by them. I'm the Lord. The law will reward you with life if you can keep it. And that's just And that's satisfying the law. And we believers in Christ, we are rewarded the life that the law promises because Jesus kept God's law for us. Romans 5. 18. Even so, by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. God's law, satisfied by Jesus. He's just. It is perfectly just for God to reward you and me who believe in Jesus with life. In Christ, but only in Christ. His righteousness, Jesus's, is ours by faith. Can you see how good it is that God is just? What Jesus deserves, we get, because he took what we deserve. That's God's mercy, but it's also his justice. It is good that God is just. If, however, you break God's law, well you must receive the punishment of God's law. That's God's justice being satisfied too. For God has said in Deuteronomy 27, verse 26: Cursed is the one who does not confirm all the words of this law by observing them. The law will punish you if you break it. We escaped our punishment because Jesus was punished in our place. He did not escape the punishment. God's law was not left unsatisfied in our salvation. God will never punish us to destroy us everlastingly, those in Christ, because he punished Jesus, and his law was satisfied, paid up Don't you see how good and comforting God's justice is? You can rely on it. You get what you deserve with God, and you can know what you'll get. You'll get wrath for disobedience, you'll get life for righteousness. Therefore, take the righteousness of Christ. Just they don't have to answer me. Have you ever thought that way though? Has the justice of God ever been a source of comfort to you in that way? Of his absolute reliability. That he is going to deal fairly with you according to that law that's not going anywhere. It should bring you great joy that God acts that way and acts justly. It's so fair, it's so right, it's so good, it's so pleasing, and it makes his grace so wonderful. So you can see there's there's two ways to satisfy God's justice shown in his law. You either obey the law and receive its reward. Or suffer its punishment when you break it. Either one of those satisfies the justice of God, which must be satisfied, because God requires it. And why God requires it, and why it has to be satisfied, because otherwise God would cease to be God. There are a lot of things that God can do, but there are some things God cannot do. God cannot tell a lie. God cannot deny himself. God cannot tempt someone to sin. And God cannot change himself. And something else that God cannot do is tear up Islaw. Because if he were to tear up his law, it would just be to tear himself up. His law is the expression of his unchanging justice. He must reward righteousness. I mean our we do that as citizens. People that do good and right, we praise them and reward them. He must punish lawbreaking. He must. Theologians call these things of God that can't change his perfections. Something that is perfect can't change, right? Otherwise it's not perfect. If you add to it, it wasn't perfect. If you take from it, it was not perfect. If you take away God's law, then it was not perfect. If you add to God's law, it was not perfect. And that just means that God's not perfect because his law is a reflection of himself. It expresses his unchanging justice. And here I want to tell you three things that God's unchanging justice, what that means. I've already mentioned one, but there are two others. One thing that it means that God is unchangingly just, His justice, when we say, Oh God, you are just, which is said almost everywhere in the Bible, it means that God Himself is just. Psalm 119, 137. Righteous are you, O Lord. God's justice means that He Himself is just. That's what He is. Just. He can't be anything else but just Now he's merciful, he's loving, and I know we can only look at these at one at a time, but there's a perfect harmony of all these. They're not in competition. His love is not in competition against his justice and all these things. God is just Second thing that it means that God's is what it means by God's justice is that God's dealings with His creatures, with you and me, is just. Deuteronomy 32, 4. For all his ways are justice. God's justice refers to him dealing justly with his creatures. Giving every man his due, as Psalm 6212 said every song, and Paul quotes in Romans 2 verse 6 God either gives man the reward of the law or he gives man the punishment of the law. He is absolutely just And third, as I mentioned, God's justice is his law as a revelation of his justice. Psalm 119, 142, your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. Your law is truth. God's justice refers to his law, and God is just because God acts in strict accordance with his law. That's what it means for you and I to be just, right? There's a law. Our land's put out a law. If you don't break the laws of American land, you're just in the eyes of that law. God acts in accordance with his own law. He's just. Truth there, when it says your law is truth, means your law is sure. And why is God's law sure? Because it's not changing. And why is it not changing? Because the righteous God is not changing. He's the one who determines what the law is, and since he's not changing, neither is the righteousness of his law. Just a quick thing. Psalm 119, if I were to ever write a book or preach on that psalm, I would call it My Regenerate Heart I read Psalm 119 and I just see myself revealed, wanting to keep it, struggling and can't, asking for God's help, trusting in him, desiring to fill this. It's a beautiful psalm. all about the justice and law of God. It's wonderful. Congregation, this is what I need you to know. I need you to know that there will never be another righteous standard to live by other than God's law I need you to know that. If you don't already know that, there will never, ever, ever, ever be another righteous standard to live by. God even promises of his new covenant. What's he going to do with his law? He's going to put it in your heart and write it in your mind. There is no other standard to live by. Now I'm talking about the moral law. And all the instances and the political law aren't necessarily binding, but the general moral principle behind those are, I'm not talking about the cultic worship. I'm talking about the moral law There is, period, no other standard for right and wrong. God's law is simply either just or it's not just. And if it's just, which it surely is, then it remains forever. Psalm one nineteen eighty nine Forever, O Lord, your word is settled in heaven. And that whole psalm is a meditation on God's law. Jesus Himself, our Lord, says in Matthew 5. 18, Forsuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, another way of saying never. One job or one tittle, think about the I dotting an I or crossing a T will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. And the question is What does Jesus mean thereby? Fulfilled. It means four things. One, it's fulfilled in him. Jesus kept it, Jesus suffered it. Two, it means that it's fulfilled by him. He rules by it. What do you mean he rules by it? It means upon his enemies, he fulfills its curses, inflicting the punishment of the law upon them Curse it is everyone who does not continue. Paul says that's still true. That's why you need Christ to redeem you from the curse. Jesus rules by his law. He will inflict the law's punishment upon his enemies. Fourthly, it means that He fulfills that law in us by His Spirit, working the righteousness of that law in our hearts He rewards our good works done out of faith for God's glory and in accordance with his own law. We'll have a whole sermon on that when we get to gratitude, what good works are But God rewards our good works, imperfect, weak works, because he's accepted us in Jesus. And he promises to reward our works, because he is just Everybody gets their due because God is just. And I know you're thinking, well, why don't we get our due for what our sins deserve? And that's because the claims of God's justice have been paid in full not by ourselves, but another Jesus. That's question twelve in a nutshell But let me say one thing and then I have a few other things I want to say, but what what has to be cemented when what I'm driving at, beloved The whole teaching on the atonement, the Bible's teaching on the atonement, the whole understanding of that atonement by the Reformed Church falls to the ground and crumbles. If God's justice doesn't have to be satisfied. That what that first statement that it says about God requires his justice to be satisfied I want that to be absolutely cemented in our brains. That that if you take that away, you take the whole thing away. We just simply don't need Jesus. Why did he put him through that if he didn't have to do it, if there was another way But I want to say a couple things before we finish looking at the last few questions. One of the things is this. Jesus' kingdom would not be much of a kingdom without a law, right? Wouldn't it be very just As you may know, that the ancients spent a lot of time thinking and writing about what makes for a just society. Fair, good, upright, and there are plenty of people still today, right, arguing about what makes for a just society Why why is it in the Bible we read, why why do kingdoms of men fall? They're unjust. And God punishes them. Why is it the God kingdom endures? It's just. Psalm 89, 14. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. The foundation of it. You take away God's justice, his throne crumbles. He is just like any other throne. Unjust. And therefore, he's got to suffer the punishment of his own law. It's the foundation of his throne, his righteousness. Paul says of Jesus, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. Scepter of righteousness is the scepter of your kingdom. You love righteousness and hate wickedness. God's people as well love righteousness and hate wickedness. And I hope we're learning to do that at least, because that's a big part of sanctification, is learning to love what is right. And to hate what is wrong. Over this past year, God by His grace, He's done a helpful work in renewing my mind. How many of you have ever got a situation where somebody just annoys you or upsets you, right? And you want to treat them how they treated you. I'm so thankful that the Lord has worked in me that now my mind my inner dialogue to myself in that situation is The only right you have here, Damon, is to do what God's law says, which is love. Period. Shit. You don't have another right. God doesn't give you another right. Anything else is wickedness. You know, I used to have to say As a as a real as an early Christian, you know, you're dead descended a lied to God and that's still good, and that really helped me fight, or really helps me now is obvious I fail, I'm sure as you guys know, but I'm glad that at least I know this. God's working me in me to love justice. So when you're tempted to treat people how they treated you You don't do that. Because God doesn't give you any other right but to love whoever's in front of you Secondly, some people wonder why can't God just forgive us? You know, we do this all the time without requiring a scapegoat, right? A penal substitute. That means we forgive people without demanding a strict fulfillment of the satisfaction of the law. Well why can't God act like that? But they kind of already mentioned them. Private matters, that's okay, but what about public matters God we really shouldn't compare God in this regard to a private citizen, but but to more like a judge in the land. God can't God simply can't just tear up his law and not act in accordance with it, if he is going to be, as Abraham says, the judge of all the world who does right And again, I'm just gonna harp on it. I know I've been harping on it. What is right, beloved, is what God's law says. That's right. Third thing, unless we get that God's law isn't changing, we will never understand why the Jewish people cared so much about it and fell into legalism. They knew that God could never reward a wicked person. They knew that God also could never punish a righteous person. Talking about the destructive way. That simply would be out of character for God and impossible for Him to do. They were, of course, mistaken about their own ability to keep God's law. Therefore, they refuse to submit to God's righteousness, which is Christ Himself, His obedient life and death to satisfy God's law. But notice that God's righteousness is needed for salvation. His mercy is what provides it But his mercy provides it because it's absolutely necessary. Jesus satisfied God's law. Everything God's law said to do, Jesus did. Everything God's law said don't do, Jesus didn't do. Everything God's law threatened, Jesus suffer Would everything God's love promise as reward He now enjoys forever and shares it with his people. That is why Paul says in Romans 3. 31, Do we then make void tear up the law through faith? God forbid. On the contrary, we establish it. Why do we want it established, beloved? If Jesus did what the law says and didn't do what the law says don't do, and suffered what the law threatened, and enjoys what the law rewards, then God's law has been satisfied paid up for us, and therefore we have a legal right to pardon and assure standing before God and will inherit by his merit, because the law is firmly fixed, and you can count on it. A firm law, dear saints, means a firm salvation. Because the law has been satisfied By Jesus in his obedient life and death on the cross, we are reconciled to God. Our sins are forgiven, and we will inherit by his righteousness. And all this is in perfect accord with God's justice. But also a firm law means an equally firm condemnation for those who are outside of Christ. And not united to Christ by a spirit-wrought faith. And that brings us back to questions thirteen and fifteen. Because God requires his law to be fulfilled His justice be fulfilled, either personally we have to do it or another. Either personally we must make payment to God's law to keep it, be rewarded, or if we break God's law, we must personally suffer his condemnation. And what do you think, Congregation? Do you think we can make this payment? No. We've already seen how we can't make that payment because we don't do what the law says. And we can't make that payment because sinners in hell never satisfy the justice of God's law, otherwise they'd get out. You can't fulfill the punishment by enduring the punishment. It's an eternal real. Remember when I first, John Murray taught me that in his redemption, accomplishment applied me, he said, Jesus alone has satisfied God's law. Period. Period. This is why our Lord taught us to pray. We read the Lord's Prayer again, Father, forgive us our debts. And he taught us to pray that because he clearly did not think we could make the payment. But he did. And therefore he taught us to ask for it because he paid for it. I pray the Lord's Prayer daily. That means daily I increase my debt. And daily I'm growing humbled because I'll sin for him. But God can, and God does, save totally depraved sinners like you and me. Well, if we can't pay, can another do it? The gospel tells us, shows us that another can make this payment in our place. God promised in Isaiah 53, God will allow a substitute, a penal substitute. But we wouldn't need a substitute, right? If we are righteous in ourselves, we wouldn't need a substitute. We need someone to suffer the punishment in our place. Or or we will, you see it? That absolute necessity, either us or somebody else, there's not a third way And who must this be? Can it be some other creature in heaven or on earth that's only a creature? No, because God won't allow that to happen. All those animal sacrifices in the Old Testament They were not a satisfaction for sin. God was not transferring your guilt to them. The blood of bulls and goats can never take away sin. Second, can a mere creature deliver us? Can a mere creature bear the weight of God's eternal wrath and deliver us? Absolutely not. Psalm 49, meant to read it earlier, but it talks about nobody can give the ransom for somebody else's life. And beloved, we don't want a ransom for 10 years, 10,000 years, or 10 million years. We want a ransom that can deliver forever. Consider what David says in Psalm 130, verse 3, if you Lord should mark iniquities, that means everything not in line with God's law, oh Lord, who can stand? What man is there that can stand under God's eternal wrath against sin? I cannot even stand when God sends me a stomach bug. You and I only can stand before God, clothed in Jesus' righteousness. Period. So what kind of meteor do we need? Who should we look for to deliver us? A true man, since we're men, God's not going to punish somebody else for our guilt. A righteous man who doesn't have his own debt he can't pay But also someone who is more powerful than every creature can bear up under the infinite wrath of God. And if he can bear up the infinite wrath of God, he must be infinite to And therefore he must be God himself. We need a God man to deliver us. So think about this for a moment. Who has ever heard of such a thing? Did Homer ever sing of a god man? Did the Sibyls, they uttered prophecies, ever utter such a thing to the ears of men? Can you ever go under a microscope and find the way to salvation? Can you ever pull out a big telescope and Look and find that Godman. Maybe he's in a distant, far-off galaxy, and we should send an envoy out to him and ask him to come help us Well, next week when you come back, we will learn that it is the gospel itself that tells us about this mediator, the Lord Jesus. Let me close by saying this. First, his justice should be a great comfort to us. That when we read Romans 2, that's what Paul's talking about there. The impenitent store up wrath. They get back payment for what they've done. They get it as wages. But the repentant Who, by the preaching of the gospel, by God's grace, have turned to Christ and trusted and repentant, who persevere and well-doing. That means doing what God's law says. Not perfectly, but do what it says. They will receive the reward as a gift because Paul, quoting David, you render to every man according to his work. There's no partiality with God. You know, and it's very striking to me because we all know the kind of sinner that David was. That he could fill with confidence That God renders to every man according to his work. And that was not a terror-stricken statement in this psalm, but a great comfort. Why is it a great comfort? Because David obviously trusted in the mediator and received his righteousness for forgiveness and acceptance with God, but it was also a comfort because God was never going to treat him Like he treats the wicked, who are the problem in that psalm, and we're persecuting him, and that's why he's waiting for God to come save them from him God is not going to treat the righteous and the wicked alike, and that's a comfort to those who've repented and turned from their sins by God's grace. You will not share the same faith as the wicked, and that is a comfort. Because God is just. And the key to understanding David's statement about rendering to every man is to remember that every man is either in Adam or he's in Christ. If your work is sinful rebellion in Adam, then you will receive as wages indignation, wrath, tribulation, and anguish. But if your work is patient continuance and well-doing in Christ, then you will receive eternal glory, life, honor, eternal life. But everybody gets their due from God. Jesus paid for our sins. Nobody can complain that God is unjust. Sinners in hell are punished for their sins. God is just. Saints in heaven are rewarded for their good works. God is just because he punished Jesus, the righteous one. And in him he accepts their sincere good works, though imperfect and though weak. So that means press on, dear saints. Walk in those good, just deeds according to God's law that you are foreordained to walk in. Because a great reward does await you. The second hope you see that in order for God to save us, God had to give up his son. He didn't have to absolutely, but wanting to save you and me, he had to. His son had to become a man. His son had to live under the law. His son had to die under the law. To redeem us. There is no other way of inheriting eternal life. That's the God logic of the Bible His justice must be satisfied before you and I can escape and return to his favor. And this makes God's mercy to us so meaningful, doesn't it? Because it cost him so much. It wasn't a offhand forgive you. It was a giving up of his own son to die, to live for you.